
St. Clair to Harrison 

February 17, 1800 

Cincinnati Western Spu, May 25, ISOO 

A division of the territory' is a subject on whicii I have 
thought a great deal and have fervently wished and you well 
know that from the enormous extent of it at present, it is al- 
most impossible to keep even the executive part of the govern- 
ment in order. The great and growing importance of this 
country seems never to have been attended to. In truth, there 
were few persons who knew much about it and the concerns 
of the state they represented together with the great interest 
of the Union kept it in a great measure out of sight. We may 
now hope that more attention will be paid to it and it is with 
great pleasure that I have seen that you have been appointed 
the chairman of a committee for taking its concerns into con- 
sideration. 

How much, soever, a division is to be wished, there are diffi- 
culties in the way — the increase of expense will form one ; but 
it is an ill calculation to put a little money on the scale against 
the welfare and happiness of a multitude of people. To ren- 
der the territory manageable, it would require to be divided 
into three districts ; and there it may be thought that the or- 
dinance [1787] stands in the way that has provided for a di- 
vision into two only and it is a general supposition that the 
ordinance cannot be altered but by common consent. This I 
think a mistake. There is indeed a part of it where the funda- 
mental principles of the states which may hereafter be erected 
or laid, that is declared to be a compact, not to be changed but 
by common consent ; but every other part of it is a matter in 
the power of congress to alter or repeal as a law, which may 
have passed yesterday. 

Suppose these difficulties got over, how are the districts to 
be bounded? The object of such, is that the eastern district 
should extend from the line of Pennsylvania to the great 
Miami — the middle district to comprehend the country be- 
tween the Great Miami and the Wabash and the western dis- 
trict, the country between that and the Mississippi. On that 

1. The Northwest territory was divided by act of congress. May 3. 1800, which 
organi'ied that part west of the mouth of the Big Miami river into Indiana territory. 
U. S. Statutes at Large, Sixth Congress, Sec. I, Ch. il 



 

proposition, I would observe that the eastern division would 
be still too large and in the middle one, there would be very 
few people and that the Indian title to a great part of it, is 
not extinguished. The manner that strikes me as most eligi- 
ble is that the Scioto and a line drawn north from the forks 
of it, should form the western boundary of the eastern district 
— a line drawn north from that part of the Indian boundary 
opposite the mouth of the Kentucky the western boundary of 
the middle division and the western division to comprehend 
all the country between that line and the Mississippi. The 
material advantages would in this manner remain to every 
part — Marietta would most probably be the seat of the gov- 
ernment in the eastern district and sufficiently convenient to 
every part of it. Cincinnati would continue to be with equal 
convenience the seat of the middle district and St. Vincennes 
in the western, not indeed equally convenient, but more so 
than any other place that could be chosen. 

There are many other advantages which would flow from 
this measure which I will not trouble you with ; I will only ob- 
serve that almost any division into two parts which could be 
made would ruin Cincinnati. 

Harrison to His Constituents' 

Phila, Pa. 14th May, 1800 

Westeryi Spy, June 11, 1800 

DEAR Sir : 

The ardent desire I feel to visit again my native state, from 
which I have been upwards of seven years absent, and the 
whole of that time engaged in public service in the western 
country, will I feel, put it out of my power to return to the 
territory until after the ensuing session of congress. I have 
therefore thought proper to make this circular communication 
that my fellow-citizens may be in some measure informed on 
the subject acted upon by the national legislature at their late 
session; but particularly on those which relate more immedi- 
ately to their own interests. 

1. Hariison finished his first session as delegate from the Northwest territory. May 
14. 1800. He intended to sDend the recess till Novemher in visiting his old home in 
Virginia. For political reasons and in line with the general custom he sent the following 
circular to the newspapers of his district. While not strictly within the field of these 
papers it forms a good introduction to the subject and the man, especially the reference 
to the division of the Northwest territory and the organization of Indiana territory. 



 

Amongst the variety of objects which engage my attention, 
as peculiarly interesting to our territory, none appeared to me 
of so much importance as the adoption of a system for the sale 
of public lands, which would give more favoi'able terms to that 
class of purchasers who are likely to become actual settlers, 
than was offered by the existing laws upon that subject : con- 
formably to this idea I procured the passage of a resolution at 
an early period of the session for the appointment of a com- 
mittee to take the matter into consideration. And shortly 
after I reported a bill containing terms for the purchasers as 
favorable as could have been expected. This bill was adopted 
by the House of Representatives without any material altera- 
tion ; but in the Senate, amendments were introduced obliging 
the purchaser to pay interest on that part of the money for 
which a credit was given, from the date of the purchase and 
directed that one half the land (instead of the whole as was 
provided by the bill from the House of Representatives) 
should be sold in half sections of 320 acres and the other half 
in whole sections of 640 acres. All my exertions, aided by 
some of the ablest members of the lower house at a conference 
for that purpose, were not sufficient to induce the Senate to 
recede from their amendments; but upon the whole, there is 
cause of congratulation to my fellow-citizens, that terms as 
favorable as the bill still contains have been procured. This 
law promises to be the foundation of a great increase of popu- 
lation and wealth to our country ; for although the minimum 
price of land is still fixed at two dollars per acre, the time for 
making payments has been so extended as to put it in the 
power of every industrious man to comply with them, it being 
only necessary to pay one-fourth part of the money on hand 
and the balance at the end of two, three and four years ; be- 
sides this odious circumstance of forfeiture, which was made 
the penalty of failing in the payments, of the old law, is in en- 
tirely abolished and the purchaser is allowed one year after 
the last payment is due to collect the money, if the land is not 
then paid for, it is sold and after the public have been reim- 
bursed, the balance of the money is returned to the purchaser. 
Four land offices are directed to be opened— one at Cincinnati, 
one at Chilicotha, one at Marietta and one at Steubenville, for 
the sale of lands in the neighborhood of those places. In a 
communication of this kind it is impossible to detail all the 



 

provisions of the law ; I have, however, sent a copy of it to the 
printers at Cincinnati, with a request that they would publish 
it several weeks. 

A law supplementary to the act appropriating land for the 
satisfying of the United States military warrants has been 
enacted, warrants have been located, the patents issued and 
many persons, who are holders of those lands, are preparing 
to make settlement on them the ensuing summer. 

Petitions and letters from various parts of the territory, 
having been forwarded to me, expressed a desire that the terri- 
tory should be divided into two great governments and as my 
opinion of the policy of the measure strongly coincided with 
them, a bill was passed by the House of Representatives on my 
motion for this purpose ; and that line which is declared by the 
ordinance of congress [1787] for the govemment of the terri- 
tory, the line of division between the eastern and middle states 
was to have formed the division between the opposite districts ; 
this bill also received very material alteration in the Senate, 
which altei'ations were finally adopted by the House of Repre- 
sentatives and the bill passed into a law. The division line by 
this law, runs from the mouth of the Kentucky River to Ft. 
Recovery and from thence north till it intersects the northern 
boundary of the United States, running through the lakes. 
The western division is called "the Indiana Territory" and the 
other district is to retain the appellation of territory of the 
United States, northwest of the Ohio and is to remain in every 
respect in stain quo. The most objectionable part of the bill 
is that it fixed the seat of goveniment for the eastern division ; 
and it was opposed by me on the grounds of its being a viola- 
tion of the ordinance for the govemment of the territory, 
which gives the sole and exclusive right of legislature to the 
general assembly of the territory, but in the cases, where it is 
expressly withheld.' 

However, as the seat of the government is fixed at Chili- 
cothe which is certainly the most central and eligible situation 
and as the continuance of the legislature at Cincinnati for the 
short time that the territory will remain under its present de- 
pendent form of government can be of very little moment to 
the citizens of that place and none to the neighboring country ; 
we have nothing to regret upon the subject, but the fear that 

2. For this statute sec .4»iiia?s. fith congiess, 1798 



 

the interference of Congress in a matter over which, in my 
opinion, they had no cognizance may establish a precedent of 
control over our legislature which may be productive of future 
evil. But the unanimous disapprobation of the principle ex- 
pressed by the House of Representatives in their rejecting the 
amendment of the Senate in the first instance and the warm 
opposition which it met with in the Senate itself gives good 
ground to hope that no attempt will be hereafter made to re- 
vise it. 

The petitions from the people living between the Great 
and Little Miami and above the land patented to Judge 
[John Cleves] Symmes, which were forwarded to me, were 
presented to the House of Representatives and the selected 
committee to whom were referred generally the business re- 
lating to lands, were charged to examine into them and to 
report by bill or otherwise. As I was myself the chairman of 
this committee, I thought it proper to make my suit whenever 
the subject of these petitions were under consideration. The 
committee then consisted of the following members viz : Mr. 
[Jonathan] Brace of Connecticut, Mr. [Samuel] Lyman of 
Massachusetts, Mr. [William] Gordon of New Hampshire, Mr. 
[Albert] Gallatin, of Pennsylvania, Mr. [William Barry 
Grove] Glove^ of North Carolina and Mr. [Thomas Terry] 
Davis of Kentucky ; after a very lengthy investigation and dis- 
cussion of the subject (at which I was always present) a bill 
was reported containing the unanimous opinion of the commit- 
tee; the principal features of the bill were that if Judge 
Symmes, should pay into the treasury of the United States on 
or before the 1st day of February, 1802, five shillings per acre 
in specie for the land between his patent line and that which 
was run by Mr. [Israel] Ludlow from the head spring of the 
Little Miami to the Great Miami, with the interest from the 
15th of July, 1795 ; the President of the United States should 
make him a patent for the said land in trust for himself and 
the persons who had purchased of him and who at the time of 
the passing of the act were entitled in equity to the land they 
had contracted for. And if the judge should fail to give notice 
on or before the 1st day of January next, that he acceded to all 
the terms and conditions of this act, or should fail to make the 
payment at the time specified, then the purchasers under him 



 

were to have the land at the same prices that it was to be 
granted to him, with the additional advantage of one year to 
raise the money from and after the 1st of February, 1802. It 
was also required of Judge Symmes to convey in fee simple to 
such trustees as the legislature of the territory may think 
proper to appoint, land equal in quality and quantity, to the 
township reserved in his former patent for the purpose of ed- 
ucation and the legislature were authorized t(3 receive such 
land as an equivalent for the said township ; the bill was final- 
ly adopted by the House of Representatives without a dissent- 
ing voice. The Senate referred it to a select committee, con- 
sisting of Messrs. [James] Ross, [John] Brown and [Samuel] 
Livermore, who reported the bill without amendment; but 
the day before the session closed, Mr. Ross moved to strike 
out the whole bill for the purpose of inserting a new one (the 
object of which I have not learnt) but this was rejected and 
for want of time the business was finally postponed until the 
next session. Whilst the bill was before the committee of 
the Senate, it was suggested to me that doubt had arisen 
with some whether those persons who had sued Judge Synm:ies 
in the courts of common pleas would be entitled to remedy 
in equity against the Judge. I therefore went before the 
committee and urged them to insert a provision in their favor, 
declaring that it was the meaning of the committee who 
formed the bill that those persons should be entitled to all 
the benefits arising from it and that I should object to the 
passage of the bill if they were not included; but upon my 
stating the question to the attorney general of the United 
States, to Mr. [Robert G.] Harper and other characters emi- 
nent in the law, it was their unanimous opinion that they 
were within the provision of the act. I send a copy as it 
passed the House of Representatives to the printers in Cin- 
cinnati. What I have given you is the substance of this bill. 
Nothing surely could be more fair towards the purchasers 
and I had in view the pleasing prospect that this law would 
be the means of restoring harmony and peace to the hitherto 
distracted settlement between the two Miamis. In the man- 
agement of this business, I was placed from my connection 
[son-in-law] with Judge Symmes in the most delicate situ- 
ation; whether my conduct has been such as to merit the 
approbation of my friends and disappoint the malice of my 
enemies is not for me to declare: mv fellow-citizens will de- 



 

termiiio it for me ; and well I may sure believe that my whole 
conduct was meant to be guided by moral integrity. A law 
in addition to the act upon the subject of post offices and post 
roads has been passed and a post is ordered to go from Louis- 
ville to Vincennes and Kaskaskias ; a post office is also estab- 
lished at Manchester in the county of Adams. It would have 
been very desirable to have extended the benefits of this estab- 
lishment to Detroit, but the great number of additional post 
roads which were applied for at this session from every state 
in the Union, has drawn so large upon the post office funds, 
that I have found it impossible for the present to have it 
effected; indeed from the want of information upon the sub- 
ject, I could not say whether the measure would be burthen- 
some to the United States or not. I recommended it to my 
fellow citizens of that place if they supposed that the emolu- 
ments of a post office there would support the expense of con- 
veying the mail, to make an offer to the post master general 
for taking upon themselves the risk of the establishment; 
this was done by the people of Vincennes and the Illinois 
country and as there was no reason to believe that it would 
not have been done if their loss had been very great; the 
committee of the House of Representatives adopted their 
road without hesitation. 

A law for the purpose of designating a tract of land upon 
which the ancient inhabitants of the Illinois, who were en- 
titled to donation, under the act of the 3rd of March, 1791, 
might locate the same, was passed. 

A bill was also reported making a disposition of the salt 
springs on the public lands and was postponed until the next 
session. 

Several other matters of great importance to our territory 
were also unavoidably postponed. I regret exceedingly that 
it was not in my power to procure the passage of a law au- 
thorizing the appointment of commissioners for the purpose 
of adjusting the land terrors in the county of Wayiie [De- 
troit] and for enlarging and ascertaining the boundaries of 
that county and those of the Mississippi and Wabash ; but the 
great press of business for the last three months of the ses- 
sion rendered it utterly impossible. I was also very desirous 
to have the territory formed into a separate revenue district 
and the secretary of the treasury promised to report in favor 
of it officially to congress; but the multiplicity of his duties 



 

prevented him. We may, however, with confidence, promise 
ourselves that both these measures will be adopted at the 
next session of congress. 

Among the laws of a general nature which were passed at 
the late session are the following: 

1st. "An act providing for the second census or enumera- 
tion of the inhabitants of the United States". The census in 
the territory is to be taken under the direction of the sec- 
retary. 

2nd. "An act to establish an uniform system of bank- 
ruptcy throughout the United States". 

3rd. "An act further to suspend the commercial inter- 
course between the United States and France and the de- 
pendencies thereof." 

4th. "An act to suspend in part an act entitled "an act 
to augment the army of the United States and for other pur- 
poses". This act directs the suspension of enlistment in the 
army which will cause a saving to the public revenue of one 
million of dollars. 

By the latest arrivals from Europe, we are informed that 
the French government has received our commissioners with 
great cordiality and that three persons have been nominated 
by the chief Consul to open all negotiations with them upon 
the existing differences between the two nations: it is gen- 
erally thought that an accommodation will take place — in 
which event the whole of the additional army will be dis- 
banded. 

With respect and regards, 
I am, Dear Sir, 

Your very humble servant, 

William Henry Harrison 

The papers mentioned in the preceding letter to have been 
forwarded to the printers have not come on hand. Last Mon- 
dav's mail not arrived. 



 

Harrison to Findlay 

Richmond, Va., July 18, 1800 
Pub. Hist, and Phil. Soc. of Ohio, I, 100 
Dear [James] Findlay,' 

It has been a long time since I received a line from you — 
what can be the reason? I arrived here with my wife and 
family about six weeks ago. Mrs. H. is not very well. What 
are you doing at Cincinnati? does trade flourish? are the crops 
promising? what has our Distiller done last winter? I should 
like to hear from you on all these subjects. I expect to leave 
this State about the 10th of October for the Ohio and shall 
see you at Cincinnati about the 10th of November. Who is 
talked of as my successor in Congress? Do not abuse me for 
filling my letter with interrogatories; I could give you no in- 
telligence from hence, that would not be old by the time you 
received it, as you get the Philadelphia papers regularly. By 
a paragraph in the Norfolk paper of Monday last I see that 
General [James] Wilkinson and his family have arrived there 
after a tempestuous voyage of 35 days from the mouth of 
the Mississippi. I must get the favour of you to enter with 
the auditor the following described land and pay the taxes for 
it — 4,000 acres surveyed for my brother-in-law, Anthony 
Singleton deceased. I do not know where this land has been 
located except one thousand acres which is described as lying 
on the waters of the little Miami and of course in Hamilton 
County. The other 3,000 acres must be entered as lying some 
where in the Virginia Reserve between the Scioto and Miami. 
The quality of this land is not known so that it must be 
entered second Rate. I wish you to enter and pay also for 
1,000 acres of land the property of Seth Bird of the State of 
New York in the Ohio Company purchase. The site of this 
land is not known either but I suppose if the money is paid 
to the Auditor it will prevent a forfeiture; don't fail to pay 
the taxes on this land as I have promised the o\vner that it 
shall not be neglected. 

1. James Findlay of Cincinnati became one of the first 5 councillors of the North- 
west territory in 1799 and helped 'elect Harrison to eonsress. He was a native of 
Penn. In the War of 1812 he was colonel of the Second Ohio volunteers. He served 
in Cong. 1825-1833 and in 1834 ran for governor on the Democratic ticket. He was 
involved deeply in the Burr affair. He was a leading business man of Cincinnati, a 
manufacturer, a partner of Harrison. Jacob Burnet and John H. Piatt: died in 
Cincinnati Dec. 21. 1835, 



 

Give Mrs. Harrison's and my best regards to Mrs. Findlay 
and to Smith and all our mutual friends. 
Yours truly, 

William H. Harrison 

Commission of Peter Menard 

August 1, 1800 

Fergus Historical Series, 31, Early Illinois, 30 

By John Gibson, Esq'r. Secretary and now acting as Gov- 
ernor and Commander in Chief of the Indiana Territory : 

United States ] To Peter Menard, Esq'r. of the County 
Indiana Territory J of Randolph, Greefmfif: 

You being Appointed a Major of a Regiment of the ]\Iilitia 
in said County. By Virtue of the power Vested in me ; I do 
by these presents, (reposing special Trust and Confidence in 
your Loyalty; Courage and Good Conduct) Commission you 
accordingly; You are therefore carefully and diligently to dis- 
charge the duty of a Major in leading, ordering and exer- 
cising said Regiment in Arms, both inferior officers and Sol- 
diers; and to keep them in good order and discipline; And 
they are hereby commanded to obey you as their Major. And 
you are yourself to observe and follow such orders and In- 
structions as you shall from time to time receive from me or 
your Superior Officers : 

Given under my hand and the seal of said Territoiy, the 
(Seal) first day of August in the Year of our Lord one Thou- 
sand Eight hundred and of the Independence of the United 
States of America, the Twenty-fifth. 

Jno. Gibson 
(Endorsed:) PETER MENARD, Esq'r, Major 

Proclamation : Convening the First Session of the 
Territorial Legislature, Januaiy 10, 1801 

Executive Journal of Indiana Ten-itory, 2' 

The Governor Issued a proclamation for the meeting of the 
legislature, and requiring the attendance of the judges of the 
territory, on Monday the 12th of this instant at St. Vincennes 
for the purpose of adopting and publishing such laws, as the 



 

exigencies of the government may require, and for the per- 
foiTnance of such other acts and things as may be deemed 
necessary and conformable to the ordinances and laws of 
Congress, for the government of the territory.- 

Proclamation : Dividing Knox County, and Erecting 
Clark County 

February 3, 1801 

Executive Jouiiial, 2 

The governor [Harrison] Issued a proclamation dividing 
the county of Knox and erecting a separate county to be 
stiled the county of Clark the boundaries of which are as 
follows: beginning at the Ohio river at the mouth of Blew 
river, thence up the said river to the crossing of the same 
by the Road [Buffalo Trace] leading from Saint Vincennes 
to Clarksville, thence by a direct line to the nearest part of 
White River [Driftwood, or East Fork], thence up the said 
river and that branch [Blue River] thereof which runs toward 
Fort Recoveiy, and from the head springs of said branch to 
Fort Recovery, thence along the boundary line between the 
Indiana, and Northwestern Territory, to the Ohio, thence 
down the same river to the place of beginning at the same 
time directing the first session of said courts to be held at 
Springville in said county. 

1. The refeiences to the Executive Journal a:c to the minted version in Indiana 
Historical Society Publications. Ill, No. 3 (1900). The original pagination is cited as 
therein given. Although the act setting off Indiana Territory was approved May 7, 
1800, and Governor Harrison was appointed May 13. he did not arrive in the new 
Territory until early in the ne.xt year. Meanwhile the necessary measures for the 
administration of the Territory were tal<en by Secretary John Gibson. The Executive 
Journal, kept by the secretary, begins with these words, under date of July 4, 1800: 
"This day the government of Indiana Territory commenced." The issuance of the 
proclamation of January 10, 1801. is the first evidence we have of Harrison's pres- 
ence at Vincennes. The last preceding entry in the Executive Journal is dated November 
5, 1800. The proclamation no doubt was read to the three judges who with the gov- 
ernor constituted the territorial legislature. The text of this proclamation has not 
been found. 

2. The three judges were William Clark, chief justice. Heniy Vander Burgh, second 
judge, and John Griffin, third judge. Clark died at Vincennes. November II, 1802; 
Vander Burgh died at Vincennes April 12. 1812. December 23, 1805 President Jefferson 
nominated Griffin "judge of the tei-ritoi-y of Michigan, agreeably to his own desires, 
as is represented." (Executive Journal U. S. Senate.) Waller Taylor was appointed 
judge April 14, 1806. Benjamin Parke was appointed in place of Thomas Terry Davis 
April 21, 1808. Davis was appointed February 4. 1803 on the death of Clark. For 
biographies, see Esarey. Courts And Lawyers Of Indiana. 



 

Proclamation : Altering the Boundaries of Knox, Ran- 
dolph AND St. Clair Counties 

February 3, 1801 

Executive Jom-nal, 3 

The governor [Harrison] issued a proclamation altering the 
boundary lines of the counties of Knox, Randolph and St. 
Clair as follows, to wit ; the boundary of the county of Ran- 
dolph shall begin on the Ohio river at a place called the 
Great Cave [Cave-in-rock] below the Saline Lick [near Shaw- 
neetown], thence by a direct north line until it intersects an 
east and west line running from the Mississippy through the 
Sink hole springs [this line still separates St. Clair and Ran- 
dolph counties] ; thence along the said line to the Mississippy 
thence down the Mississippi to the mouth of the Ohio and up 
the Ohio to the place of beginning-. The county of St. Clair 
shall be bounded on the south by the beforementioned east 
and west line, running from the Mississippi through the Sink 
hole Spring to the intersection of the north line running from 
the Great Cave aforesaid, thence from the said point of in- 
tersection by a direct line to the mouth of the great Ken- 
noumic river [Great Calumet] falling into the southerly bend 
of Lake Michigan, thence by a direct north east line to the 
division line between the Indiana and North Westm Terri- 
torys, thence along the said line to the territorial boundary 
of the United States, and along the said Boundary line to the 
Intersection thereof with the Mississippi and down the Mis- 
sissippi to the place of beginning. The county of Knox shall 
be bounded by the Ohio from the Great Cave above mentioned 
to the mouth of Blue river, thence up the said river and 
along the lines and boundaries seperating the said county of 
Knox from the county of Clarke, in their whole extent to 
Fort Recovery, thence along the line seperating the Indiana 
from the North Westrn Territory, until it will intersect a 
line drawn north east from the mouth of the great Ken- 
noumic River aforesaid and along the said Line to the mouth 
of the Great Kennoumic river thence by a line running from 
the mouth of said river so as to strike the point of intersec- 
tion formed by a line drawn due east through the Sink Hole 
spring above mentioned and a line dra%vTi due north from the 
great cave above mentioned and along the last mentioned line 
to the said Great Cave the place of beginning. 



 

Commission of Peter Menard 

February 5, 1801 

FerguH Historical Series, Early Illinois, ol 

William Henry Harrison, Esq., Govemor and Commander 
in Chief of Indiana Territory, 

^ ,. „ . I To Peter Menard, Esquire, of the 

Indiana Territory ^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ Randolph sends Greeting: 

Know you that reposing Especial trust and confidence in 
your abilities, integrity and judgment, I, the said William 
Henry Harrison have appointed, and do by these presents 
appoint and commission you, the said Peter Menard, to be 
one of our Judges of the court of common pleas, in and for 
our said County, hereby giving and granting unto you full 
right and title to have and Execute all and singular the 
powers. Jurisdictions and authorities, and to receive and en- 
joy all and singular Emoluments, of a Judge of the court of 
common pleas, of a Judge of the Orphans Court, and of a 
Justice of the Court of Quarter Sessions of the peace in and 
for the county aforesaid agreeable to the constitution of the 
laws of this Territory to have and to hold this commission 
and the office hereby granted to you so long as you shall be- 
have yourself well. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory at Vin- 
cennes (Seal) this fifth day of February in the year of our 
Lord one thousand eight hundred and one and of the Inde- 
pendence of the United States the twenty fifth. By the gov- 
ernor 

Jno. Gibson, Secretary 

(Endorsed) Commission PETER Menard, Esq. 

William H. Harrison to William McIntosh' 

Greenfield Kentucky, 3rd April 1801 



Dear Sir: 



irton Histoo'ical Collection, 59 



I am informed by Judge [John] Griffin^ that the land 
which I bought of [Francis] Vigo was included in the Mort- 
gage given to his Creditors at Detroit — if so I must ask the 
favor of you to get these gentlemen to release the Mortgage 
on Condition of my securing the purchase money to them — 



Scotch family of Mcintosh, moved to 
eived an appointed' 1801 of major of 



 

This I will do — & pay it in two equal annual payments Viz 
one half on the 1st of Jany next & the ballance the ensuing 
Jany. (1803) this will certainly be favorable for them as 
there is no chance of their getting- the money from Vigo — 
but by foreclosing the Mortgage or in this way- — I wish you 
could get Authority from this Company to release any other 
land which I may purchase from Vigo — & the payments of 
which to be made to them — 

I shall set out for Vincennes in a few days where I hope 
to see you soon — 

I am with great Regard 
Your Humb Servt. 

WiLLM H. Harrison 

Proclamation: Forbidding Settling, Hunting, and Sur- 
veying ON Indian Lands 

May 9, 1801 
Executive Joui-nal, 3 

The Governor [Harrison] Issued a proclamation forbid- 
ding all persons from setleing, hunting, and surveying on any 
of the Indian lands and requiring all officers Civil and Mili- 
tary to remove any that should have setled, and prevent as 
much as possible any such attempt in future. [Abstract] 

Proclamation : Concerning the Courts in Clark County 

June 22, 1801 

Executive Journal, U 

The Governor issued a proclamation for the continuing of 
the Courts at Springville in' Clark county until a permanent 
seat of Justice for said county is fixed on.= [Abstract] 

militia and treasurer of the territory, later fell out with Harrison. Burton Collection, 
59: Dunn, Indiana 323, 328, 362, 413 

2. Judge John Griffin, a Federal Judye when Indiana territory was oi'yanized : 
judge in Michigan territoi-y 1805, native of Va. son of Cynis Griffin, last president of 
the Continental congress. He left Detroit 1824. went to Philadelphia, and died there 
1840. Burton Historical Collection 59 

1. Springville was located on donations 94 and 115, Clark's Grant, about two 
miles west of Chailestown. There seems to have been a trading post there in the 
eighteenth century. The town site was plotted in 1800. The home of Jonathan Jen- 
nings was nearby. It was a thriving little village of Indian traders until June 9. 1802 
when JeflEersonville became the county seat. One of the French traders was named 
Tully and the Indians called the place Tullytown. 

2. A court had been established by Governor St. Clair at Clarksville near what 
is now Jeffersonville, Januai-y 8, 1790 ; see also proclamation of February 3, 1801. June 
9, 1802, the governor by proclamation designated Jeffersonville as the county seat and 
ordered the courts to meet there on August 1. following. 



 

Harrison to the Secretary of War 

July 15th, 1801 

Dawson, Harrison, 10-11 

Sir 

For the last ten or twelve weeks I have been constantly 
engaged in receiving visits from the Chiefs of most of the 
Indian nations which inhabit this part of the Territory. They 
all profess and I believe that most of them feel a friendship 
for the United States — but they make heavy complaints of 
ill treatment on the part of our Citizens. They say that their 
people have been killed — their lands settled on — their game 
wontonly destroyed — & their young men made drunk & 
cheated of the peltries which formerly procured them neces- 
sary articles of Cloathing, arms and amunition to hunt with. 
Of the truth of all these charges I am well convinced. The 
Delaware Chiefs in their address to me mentioned the loss of 
six persons of their nation, since the treaty of Greenvill hav- 
ing been killed by the White people — & I have found them 
correct as to number. In one instance however the White 
boy who killed the Indian was tried and acquitted as it was 
proved that it was done in self defence. In another instance 
the Murderrer was tried and acquitted by the Jury, altho it 
was very evident that it was a cruel and unprovoked murder. 
About twelve months ago a Delaware was killed in this To\vn 
by a Citizen of the Territoiy against whom a bill has been 
found by the grand. He has however escaped and it is re- 
ported that he has gone to Natchez or New Orleans. [See 
May 5, 1802, below.] But the case which seems to have af- 
fected the Indians more than any other is the murder of two 
men and one woman of this same nation about three years 
ago. This cruel deed was perpetrated on this side of the 
Ohio, forty or fifty miles below the falls & is said to have 
been attended with circumstances of such atrocity as almost 
to discredit the whole story — were it not but too evident that 
a great many of the Inhabitants of the Fronteers consider 
the murdering of Indians in the highest degree meritorious — 
the story is this. About three years ago two Delaware men 
and a woman were quietly hunting in the neighbourhood of 
the Ohio — I believe on the waters of Blue river their Camp 
was discovered by two men I think of the name of Williams — 
brothers — and these Williams mutually determined to murder 



 

them for the purpose of possessing themselves of about fifty 
dollars worth of property and the trifling equipage belonging 
to the hunting Camp of a Savage. They thought it too dan- 
gerous to attack them openly as one of the Indians well known 
to the white people by the name of Jim Galloway or Gilloway 
— was remarkable for his strength and bi'avery. They ap- 
proached the camp as friends & as I am toled they have since 
confessed asked leave to stay at the Indians Camp and hunt 
for a few days. Their request was granted & they remained 
until a favorite opportunity offered to carry their design into 
effect — & the then Indians were murdered. Altho they were 
missed by their friends it was a long time before their fate 
was ascertained. The murderers thinking themselves safe 
from the length of time which has elapsed, now begin to talk 
of the affair, and one of them is said to have declared that 
he was very nearly over-powered by the Indian after he had 
wounded him — that he had closed in with him and the Indian 
was on the point of getting the better of him when his brother 
to whom the murder of the other Indian had been committed 
came to his assistance. Altho I am convinced that the facts 
above stated are all true — yet so difficult is it to get testi- 
mony in a case of this kind, that I have not as yet been able 
to get the necessary depositions on which to ground an ap- 
plication to the Executive of Kentucky for the delivery of 
these people to Justice. Whenever I have ascertained that 
the Indian boundary line has been encroached on by the white 
people I have caused the Intruders to withdraw. But as tJie 
boundary line seperating the Indian land from that to which 
the title has been extinguished has not been run — nor the 
manner in which it is to run precisely ascertained either at 
this place or in the country on the Mississippi called the Illi- 
nois — it is impossible to tell when encroachments are made 
on the Indians at those two places. As this is an object of 
considerable importance to the Citizens of the Territory I 
must beg you Sir to obtain the directions of the President to 
have it done as soon as possible. The people have been about 
petitioning Congress on this subject — Untill it was observed 
that the President was authorized by law to cause all the 
boundaries between the lands of the U.N. States & the Indian 
tribes to be ascertained and marked — Untill their boundaries 
are established it is almost impossible to punish in this quar- 
ter the persons who make a practice of Hunting on the lands 



 

of the Indians in violation of law and our Treaty with that 
people. This practice has grown into a monsti-ous abuse. 
Thousands of the wild animals from which the Indians derive 
their subsistance have been distroyed by the white people. 
They complain in their speeches to me that many parts of 
their Country which abounded with game when the general 
peace was made in 1795 now scarcely contains a sufficiency 
to give food to the f iew Indians who pass through there. The 
people of Kentucky living on the Ohio from the mouth of the 
Kentucky river dowTi the Mississippi make a constant pi-ac- 
tice of crossing over on the Indian lands opposite to them 
every fall to kill deer, bear, and buffaloe — the latter from 
being a great abundance a few yeai's ago is now scarcely to 
be met with, in that whole extent. One white hunter will 
distroy more game than five of the common Indians — the lat- 
ter generally contenting himself with a sufficiency for present 
subsistance — while the other eager after game hunt for the 
skin of the animal alone. All these Injuries the Indians have 
hitherto borne with astonishing patience but altho they dis- 
cover no disposition to make v/ar upon the United States at 
present — I am confident that most of the tribes would eagerly 
seize any favorable opportunity for that purpose — & should 
the United States be at war with any of the European na- 
tions who are known to the Indians there would probably be 
a combination of nine tenths of the Northern Tribes against 
us— Unless some means are made use of to conciliate them. 
The British have been unremitted in their exertions to pre- 
serve their influence over the Indians resident within our Ter- 
ritory ever since the surrender of the Forts upon the Lake — 
& those exertions are still continued — last year they delivered 
a greater quantity of goods to their Indians than they have 
been ever known to do — and I have been lately informed that 
talks are now circulating amongst them, which are intended 
to lesten the small influence we have over the Indians — I can- 
not vouch for the truth of this report — but I think it very 
probable that the British will redouble their eff"orts to keep 
the Indians in their Interest as a mean of assisting them in 
any designs they may form against Louisiana which it is said 
will be shortly delivered up to the French. 

I have had much difficulty with the small tribes in this 
immediate Neighbourhood — viz. — the Peankashaws, Weas & 
Eel river Indians, these three tribes form a body of the 



 

greatest Scoundrels in the world— they are dayly in this town 
in considerable numbers and are frequently intoxicated to the 
number of thirty or forty at once — they then commit the 
greatest disorders — drawing their knives and stabing every 
one they meet with — breaking open the Houses of the Citi- 
zens killing their Hogs and cattle and breaking down their 
fences. But in all their frolicks they generally suffer most 
severely themselves they kill each other without mercy, some 
years ago as many as four were found dead in the morning — 
& altho these murders are actually committed in the streets 
of the town, yet no attempt to punish them has ever been 
made. This forbearance has made them astonishingly inso- 
lent & on a late occasion (within 8 weeks) when one of these 
rascals had killed without provocation two of the Citizens in 
one of the Traders Houses in this place, & it was found im- 
possible to apprehend him alive, he was put to death. This 
peice of Justice so exasperated those of his tribe in the neigh- 
bourhood that they actually assembled in the borders of the 
town with a design to seize some favourable opportunity of 
doing mischief — the Militia were ordered out and their re- 
sentment has subsided. 

Should you think proper to garrison Fort Knox with a small 
body of troops it will be the means of keeping the Indians 
under much better controle when they come here to trade — & 
would enable the civil Magistrates to punish those who violate 
the laws. Inded I do not think that a militaiy force is so 
necessary on any part of the fronteers as at this place — the 
inhabitants tho fully able to repulse them when aware of their 
designs are constantly in danger from their treachery. Five 
Hundred Warriers might introduce themselves into the settle- 
ment undiscovered by the White people — & after doing all the 
mischief in their power might make — their escape with as 
much facility. I do not indeed apprehend in the least that 
the neighbouring tribes have any inclination to make open 
war upon us — I fear only the effect of some sudden resent- 
ment arrising from their constant intercourse with the people 
of this town. In this intercourse causes of irritation are con- 
stantly produced twice within a few weeks an appeal was made 
to arms by both parties — one occasioned by some drunken In- 
dians attempting to force a House in which one was killed 
and an other wounded. The other at the time when the two 



 

white men were killed as above mentioned. Luckily however 
no other mischief was done in either instance. 

The Indian Chiefs complain heavily of the mischiefs pro- 
duced by the enormous quantity of Whiskey which the Traders 
introduce into their Country. I do not believe there are more 
than six Hundred Warriers upon this River (the Wabash) 
and yet the quantity of whiskey brought here annually for 
their use is said to amount to at least six thousand Gallons. 
This poisonous liquor not only incapasitates them from ob- 
taining a living by Hunting but it leads to the most attrocious 
crimes — killing each other has become so customary amongst 
them that it is no longer a crime to murder those whom 
they have been most accustomed to estem and regard. Their 
Chiefs and their nearest relations fall under the strokes of 
their Tomhawks & Knives. This has been so much the case 
with the three Tx'ibes nearest us— the Peankashaws, Weas, 
& Eel River Miamis that there is scarcely a Chief to be found 
amongst them. 

The little Beaver a Wea Chief of note well known to me 
was not long since murdered by his own son. The Little Fox 
another Chief who was always a friend to the white people 
was murdered at mid day in the Streets of this by one of his 
own nation. All these Horrors are produced to these Un- 
happy people by their too frequent intercourse with the White 
people. This is so cirtain that I can at once tell by looking 
at an Indian whom I chance to meet whether he belong to a 
Neighbouring or a more distant Tribe. The latter is generally 
well Clothed healthy and vigorous the former half naked, 
filthy and enfeebled with Intoxication, and many of them 
without arms except a Knife which they carry for the most 
vilanous purposes. The Chiefs of the Kickapoos, Sacks, & 
Patawatimies, who lately visited me are sensible of the prog- 
ress of these measures, and their Views amongst themselves — 
which they are convinced will lead to utter exterpation — and 
earnestly desire that the introduction of such large quantities 
of Whiskey amongst them may be prevented. 

Whether some thing ought not to be done to prevent the re- 
proach which will attach to the American Character by the 
exterpation of so many human beings, I beg leave most re- 
spectfuly to submit to the Consideration of the President — 
That this exterpation will happen no one can doubt who knows 
the astonishing annual decrease of these unhappy beings. The 



 

Delawares are now making an other attempt to become agri- 
culturists — they are forming settlements upon the White 
river a branch of the Wabash under the conduct of two Mis- 
sionaries of the Society of "The United Brethren for propo- 
gating the gospel amongst the Heathens" otherwise Meravi- 
ans.^ To assist them in this plan the Chiefs desire that one 
half of their next annuity may be laid out in impliments of 
agriculture, and in the purchase of some domestic animals 
as Cows and Hogs. The Kaskaskeas & Peankashaws request 
the same thing and the Patawatimies wish a few corse hoes 
may be sent with their goods. The sun a great Chief of the 
last mentioned Nation requests that a Coat and Hat of the 
Uniform of the United States & to prevent Jealousy a few 
more may be aded for the other Chiefs, of his nation. Indeed 
I am convinced that nothing would please the Chiefs of all 
the Nations so much as a distinction of this kind. It was a 
method always persued by the British and nothing did more 
to preserve their Influance. I therefore take the liberty of 
recommending that about a half dozen Coats made in the 
unifonn of the United States and ordinary Cocked Hats may 
be sent for each of the nations who have an annuity of one 
thousand dollars, and Half that number for the Nations who 
receive 500 dollars — the expence to be taken from the allow- 
ance of each nation. The Kickapoos who are a strong and 
warlike Nation have not a proper proportion of goods al- 
lowed them by the United States their annuity is 500 dollars 
only, which is the sum allowed to the remnant of the Kas- 
kaskias which have only fifteen or twenty wai*riors. The 
Kickapoos of the Priaria a large branch of that nation never 
receive any part of the goods. They frequently steal Horses 
which are never returned because they do not fear the with- 
holding of their annuity. The Socks a vei-y large nation 
which Inhabit the Waters of the Illinois River are not bound 
by any treaty — and will not deliver up horses or prisones in 
their possession. I have reason to believe that there are sev- 
eral persons still with them which were taken during the late 
war. They say they are very willing to treat if they are put 
upon the same footing that the rest of the Indian Nations are. 
The contractor to the army had untill lately an agent at 

1. For description of the old Moravian Mission see J. P. Dunn's article Indiana 
Magazine of Historii. Vol. 9. p. 73 : and paper by Arthur Brady, Mi.isixssippi Vallrti His- 
torical Keview, Proceedings, Annual nieetin.G:, 1919. 



 

this place — from whom I had procured the provisions 
which were necessary in the Councils I have had with Several 
nations which have visited me. I have signed an abstract 
for the quantity furnished. In their issues I have been as 
economical as possible — perhaps more so than was proper — 
the whole amount of Issues under my direction until this — 
amounted only to 13 rations. 

Proclamation : Forbidding Traders from Selling Liquor 
TO Indians in and around Vincennes 

July 20, 1801 

Executive Journal, i 

This day the Governor Issued a proclamation expressly for- 
bidding any Trader from selling or giving any Spirituous 
Liquors to any Indian or Indians in the Town of Vincennes 
and ordering that the Traders in future when the sold Liquor 
to the Indians should deliver it to them at the distance of at 
least a mile from the village or on the other side of the 
Wabash River. And Whereas certain evil disposed persons 
have made a practice of purchasing from the Indians (and 
giveing them Whiskey in exchange) articles of Cloathing, 
Cooking, and such other articles as are used in hunting, viz ; 
Guns powder, Ball &c. he has thought proper to publish an 
Extract from the Laws of the United States, that the persons 
offending against the Law may know the penalties to which 
they are subject, he also extorts [exhorts] and requires all 
Magistrates and other Civil officers vigilantly to discharge 
their duties, by punishing, as the Law directs, all persons who 
are found drunk, or rioting in the streets or public houses; 
and requests and advises, the good Citizens of the Territory 
to aid and assist the Magistrates, in the execution of the 
Laws by Lodgeing information against, and by assisting to 
apprehend the disorderly and rioutuos persons, who con- 
stantly infest the streets of Vincennes and to inform against 
all those who violate the Sabbath by selling or Bartering 
Spirituous Liquors or who pursue any other unlawful business 
on the day set apart for the service of God.^ [Abstract] 



 

Proclamation : Against Trading with the Indians 

August 31, 1801 

Executive Journal, i 

Frequent complaints having been made to the Governor by 
the Indians of the great mischiefs which have arisen from 
the Traders frequenting their Hunting Camps, the Governor 
Issued a proclamation notifying them that a regulation has 
been made by the Executive of the United States which de- 
clares that all persons who receive Licenses to trade with the 
Indians should confine themselves to the Towns and not fol- 
low the Indians to their Hunting grounds and that in future 
the said regulation would be strictly Enforced, and require- 
ing all concerned to govern themselves accordingly; and 
whereas he had received undoubted information that a num- 
ber of persons who were now trading in the Indian Country 
without Licences in Contempt of the Laws and authority of 
the United States he in the same proclamation Charged and 
required all officers Civil and Military Legally authorized to 
apprehend the persons and seize the goods of all such offend- 
ers, to the end that they may be dealt Mith according to Law.^ 

[Abstract] 

Harrison to Bono Commission 

September 12, 1801 
Mss. Vincennes D. A. R. 

William Henry Harrison, Esquire 

Governor & Commander-in-chief of the Indiana Territory 

To Nicholas Bono Gentleman, Greeting: 

Reposing special trust and confidence in your patriotism 
courage and good conduct I have appointed you Ensign in 
the Battallion of the Regiment of the Militia of the county of 
Knox and you are hereby appointed accordingly. You are 
therefore carefully and diligently to discharge the duty of 
Ensign in leading ordering and exercising said company in 
arms, both inferior officers and soldiers, and to keep them in 
good order and discipline; and they are hereby commanded 

1. Harrison was superintendent of Indian Affairs for Indiana territory. Each 
trader was required to liold a license from the superintendent and give bond for good 
behavior. 



 

to obey you as their Ensigii, and you are yourself to observe 
and follow such orders and instructions as you shall from 
time to time receive from me, your superior officers, or the 
Governor of the territory for the time being. 

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the Terri- 
tory to be affixed the twelfth day of September in the year 
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and one and of the 
independence of the United States of America the twenty 



William Henry Harrison 



sixth. 
Seal 

By the Governor's command 
John Gibson, Secy. 



Harrison to Bono Commission 

September 12, 1801 

Mss. Vincenncs D. A. R. 

William Henry Harrison, Esquire 

Governor & Commander-in-chief of the Indiana Territory 

To Pierre Bono, Gentleman, Greeting: 

Reposing special trust and confidence in your patriotism 
courage and good conduct I have appointed you 2d Lieutenant 
in the Battallion of the Regiment of the Militia of the county 
of Knox and you are hereby appointed accordingly. You are 
therefore carefully and diligently to discharge the duty of a 
Lieutenant in leading ordering and exercising said company 
in arms, both inferior officers and soldiers, and to keep them 
in good order and discipline ; and they are hereby commanded 
to obey you as their Lieutenant, and you are yourself to ob- 
serve and follow such orders and instructions as you shall 
from time to time receive from me, your superior officers or 
the Governor of the territory for the time being. 

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the Terri- 
tory to be affixed the twelfth day of September in the year of 
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and one and of the 
independence of the United States of America the twenty 

^^^**^- William Henry Harrison 

Seal 

By the Governor's command 



John Gibson, Semj. 



J 

Trader's License, Francois Busseron 

October 8, 1801 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 

By William Henry Harrison Esquire and Commander in 

chief in and over the Indiana Territory 
Licence is granted to Francis Besaion,' [Busseron or Bos- 
seron] an Inhabitant of Vincennes, of the County of Knox, 
to trade with the different Tribes of Indians residing on the 
Wabash below Vincennes he having given Bond for the due 
observation of all the laws and regulations relating to Trade 
and Intercourse with the Indian Nations, that now are, or 
hereafter shall be made issued or declared during the term 
for which the same is Granted. This Licence to continue in 
force for one year, unless sooner revoked by the Governor. 
Given at Vincennes the eighth day of October in the Year of 
our Lord One Thousand Eight Hundred and one, and of the 
Independance of the United States of America the Twenty 
Sixth. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 



Harrison to Findlay 

Vincennes, October 15th, 1801 

Pub. His. and Phil. Soc. of Ohio, I, 101 

Dear Findlay, 

I had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 22nd August 
a few weeks ago. Mrs. Harrison and myself are much re- 
joiced to hear that ]\Irs. Findlay enjoys better health than 
formerly for be assured that we both feel for her a sincere 
regard. My family have I think enjoyed quite as much 
health here as they have ever done. My youngest child' has 
been until lately a good deal afflicted but is now much better ; 
and I have had the ague and fever — that is, I had three fits 
of it, but am now as well perhaps better than I have been for 
several years. I am much pleased with this country — nothing 
can exceed its beauty and fertility. I have purchased a fann 

1. Francois Bosseron. made a jud^^e at Vincennes May 14th. 1779: major and com- 
mandant at Vincennes 1780. Todd Papers. 165; 194: 279. Wealthiest Citizen in Vin- 
cennes. ruled the council or court. Esarey, History oi Indiana, 67 : 134. 

1. Lucy Singleton Harrison, born in Richmond Va. 1800, died 1826, mariicd .Judye 
David K. Estc of the Ohio Supreme court. 



 

of about 300 acres joining the town which is all cleared. I 
am now engaged in fencing it and shall begin to build next 
spring if I can find the means. How comes on the Distillery ?- 
I wish you to send me some Whiskey as soon as possible, 
consign it to the care of Messrs. Prather & Smiley of Louis- 
ville who will take charge of it and send me also a couple of 
calf skins and a little soal leather. Cant you continue to patch 
up some sort of settlement between us? I will leave entirely 
to yourself knowing that it will be done as well as the cir- 
cumstances will permit; for my part I know nothing of the 
business. 

I wish you could muster resolution enough to take the woods 
and pay us a visit, I am sure you will be so much pleased 
with this place and the prospects that you would consent to 
move here. I now nominate to you Mr. William Prince^ as 
a proper person to be appointed your Deputy here. He is 
a very honest man and a clever fellow\ We have here a Com- 
pany of troops commanded by Honest F. Johnston^ of the 4th. 
We generally spend half the day together making war upon 
the partridges, grouse and fish- — the latter we take in great 
numbers in a seine. Is there no one with you who will pur- 
chase my tract of land on Mill Creek below Simmons Hutchin- 
son (word illegible) Mill? I have there 419 acres which I 
would sell very low. I dont know but I would take two Dol- 
lars per acre in cash. 

I have long given up the Judge [John Cleves Symmes, his 
father-in-law] as a ruined man — which he owes in part to 
himself but much more to the cursed Malevolence of his 
enemys. They have however in some measure got this re- 
ward in the loss of character. I have heard several disinter- 
ested respectable persons speak of the treatment he has met 
with, with horror and detestation. Give Mrs. Harrison's and 
my best regai'ds to Mrs. Findlay and to Smith if he is in the 
land of the living — to Dr. Sillman and family and all who re- 
member us with friendship. JL5'G'L90o 

2. Harrison and James Smith in 1797 operated a distillery on Deer Creek. After 
losing considerable money he gave up the business. 

3. Findlay was receiver at the Cincinnati land office and William Prince was to act 
as his deputy at Vincennes. 

4. Francis Johnston of N. Y. was an ensign in the 4th sub legion with Wayne. 
Lieut, in 4th Inf. 1797; Capt. 1800. Died Feb. 17. 1809. "Honesf was a nick name. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of State 

ViNCENNES, January 19, 1802 
American State Papers; Public Lanch, I, 123 

The circumstances mentioned in this letter I have consid- 
ered of sufficient importance to be communicated to the Presi- 
dent. The court established at this place, under the author- 
ity of the State of Virginia, in the year 1780, (as I have 
before done myself the honor to inform you) assumed to 
themselves the right of granting lands to every applicant. 
Having exercised this power for some time [1780-1788] with- 
out opposition, they began to conclude that their right over 
the land was supreme, and that they could with as much pro- 
priety grant to themselves as to others. Accordingly, an 
arrangement was made, by which the whole country to which 
the Indian title was supposed to be extinguished, was di- 
vided between the members of the court [Francis Bosseron, 
Louis Edeline, Pierre Gameline, Pierre Querez] : and orders 
to that effect entered on their journal, each member absent- 
ing himself from the couil on the day that the order was to 
be made in his favor, so that it might appear to be the act 
of his fellows only. The. tract thus disposed of extends on 
the Wabash twenty-four leagues from La Pointe Coupee to 
the mouth of White river, and forty leagues into_the country 
west, and thirty east from the Wabash, excluding only the 
land immediately surrounding this town, which had before 
been granted to the amount of twenty or thirty thousand 
acres.' 

The authors of this ridiculous transaction soon found that 
no advantage could be derived from it, as they could find no 
purchasers, and I believe that the idea of holding any part 
of the land was by the greater part of them abandoned a few 
years ago; however, the claim was discovered, and a part of 
it purchased by some of those speculators who infest our 
country, and through these people, a number of others in dif- 
ferent parts of the United States have become concerned, 
some of whom are actually preparing to make settlements 
on the land the ensuing spring. Indeed, I should not be sur- 
prised to see five hundred families settling under these titles 
in the course of a year. The price at which the land is sold 



 

enables any body to become a purchaser; one thousand acres 
being frequently given for an indifferent horse or a I'ifle 
gun. A]id as a formal deed is made i-eciting the gi'ant of 
the court (made as it is pretended under the authority of 
the State of Virginia) many ignorant persons have been in- 
duced to part with their little all to obtain this ideal prop- 
erty, and they will no doubt endeavor to strengthen their 
claim, as soon as they have discovered the deception, by an 
actual settlement. The extent of these speculations was un- 
known to me until lately. I am now informed that a num- 
ber of persons are in the habit of repairing to this place, 
where they purchase two or three hundred thousand acres 
of this claim, for which they get a deed properly authenti- 
cated and recorded, and then disperse themselves over the 
United States, to cheat the ignorant and credulous. In some 
measure, to check this practice, I have forbidden the recorder 
and prothonotary of this county from recording or authenti- 
cating any of these papers ; being determined that the official 
seals of the Territory shall not be prostituted to a purpose 
so base as that of assisting an infamous fraud. 

I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect. 
Your Obedient Servant, 

William Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Sec. of War 

ViNCENNES, February 19th, 1802 

Dawson, Harrison, 12-15 

If this measure, is not effected, I apprehend some serious 
consequences. It has already become a subject of discussion 
among the people of the territory, whether an Indian is pun- 
ishable by our laws for a murder committed on their own 
lands, or on a road leading through their country ; the nega- 
tive of this question is strongly maintained by many; and, 
should it reach the Indians, it will be no longer safe to pass 
the roads which connect the several settlements of the Ter- 
ritory. I have taken much pains to find the drift of the 
talks, which the British agents in Canada so frequently send 
to the Indians residing within our limits. The report men- 
tioned in the postscript of my letter of the 3d December last. 



 

came from Mr. Wells/ the person who attended the Indian 
chiefs who were lately in Washington. I have since seen the 
chief who is said to have been the bearer of the talk alluded 
to. Upon my interrogating him, he denied that he had re- 
ceived any particular message from M'Kee,- the British su- 
perintendant for Indian affairs for Upper Canada, whom 
he acknowledged to have visited. But he made so many com- 
plaints of the usage which the Indians had received from 
the Americans, and some of them were of a nature so far 
above his capacity, that I am sure they must have been put 
into his mouth by the said M'Kee, or by some of the British 
merchants. — Among other grievances, he mentioned the high 
price of Indian goods, which he attributed entirely to the duty 
which was laid upon the importation of those goods at De- 
troit, and which he said was contrary to the practice under 
the British government, and intended to impoverish and re- 
duce the Indians. Indeed, other chiefs have frequently in- 
formed me that they had heard we resolved to destroy them, 
that we might take possession of their lands. This idea I am 
confident has been infused into their minds by the British 
agents or traders, which last enjoy every opportunity to 
prejudice the Indians against us. They have even attempted 
to make the Indians believe that the United States intended 
to destroy them by means of the small pox, which was to be 
communicated to them by the goods which they receive from 
us. I have never been able to fix the spreading of these lies 
upon any one of the traders, they manage their business with 
so much art ; but when I do make such discovery, I shall make 
an example of him, by instantly depriving him of his license, 
and sending him out of the Indian country. In order the 
better to find out what is going forward among the Indians, 
I have endeavored to attach some of the best informed traders 
to our interest ; but, generally speaking, they are unprincipled 
men, and entirely devoted to the British, by whom they are 
supplied with all their goods. Could this be otherwise — could 

1. Capt- William H. Wells was stolen by Miamis at age of 12 : parents lived in 
Ky : married daughter of Little Turtle : broke away from Indian alliance and joined 
Wayne's army; killed in Fort Dearborn massacre Aug. 15th. 1812; Wells County. Indiana, 
named in his honor. Griswold. History of Ft. iraimc, 136. 

2. Alexander McKee was born in Penn ; wealthy citizen of Pittsburg at outbreak 
of Revolution : fled from Pittsburg to join the ranks of enemy : as reward made captain 
and interpreter of Indian Dept. in employ of British. Known as stimulator of war 
between Indians and Americans 1790-'95. Eutterfield, History of Girtii's, 43-49 ; Gris- 
wold. Hist of Ft. Waime; Michigan Pioneer and Historical collections. Index. 



 

the valuable skin and fur trade which our territory supplies, 
be diverted to the ports of the United States, instead of 
Canada, it would not only give a handsome emolument to 
our merchants, and increase our revenue by the additional 
consumption of imported goods, but it would also confirm the 
dependence of the Indians upon us. The principal objection 
made by the traders to whom I have recommended the carry- 
ing of their furs and peltry to the ports of the United States, 
is, that there are none of our merchants who make the im- 
portation of Indian goods, or purchase of furs and peltry their 
business, and of course they are not always certain of making 
sale of their coinmodities, or of obtaining in return goods 
suitable for their purpose; both of which, they are sure of 
when they go to the British merchants, who are exclusively 
employed in this kind of traffic. 

Sec. of War to Harrison 

War Department, February 23d, 1802 

Dawson, Harrison, 3i 

Sir: It is the ardent wish of the President of the United 
States, as well from a principle of humanity, as from duty 
and sound policy, that all prudent means in our power should 
be unremittingly pursued for carrying into effect the benevo- 
lent views of congress relative to the Indian nations within 
the jurisdiction of the United States. The provisions made 
by congress, under the heads of intercourse with the Indian 
nations, and for establishing trading houses among them etc. 
have for their object, not only the cultivation and establish- 
ment of harmony and friendship between the United States 
and the different nations of Indians, but the introduction of 
civilization, by encouraging and gradually introducing the 
arts of husbandry and domestic manufactures among them. 
The President is more induced to continue to raise all the 
means in his power for effecting the foregoing object from 
the happy effects already produced in several of the Indian 
nations, by the zeal and industry of the agents among them. 

With a view of giving every assistance in the power of the 
executive, to the measures contemplated, relating to the In- 
dians generally, the President has considered it necessary 
to make the following regulations : 



 

That the Governors of the North Western, Indiana, and 
Mississippi territories, in their capacities as agents for In- 
dian affairs, will in future consider themselves as having the 
superintendence of all business relating to the Indians in their 
respective territories, and will from time to time call upon 
such sub-agents as may be appointed by the President of the 
United States to reside among the Indian nations within their 
respective territories, for such information as may be neces- 
sary for ascertaining any facts or circumstances relating to 
the said Indians, or the conduct of any such sub-agents, and 
for any other information which may be useful and proper; 
and to give all such sub-agents such instructions and advice 
from time to time, as may be found necessary and not in- 
compatible with the laws, or instructions given by the imme- 
diate direction of the President of the United States. 

The sub-agents and agents of the territories, vdll, in future, 
correspond with the respective governors of the territories in 
which they may be placed, and communicate generally with 
the depai'tment of war through that channel, and consider 
themselves under the general direction of the governors re- 
spectively. And temporary or sub-agents, or agents of fac- 
tories, will regularly make report, once, at least, in every 
three months to the governor and to the secretary of war, 
of all circumstances relating to the agencies, with a correct 
statement of all expenses incui-red under their direction, 
which report should be made from a journal, regularly and 
correctly kept by the sub-agents, of all accounts worth notic- 
ing, relating to disputes, complaints, misfortunes, etc. includ- 
ing likewise, whatever may relate to the progi-ess of civiliza- 
tion among the Indians, and such remarks as their knowl- 
edge may, from time to time, enable them to make, relating 
to the natural history of the country, the population and the 
particular manners of the inhabitants, and likewise of the 
increase or decrease of population. 

The agents of factories will make correct returns of the 
state of the factory, of the sales and receipts, etc. to the gov- 
ernor of the territory in which they shall respectively reside, 
once in three months, noticing all circumstances proper to 
communicate relating to the kind and quantities of goods 
wanted, from time to time, and \vill transmit a duplicate 
thereof to the secretary of war. 



 

Colonel [Benjamin] Hawkins and the agents of the fac- 
tories at Tellico in Tennessee, and in Georgia, will communi- 
cate immediately with the secretary of war as usual. 

I have the honor to be, with sentiments of esteem, your 
humble servant. 

H. Dearborn 

Harrison to Sec. of War 

February 26, 1802 
Daw&on, Harrison, 16-20 

Sir: 

The subject of tlie boundary line between us and the In- 
dians, has engaged my attention for some time past; and as 
I consider myself possessed of all the information relating to 
it which I am likely to obtain in this quarter, I have thought 
it best to state to you the result of my inquiries and reflections. 

If the obvious construction of the treaty of Greenville^ is 
to be taken as the ground upon which our claim to land in 
this country is to be supported, 1 believe it will be found to 
be much more extensive than is generally imagined. The tract 
which the United States may rightfully claim, extends on the 
Wabash from Point Coupee, 12 leagues above the mouth of 
White river, to 12 leagues below this town, and in width from 
the river on the east, 40 leagues, and on the west 30 leagues. 

The grant of the land is said to have been made to Mon- 
sieur De Vincennes, a captain in the French army, and the 
founder of the colony which bears his name, for the use of 
the French settlers, and although the instrument of convey- 
ance (if there ever was one in writing) is lost, the fact is 
ascertained not only by the testimony of all the old French 
inhabitants, but is completely authenticated by a clause in a 
subsequent deed, made by the Indians to the Wabash Com- 
pany in the year 1775, in which the bounds of the tract be- 
fore granted to the French are laid down, for the purpose 
of excepting it from the sale then about to be made. An 
extract from the said deed, which is on record here, is en- 

1. Greenville treaty, negotiated by Wayne Aug. 3, 1795 fixed the boundary be- 
ginning at the mouth of the Cuyahoga up that stream to the Tuscarawas branch of 
the Muskingum down it to Fort Lawrence, west to Loramie's store on the headwaters 
of the Miami ; thence to Fort Recovery, thence by direct line to the Ohio opposite the 
mouth of the Kentucky. Besides this there were 16 separate resei-vations around posts 
and portages in the Indian counti-y. State Papers, Indian Affairs, I, 562 



 

closed. Although our title to the land is thus clearly ascer- 
tained, I think it would be extremely impolitic to insist on 
taking the whole of it. I am not certain that the Indians 
would agree to it. At present I believe they have no idea 
of a claim being set up to that extent, and it is said that 
general Putnam gave them assurance when he assembled the 
Wabash chiefs at this place in 1793, that our claim would 
not be very extensive.- The right to the whole tract may 
be declared, but the lines which are to run from the two 
points on the Wabash above mentioned, may be extended no 
further than 10 or 12 leagues, on each side the river. This 
would readily be acceded to by the Indians and would make 
the settlements here sufficiently large. None of the Pianki- 
shaw chiefs (by which tribe all the former sales in this coun- 
try were made) attended the treaty of Greenville, and the 
Wea chiefs, who are said to have represented them, are all 
dead. 

At a council which was held here last summer, the subject 
of the boundary line was mentioned by the Piankishaw chiefs, 
and they expressed great uneasiness that the boundary line 
had not been ascertained, and at the reports which had been 
circulated amongst them, that the Americans meant to take 
from them all their country. They also said, that the settle- 
ments which had been formed on the south side of White 
river," were an encroachment upon them. I took this oppor- 
tunity to explain to them that part of the treaty of Green- 
ville which relates to this place, and assured them that an 
investigation would take place, in order to ascertain the ex- 
tent of country which had been actually conceded to the 
French. That from what I can leam, our claim on the 
Wabash was contained between Point Coupee and White 
river, but I could not deteiTnine how far it might extend on 
each side the river, — nor in what direction the lines would 
run from these two points; but if it should appear on in- 
vestigation, that it was the intention of their forefathers, 

2. General Rufus Putnam was sent by Washinerton to Vincennes in 1792 to try 
the tennper of the Wahash Indians. His elaborate instructions are in Sta. Pa. Indian 
Affairs. I, SjM. On the 27th of September 1792 he concluded a treaty of friendship. 
John Baptiste Mayee. a French trader produced a copy of the treaty referred to by 
Harrison but the Indians denied its validity. It is given in Sta. Pap. Ind. Affairs I, S38, 
bearing date of 1776. witnessed by St. Marie and Phillibert. 

3. Hazeltons. Robbs, Severns. Hargroves. Johnsons. Prides, Mileys. and Tislows were 
a few of the pioneers who had already settled on the south side of White river. 

.See histories of Pike. Gibson, and Daviess counties 



 

that the line should run from the mouth of White river up 
the channel of that river, instead of at right angles to the 
Wabash, that they would be paid for all the land on the south 
side of White river virhich had been included in our settle- 
ments and surveys. This explanation seemed satisfactory. 
It appears that all the Indians have understood that the claim 
to the land between Point Coupee and White river had been 
extinguished, and I believe they would readily agree that it 
should extend in depth on each side the river so far as to 
make a square of 24 leagues, which is the distance between 
the above-mentioned points. The remainder of their claim 
may be relinquished, and this liberality will authorize us to 
ask for an extension of our territory on the Illinois, if our 
claim in that country is not sufficiently large to prevent our 
settlement from being cramped. 

My views as to the boundary line in that quarter are, that 
it should commence at the mouth of the Illinois river, run 
up that river for 30 or 35 miles, thence by a line parallel to 
the course of the Mississippi, until it intersects at right angles 
a line to be drawn from a point opposite Cape St. Combs, 
which is on the west side of the Mississippi, and about 10 
miles below Kaskaskia. This would give a tract of country 
of 80 miles by 35, over almost the whole of which our settle- 
ments are now scattered. 

There are some other objects of importance which might 
be settled at the time the Indians meet upon the subject of 
the boundary line. I have before stated to you that none of 
the roads passing through one settlement to any other in 
this Territory were made fi-ee by treaty, admitting that free 
ingress and egress were contemplated at the time that the 
several tracts were ceded to the French. Yet this can, I 
should suppose, extend no further than the allowance of one 
road to the Ohio, and one to the Mississippi, but the extension 
of the settlements and the constant emigration from the Ohio 
to this place, and the countries on the Mississippi, make it 
necessary to have two or three main roads. The settlements 
which extend from the Great Miami to the Indian boimdaiy, 
running from the Kentucky river, will shoi-tly be attached 
to this territory, and will totally be cut off from a communi- 
cation with the seat of government unless we can have a 
new road; and the opening of those I presume ought not to 
be attempted without the consent of the Indians; this con- 



 

sent I am sure can be had, as well as permission to estab- 
lish small stations at the distance of 25 or 30 miles apart on 
the roads most used for the accommodation of travellers. 
Another object to be provided for is the security of the per- 
sons and property of the traders residing in the Indian coun- 
try. Frequent complaints have been made to me of robberies 
and personal injuries committed by the Indians on the trad- 
ers, and I know of no redress for them. 

In the treaty of Greenville the chiefs promised to take the 
traders under their protection, but there is no specific mode 
of redress pointed out. Their treatment of the traders shows 
that they consider them entirely at their mercy, and they do 
frequently rob and abuse them. This insecurity to the per- 
sons and properties of the traders is the reason that so few 
decent and respectable men are employed in the Indian trade, 
which, with a few exceptions, is in the hands of the greatest 
villains in the world, and the authors of all those falsehoods 
which so frequently agitate the Indians. 

The Sacks or Sackees, a considerable nation who reside 
between the Illinois river and the Mississippi, were not in- 
cluded in the treaty of Greenville. They sent deputies to 
agree to a cessation of hostilities the spring previous to the 
treaty, but by some accident or other, they mistook the time, 
and did not attend the treaty. They are now extremely de- 
sirous to be put on a footing with the other tribes, and re- 
ceive an annual present, and it appears reasonable that they 
should. There is another I'eason for including them in the 
treaty of Greenville. I have reasons to believe that several 
of the white persons and negroes who were taken during 
the wars are still in the possession of those people, particu- 
larly the son of a Mr. Tanner of Kentucky who is extremely 
desirous to recover him. 

To accomplish those objects I beg leave. Sir, respectfully 
to recommend to the President, that a deputation from each 
of the neighboring tribes, viz : the Delawares, Potawatamies, 
Miamis, Eel river Indians, Weas, Kickapoos, Sacks, and Kas- 
kaskias should be assembled early in the ensuing summer, 
and that some person on the part of the United States be 
empowered to agree with them on the permanent boundaries 
between theirs and the lands of the United States at this 
place and the Illinois, country. To obtain their consent to 
open the following roads, viz: one from the Ohio at or near 



 

tlie mouth of Pigeon creek to Vincennes ; one from the settle- 
ments between the Great Miami and the Indian boundary 
line to Vincennes ; and one from some convenient spot on the 
Ohio to Kaskaskia. 

To extend to the Sack nation the provisions of the treaty 
of Greenville. 

To provide for the security of the persons and properties 
of the traders residing in the Indian country, and the punish- 
ment of those who injui'e them. 

To obtain the consent of the Indians to establish houses of 
accommodation at the distance of twenty-five or thirty miles 
apart on the post road from Louisville to Vincennes, and 
thence to Kaskaskia. 

And should it be considered practicable, to make new ar- 
rangements of the annuities. The Kaskaskias, for instance, 
who have only fifteen or sixteen warriors, and the Pianki- 
shaws who are reduced twenty-five or thirty, receive each 
500 dollars, which is the sum allowed the Kickapoos, who 
have some hundreds. I think it possible to prevail upon 
those two tribes to give up 200 dollars each of their annuity, 
which may be added to those of the Kickapoos and Pota- 
watamie; or with the addition of another 100 dollars, make 
an annuity of 500 dollars for the Sacks. 

I am persuaded, Sir, that nothing can be done with re- 
spect to any of these objects but in a general assembly of 
the chiefs of all the tribes. There appears to be an agree- 
ment amongst them, that no proposition which relates to 
their lands can be acceded to without the consent of all the 
tribes; and they are extremely watchful and jealous of each 
other lest some advantage should be obtained in which they 
do not all participate. 

A general meeting of the chiefs has been long wished for, 
in order to settle some disputes which have arisen amongst 
them, which but for my interposition, would have terminated 
in war. These disputes cannot (on account of the jealousies 
above mentioned) be amicably adjusted but by the mediation 
of the United States. 

The meeting would be further beneficial, as it would give 
an opportunity of explaining to them the conditions of the 
treaties they have made with us, which are very imperfectly 
understood. 

I do not know of any pretensions to land on the part of 



 

individuals without the acknowledged boundary of the lands 
of the LInited States, but those which are made by the Illinois 
and Wabash companies ; these companies are composed nearly 
of the same persons, and their claims include almost the whole 
country between the Lakes, the Mississippi, the Ohio, and the 
Indian boundary line, running from the mouth of the Ken- 
tucky river to the northern boundary of the United States. 

A person attended at the treaty of Greenville on behalf of 
one or both of these companies, and as well as I can recol- 
lect (for I was at that time in the family of General Wayne) 
the subject was not brought before the Indians. It is I be- 
lieve, acknowledged that these purchases were unauthorized 
by any government. To remedy this the conveyance is made 
to the company or to the King of Great Britain. 

I can form no idea of the number of Indians that may at- 
tend at the proposed meeting; I shall, however, endeavor to 
make it as small as possible, and dismiss them as soon as the 
business can be done. I believe that the chiefs will endeavor 
to bring with them as large a retinue as possible, which some 
will do from ostentation, and some from apprehension of 
danger, several of the tribes being much irritated against each 
other. 

I think it would be better to have the meeting immediately 
after the delivery of the annuities at Fort Wayne; no other 
presents will then be expected, excepting a few special ones 
for the chiefs. Should the President approve of giving an 
annuity to the Sacks, they will probable expect to have an 
advance of one year on their arrival here. One of the chiefs 
of this tribe attended the trial of the Delaware Indian at 
Kaskaskia last fall, and complained heavily of the neglect 
with which his tribe was treated by the United States. 

I have enclosed a sample of virgin copper, found on the 
Vermillion river, about eighty miles above this place. This 
piece has undergone no process excepting that of being heated 
in a common fire, and then beaten with a hammer to get off 
some small bits of stone and earth which adhered to it. I 
have reason to suppose that there is a considerable quantity 
at the place whence this piece was brought. Recollecting that 
there was a resolution of congress, passed two years ago, 
directing a search to be made after copper on Lake Superior, 
it occurred to me that the President might wish some in- 
quiries to be made after the mine from which this sample 
was taken. 



 

Harrison to the Secretary of War 

March 25, 1802 
Dawson, Harrison, 29 
With respect to the salt spring [in Sahne county, 111.] 
which the chiefs who were at the seat of government lately 
expressed a wish to lease, my opinion is, that it would be 
altogether improper to comply with their request, consider- 
ing both the present advantage of the Indians and the in- 
terests of the white settlers, now and in time to come. The 
spring alluded to, is perhaps the very best in the whole ex- 
tent of country from the Alleghany mountains to the Mis- 
sissippi, and may, if the preservation of the wood in the 
neighborhood be properly attended to, give so large a supply 
of salt as very considerably to reduce the price of that indis- 
pensable article in all the settlements of the Ohio and the 
navigable branches of that river. Should the proposed lease 
take place, the tenant would endeavor to make as much pres- 
ent advantage as possible — the young trees and the branches 
of the older would alone be made use of, while the heavy 
trunks would be left to rot on the ground, and in a few years 
would be effected the destruction of as much timber as would 
be sufficient, under proper management to last for a century. 
The leasing of this spring would probably produce a disagree- 
ment among the Indians themselves. Every tribe in the 
country would expect to partake in the benefits of the lease, 
and the proportion which would fall to the lot of each would 
be so small, as to disgust those who really have a right to 
the land : the Delawares and Shawnese have none. The bet- 
ter plan appears to be to extinguish the title altogether to 
the spring and a small tract around it: the United States 
could very well afford to give each of the tribes a sum equal 
to one year's annuity for the spring and 10,000 acres around 
it. It might then be put under such management as com- 
pletely to indemnify the public for the expense of the pur- 
chase, and produce a sufficiency of salt at a moderate price 
for the present inhabitants and those who are to follow.^ 

1. The Salines weie just below the mouth of the Wabash. Some Shawnee and 
Delaware chiefs on a visit to Washinston offered to cede these to the U. S. This was 
done and on January 18. 1803 Jefferson in a special message advised Congress to cari-y 
out the plan here suHeested by Harrison. April 30, 1805, Harrison appointed Col. 
Isaac White supt. of the Salt Works on Saline creek. 

Ind. Mag. of Hist. XV. S32 
Am. Sla. Pa. Inrl .iff. I, 6S.1, 6SS 



 

Proclamation: Pjghts of Settlers at Peoria 

April 8, 1802 
Executive Journal, 5 

The Citizens of the Village of Peoria on the Illinois River 
having presented a petition to the Governor, stating that a 
considerable quantity of wood and prairie land adjoining the 
said Village, from whence they have been accustomed to pro- 
cure hay and fuel, had been granted by a Certain Mallier 
[Paulette Maillet] who stiled himself Commandant of Peoria 
to a number of Individuals by whom the said Citizens have 
been forbidden to Cut Wood, or Hay as usual, to their great 
Inconvenience and Injuiy; The Governor Issued a proclama- 
tion publicly notifying, that all the land included within a 
Square of six miles [Ceded by Indians in Wayne's treaty, 
1795] round the said Village is the property of the United 
States, that the said Mallier nor no other persons have ever 
been authorized by the United States to dispose of the land, 
and that the sales, and Concessions made by him are Fraudu- 
lent and Void; And as the only agent of the United States 
in this Territory, he gave to the Citizens of the said Village 
permission to Cut wood and Hay upon any of the Public 
lands, which are not Enclosed or have not been yearly En- 
closed, at the same time he expressly forbids any new settle- 
ment, plantation or farm to be made upon any part of the 
said six miles square, until it shall be authorized by the Gov- 
ernment of the United States.^ 

Proclamation: Offering a Rev^ard for a Jail Breaker 

May 5, 1802 

Executive Journal, 6 

The Sheriff of Knox County having reported to the Gov- 
ernor that a Certain John Williams, confined in the jail of 
the said County, on the Charge of murder, did on the night 
of the 4th. Instant [May] Break the Jail, and from thence 
Effected his Escape, the Governor Issued a proclamation of- 

1. Paulette Maillet was born at Macinac in 1753. His life was that of the French 
woods ranger, roamins the forest as an Indian partisan from Lake Erie to the Rocky 
mountains. He is best known for his daring capture of Fort St. Joseph in 1778. This 
same year he founded Peoria. 111., opposite the present city. Here in 1805 the trader 
lost his life in a cuiarrel with another ranger named Senegal who shot him dead. 



 

feriiig a Reward oi' three hundred DoHars, to any person or 
persons, who should apprehend the said WiHiams, and de- 
liver him to the Custody of the Sheriff of said County, he 
also in the same proclamation Charges and requires all Sher- 
iffs, Constables, and other Civil officers of the Territory to 
make diligent search for the said Culprit; and he requests 
the good Citizens of the Territory to give all the assistance 
in their power towards apprehending him, and as there is 
great reason to believe the said Williams was assisted by 
some Villian or Villians in making his Escape, the Governor 
offers a further reward of one hundred dollars, to any per- 
son or persons who will give information of any accomplice 
or accomplices of the said Williams in Breaking the Jail so 
that the offenders may be prosecuted with effect.^ 

Harrison to the Secretary of State 

July 7th 1802 

Mss. ill Indiana State Library 

Sir: 

The mail which will carry this letter is the first from this 
place, since the month of March last — or I should before 
have done myself the honour to write to you — altho I had 
nothing material to communicate. This barrenness of events 
still continues, with the exception of such as come under my 
notice as Superintendent of Indian affairs & these as has 
been the custom will be detailed to the Secretary of War. 

The Secretary of this Terretory will transmit you a Copy 
of our proceeings from the commencment of the Government 
to the 4th Instant, & a Copy of the Laws — adopted by the 
Governor and Judges during the last Winter. The expence 
of printing laws adopted in the Territory has usually been 
borne by the United States, & I believe that part of the Con- 
tingent money voted annually by Congress is intended for 

1. A small hunting party of Indians under the lead of an Indian named Jim 
Gallaway were hunting on Blue river. They had about $50 worth of fur when their 
camp was discovered by three white wretches named John Williams, Martin Williams 
and a man named Cutchelow who murdered all the Indians and escaped with the 
plunder to Kentucky. On the order of the Governor of Kentucky Captain Davis Floyd 
arrested John Williams in Breckini-idge county. Kentucky. Cutchelow was rescued by 
his neighbors from the sheriff and Mai-tin Williams escaped to New Orleans. John 
Williams was lodged in jail at Vincennes where he broke jail by the aid of friends and 
escaped, as shown in the proclamation. The criminals escaped conviction but were 
all killed by the Indians a short time later while on a trapping expedition. See Harrison 
to Sec. of War July 15. 1801. Dawson. Harrimn, 29 seq. 

4—21182 



 

this purpose. If I am correct will you please to ini'orin me, 
Sir, whether it will be done under your direction at the seat 
of Government, or will you authorise me to employ some one of 
the printers in Kentucky to do this and other trifling articles 
in the Printing line — Such as land Patents, Civil and Mili- 
tary Commissions &c. The Citizens of the Territory suffer 
great inconveniance for the want of Printed Laws — & I shall 
shortly be ready to issue Patents for such of the land claims 
as have not been decided on by the former Governor. My 
proceeding on this subject shall be transmitted to you as it 
is brought to a close — which I hope to be able to effect in 
the course of one year from the present time. My labour in 
this business would be much lightened and the chance of 
making blunders rendered much less ; If I could procure from 
Governor St. Clair certain Records in his possession, which 
exclusively relate to the land business in this Country. I 
liave enclosed an extract of his answer to my application for 
these papers, in which he declares he does not think himself 
authorised to deliver them, without an order for that purpose 
from the President.' 

I am with respect &c. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Jefferson 

ViNCENNES 8th Augt. 1802 
Jefferson Papers: '2d series, vol. i2, no. 75 

Sir: 

When I had the honour to see you in Philadelphia in the 
Spring of the year 1800 You were pleased to recommend to 
me a plan for a Town which you supposed would exempt its 
inhabitants in a great degree from those dreadful pestilences 
which have become so common in the large Cities of the 
United States. As the laws of this Territory have given to 
the Governor the power to designate the seats of Justice for 
the Counties, and as the choice of the Citizens of Clark 
County was fixed upon a spot where there had been no town 
laid out, I had an opportunity at once of gratifying them, 
of paying respect to your recommendation, and of Conform- 
ing to my own inclinations. The proprietor of the land hav- 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 51 

ing acceded to my proposals a Town has been laid out with 
each alternate square to remain vacant forever (excepting 
one Range of squares upon the River) and I have taken the 
liberty to call it Jeffersonville. The beauty of the spot on 
which the Towti is laid out, the advantage of the situation 
(being just above the Rapids of the Ohio) and the excellence 
of the plan, make it highly probable that it will at some 
period not very remote become a place of considerable Con- 
sequence. At the sale of the lots a few days ago several of 
them were struck off at 200 Dollars. It is in contemplation 
to cut a canal round the Rapids on this side — a pi'oject which 
it is said can be very easily executed and which will be highly 
beneficial to the To^^^l. Indeed I have very little doubt of 
its flourishing. It is my ardent wish that it may become 
worthy of the name it bears, and that the Humane & benevo- 
lent views which dictated the plan may be reallised. 

If Sir it should again happen that in the wide Range which 
you suffer your thoughts to take for the benefit of mankind 
the accomplishment of any of your wishes can in the smallest 
degree be aided by me, I beg you to believe that your Com- 
mands shall be executed to the utmost extent of my small 
talents. 

I have the Honour to be with sincere Attachment Sir your 
Most 

Hume. Sevt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Thomas Jefferson, 

President of the United States 

P. S. I have done myself the Honour to enclose a plan of 
the Town of Jeffersonville^ and one which shows its situ- 
ation with Regard to Louisville & Clarksville. 

[Indorsed] Harrison Govr. Wni. Henry. Vincennes Aug. 8, 
1802 reed. Aug. 29. 

1. Jeffersonville was laid off in 18(12 by Marston G. Clark. William Goodwin. Richard 
Pile, Davis Floyd and Samuel Gwathmey. The plan of Jefferson was carried out. 
"The original plan resembled a checkerboard : the black squares to be sold in lots, the 
red squares to be crossed diagonally by sti-eets, leaving four triangular parks at the 
intersections of streets." This plan was changed in 1810. 

Baird, Clark count,j, 49 



 

Harrison's Address to Indian Council' 

August 12, 1802 

Dawson, Hwrrison, 22-25 

My Children — 

I have been, for a considerable time, desirous of having 
a general council composed of the chiefs and wise men of all 
the different tribes, whose concerns have been committed to 
my management, by your great father, the President of the 
United States. 

Since my first arrival in this country, you well know how 
extremely anxious I have been to preserve your peace and 
harmony, not only between you and your white brethren, but 
between each particular tribe of my red children. 

When the tomahawk was raised some time ago by some of 
your inconsiderate and rash young men, and your blood al- 
ready began to flow, you know what pains I took to arrest 
the fury of the bloody weapon and to bury it where I thought 
it could never again be found. 

My children, the great tree of peace which was planted at 
Greenville, I have watered and cultivated with the greatest 
care, and I have cherished the hope that this tree would 
spread its branches over the whole of this great Island,, and 
that the white and red people would smoke the pipe of friend- 
ship under its shade till the end of time. 

But in spite of all my care, this fair and flourishing tree 
has been severely wounded by the rash and inconsiderate 
young men of both colors; and but a very few weeks ago, 
it received a most terrible gash, and one, which I much fear, 
will endanger the very existence of those large branches 
which hang over the Illinois river. 

My Children, let us all exert ourselves to shield from future 
danger this sacred plant: let us cut off the branches which 
are withered and decayed, and extirpate the weeds which 
have hitherto retarded its growi;h, and then let us entwine 
our arms around its trunk, that the vicious and unruly may 
be unable to injure it. 

My Children whilst your father, the President, was form- 

1. This council was called at Vincennes and got to business September 2. Kas- 
kaskias. Kickapoos, Weas, Eel river Miamies, Piankeshaws and Pottawattomies attended. 
Compare the letter from the Sec. of War, Feb. 23. 1802. and Harrison's letters of 
Feb. 26. above for pui-pose. See also the report of this council under date of Sep- 
tember 17, 1802. 



 

ing plans for your future happiness, and was communicating 
to me his directions upon the subject of clearing your under- 
standings, and making- you acquainted with those arts by 
which the white people are enabled to live with so much ease 
and comfort, how much must he have been grieved and sur- 
prised to hear that two of his people had been murdered by 
some of those very persons for whose welfare and happiness 
his thoughts were thus anxiously employed. Are these de- 
lightful plains, which were made by the Great Spirit to 
afford nourishment for his children, to be for ever deluged 
with blood? Will foolish men never learn that war and 
bloodshed are as offensive to the maker of us all, as they are 
destructive of the happiness of those which might engage 
in it? 

Mt/ Childrev, aim your arrows at the buffaloe, the bear, and 
the deer, which are provided for your use, but spare your 
brother man ; let those whom the Great Spirit has placed upon 
the same Island, live in peace with each other. Let the na- 
tions to whom it has pleased God to give abundance of the 
comforts of life, share them with their neighbors who may 
be deficient. 

My Children, by this principle your great father, the Presi- 
dent of the United States is strongly actuated; he bids me 
inform you that it is his ardent wish to see you prosperous 
and happy; he has directed me to take every means in my 
power to have you instructed in those arts, which the Great 
Spirit has long ago communicated to the white people, and 
from which they derive food and clothing in abundance. 

My Children, some of you whom I now address are old and 
wise men, who have lived long enough to see that the kind of 
life you lead is neither productive of happiness to yourselves, 
nor acceptable to the Great Spirit. You know the constant 
state of warfare in which you have lived has reduced some 
of your most powerful nations to a mere handful ; and even 
in time of peace, the difficulty of procuring provisions at some 
seasons of the year is so great, that your women are unable 
to raise a sufficient number of children to supply the constant 
waste occasioned by the excessive use of that most pernicious 
liquor, whiskey. 

My Children, the Great Spirit must assuredly have been 
angry with us when he discovered to man the mode of making 



 

this mischievous liquor. You well know the innumerable 
miseries which this fatal liquor has produced amongst you. 
Many of your young men spend the whole profit of their 
hunting in whiskey, and their children and old fathers are 
left to struggle with cold and hunger. Nay more, when 
reason is driven away by the intoxicating draft — what shock- 
ing scenes have been exhibited. The knife of a brother is 
aimed at a brother's life, and the tomahawk of the son is 
frequently buried in the head of his father; and those beau- 
tiful plains which were only to be stained by the blood of 
the deer and buffaloe are crimsoned with the gore of your 
best chiefs and warriors. 

But my Children, let us turn away our eyes from those 
shocking scenes, and let us unite our endeavors to introduce 
other manners amongst the generation which is now grow- 
ing up. 

Your father, the President, has directed me to inform you, 
that he wishes you to assemble your scattered warriors, and to 
form towns and villages, in situations best adapted to culti- 
vation; he will cause you to be furnished with horses, cattle, 
hogs, and implements of husbandry, and will have persons 
provided to instruct you in the management of them. My 
children, turn your thoughts seriously to this important ob- 
ject. You know that the game which afforded you subsis- 
tence is yearly becoming more scarce, and in a short time 
you will be left without resource, and your wives and chil- 
dren will in vain ask you for food. 

My Children, it is very easy for you to avoid this calamity. 
A great many years ago the white people subsisted as you do 
now upon the wild beasts of the forest. When those were 
becoming scarce the Great Spirit communicated to them the 
method of raising grain for bread, and taught them to bring 
the ox and the horse under their subjection though they had 
been as wild as your deer and buffaloe and thus to assist 
them in cultivating the earth. 

My Children, our Great Father, who lives in heaven has 
admirably contrived this earth for the comfort and happiness 
of his children ; but from the beginning he has made it a 
law that man should earn his food by his own exertions : the 
beasts of the forest cannot be taken without trouble and 
fatigue ; nor can bread or clothing be made without consider- 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 55 

able labor. It is necessary that the grain should be deposited 
in the earth, and the intruding beasts kept oft' and noxious 
weeds destroyed ; the munificent Deity performs the rest. He 
sends the rain and the dew to fertilize the soil and give vigor 
to the tender plants, and causes the sun to ripen and perfect 
the fruit. 

There is nothing so pleasing to God as to see his children 
employed in the cultivation of the earth. He gave command 
to our ancestors to increase and multiply until the whole 
earth should be filled with inhabitants. But you must be 
sensible my Children that this command could not be obeyed 
if we were all to depend upon the chase for our subsistence. 
It requires an immense extent of country to supply a very 
few hunters with food, and the labor and fatigue which the 
wives of hunters undergo and their constant exposure to the 
inclemency of the seasons make the raising of a very few 
children a matter of the greatest difiiculty. 

My Children, you may perhaps think that the plan I have 
recommended is too difilcult to be effected; but you may de- 
pend upon it that with the proper exertions on your part 
there is no doubt of its success. The experiment has been 
fairly tried with your brothers the Creeks and Cherokees. 
Many individuals of the former have herds of cattle con- 
sisting of some hundreds together with an abundance of corn 
and vegetables. This has had a most happy effect on their 
population and all their wigwams are already filled with 
children. 

At any rate let me entreat you to make the experiment, 
for the sake of the rising generation ; although it may be dif- 
ficult for an old man to change entirely the mode of life in 
which he has been brought up, with children it is otherwise ; 
they can be formed to any thing, can be made to assume any 
shape like the young shoots of the willow or the tender 
branches of the vine. 



 

Minutes of Indian Conference 

September 17, 1802 

Dawson, Harrison, 27 

In a conference, holden by William Henry Harrison, Gov- 
ernor and commander in chief in and over the Indiana Ter- 
ritory, and intendant of Indian affairs, and the Sachems and 
Chiefs of the Potawatamy, Kickapoo, Eel River, Kaskaskia, 
Wea, and Piankishaw nations, the said Sachems and Chiefs 
aforesaid have nominated and appointed the Little Turtle, 
Richarville, To-pinee-bik, and Winemak, or a majority of 
them, to finally settle and adjust a treaty with such agent 
or agents as may be appointed on behalf of the United States, 
which shall be established on the following article, to wit: 

That the United States shall relinquish all claim to lands 
in the neighborhood of Vincennes, excepting the following 
described tract, which we the undersigned Sachems and 
Chiefs for ourselves and the nations we represent, do by 
these presents authorize and empower you, the said Little 
Turtle, Richarville, To-pinee-bik, and Winemak, or a major- 
ity of you, to transfer and make over to the United States 
in consideration of the relinquishment above mentioned, the 
tract of land comprised within the following lines and bound- 
aries, to wit: beginning at Point Coupee on the Wabash 
river, thence running a westwardly line four leagues, thence 
southwardly by a line drawn parallel to the general course 
of the Wabash river until it will be intersected by a west- 
wardly line drawn from the confluence of the White river 
and Wabash river, thence from the point of intersection afore- 
said along the said line by the confluence of the White and 
Wabash rivers in an easterly direction twenty-four leagues, 
thence northeastwardly by a line drawn parallel to the gen- 
eral course of the said Wabash river until it will intersect 
an easterly line dravni from Point Coupee aforesaid, on the 
Wabash river, thence by the line last mentioned to Point 
Coupee, the place of beginning. 

And we. the undersigned Sachems and Chiefs, also author- 
ize and empower you the said Little Turtle, Richarville, To- 
pinee-bik, and Winemak, or a majority of you, to transfer 
and make over to the United States the privilege of making 
salt for ever at the salt lick on the Saline river, and also a 



 

tract of land four miles square, including the salt lick afore- 
said. 

Done at Vincennes, the 17th day of September, 1802. 
WONONGASEAH, (or five medals) 1 
Ma-Gaa-Goh, X i Pottawatamy 

Wake-Nah, (or Left Hand) X f Chiefs 
Kee-Sas, (or Sun) X J 

Ma-Mi-La-Chich, (or ground hog) XI Eel river 
Ma-Top-Sa-Ni-Ah, (or Sam) X / Chiefs 
NONTOUR, X ] 

Grosble, X [. Piankishaw Chiefs 

Troisfesses, X j 
Fusee, X ~| 

Young Labossiere, X \ Wea Chiefs 

Se-Con-Quan-Ing-Guah, X J 
Baptiste Ducoigne, X, a Kaskaskia Chief 
Pa-Ke-Ka-Nak, X "1^ Kickapoo 

Pos-Se-Lan-Con-Guah, X j Chiefs 

Done in the Presence of 

W. Wells, agent for the district of Fort Wayne 

Jno. Gibson 

Henry Vanderburgh 

Jno. Rice Jones 

B. Parke 

David Coupland, Virg'a 

Cornelius Lyman, com't 1st In'fy Reg. 

Carter B. Harrison, Virg'a 

Joseph Baron, sworn Interpreter 

Jas. Johnston 

Commissions for Holding Court 

September 24, 1802 
Fergus Hint. Scries SI, Early Illinois 31 

Indiana Territory, ss. William Henry Harrison Esquire, 
Governor and Commander in Chief of the Indiana Territory, 
to John Edgar' and Peter Mbnard= of the County of Ran- 
dolph Esquires, Greeting: 

Whereas we assigned the Honble. John Griffin' Esqr. one 
of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the Indiana Territory, 

1. John EclKar. a native of Ireland, at the beginning of the American Revolution 
gave up command of a British ship on the Great Lakes and joined the Americans, 177G. 
In 1787 he located at KasUaskia as a merchant remaininK there till his death in 1832.' 
He was wealthy, owning a large flour mill and shipping to New' Orleans. He also 
operated a salt mill. He served in many official capacities. 

Reynolds rimicer lUinois. 116 

2 and 3. For sketches of Menard and Griffin, see index. 



 

our Justice to enquire by the Oaths of Honest and Lawful 
Men of the County of Randolph, by whom the truth of the 
Matter may be better known, of all Treasons, Insurrections 
and Rebellions, and of all Murders, Felonies, Manslaughters, 
Burglaries, Rapes of Women, unlawful uttering of Words, 
unlawful assemblies. Misprisions, Confederacies, false allega- 
tions, Trespasses, Riots, Routs, Contempts, falsities, Negli- 
gencies, Concealements, Maintainances, Injuries whatsoever, 
and by whomsoever and howsoever done, had or pei*petrated 
and Committed, and by whom, to whom, where how and in 
what Manner the same have been done, perpetrated or com- 
mitted and all and singular the premises and every of them 
for this time to hear and determine according to Law, and 
to cause to be brought before him all the prisoners who shall 
be in the Jail of the said county together with all and singu- 
lar the Warrants, attachments, Mittimuses, and other docu- 
ments, touching the said prisoners, and for this time to de- 
liver the Jail of the said County of all the prisoners in the 
said Jail, for all and every of the said offences, according to 
Law. And we have associated you the said John Edgar and 
Peter Menard to act in the premises with the said John Grif- 
fin. Yet so, that if at certain days and places, which the 
same John Griffin shall appoint for this purpose, you shall 
happen to be present, then that he admit you a Companion, 
otherwise the said John GrifTm (your presence not Being ex- 
pected) may proceed to act in the premises, and therefore 
we commend you and each of you that you attend to act with 
the said John Griffin in form aforesaid in the premises For 
we have Commanded the said John Griffin to admit you as 
a Companion for this purpose as aforesaid. 

Witness: William Henry Harrison, Esquire, Governor and 
(Seal) Commander of the Indiana Territory at Vincennes 
this 24th September 1802 and of the Independence of the 
United States the Twenty Seventh. 

By the Governor. 

JNO. Gibson, Secrety William Henry H.\rrison 



 

Indiana ) William Henry Harrison Esquire Governor 
Territory j ' of the Indiana Territory to the Honble. JOHN 

Griffin Esqr. one of the Judges in and over said Territory 
and John Edgar and Peter Menard Esquires of the County 
of Randolph, Greeting: 

Whereas, we have assigned you the aforesaid John Griffin 
our Justice, to Inquire more fully by the Oaths of Honest and 
lawful men of the County of Randolph, by whoin the Truth 
of the Matter may be Better known, of all treasons. Insur- 
rections and Rebellions, and of all Murdei's, Felonies, Man- 
slaughter, Burglaries, Rapes of Women, unlawful Uttering 
of Words, unlawful Assemblies, Mis-prisons, Confederacies, 
Maintainances, Oppressions, deceits and all other Misdeed 
and offences and Inuries, whatsoever and by whomsoever, 
and howsoever, done, had, perpetrated or committed and all 
and Singular the premises and eveiy or any of them for this 
time to hear and determine according to Law. And after- 
wards associated the said John Edgar and Peter Menard 
with you the aforesaid John Griffin in the premises. We 
command you, that if You all cannot conveniently attend to 
act in the premises, that you or any two of you, who shall 
happen to be present, of which we will that you the said 
John Griffin be one, proceed to act in the premises according 
to Law. 

Witness William Henry Harrison, Esquire Gov- 
ernor of the Indiana Territory at Vincennes this 
Twenty Fourth day of September in the Year of our Lord 
one thousand eight hundred and two and of the Independence 
of the United States the Twenty Seventh. 
By the Governor, 

JNO. GIBSON, Secrety 



Proclamation: Selling Liquor to Indians 

October 24, 1802 

Executive Journal, 7 

The Congress of the United States having by the act of 
the 30th March, 1802, authorized the President of the United 
States to take such measures as he may deem Expedient for 
preventing the Introduction of ardent Spirits amongst the 



 

Indian Tribes, and the (iosernor of the Territory having re- 
ceived Instructions and authority Irom the President to sup- 
press the sale of ardent Spirits to the Indians within the Ter- 
ritory, The Governor Issued his proclamation strictly En- 
joining upon all traders and other persons, to forbear in 
future to sell any ardent spirits or Intoxicating Liquors to 
any Indian or Indians whatever ; Such Traders as may here- 
tofore [have] taken Liquors into the Indian Country are 
allowed to remove the same after which period it shall be 
considered as an Infraction of the Regulations for the Gov- 
ernment of the Indian Department, if any such ardent spirits 
are found in their possession and their Bonds will be forfeited 
accordingly. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

October, 1802 

Dawson, H(irri.<<on, 45 

The white man and the Indian were drinking together at 
a tavern, a quarrel ensued, and the Indian was taken off by 
another white man to a distant house till he would became 
sober. The man with whom the Indian disputed, after pro- 
viding himself with a cudgel, proceeded to the house where 
the Indian was, and forced open the door of the room in 
which he lay, and beat him to death with the cudgel. He 
was apprehended, but there were strong doubts that a jury 
could not be procured that would convict him, although the 
evidence was indisputable ; such was the delusion under which 
the white inhabitants labored with respect to the crime of 
murdering an Indian. (Extract) 

Proclamation: Calling a Convention to Petition Con- 
gress TO Allow Slavery in Indiana Territory 

November 22, 1802 

Executive Journal, 7 

Petitions having been presented to the Governor by a Con- 
siderable number of the Citizens of the Territory praying 
that a proclamation should Issue from the Executive author- 
ity for Calling a General Convention for the purpose of taking 
into consideration the propriety of repealing the sixth article 



 

of Compact between the United States and the people of the 
Territory, and for other purposes, and proof having been 
adduced to the governor that a very large majority of the 
Citizens are in favor of the measures : the Governor in Com- 
pliance with their wishes Issued his proclamation notifying 
all whom it may concern that an Election will be held at 
the Respective Court Houses in Each County of the Terri- 
tory on Tuesday the 11th. day of December for Choosing 
representatives to a General Convention, and the number of 
Representatives from the several Counties to be as follows 
Viz. from the County of Knox four, from the County of Ran- 
dolph three, from the County of St. Clair three, and from 
the County of Clark two, and the Sheriffs of the several Coun- 
ties are authorized and required to hold the Elections in 
their Respective Counties, and in Case of any of the Sheriffs 
are Candidates, then the election to be held by the Coroners.' 

Resolution of Vincennes Convention 

December 25, 1802 
Indiana Historical Societjj PHbiieations, II, ir,9 
We the People of Indiana Territory inhabiting the middle 
and western Divisions of the Country Northwest of the Ohio, 
do by our Representatives in general Convention assembled, 
hereby agree that the operation of the Sixth Article of Com- 
pact between the United States and the people of the Terri- 
tory [Ordinance of 1787] should be suspended for the space 
of ten years from the Day that a law may be passed by Con- 
gress giving their Consent to the Suspension of the said 
Article. 

1. By a subsequent proclamation, dated November 24, the time for opening this 
convention was changed to Monday, December 20th, Executive Journal, 7, at which time 
it duly met. On December 25th the convention adopted a resolution in favor of a 
ten year suspension of the article of the Ordinance of 17S7 which prohibited slavery: 
and on the 28th the substance of this resolution, toKether with some additional requests 
concerning the errant of lands, provisions for education, roads, salt sprincrs. the franchise, 
etc., was embodied in a petition to Congress, which was transmitted to that body by the 
Govei-nor with an accompanying letter on the same day. An advei-se report to the 
request concerning slavery (and most of the other matters) was returned in the House 
of Representatives by a committee presided over by John Randolph, on March 2, 1803; 
but a year later (Febniary 17, 1804) a second committee reported in favor of it. The 
desired authorization for the introduction of slavery, however, was not obtained, either 
at this time or later, when the petition was several times renewed. The documents cited 
above are here printed as necessary to an understanding of this proclamation. 

See Jacob Piatt Dunn's Slavcrii Petitions and Papers in Indiana Historical Societi/ 
Publications, II, No. 12 (1894) ; also his Imliava: A liedrmptinn From Slavern 
("American Commonwealths" series.) 



( 

Provided however that should no law be passed by Con- 
gress for suspending the said article before the 4th day of 
March 1805, then the Consent of the people of this Territory 
hereby given shall be void and of no effect. [See Nov. 22, 
above] 

Done at Vincennes in the Indiana Territory the twenty- 
fifth day of December one thousand Eight hundred and two, 
and in the twenty-seventh year of the Independence of the 
United States. 

By order of the Convention. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison, 
President & Delegate from the County of Knox 
Teste: Jno. Rice Jones, 

Secretary 

Petition of the Vincennes Convention 

December 28, 1802- 

Indiana Historical Society Publications, II, J,lil 

That nine-tenths of your memorialists being of opinion, 
that the sixth article of Compact contained in the ordinance 
for the Government of the Territory has been extremely 
prejudicial to their Interest and welfare, requested the Gov- 
ernor by petitions from each of the several counties to call 
a general convention of the Territory for the purpose of tak- 
ing the sense of tlie whole People by their Representatives 
on a subject to them so interesting and of afterwai-ds taking 
such measures as to them might seem meet by petition to 
your honorable Bodies not only for obtaining the repeal or 
suspension of the said article of Compact but also for that of 
representing and Petitioning for the passage of such other 
Laws as would in the opinion of the Convention be conducive 
to the general welfare, population and happiness of this dis- 
tant and unrepresented portion of the United States. 

This convention is now sitting at Vincennes and have 
agreed to make the following representations to the Congress 
of the United States, not in the least doubting but that every- 
thing they can desire (not prejudicial to the Constitution or 
to the Interest of the General Government) will readily be 
granted them. 

The Sixth article of Compact between the United States 



 

and the people of the Territory which declares that there 
shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in it has 
prevented the Country from populating and been the reason 
of driving many valuable Citizens possessing Slaves to the 
Spanish side of the Mississippi, most of whom but for the 
prohibition contained in the ordinance would have settled in 
this Territory, and the consequences of keeping that prohibi- 
tion in force will be that of obliging the numerous Class of 
Citizens disposed to emigrate, to seek an Asylum in that 
country where they can be permitted to enjoy their property. 

Your memorialists however and the people they represent 
do not wish for a repeal of the article entirely, but that it 
may be suspended for the Term of Ten Years and then to 
be again in force, but that the slaves brought into the Ter- 
ritory during the Continuance of this Suspension and their 
progeny, may be considered and continued in the same state 
of Servitude, as if they had remained in those parts of the 
United States where Slavery is permitted and from whence 
they may have been removed. 

Your memoralists beg leave further to represent, That the 
quantity of lands in the Territory open for Settlement is by 
no means sufficiently large to admit of a population adequate 
to the purposes of Civil Government. They therefore pray 
that the Indian titles to the land lying between the settled 
part of the Illinois country and the Ohio, between the general 
Indian boundary line running from the mouth of the river 
Kentucky [Greenville Treaty Line] and the tract commonly 
called Clark's Grant [Clark County, Indiana] and between 
and below the said Clark's Grant and the Ohio and Wabash 
Rivers, may be extinguished ; and as an incouragement for 
a speedy population of the Country; that those lands and all 
other public lands in the Territory may be sold in Smaller 
Tracts and at a lower price than is now allowed by the exist- 
ing Laws. A purchase of most of the Country above men- 
tioned but more especially of that part lying between the 
Illinois and the Ohio it is conceived may be easily obtained 
from the Indians and on very moderate and advantageous 
Terms. 

Several persons (as your memoralists are informed) hav- 
ing settled on the public lands in this Territory with the 
intention of purchasing the same when offered for sale by 
the United States are fearful that advantages may be taken 



 

of their Improvements to enhance the Price. Your Peti- 
tioners therefore pray, That a law may be passed for their 
relief, giving the right of Pre-emption to all those who may 
have so settled on the public lands, and also as one of the 
more sure means of populating the Country as of enhancing 
the value of the United States lands remaining undisposed 
of in the Territory. They further pray, that provision may 
be made in the said Law for securing a certain part of every 
Section of Such public land to those who will actually settle 
and cultivate the same. 

The United States having pledged themselves in the Ordi- 
nance that Schools and the means of Education should be 
forever encouraged, and having in all the Sales of land here- 
tofore made, reserved considerable portions thereof for that 
purpose. 

Your memorialists, therefore, humbly pray that a law may 
be passed making a grant of lands for the support of the 
Schools and Seminaries of learning to the several Settlements 
in the Illinois, the Settlement of Vincennes, and that of 
Clark's Grant, near the Rapids of the Ohio. 

The means of communication as well between the several 
Settled parts of the Territory as between the Territory and 
the State of Kentucky, being extremely difficult and incon- 
venient, as well for want of good Roads as for want of houses 
of Entertainment, and as neither of those objects can be ob- 
tained otherwise than by application to the United States 
who own or may own the lands through which the said Roads 
must pass. 

Your memorialists, therefore, further pray that a law may 
be enacted granting to such persons as the Governor of the 
Territory may recommend, Four hundred acres of land to 
each in such places as the said Governor may designate, not 
exceeding the distance of Twenty miles from each other, on 
the road leading from Clark county to Knox county, and from 
Vincennes in the said County to the Bank of the Ohio oppo- 
site to the town of Henderson, in Kentucky: also from Vin- 
cennes to Kaskaskia, in Randolph county, and from thence 
to Lusk's Ferry on the Ohio [15 miles above the mouth of 
Cumberland river], who will open good waggon roads and 
Establish houses of Entertainment thereon for Five Years, 
under such restrictions as to your Wisdom may Seem Neces- 
sary. 



 

And your Memorialists further beg leave to represent that 
one of the most indispensable articles of life (Salt) is very 
Scarse and difficult to be obtained, That for the want of a 
sufficient number of Salt Springs in their Country, that dif- 
ficulty must increase with the population, and if effectual 
methods are not taken to secure the Timber in the neigh- 
bourhood of the Salt Springs [near Shawneetown] from be- 
ing willfully or carelessly wasted and destroyed, they will in 
a very few years indeed be utterly destitute of that very valu- 
able article; that there is but one Salt Spring known in the 
Country of any value, and that is situate below the mouth of 
the Wabash River, Commonly called the Saline, and is very 
advantageously placed for the accommodation of most of the 
Inhabitants of the Territory, and has, moreover, been lately 
ceded by the Indians to the general Government. 

Your memoralists, therefore, humbly pray the Congress of 
the United States to extend their Bounty to this Territory 
as they have lately done to that Northwest of the Ohio, and 
vest the said Salt Spring in the Legislature of the Territory, 
as soon as it is formed in trust, for. the use of the Territory, 
and untill the Legislature be fornied, that the management 
of said spring be committed to the Governor of the Terri- 
tory, or to such other person as the President of the United 
States may think proper to appoint. 

By a Resolve of Congress of the 29th August, 1788, con- 
firmed by an Act of the United States of the 3d March, 1791, 
a donation of Four hundred acres of land is given to each 
of those persons who were heads of Families in the Illinois 
Country on or before the year 1783, which the Governor of 
the Territory was directed to cause to be laid oflF to the sev- 
eral claimants in a form of a Parallelogram adjoining the 
several Villages therein mentioned. 

The whole of the lands adjoining those Villages were be- 
fore the passage of the above Resolve the private property 
of Individuals who claimed the same by Virtue of old grants 
made to them and their ancestors during the time of the 
French government so that the Governor could not cause the 
said donation to be laid off in the form and manner desig- 
nated by the said Resolve. 

This has been very detrimental to the several Grantees, and 
in a great measure prevented the further population of the 
Country, your memorialists however beg leave to observe. 



 

that if the said donation lands are directed to be laid off in 
distinct Bodies for each Village, by far the greatest part of 
them must from the very large and extensive Prairies with 
which the whole of that country abounds be wholly and abso- 
lutely useless through the entire want of Timber. 

Your memoralists therefore pray you to take the situation 
of the antient Inhabitants of the Illinois Country into Con- 
sideration and as the humane Intention of Congress was to 
give such lands as would be useful, that you will permit the 
said Grantees, their Heirs and assigns especially after a 
period of Fourteen years, to locate their said donation of Four 
hundred acres of land in separate Tracts, in such parts of 
the Illinois Country to which the Indian titles may have been 
extinguished, and that the Governor of the Territory may be 
authorized to issue Patents therefor. This permission to lo- 
cate the lands in separate Tracts, will not it is conceived be 
prejudicial to the United States, as the value of the lands in 
the neighbourhood of each Settled Tract will thereby be con- 
siderably augmented. 

Your memorialists further shew that they view that part 
of the ordinance for the Government of the Territory which 
requires a freehold qualification in fifty acres of land as 
Electors for members to the general assembly as subversive 
of the liberties of the Citizens and tending to throw too great 
a weight in the Scale of wealth. They therefore pray that 
the right of Suffrage (in voting for representatives to the 
general assembly) may be extended to the free male Inhabi- 
tants of the Territory of the age of Twenty one years and 
upwards, but under such Regulations and Restrictions as to 
you in your Wisdom may seem proper. 

Since the Erection of the Territory into a separate Gov- 
ernment, the Attorney General [John Rice Jones] therof has 
prosecuted not only for offenses committed against the 
Municipal Laws of the Territory but also against the Laws 
of the United States, and has been obliged at three different 
Times to travel one hundred and sixty miles, from his home 
to the seat of the Territorial Government to prosecute of- 
fenders against those Laws, and yet he has received no Com- 
pensation for his Services either from the United States or 
the Territory, nor is it probable that the Territory can afford 
to allow him any Salary for his future services. 

Your memorialists, therefore, pray that a Law may be 



 

passed allowing a Salary to the Attorney-General of the Ter- 
ritory adequate to the important services which are ren- 
dered by that officer to the United States as well as to the 
Territory. 

Your memorialists are well aware that the consideration 
of the numerous objects contemplated by this memorial will 
require more time than can well be spared from the impor- 
tant and general concenis of the Union, but when they reflect 
upon their neglected and orphan-like Situation they are em- 
boldened to hope that their wants and wishes will meet with 
all the indulgence and attention necessary to secure to them 
the relief which is so essential to their welfare and happiness. 

Done at Vincennes in the Indiana Tei'ritory the twenty- 
eighth day of December in the Year of our Lord One Thou- 
sand Eight Hundred and Two, and of the Independence of 
the United States the Twenty-Seventh. 

By order of the Convention. 

William Henry Harrison, 
President, & Delegate from the County of Knox 
Teste: John Rice Jones, 

Secretary 

Harrison to Speaker of House of Representatives 

December 28, 1802 

Indiana Historical Society Publications, II, i70 
In Convention, Vincennes, Indiana Territory 
To The Honorable, The Speaker of the House of Representa- 
tives of the United States : 

Sir — The people of the Indiana Territory, having by their 
representatives in general convention assembled, determined 
to suspend, for a temi of years, the operation of the sixth 
article of Compact between the United States and the people 
of the Territory, I have the honor herewith to inclose you 
for the information of the house of Representatives, the in- 
strument declaratory of their consent. I have the honor to 
be, with perfect respect. Sir, 

Your humble sei-vant, 

William Henry Harrison, 
President, and Delegate from the County of Knox 
(By order of the Convention) 



 

Proclamation : Erecting the Lower Peninsula of Michi- 
gan INTO Wayne County, and Attaching the Whitewater 
Valley to Clark County 

January 14, 1803 

Michigan Pioneer and Historical Society, Collections VIII, 5JtO 

Whereas, By an act of Congress passed the 30 of April 
1802 entitled "An act to enable the people of the Eastern 
Division of the Territory North West of the River Ohio, to 
form the constitution and State Government and for the ad- 
mission of such state into the Union on an equal footing with 
the original states and for other purposes". It is declared 
that from and after the formation of the said states, all that 
part of that part North v^^estern territory which is not included 
within the boundaries prescribed for the said state shall be 
attached to, and made part of the Indiana Territory ; 

and whereas the inhabitants of the said Eastern division 
have formed themselves into an independent state by the 
name of the State of Ohio it has become necessary for the 
convenience of the citizens in the newly acquired territory 
and the due administration of justice that a new county 
should be laid off and alterations made in the boundaries of 
those formerly established. 

Wherefore I William Henry Harrison Governor of the In- 
diana Tei-ritory by the authority vested in me by the ordi- 
nance for the Government of the Territory, do ordain and 
declare that a county shall be formed in the North-eastern 
part of the Territory to be known and designated by the 
name and style of the County of Wajnie. And the boundaries 
of the said county shall be as follows to wit: Beginning at 
a point where the East and West line passing through the 
Southerly extreme of Lake Michigan would intersect a North 
and South line passing through the most Westerly extreme 
of the said Lake, and thence north along the last mentioned 
line to the Territorial boundery of the United States, thence 
along the said boundry line to a point where an East and 
West line passing through the Southerly extreme of Lake 
Michigan would intersect the same, thence West along the 
last mentioned line to the place of beginning. — And all the 
aforesaid lands lying \^^thin the above described lines and 
boundaries are hereby erected into the county of Wayne. 
And the inhabitants of the said county of Wayne shall have 



 

and enjoy (from the date hereof) all the rights, privileges 
and immunities whatsoever which to a county and the in- 
habitants thereof in anywise appertain. — And each and every 
person within the bounds of said county of Wayne who held 
commissions civil or military under the government of the 
Northwestern territory at the time of the formation of the 
• State of Ohio, shall still continue to exercise and enjoy their 
respective offices. And the justices of the Court of common 
pleas; of the general quarter sessions of the peace, and of 
the orphans court shall (until otherwise directed) continue 
to hold their respective courts at the place and times at 
which they were accustomed to be held under the Govern- 
ment of the Northwestern Territory. 

And whereas I have not received sufficient information re- 
specting the settlements, below the great Miami, to enable me 
to form in that quarter a county establishment, for the present, 
tliat tract of country included between a North line drawn from 
the mouth of the big Miami River; the Ohio, and the Indian 
boundery line running from a point opposite to the mouth 
of the Kentucky River shall be attached to and form part of 
the county of Clark. And such persons within the said 
bounds as may have held civil or military commissions under 
the Government of the Northwestern Territory, at the time 
when the said described tract was attached to this territory, 
are hereby appointed to the same offices respectively in the 
County of Clark which they held under the Government of 
the Northwestern Territory. 

Done at St. Vincennes the 14 day of January in the year 
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and three and of 
the Independence of the United States the 27. 

John Gibson, Secretary 

By the Governor ^^^^^ Audrain, proth. 



Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington Feb. 27, 1803 
[Jefferson Papers 1st series, vol. 9 no. 208] 

Dawson, Harrison, 35-38 

Dear Sir: 

While at Monticello in August last I received your favor of 
Aug. 8 [see above] and meant to have acknowledged it on 



 

my return to the seat of government at the close of the en- 
suing month, but on my return I found that you were ex- 
pected to be on here in person, and this expectation continued 
till winter. I have since received your favor of Dec. 30. 

In the foi-mer you mentioned the plan of the town which 
you had done me the honour to name after me, and to lay 
out according to an idea I had formerly expressed to you. I 
am thoroughly persuaded that it will be found handsome, & 
pleasant, and I do believe it to be the best means of preserv- 
ing the cities of America from the scourge of the yellow 
fever which being peculiar to our country must be derived 
from some peculiarity in it, that peculiarity I take to be our 
cloudless skies. In Europe where the sun does not shine 
more than half the number of days in the year which it does 
in America, they can build their towns in a solid block with 
impunity; but here a constant sun produces too great an 
accumulation of heat to admit that. Ventilation is indis- 
pensably necessary. Experience has taught us that in the 
open air of the country the yellow fever is not only not gen- 
erated, but ceases to be infectious. I cannot decide from the 
drawing you sent me, whether you have laid off streets round 

the squares thus ;LJa^U.; or only the diagonal streets there- 
in marked. The ij^Uj^-i former was my idea, and is, I im- 
agine, more convenient. 

You will recieve herewith an answer to your letter as Presi- 
dent of the Convention ; and from the Secretary at War you 
recieve from time to time information and instructions as 
to our Indian affairs. These communications being for the 
public records are restrained always to particular objects and 
occasions. But this letter being unofficial, and private, I may 
with safety give you a more extensive view of our policy re- 
specting the Indians, that you may better comprehend the 
parts dealt out to you in detail through the official channel, 
and observing the system of which they make a part, con- 
duct yourself in unison with it in cases where you are obliged 
to act without instruction. [The] system is to live in per- 
petual peace with the Indians, to cultivate an affectionate 
attachment from them, by every thing just & liberal which 
we can [offer?] them within the bounds of reason, and by 
giving them effectual protection against wrongs from our own 
people. The decrease of game rendering their subsistence by 



 

hunting insufficient, we wish to draw them to agriculture, to 
spinning- and weaving. The latter branches they take up 
with great readiness, because they fall to the women, who 
gain by quitting the labours of the field [for] these which 
are exercised within doors. When they withdraw themselves 
to the culture of a small piece of land, they will perceive how 
useless to them are their extensive forests, and will be will- 
ing to pare them off. from time to time in exchange for neces- 
saries for their farms & families. To promote this disposi- 
tion to exchange lands which they have to spare and we 
want for necessaries, which we have to spare and they want, 
we shall push our trading houses, and be glad to see the good 
and influential individuals among them run in debt, because 
we observe that when these debts get beyond what the indi- 
viduals can pay, they become willing to lop them off by a 
cession of lands.' At our trading houses too we mean to 
sell so low as merely to repay cost and charges so as neither 
to lessen or enlarge our capital. This is what private traders 
cannot do, for they must gain; they will consequently retire 
from the competition, and we shall thus get clear of this pest 
without giving offence or umbrage to the Indians. In this 
way our settlements will gradually circumscribe and approach 
the Indians, and they will in time either incorporate with us 
as citizens of the United States or remove beyond the Mis- 
sisipi. The former is certainly the termination of their his- 
tory most happy for themselves. But in the whole course of 
this, it is essential to cultivate their love. As to their fear, 
we presume that our strength and their weakness is now 
so visible that they must see we have only to shut our hand 
to crush them, and that all our liberalities to them proceed 
from motives of pure humanity only. Should any tribe be 
fool-hardy enough to take up the hatchet at any time, the 
siezing the whole country of that tribe and driving them 
across the Missisipi, as the only condition of peace, would be 
an example to others, and a furtherance of our final con- 
solidation. 

1. Harrison has been ci-iticised by most writers dealinK with this period for his 
"aggressive" policy in purchasing Indian lands. This criticism began with dis- 
gruntled land speculators such as William Mcintosh. Dunn. Indiana 323-416 : "Decitis" 
Letters; Marshall, Historii of Kcnturl-ir, Adams, United States VI, 107; Alvord, The 
Illinois Country. 

For a similar case, see the attacl.s made on Michael Jones, land agent in Illinois, 
at the same time. The criticism plainly has no sufficient foundation. On the other 
hand compare Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, 276, 280. 



 

Combined with these views, and to be prepared against 
the occupation of Louisiana by a powerful and enterprising 
people, it is important that setting less value on interior ex- 
tension of purchases fi'om the Indians, we bend our whole 
views to the purchase and settlement of the country on the 
Missisipi from it's mouth to it's Northern regions, that we 
may be able to present as strong a front on our Western as 
on our Eastern border, and plant on the Missisipi itself the 
means of it's own defence. We now own from 31° to the 
Yazoo, and hope this summer to purchase what belongs to 
the Choctaws from the Yazoo up to their boundary, supposed 
to be about opposite the mouth of Acanza [Arkansas]. We 
wish at the same time to begin in your quarter, for which 
there is at present a favorable opening. The Caskias [Kas- 
kaskias] being extinct, we are entitled to their country by our 
paramount sovereignty. The Peorias we understand have 
all been driven off from their country, and we might claim it 
in the same way; but as we understand there is one chief 
remaining, who would, as the survivor of the tribe, sell the 
right, it will be better to give him such terms as will make 
him easy for life, and take a conveyance from him. The Kas- 
kaskias being reduced to a few families, I presume we may 
purchase their whole country for what would place every 
individual of them at his ease, and be a small price to us: 
say by laying off for each family wherever they would chuse it 
as much rich land as they could cultivate, adjacent to each 
other, inclosing the whole in a single fence, and giving them 
such an annuity in money or goods for ever as would place 
them in happiness; and we might take them also under the 
protection of the United States. Thus possessed of the rights 
of these three tribes, we should proceed to the settling their 
boundaries with the Poutawatamies and Kickapoos; claiming 
all doubtful territory but paying them a price for the re- 
linquishment of their concurrent claims, and even prevailing 
on them if possible to cede at a price such of their o^\Tl un- 
questioned tei-ritory as would give us a convenient Northern 
boundary. Before broaching this, and while we are bargain- 
ing with the Kickapoos, the minds of the Poutawatamies and 
Kickapoos should be soothed and conciliated l)y liberalities 
and sincere assurances of friendship. Perhaps sending a well 
qualified character to stay some time in Decaigne's- village 

2. Where identifications do not follow immediately see index. 



 

as if on other business, and to sound him and introduce the 
subject by degrees to his mind and that of the other heads 
of families, inculcating in the way of conversation all those 
considerations which prove the advantages they would re- 
ceive by a cession on these tei-ms, the object might be more 
easily and effectually obtained than by abruptly proposing it 
to them at a formal treaty. Of the means however of ob- 
taining what we wish you will be the best judge ; and I have 
given you this view of the system which we suppose will best 
promote the interests of the Indians and of ourselves, and finally 
consolidate our whole country into one nation only, that you 
may be enabled the better to adapt your means to the object. 
For this purpose we have given you a general commission 
for treating. The crisis is pressing. Whatever can now be 
obtained, must be obtained quickly. The occupation of New 
Orleans, hourly expected, by the French, is already felt like 
a light breeze by the Indians. You know the sentiments they 
entertain of that nation. Under the hope of their protection, 
they will immediately stiffen against cessions of land to us. 
We had better therefore do at once what can now be done. 
I must repeat that this letter is to be considered as private 
and friendly, and not to controul any particular instructions 
which you may receive through an official channel. You will 
also percieve how sacredly it must be kept within your own 
breast, and especially how improper to be understood by the 
Indians. [For] their interests and their tranquillity it is 
best they should see only the present [stat]e of their history. 
I pray you to accept assurances of my esteem and considera- 
tion. 

Th : Jefferson 



Randolph's Report on Slavery in Indiana 

March 2, 1803 

Am. St a. Pa. Public Lands, I, 161 

Mr. [John] Randolph, from the committed to whom were 
referred a letter from William Henry Harrison, President of 
the Convention, held at Vincennes, declaring the consent of 

1 . This House committee consisted of John Randolph of Va., Roger Griswold of 
Connecticut. Robert Williams of North Car., William Hoge of Penn.. and L. R. Morris 
of Vei-mont. It is worth keeping in mind that there was about as much opposition to 
slaveiT at this time in the south as in the north. For petitions see Nov. 22. 1802. above. 



 

the people of Indiana to the suspension of the sixth article 
of compact between the United States and the people of that 
territory : also, a memorial and petition of the inhabitants of 
the said territory; made the following report: 

"That the rapid population of the State of Ohio sufficiently 
evinces in the opinion of your committee, that the labor of 
slaves is not necessary to promote the growth and settlement 
of colonies in that region. That this labor, demonstrable the 
dearest of any, can only be employed to advantage in the 
cultivation of products more valuable than any known to that 
quarter of the United States: that the committee deem it 
highly dangerous and inexpedient to impair a provision wisely 
calculated to promote the happiness and prosperity of the 
Northwestern country, and to give strength and security to 
that extensive frontier. In the salutary operation of this 
sagacious and benevolent restraint, it is believed that the 
inhabitants of Indiana will, at no very distant day, find ample 
remuneration for a temporary privation of labor and of emi- 
gration. 

On the various objects of the memorial, your committee 
beg leave to observe: 

That, an appropriation having been made, empowering the 
Executive to extinguish Indian titles to lands within the limits 
of the United States, the particular direction of that power 
rests entirely with that department of the Government ; that, 
to peiTnit the location of the claims under the resolve of Con- 
gress of the 29th of August, 1788, and the act of the 3d of 
March, 1791, (of whose number and extent the committee 
are entirely ignorant) in the mode pointed out in the me- 
morial, would be an infringement upon that regular mode of 
survey and of location which has been so happily adhered to 
in relation to the public lands. At the same time, the com- 
mittee are of opinion that, after those lands shall have been 
surveyed, a certain number of townships should be desig- 
nated, out of which the claims aforesaid ought to be satis- 
fied. In a country abounding in new and unsettled lands, it 
is presumed that every individual may become a proprietor 
of the soil; and inasmuch as the people of Indiana will at 
a period not far distant, be enabled to establish the right of 
suffrage on such principles as the majority may approve, the 
committee deem it inexpedient to alter a regulation whose 



 

effect is to retain in the hands of persons necessarily attached 
to the welfare of the country, the Government of a remote 
dependency, which, from its vicinage to the territories of 
foreign States, and from the sparseness of its population, 
might, otherwise, be exposed to foreigni intrigue and influence. 
Measures having been taken to put the salt spring below 
the mouth of the Wabash river in a situation to yield every 
possible benefit to the adjacent country, the committee are 
of opinion that it is, at this time, enexpedient to vest that 
property in the Legislature of the Indiana territory. From 
such a consideration as they have been enabled to bestow on 
the subject at this late period of the session, and under the 
pressure of accumulating business they recommend the fol- 
lowing resolutions, which are respectfully submitted to the 
judgment of the House : 

1. Resolved, That it is inexpedient to suspend, for a lim- 
ited time, the operation of the sixth article of compact be- 
tween the original States and the people and States west of 
the river Ohio. 

2. Resolved, That a provision, not exceeding one thirty- 
sixth part of the public lands within the Indiana territory, 
ought to be made for the support of schools within the same. 

3. Resolved, That the Secretaiy of the Treasury be, and 
he hereby is, required to cause an estimate to be made of 
the number and extent of their claims to lands under the 
resolve of Congress of the 29th of August, 1788, and the 
act of the 3d of March, 1791 ; and to lay the same before this 
House at the ensuing session of Congress. - 

4. Resolved, That in all sales of the public lands within 
the territory of Indiana, the right of pre-emption be given 
to actual settlers on the same. 

.5. Resolved, That it is inexpedient to grant lands to indi- 
viduals for the puri30se of establishing houses of entertain- 
ment, and of opening certain roads.- 

6. Resolved, That it is, at this time, inexpedient to vest 
in the Legislature of the Indiana the salt spring below the 
mouth of the Wabash river. 

7. Resolved, That it is inexpedient to alter the existing 
regulation of the right of suffrage within the said territory. 

2. The third resolution refers to Fi-ench land claims around Vincennes. 

3. Harrison had asked for a donation of land for a tavern every ten miles along the 
post road from Louisville to St. Louis via Vincennes. 



 

8. Resolved, That compensation ought to be made to the 
attorney General of the said territory, for service performed 
by him in behalf of the United States. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 3rd March 1803 

Har. Pa. 109-123 

Sir: 

Such has been the irregularity of the mails from the sever- 
ity of the winter that your favor of the 17th of January did 
not reach me until a few days ago. The same cause must 
have retarded my letter of the 14th of Dec. which I suppose 
had not been received when yours of the above date was 
written. 

Capt. [William] Wells has certainly not exerted himself to 
pacify the Indians who have taken offence at the late Treaties 
[Vincennes, Sept. 17, 1802] with the Delawares and Pianke- 
shaws. It is equally certain that the disaffected are not as 
numerous as he has stated them to be and that those who 
have expressed discontent have been instigated thereto en- 
tirely by the Turtle.' Whether the idea of opposition to those 
Treaties originated with himself or with Mr. Wells I cannot 
deteiTnine but that the opinions of the one are always the 
opinions of the other. I have long known The Turtle has 
considerable influence over the Five Medals" and some others 
of the Potawatomi chiefs and I believe that Captain Wells 
and himself control entirely the small band of Eel River In- 
dians. But when Wells spealis of the Miami Nation being 
of this or that opinion he must be understood as meaning 
no more than the Turtle and himself. Nine tenths of that 
Tribe who acknowledge Richardville and Peccan'' for their 

1. Little Turtle, or Mi-shi-kin-na-kwa. was the greatest of the Miamis. Born near 
the site of Foi-t Wayne about 1761, he died and was buried there July 14, 1812. He 
led his tribe at Hai-mar's defeat, 1790. St. Clair's defeat. 1791, and at his own defeat 
by Wayne at Fallen Timbers, 1794. 

2. Five Medals. Onoxa or WononBoseah, war chief of the Pottawatamie tribe on 
the river St. Joseph of Lake Michigan ; his village was upon the Elkhart tributary of 
the St. Joseph. Harrison, The Aborigines of the Ohio Valley. 7S 

S. Owl or Long Beard, a Miami chief. 

Griswold, The History of Ft. Wayne, 16i 
Peccon, a Miami chief, successor of Little Turtle during War of 1812. Died 1814 
just after signing the second treaty of Greenville and was succeeded by Richardville. 
His home was about 5 miles up the St. Mary from Fort Wayne. 

Butler, Huntington County, 115; Bryce, Fort Wayne, tSO 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 77 

chiefs (but who are really governed by an artful fellow called 
the Owl and Long Beard whom you once saw at the seat of 
government) utterly abhor both Wells and the Turtle. On 
this occasion however they may have been induced to join 
in the clamor from the expectation of deriving some advan- 
tage from it. 

After a careful and a dispassionate consideration of the 
subject I can see no reason to alter the opinion I had formed 
that neither the Miamis nor the Potawatomis have any just 
claim either in common or otherwise to any part of the Tracts 
ceded to the United States by the Delawares and Piankeshaws. 
The Delaware claim to that particular tract was derived from 
Present occupancy and from a grant said to have been made 
to them upwards of thirty years ago by the Piankeshaws. 
When the French first descended the Wabash the Pianke- 
shaws were found in the possession of the country on either 
side of that River from its mouth at least as high up as the 
Vermilion and the possession of it has never been disputed 
excepting by the Delawares who claimed under the Pianke- 
shaws and the Weas who have occupied the country above 
Point Coupee since their Towns at Ouiatenon were destroyed 
by Generals Scott and Wilkinson in the year 1791. 

That the Piankeshaws are a Tribe of the large confederacy 
which obtained the appelation of Miamis from the superior 
size of the particular Tribe to which that name more prop- 
erly belonged is not denied. The tie however which united 
them with their brethren has become so feeble that for many 
years past the connection has been scarcely acknowledged. 
For a considerable time antecedent to the Treaty of Greene- 
ville the Piankeshaws found it necessary to adopt a different 
policy from that which was pursued by the Tribes their Allies. 
Three considerable bodies of men led into the heart of their 
country by General Clark between the years 1779 and 1786 
convinced them that their union with the Miamis could not 
afford them the safety and protection which was no doubt 
the object of it and several conferences were held between Gen- 
eral Clark and his officers and their chiefs which resulted in 
the establishment of peace between them and the United 
States. The proceedings at one of these Conferences is pre- 
sented in Imlays History of Kentucky Vol. 2nd page 79 and 
no mention is made of the Miami Nation. 



 

The assertion of Wells in his letter to you of the 7th Dec. 
that for upwards of 20 years which he had known the In- 
dians in this Quarter nothing of importance had ever been 
transacted by the Piankeshaws and Kaskaskias without the 
consent of the Miamis is a notorious falsehood. A treaty 
was made at this place in the year 1792 by Genl. Putnam^ 
with the Piankeshaws and Weas and peace established between 
those Tribes and the United States — the Miamis were not 
parties to his treaty and continued their hostilities against 
us until they were compelled to sue for peace in the year 1795. 
Mr. Wells was present at Putnam's Treaty and I believe was 
employed as an interpreter. 

Although the language customs and manners of the Kas- 
kaskias make it sufficiently certain that they derive their 
origin from the same source as the Miamis the connection 
had been dissolved even before the French had penetrated 
from Canada to the Mississippi. At that time a confederacy 
of five tribes existed in the Illinois Country composed of the 
Tribes called the Peorias, Kaskaskias, Mitchegams, Cahokias, 
and Tamaroes.'' There are persons now alive who remember 
when these confederates could bring into the field upwards 
of 2000 warriors. A long and unsuccessful war with the 
Sacs (in which they received no assistance from the Miamis) 
has reduced them to the contemptable band which follows 
Ducoign and a remnant of Peorias who procure a miserable 
subsistance by begging and stealing from the inhabitants of 
St. Genevieve, and since these wi-etched beings have been 
proscribed by these very Potawatomies who according to Mr. 
Wells have been and still are so closely united with the 
Miamis with which they are said to form one nation. The 
fear of extirpation by the Potawatomies was one of the 
principal inducements with the Kaskaskias to commit them- 
selves entirely to the protection of the United States. 

4. Gen. Rufus Putnam, treaty with Indians of Wabash and Illinois tribes, Sept. 
27, 1792. Dillon, History of Indiana, 293. 

5. Peorias, Indian tribe in central Illinois. Hodge. Handbook of Am. Indians, U, 2!S 
Kaskaskias, Indian tribe of southern 111. Ibid, I, 661 

Mitchegamies, (Michigamea) tribe of southern Illinois confederacy and near Mich- 
igan. Ibid, I, 856 

Cahokias, first known as Tamaroes tribe western Illinois. Ibid, I, 1S.J 
Tamaroes, tribe near mouth of Illinois and Missouri rivers, part of the Illinois 
confederacy : Ibid, II, 6S2. No further e.xplanation of Indian tribes will be given. These 
can all be found in HodKe. Handbook of .American Indians, a government publication 
prepared for the Bureau of Ethnology, 1910. 



 

The Kaskaskia Tribe never lifted the Tomahawli against 
the United States. The Miamis during the whole war with 
the Northwestern Indians were amongst the most active of 
their enemies and the most difficult to bring to a final ac- 
commodation. 

The Piankeshaws altho they gave assistance to the other 
Tribes in the commencement of the war seceded from the 
Confederacy and made peace with us three years before the 
Miamis. 

If then the Piankeshaws and Kaskaskias were competent to 
the important concerns of making peace and war without 
the consent of the Miamis, they must be equally so to sell 
land. Which is acknowledged by them and which is no longer 
useful to them. The Treaty of Greeneville contains nothing 
to authorize the belief that those two Tribes were considered 
at that time dependent upon the Miamis. None of their 
chiefs were present. They did not think it necessary to go 
as one of them had never been at war with the United States 
and the other had made peace three years before. But it 
was considered just that they would participate in the bounty 
of the United States for that purpose their names were in- 
troduced into the Treaty and the Weas (not the Miamis) 
their nearest neighbours were requested to sign for them. 

Inclosed is an address of the Turtle's to Wells which he 
desired might be sent to me for the purpose of convincing 
me that the Piankeshaws had no right to sell their lands. I 
can see nothing in it however to weaken what I have ad- 
vanced above. It is my decided opinion that the U. S. have 
the right to treat with either of the Tribes who were parties 
to the Treaty of Greeneville. Motives of humanity will 
always prevent them from purchasing lands which cannot be 
conveniently spared and the interest of those who without 
having any just claim to the land but who may desire their 
support from it will be attended to. These principles are 
exemplified by the Treaties made with two Tribes for one 
tract of land when a complete and legal title might perhaps 
have been obtained by the extinction of the claims of one. 

The Tract purchased of the Delawares and Piankeshaws 
[1802] is not nor never has been since my arrival in this 
country frequented as a hunting ground by either the Miamis 
or Potawatomies. None of the Indians go there to hunt buf- 
faloes (as Mr. Wells has asserted) not an animal of that 



 

kind having been seen within that tract for several years, 
nor is its generally flat surface well calculated for the resi- 
dence of bears. 

The Potawatomics so far from having any claim to land 
on the South East side of the Wabash acknowledge that 
they have trespassed upon the Miamis by settling on the north 
bank of that river and it has been an object with the Turtle 
and Wells for several years to get them to remain. 

You will perceive by my letter to Mr. Wells a copy of 
which was inclosed in mine to you of the 14th Dec. that I 
had directed him to send the Potawatomie and Miami Chiefs 
to me at this place. The Little Turtle has declined the invita- 
tion and gives the artful and mischievous reason which you 
will see in the enclosed address and I am persuaded that he 
will make every exertion in his power to prevent my seeing 
the Potawatomies at any other place than Fort Wayne. I 
do not know whether Wells has informed the Potawatomie 
Chiefs of my wishes to have an interview with them. In his 
answer to my letter he contents himself with announcing the 
refusal of the Turtle. 

As there can be no doubt but that everything that can be 
advanced in favor of the Miami claim is to be found in the 
Turtle's Address to the President, in that to Mr. Wells and 
in Well's own letters the matter will be fully before the 
President and I must beg for further instructions unless it 
is determined to admit the principle that the Delawares and 
Piankeshaws had no right to sell their land without the con- 
sent of the Miamis Potawatomies &c. It will be improper 
in my opinion to have a public conference on the subject as 
it will be necessary to invite not only the chiefs of those two 
Tribes but those of the Weas Eel River Kickapoos and Shaw- 
nese Tribes and I know that they can never be convinced with- 
out a gratification which will considerably exceed the original 
purchase money. 

From the enclosed address of Wells which is said to have 
been made to the Miami chief but I am convinced was made 
to the Turtle alone I am afraid that he has misunderstood 
your instructions. He assures the Indians that if they can 
show a just claim to the land in question restitution will in- 
stantly be made. He uses the same expression in the letter 
which enclosed the address. 

The violent opposition which the Turtle has made to the 



 

Delaware and Piankeshaw Treaties is easily accounted for. 
Conscious of the superiority of his Talents over the rest of 
his race and colour he sighs for a more conspicuous theatre 
to display them. Opportunities for exhibiting his eloquence 
occur too seldom to satisfy his vanity and the subjects which 
are generally discussed in the councils of the few chiefs who 
adhere to him, are too contemptible to gratify his ambition. 
A chosen connexion among the neighbouring Tribes and a 
regular convention of their chiefs has long been the ruling 
wish of his heart and the object of numberless intrigues. 
An attachment for his person, a submissive defference to his 
talents, or a supposed coincidence of interests has caused the 
Agent of the United States to adopt the opinions and pro- 
mote the views of the Turtle to the utmost extent of his 
public as well as piivate influence. The propriety of deliver- 
ing at Fort Wayne the annuities for the Tribes on the lower 
part of the Wabash and of obliging them (the Weas par- 
ticularly) to remove to the neighborhood of that place and 
the benefits that would result to the United States as well 
as to the Indians by an annual assemblage of the chiefs of 
all the Tribes at which all business was to be transacted has 
been often pressed upon me. The Treaties with the Kas- 
kaskias or the Delaware and Piankeshaw Tribes has given a 
mortal stab to the favourite scheme and altho I am convinced 
that very few of the Indians feel any injury from those 
Treaties it is very easy to persuade them that they have been 
injured. 

Capt. Wells's conduct in this affair certainly deserves severe 
animadversion. I think it probable however that he did not 
foresee the consequences of it to the public interests and that 
some ridiculous spice of jealousy towards myself may have 
mingled itself with his motives. In order to prevent the like 
in future and to secure a just and proper dependance upon 
the Head of the Department I must take the liberty to recom- 
mend that he may be informed by you that the approbation 
of the President of the Continuance of his favour will depend 
upon the reports which I may make of the ^eal and fidelity 
with which he seconds me in executing the orders of the gov- 
ernment. There is perhaps no department which requires 
greater unanimity amongst the agents than that which has 
the management of Indian afl'airs. The jealousy of those 



 

people is so easily excited that a single artful observation is 
frequently sufficient to defeat the best concerted plans even 
when on the point of conclusion. 

I was not present when the Miamis recognized the Title of 
the Delawares to the country between the White River and 
the Ohio but I have no doubt of the fact ; it came to my knowl- 
edge in the following manner. I did myself the honor to 
inform you after my return from Fort Wajme in the year 
1803 that the Owl or Long Beard had with very considerable 
address prevented the great body of the Miamis from attend- 
ing my summons to meet me at Fort Wayne for the purpose 
of receiving their annuities and concluding the Treaty the 
preliminaries of which had been fixed at this place the pre- 
ceding fall and that after waiting for them a considerable 
time I was forced to content myself with the signatures of 
Richardville, the Sachem of the Nation, and the Turtle. Two 
days after the Treaty had been signed and at the very moment 
of my departure, the Owl arrived with a principal chief called 
Peccom [Pecan] a number of minor Chiefs and 100 or 150 
Warriors. It was a matter of importance to expose to the 
Miamis the arts of the Owl and to explain to them the con- 
ditions of the Treaty. A council was then appointed for the 
next day and all the chiefs of the other tribes who were still 
within reach (for some of them had returned) were requested 
to attend — the time for the meeting of the council arrived 
but neither the Miamis nor the Delawares appeared. After 
waiting for them a considerable time I was informed that 
those two Tribes were in council together and soon time 
after the Delawares arrived — there were then with me Gen- 
eral Gibson^ Wm. Wells, The Turtle and a few of his fol- 
lowers and some Potawatomie Chiefs. Tetohoscke the Dela- 
ware Sachem produced a belt of Wampum and addressing 
himself to me through Genl. Gibson observed that the Miami 
Chiefs had that morning with the consent of all their war- 
riors acknowledged their right to the lands between the White 
River and the Ohio and had given them that wampum to com- 
memorate the transaction. The Miamis joined in immediately 
after and as soon as I had reproached them with their im- 

6. Gen. John Gibson was secretary of Indiana territory, a Pennsylvanian by birth. 
had served under Forbes, under Lewis at point Pleasant, under Washington duiins the 
Revolution a veteran fur trader, then past sixty year of a.e:e. 

Woolen, Bioaraphiral Shetches 



 

proper and disrespectful conduct and explained the artifices 
by which the Owl had mislead and embarrassed their affairs 
I was obliged to have the conclusion of the council to Wm. 
Wells set out on my return as I had upwards of thirty miles 
to ride on that day to the place where my boat had been left 
on the Wabash and the Water was falling so rapidly as to 
make the utmost expedition necessary to secure my passage. 
The Miamis were induced to take this step by the persuasions 
of the Owl and his object was to strengthen his party by 
gaining over the Delawares an object which engaged the 
Turtle's attention at that time also. The charges which the 
Turtle has brought against me in his address to the Presi- 
dent, I should have passed over without an observation if he 
had not hinted at the use of unfair means in procuring the 
consent of the Indians to the Treaties, I have made with 
them and as I have never before that I recollect informed 
you of my mode of proceeding on these occasions I have 
thought it proper to do so at the present moment. When- 
ever the Indians have assembled for any public purpose the 
use of ardent spirits has been strictly interdicted until the 
object for which they were convened was accomplished and 
if in spite of my vigilance it had been procured a stop was 
immediately put to all business until it was consumed and its 
effects completely over. Every conference with the Indians 
has been in public. All persons who chose to attend were 
admitted and the most intelligent and respectable characters 
in the neighborhood specially invited to witness the fairness 
of the transaction. No treaty has ever been signed until 
each article was particularly and repeatedly explained by the 
most capable and confidential interpreters. Sketches of the 
tract of country about to be ceded have always been sub- 
mitted to the Indians and their own rough delineations made 
on the floor with a bit of charcoal have proved their perfect 
comprehension of its situation and extent. 

As I am convinced that it will be almost impossible to get 
the Miami and Potawatomi chiefs here under present cir- 
cumstances I have held myself in readiness to proceed to 
Fort Wayne immediately upon the receipt of your answer 
when I hope to be indulged with your particular instructions. 
By an indirect channel I am informed that it is in contem- 
plation to continue the United States road which is completed 
as far as Dayton on the Miami to this place. I fear that it 



 

will be very difficult to prevail on the Indians to consent to it. 

Richardville the Sachem or Principal Chief of the Miamis 
whose father was a Frenchman carries on a small trade with 
that Tribe. He generally procures his goods on the British 
side of the lakes and the duties have always been exacted 
from him by the collector of Duties Contrary in my opinion 
to the Treaty with Great Britain. He had applied to me for 
redress — if you would think as I do I must beg your inter- 
ference to relieve him from the Duties in future. There is 
no doubt of his attachment to our interests. 

I have lately received intelligence from the Arkansas in- 
forming me that the Osages ha\e plundered the Traders and 
other inhabitants upon that River to an immense amount. 

I have the Honor to be with perfect esteem and respect 
Your Servant 

William Henry Harrison 

The Hon. Henry Dearborn Esq. Sec'y of War 

Proclamation Erecting Dearborn County and Appointing 
Officers for Same 

March 7, 1803 
Cincinnati Westeiti Spy, April 6, 1803 

Whereas, I have received a petition from a number of citi- 
zens, inhabiting the south-east corner of the territory, stating 
the inconveniences they labor under for the want of a county 
establishment in that quarter, and praying that a new county 
may be laid off. 

And whereas, I have received satisfactory evidence that 
there are a sufficient number of inhabitants vdthin the pro- 
posed limits to justify a compliance with their request. I 
have thought proper to erect into a separate county all the 
lands lying and being within the following lands and lines 
and bounds, viz. Beginning at the mouth of the Great Miami 
thence north along the line separating the Indiana territory 
from the state of Ohio, to the intersection thereof with the 
Indiana boundary line running from a point opposite the 
mouth of the Kentucky River, thence, along the last men- 
tioned line to the Ohio river and up the said river to the 
place of beginning; and the said county shall be known as 
designated by the name and styled under county of Dear- 



 

born and all the lands lying within the above described lines, 
and boundaries are hereby erected into the county of Dear- 
born ; and the inhabitants of the said county of Dearborn 
shall have and enjoy all the rights privileges, and immunities 
whatsoever which to a county and the inhabitants thereof 
in any wise appertain. 

And ^vhereas it is of the utmost importance that a proper 
place should be selected in the name of justice for the said 
county, and as the information I have received, does not 
enable me at present to determine on the subject, I have 
thought proper to declare and ordain that until a permanent 
seat of justice shall be fixed in the session of the court of 
common pleas of the general quarter sessions of the peace 
and of the orphans court of the said county, shall be held at 
the to\vn of Lawi'enceburgh. 

And I do hereby appoint Benjamin Chambers,^ Esquire, 
and his associates the justices of the courts of the quarter 
sessions of the peace for said county or any three of them 
commissioners to enquire into and report to me on a proper 
place for the permanent seat of justice as aforesaid. 

In testimony whereof I, William Henry Harrison, Gov- 
ernor, hath hereunder set my hand and caused the seal of the 
territory to be hereunder affixed, at Vincennes, this 7th day 
of March, Anno Domino, one thousand eight hundred and 
three and of the independence of the United States of Amer- 
ica the twenty seventh. 

William Henry Harrison 

By the Governor. 

John Gibson, Secretary 

Proclamation: Changing the Boundary Line Betv^^een 
Randolph and St. Clair Counties 

March 25, 1803 
Executive Journal, 8 

Sundrie petitions having been presented to the Governor, 
from a number of the Citizens of the County of Randolph, 
Complaining of the great distance from the seat of justice 
of their county, and praying that the line dividing the coun- 

1. Benjamin Chambeis was the founder of LawrenceburE, a government surveyor 
liy profession. His associates were Jabez Percival, Barnet Hulick, John Brownson, 
Jeremiah Hunt, Richard Stevens. William Major and James IMcCarty. Dearborn County, 



 

ties of Randolph and St. Clair may be so altered as to annex 
them to the latter, the Governor Issued a proclamation, de- 
claring the line seperating the Counties of Randolph and St. 
Clair [Illinois] shall begin on the Mississippi River four 
miles and thirty-two chains south of the point where the 
present division line intersects the Mississippi Bottom, thence 
by a direct line to the Sinlchole Springs, thence by a line 
north sixty degrees East until it intersects a north line run- 
ning fi-om the great Cave on the Ohio River [Cave-in-rocks] , 
and the alterations and boundaries so established shall take 
place from and after the first day of May next. (Abstract) 

Petition Ensign in Militia 

May 8, 1803 
Mss. in Indiana State Library 

The Memorial of the Militiamen in Captain Visgers Com- 
pany (Detroit) to his Excellency Governor Harrison 

Humbly 
Whereas there has been a vacancy in our company for some 
time of an Ensign Owing to Mr. Oneal moving to Post Vin- 
cent. We trust your Excellency will not impute it presump- 
tive in us to off"er for your Excellency's consideration John 
Ba. Cicott, Jun. as a fit character to supply the place. 

We are sensible Sir of the impropriety of attempting to 
dictate to our Executive but this is by no means our inten- 
tion in the most obstant view but we trust that it will strike 
your Excellency forcibly the being commanded by such per- 
son as have our esteem and confidence. 

With much Regard we are, your Excellency's 
Obedient Servants 
WILLIAM RUSSELL JOHN FERRY 

PIERRE LABADI JOLE RBNARDS 

JOSHUA OLDS PIERE PERAULT 

AUGUSTIN LAGARCE JEAN BA. CAMPAU 

JABEZ STEVENS JOSEPH 

ANTOINE CAMPAN MIXIS CAMPAU 

ANTOINE BELONGA MARTAIN NADACE 

C. TUTTLE PEIRRE NAVARRE 

CHERLE LABASIE JACQUE CICOTT 

JOHN BAINE J. REYBURN 

BATISTE DAGEUNES BENJ. CHAPMAN 

FRANCOIS AVELINE LOUIS ROT 

JAMES WATSON PIERRE LE VESEUR 



 

Chambers to Harrison 
Ohio Bank [Lawrenceburg] July 22nd 1803 

Mss. hi Indiana State Library 

Dear Sir: 

I hope you will pardon my long silence the reason of which 
was that I was informed you had set out to Detroit and not 
being informed when you were to return I waited, till our last 
court, where I was told you had return'd, it required some 
time to get the information necessary respecting the proper 
Characters for Militia Officers and I have agreeable to your 
Excellency's request selected such as I conceive will answer 

Major — John Brownson' 
Cap'ts 
William Hall, Samuel Fulton, Danl. Linn Barrent Hulick and 
Jeremiah Johnston 

Lieutenants 
Israel Standiford. William Spencer William Cheek James 
Hamilton and William Allensworth — 

Ensighns 
Garsham Lee. Thomas Fulton, Mickl. Flick. William Thomp- 
son and James Buchanan — these are the most proper persons 
that I could get to serve — many to whom I mentioned the 
matter would not leave I told them that your Excellency 
wanted some information respecting the proper persons to 
fill the offices but never mentioned that the information was 
to be from myself — . I have been almost determined to 
except of no Commission what ever, but I concieve I owe 
something to Society and much to your Excellencys polite- 
ness, otherwise I assure you I never would have served in 
either of the stations in which I am now placed we are much 
in want of the territorial laws. I have none, nor can I pro- 
cure them here. When they come forward I will have the 
Militia law in opperation immediately — W W Clean is now 
waiting and uneasy to proceed. I will do myself the Honor 
to write soon. p. post, please to except of my thanks for your 

1. John Brownson and others mentioned below were early settlers of Lawrence- 
burg. Commissions were made out for them by Gov. Harrison March 7. ISDi— Executive 
Journal, 116—. and Samuel Vance, a founder of LawrenceburK, authorized to swear 
them into office. This seems to have been done Aug. 15, 1803. Hmtoni of Dearborn 
Countii, lis. The town of Lawrenceburg was advertised in the Cincinnati Western Spij 
Mar. 13, 1802; auction sale of lots, April 11, 1802. 



 

polite consideration and believe me to be with respect Dear 
Sir 

Yr Ob Servt. 

B Chambers 
His Excellency WILLIAM H. Harrison, 

Vincennes 
W W Clain [perhaps the carrier] 

Petition for Power to Lay a Tax 

Vincennes, November 19, 1803 

House of Representatives Collection No. 8. 1802-09 

To the Honorable The Senate and House of Representa- 
tives of the United States in Congress Assembled, 
The Memorial and petition of William Henry 
Harrison Goveraor of the Indiana Territoiy 
Respectfully sheweth. 

That your Memorialist, being authorized thereto by a Reso- 
lution of the Governor and Judges' of the Indiana Territory, 
in their legislative Capacity, a Copy of which is hereunto 
annexed, has the honor to represent to Congress; 

That much Inconvenience has arisen, and does daily arise 
to the Citizens, from the Want of Money in the territorial 
Treasury to answer the Exigencies of the Government, which 
is unable to command a sufficient sum, even for the Appre- 
hension and prosecution of the most notorious offenders 
against the laws. 

Every object which would bear a Tax, and for [which] 
legal precedent could be found, has been sufficiently bui-thened 
to raise County Levies for the Erection of Jails, Court Houses 
&c. And after the most mature Consideration, it was evi- 
dent to the Governor and Judges, that no Way of raising the 
sum, which the Circumstances of the Territory required, was 
so eligible as by imposing a small Tax upon the Indian 
Traders. No Tax could be collected with so much facility, 
or paid with so much Ease ; and none can be more equitable, 
as all the other Traders in the Country contribute fifteen 
Dollars yearly towards the Support of County Establishments. 

1. This petition was read in the House of Representatives Jan. 2, 1804. referred 
to a committee — John W. Eppes of Va.. Henry W. Livingston of N. Y. and Ebenezer 
Elmer of N. J. On the 10th of Januai-y this committee made an adverse Report. 

Annals of Congress 



 

Your Memorialist therefore prays, that a law may be 
passed, authorizing and requiring the Superintendant of In- 
dian Affairs or x)ther persons empowered to issue Licences 
to Indian Traders, within the Indiana Territory, to receive 
•for each Licence issued, such a Sum for the Use of the said 
Territory, as in your wisdom may be thought reasonable. 
And your Petitioner as in Duty bound shall ever pray &c — 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Indiana Territory 

A Resolution requesting the Go\'ernor to make application 
to congress for the purposes therein mentioned Published at 
Vincennes the seventh day. of November one thousand eight 
hundred and three, by William Henry Harrison Governor and 
Thomas T. Davis and Henry Vander Burgh Judges in and 
over the said Territory 

Whereas in the present circumstances of this Territory the 
revenue is inadequate to the necessary expences thereof. And 
Whereas the Territory frequently incurs expences by reason 
of prosecuting on behalf of the United States, to defray which, 
there is no provision by any law of the United States. 
Resolved that the Governor be and is hereby requested to 
make application to Congress for leave to impose a reasonable 
tax, yearly, on all persons trading with the Indian tribes 
within this Territory to and for the use thereof. 
The foregoing is hereby declared to be a law of the Territory 
and to take effect accordingly. In Testimony whereof we, 
William Henry Harrison, Thomas T. Davis and Henry Van- 
der Burgh have caused the seal of the Territory to be there- 
unto affixed and signed the same with our names.= 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 
Thomas Terry Davis 
Henry Vander Burgh 

I do hereby certify that the above is a true Copy of the 
Original on file in the office of the Secretary of the Indiana 
Territory p^^. j^^^^ GIBSON Secretary 

John Gibson Jun, 

2. The territorial judges of Indiana were: William Clarke. Henry Vanderburg. and 
John Griffin. Clarke died suddenly Nov. U, 1802 and was succeeded by Thomas Terry 
Davis who served till his death at Jeffersonville, Nov. 15, 1807. Davis was succeeded 
by Benjamin Parke who continued as a federal judge of Indiana till his death, 
July 12, 1835. The other two served their terms out. 

Esarey, Coi(r(s and Lawyers of Indiana, I, iOi 



 

Harrison to Jefferson 

VINCENNES 26th Novr 1803 
Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. U2,, no. 76 

The Govemor of the Indiana Territory presents his re- 
spectful compliments to the President of the United States 
and requests his acceptance of the enclosed map which is a 
copy of the manuscript map of Mr Evans' who ascended the 
Missouri River by order of the Spanish Government much 
further than any other person. 
[Indorsed:] 
Harrison Govr. Vincennes Nov. 26.03.recd Dec.20 



Madison to Congress 

December 1, 1803 
Har. Pa. il5, il6 

The Secretary of State to whom by a resolution of the 
House of Representatives of the 2d March last was referred 
a Petition of sundry inhabitants of Post St. Vincennes in the 
Indiana Territory; has examined the same, and thereupon 
makes the following reports, viz. The petitioners assert a 
right to a tract of land which they describe as extending 
along the Wabash River from Point Coupee to the Mouth of 
the White River comprising about seventy-two miles above 
and below Post St. Vincennes, and on both banks of the said 
River from the little Wabash to the Protoeas [Panse au 
Pichou?] River, forming according to their computation an 
extent in this direction of two hundred and twenty-six miles. 
This right they pretend to derive from an Indian grant to 
their predecessors as the first settlers of that District, as 
well as from a subsequent confiiTnation of it by the Indians. 
It is on the basis of these pretentions that they express their 
hopes that Congress will "allow them at least a part in the 
grants which have lately been made by the Indians to the 
United States" and they add the request that a small tract 
of Woodland on the banks of the Wabash may be annexed 

1. This seems to refer to Lewis Evans, a colonial seographer who died in 1756. 
His maps were published in 1776 and used by the British ai-mies. 



 

to the villages Commons, which is now become destitute of 
Wood.i 

It would be unnecessary to contest the validity of this In- 
dian grant and confirmation, since the inhabitants have re- 
peatedly and formally renounced all the right they possessed 
to the tract in question, particularly in their address to Con- 
gress of the 26 July 1787 in which they use the following 
words: "Reposing the most unbounded confidence in the 
justice, humanity and benevolence of the honorable Congress 
we solemnly surrender our charter whatever it is, and throw 
ourselves upon your mercy". An extract from this source 
documents and others from Mr. Tardiveau's- address to Con- 
gress in their behalf dated 7th August 1787, and 28th Feb. 
1788, and also the powers given to him by the inhabitants 
of St. Vincennes as their agent are annexed. This renunci- 
ation as far as it might be supposed by the inhabitants to 
relate to a valid title in themselves was doubtless one of the 
motives to the grant and confirmations made to them by Con- 
gress in their acts of 20th June and 29th August 1788, and 
3d March 1791, the latter of which ought to be considered as 
closing the claims of the settlers of St. Vincennes. 

For these reasons the Secretary of State is of opinion that 
the petition ought not to be granted, which is respectfully 
submitted. 

James Madison 
Department of State. 

Second Report on Petition of the Vincennes Convention 

February 17, 1804 

A7)i. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, 387 

Annals, Sth Cong. 1 sess. 1023-i 

Mr. [Caesar] Ro'dney, from the committee' to whom were 
referred a letter from William Henry Harrison, President of 
the general convention of the representatives of the people of 

1. This petition was read in congress Feb. 11, 1803. For the foundation of this 
srant or pretended grant, see Am. Sta. Pa. Pub. Lands, I, $S, 68, 71, Si, 85, 00, 12S. 
See Hai'rison to Madison supra. For a brief account see Esarey. Hist, of Ind. I, 132 

2. Barthelemi Tardiveau. In Alvord, Kaskaskia Record is given all these old peti- 
tions and papers. Tardiveau came west with Harmar and became the attorney for the 
claimants but without success. Kaskaskia Records 440-496. See also Dunn. Indiana, 
244 ; Smith, St. Claim Papers II, 27 : Alvord, The Illinois Country, index. 

1. This committee was composed of Caesar Rodney of Del.. John Boyle of Ky., 
and John Rhea of Tenn. For petition see Nov. 22, 1802. above. 



 

the Indiana Territory, also a memorial and petition from the 
said convention, together with the report of a former com- 
mittee on the "same subject at the last session of Congress 
made the following report: 

That taking into their consideration the facts stated in the 
said memorial and petition, they are induced to believe that 
a qualified suspension, for a limited time, of the sixth article 
of compact between the original States and the people and 
States west of the river Ohio, might be productive of benefit 
and advantage to the said Territory. 

They do not conceive it would be proper to break in upon 
the system adopted for surveying and locating public lands, 
which experience has proved so well calculated to promote 
the general interest. If a preference be given to particular 
individuals in the present instance, an example will be set, 
by which future claimants will obtain the same privilege. 
The committee are, nevertheless, of opinion, that after those 
lands shall have been surveyed, a certain number of town- 
ships should be designated, out of which the claims stated in 
the memorial ought to be satisfied, and that, for the encour- 
agement of actual settlers, the right of pre-emption should 
be secured to them. 

They consider the existing regulations contained in the or- 
dinance for the government of the Territory of the United 
States, which requires a freehold of fifty acres as a qualifica- 
tion for an elector of the General Assembly, as limiting too 
much the elective franchise. They conceive the vital prin- 
ciple of a free Government is, that taxation and representa- 
tion should go together after a residence of sufiicient length 
to manifest the intention of becoming a permanent inhabitant, 
and to evince, by conduct orderly and upright, that a person 
is entitled to the rights of an elector. This probationary 
period should not extend beyond two years. 

It must be the true policy of the United States, with the 
millions of acres of habitable country which she possesses, 
to cherish those principles which gave birth to her inde- 
pendence, and created her a nation, by affording an asylum 
to the oppressed of all countries. 

One important object desired in the memorial, the extin- 
guishment of the Indian title to certain lands, has been hap- 
pily accomplished ; whilst the salt spring below the mouth of 



 

the Wabash river has also been placed in a situation to be 
productive of every reasonable advantage. 

After a careful review and an attentive consideration of 
the various subjects contemplated in the memorial and peti- 
tion, the conmiittee respectfully submit to the House the fol- 
lowing resolutions, as embracing all the objects which re- 
quire the attention of Congress at this period : 

Resolved, That the sixth article of the ordinance of 1787, 
which prohibited slavery within the said Territory, be sus- 
pended, in a qualified manner, for ten years, so as to permit 
the introduction of slaves, born within the United States, 
from any of the individual States: Provided, That such in- 
dividual State does not permit the importation of slaves from 
foreign countries: And provided further, That the descend- 
ants of all such slaves shall, if males, be free at the age of 
twenty-five years, and, if females, at the age of twenty-one 
years. 

2. Resolved, That every white free man, of the age of 
twenty-one years, who has resided within the Territory, two 
years, and \vithin that time paid a territorial tax which shall 
have been assessed six months before the election, shall enjoy 
the right of an elector of members of the General Assembly. 

3. Resolved, That in all cases of sales of land within the 
Indiana Territory, the right of pre-emption be given to actual 
settlers on the same. 

4. Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and 
he is hereby, required to cause an estimate to be made of the 
number and extent of the claims to lands under the resolu- 
tion of Congress of the 29th of August, 1788, and the law of 
the 3d of March, 1796, and to lay the same before this House. 

5. Resolved, That provision, not exceeding one thirty- 
sixth part of the public lands within the Indiana Territory, 
ought to be made for the support of schools within the same. 

6. Resolved, That it is inexpedient to grant lands to in- 
dividuals for the purpose of establishing houses of entertain- 
ment, and opening certain roads. 

7. Resolved, That it is inexpedient, at this time, to vest 
in the Legislature of Louisiana [misprint for Indiana] Ter- 
ritory the salt spring below the mouth of the Wabash river. 

8. Resolved, That compensation ought to be made to the 
attorney general of the said Territory for services performed 
by him on behalf of the United States. 



 

Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington Mar. 31, 04 

Jefferson Papers, 1st series, vol. 10, no. 52 

The act of Congress erecting Louisiana into two territories, 
and providing for their government annexes the upper one 
by the name of the district of Louisiana to the Indiana gov- 
ernment. As you will see the act shortly in print, I shall 
only observe generally that it does not come into force till 
the 1st of October, but it provides that the upper territory 
shall be divided into districts by the Governor of Indiana 
under the direction of the President, as the convenience of 
the settlements shall require ; the inhabitants of each, between 
18 and 45 to be formed into a militia, with proper officers &c. 
This division being the basis of the government, it must be 
prepared, and ready to be declared on the 1st day of Octo- 
ber and, as we are far apart, we must immediately commence 
the enquiries necessary, and the mutual intercommunication 
of sentiment on the subject. I must therefore pray you with- 
out delay to inform yourself of the different settlements ex- 
isting in the country, their numbers black & white, their 
distance from each other the ease or difficulty of intercourse 
between them, and to communicate this to me with your first 
ideas as to the number and divisions of the districts we should 
lay off. As something to begin upon I will barely mention 
that on the imperfect information I have, I suppose we may 
throw the settlements together so as to make three or four 
districts, something like our frontier counties in Virginia. 
But to decide on this further information is necessary, and 
this I shall hope to i-ecieve from you. Accept my salutations 
and assurances of respect. 

Th : Jefferson 

Proclamation : Kidnapping Indentured Colored Servants 

April 6,1804 
Executive Journal, 10 
The Governor having received information that some evil 
disposed persons are about to transport from the Territory, 
certain indented servants of Colour without their Concent 
first had and obtained, with a design as is supposed of sell- 
ing them for slaves contrary to the law and dignity of the 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 95 

United States, he Issued a proclamation, forbidding and 
strictly enjoining the persons aforesaid from carrying into 
Execution their nefarious and inhuman design as they shall 
answer the same at their peril, and at the same time require- 
ing and Commanding all magistrates and other civil officers 
to exert themselves in their several capacities in giving proper 
and necessary relief to all persons illegally confined for the 
purpose above-mentioned and to secure and Bring to Justice 
the perpetrators for the Violation of Law and Humanity.^ 

Secretary of State to Harrison 

Department of State, June 14th 1804 

Har. Pa. ilT-S 

GovR. Harrison, Vincennes, 
Sir: 

I have received your letter of the 17th inst. [?] It was 
my intention to confide the appointment of a Gazette to print 
the Laws of the United States entirely to you, and the rea- 
sons you assign for the choice of Mr. Bradford's are satis- 
factory.' I have no controul over the sum appropriated for 
the contingent expenses of your Territory ; and therefore can- 
not prevent the payment of the accounts for stationary out 
of it, but if neither yourself nor the Secretary of the ter- 
ritory direct supplies of stationary to be furnished your ob- 
ject will be attained provided no outstanding accounts exist 
to absorb the appropriations. 

* "In the spring of 1804, Simon Vannorsdell, acting as agent for the heirs of 
John and Elizabeth Kuykendall. arrested two negroes named George and Peggy, at 
Vincennes, and was about to carry them out of the Territory. Harrison issued a 
proclamation forbidding this, based on infoi-mation that Vannorsdell was "about to 
transport from the Territory certain indented sei-vants, without their consent first had 
and obtained, with a design as is supposed of selling them for slaves." {Executive 
Journal, April 6, ISOi). Vannorsdell was indicted, and habeas corpus proceedings were 
instituted to free the negroes. At the September term of court, Vannorsdell was dis- 
charged, no one appearing to prosecute him : but the court released the negioes from 
his custody. Vannorsdell. assisted by John Huling, at once rearrested the negroes, 
but a new habeas corpus proceeding was instituted for their lelease. This was con- 
tinued to the next term, Harrison, General W. Johnston, and John Johnston becoming 
bail for the negroes. (Ter. Court Docket. September Term, 1804). At the June term. 
1805, the negroes were produced, but pending the iiroceedings George had indented 
himself to Han-ison for a tei-m of eleven years, and the case as to him was dropped. 
Peggy was released by the court in April, 1801!. and afteiwaids sued Vannorsdell for 
wages during her detention, but the trial resulted in a finding for the defendant." 
Dunn, Indiana, SIS (Ter. Court Docket, September Term, 1808, p. 337). 

1. Bradford was the publisher of the Kciiturkii Cazcttc at Lexington. From this 
office came Elihu Stout who started the Indiana Gazette at Vincennes July 4. 1804. It 
is probable Stout was already in Vincennes. One would have expected Harrison to 
send the printing to Cincinnati. 



 

An appropriation was made to pay the expense of the civil 
government of Louisiana, but it is feared it will not be suf- 
ficient to cover the expenses incurred and to be incurred un- 
der the Administration of Governor Claiborne, no part of 
it can therefore be counted upon for printing the laws, which 
may be made for that part of the Territory which after the 
1st of Oct. next will be united with the Indiana Territory; 
but no doubt can be entertained that Congress will at their 
next session make provision for all the expenses which may 
be necessarily incurred. By recurring to the 13th Section of 
the law providing for the Government of the two territories 
in which Louisiana is to be divided, you will find that the 
Laws of Louisiana will remain in force after the first of 
October under certain modifications: and therefore the en- 
tirely new code you contemplate is unnecessaiy and ought 
not to be published : all that appears to be indispensable are 
laws for organizing the Courts, the Militia and laying out 
the Territory into districts. Exclusively of the annual ap- 
propriation of 350 Doll, for the contingent expenses of the 
territory, which will be suflicient to pay the current expenses 
of the year, there is an unexpended balance of 480 dollars 
which may be applied to the expense of printing territorial 
laws. 

I am etc. 

James Madison 

Harrison to Jefferson 

ViNCENNES 24th June 1804 

Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. J,2, no. 78, 79 
SIR 

The result of my enquiries relative to Upper Louisiana fixes 
the population of that District at 9373 souls of whom 7876 
are whites and 1497 blacks. 

I am still of opinion that it would answer all the purposes 
of Civil Government & be sufliciently Convenient to the In- 
habitants to lay out the Country into four or five divisions 
or Counties, whose boundaries might be very nearly the same 
as those which Seperated the principal Districts under the 
Spanish Govemment. From the best information which I 
have been able to procure the arrangement of the Districts 
should be as follows viz — 



 

1. The Settlement of Arkansas should form one District, 
as from its Detached Situation it could not conveniently be 
connected with any other — it contains 160 Whites & 12 blacks 
— there are no settlements below it that will fall within the 
Upper Government, & none above it nearer than 300 Miles. 

2 The lower Settlements of the Little Prairie might form 
the Southern boundary & a line drawii due West from the 
Southerly extremity of the Great bend of the Mississippi to 
the River St. Francis the Northern boundary of the 2nd Divi- 
sion or District. The Census of this district was taken in 
the beginning of the year 1803 & the population (with the 
addition of five per centum for increase from that time) is 
about 800 Whites and 100 blacks. 

3 The dividing line between the third & fourth Districts 
should be Apple creek from its junction with the Mississippi 
to its source & thence by a due West line to the River St. 
Francis. Adding five per centum to the Census of 1803 & 
the District as thus described Contains 1200 Whites & 200 
blacks. 

4. The dividing line between the 4 & 5th Districts ought 
to commence at the Mouth of Platers Creek on the Missis- 
sippi thence up sd. Creek to its source, thence due West to 
the fork of the Mesumack called Anneau thence down sd. 
fork to the Mesumack thence up the Mesumack to the upper 
settlements on the River. The Census of this District has not 
been taken since the year 1800 — the result of that Census & 
twenty per centum added for increase gives a population of 
1978 Whites & 500 blacks. 

5. All the Territory to the Northward of the line last 
described can conveniently be fonned into a 5th District, & 
Contains a population (founded on the same calculations as in 
the preceding) of 3738 Whites & 667 blacks. 

This arrangement of the Districts seems to be the one 
which is generally expected to be made by the Inhabitants 
of that country & I immagine it would give as much satis- 
faction as any other mode of laying it out unless the num- 
ber of the Districts was encreased. Some of them are how- 
ever very extensive & the Settlements so widely separated that 
it may perhaps be necessary that the County Courts should 
be holden at Different places — of this I am not at present 
able to decide upon as I could not procure satisfactory infor- 



 

mation Respecting the relative situations of the Several settle- 
ments which compose a district. 

I have no means of ascertaining correctly the number of 
Militia, but from the proportion which that description of 
persons generally have to the whole population. If they can 
be estimated at one fifth the number of men capable of bear- 
ing amis in the several Districts as I have described them 
will be nearly as follows Viz In the 1st District 40 whites 
& 3 blacks in the 2nd 200 Whites & 25 blacks in the 3rd 300 
Whites & 75 blacks in the 4th 494 whites & 130 blacks, in 
the 5th 934 whites & 166 blacks total 1968 Whites & 399 
blacks. I understand from Captn [Amos] Stoddard that he 
has formed the whole Militia of the Country into 24 Com- 
panies of which there is in Arkansas one — within the bounds 
of the 2nd District four, in the 3rd three — in the 4th five & 
in the 5th eleven. In making this arrangement he says that 
he attended not so much to the number of men in each Com- 
pany as to the Contiguity of the Inhabitants & that in some 
Companies there are nearly 100 men in others not more than 
50. The jMilitia of Louisiana have never been formed into 
Battalions or Regiments — Companies were the largest divi- 
sions & a captaincy the Highest grade. This arrangement 
ought in my opinion no longer to exist. The prospect of pro- 
motion is one of the greatest inducements to men of enter- 
prise to accept of Military appointments & the most effectual 
stimulus to urge them to a prompt & faithful discharge of 
their duties I beg leave therefore to recommend that the 
Militia in the most populous Districts should be formed into 
Regiments composed of two or more Battalions with a Colonel 
for the Regiment & a Major for each Battalion. In such of 
the Districts as are unable to furnish two Battalions a Major 
might Command. 

I am sorry that it is not in my power to give you a more 
detailed account of the relative situations of the several Settle- 
ments in Louisiana — but the information which I have been 
enabled to procure on that subject is not as perfect as I 
could wish. & I did not think it proper to delay writing to 
you until it could be received from a More Authentic Source. 

The law providing for the Government of Louisiana directs 
that the Country should be laid off into "Districts". As the 
whole Country is called the District of Louisiana it appears to 



 

me that the Subdivisions might more properly be called Coun- 
ties. The District of St. Genevieve in the District of Louisi- 
ana would sound rather awkwardly. 

There is but one person in Louisiana that I will venture to 
recommend to you for the Appointment of Military Com- 
mandant — it is Mr. Piere Delossus de Luziere an old gentle- 
man of the greatest respectability and of considerable talents . 
— there can be but one objection to him which is that he was 
a friend to the former Despotic Government of France. I 
believe however that he is now in Sentiment an American 
Republican. His Manners His Talents & his destitute Con- 
dition have interested me much in his favour & I think I can 
venture to answer for his good Conduct. He is & has been 
for a considerable time Commandant of the District of New 
Bourbon. 

I propose to be in Louisiana by the 1st October & as I also 
intend to visit all the Districts it will be in my power to give 
you a more perfect account of the Country than I can pos- 
sibly do at this time. 

I have the Honour to be with the most perfect Respect your 
faithful Sevt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Thomas Jefferson 

President of the United States 

[Indorsed:] Harrison Govr. W. H. Vincennes June 24.04. 
reed. July 2 

Refered to by the Map 
No. 1 Plan 

At about three hundred miles from the village of the great 
Ozages in a west direction, after having passed many branches 
of the River Arkensas, is found a low ground, surrounded 
with Hills of an immense extent, having a diameter of about 
fifteen Leagues. The soil is a black sand, very fine, & so 
hard, that Horses hardly leave their tracks upon it; in warm 
and dry Weather, there is exhaled from that swamp, vapours, 
which being afterwards condensed, fall again upon the black 
sand and cover it with a bed of Salt very white and very fine 
of the thickness of about half an inch. The rains distroy this 
kind of Phenomenon. 



 

No. 2 Plan 

At a distance of about fifteen Leagues from the Swamp of 
which we have spoken, and in a South direction, there is a 
second mine of mineral Salt of the same nature as the other, 
these two differing only in their colour, the first inclining to 
the white, and the second approaching to the red, lastly much 
farther South and ahvays upon the branches of the Arkansas 
there is a salt Spring which may be considered as one of the 
most interesting Phenomenea of nature. 

On the declivity of a little hill, there are five holes of about 
a foot and a half diameter, by two of depth always full, with- 
out ever overflowing a drop very salt. If we take away this 
Salt water, it fills immediately; and at about ten feet lower, 
there comes out of this same Hill, a strong Spring of pure & 
Sweet water.. 

At a distance of about 18 Miles from this low land are 
found mines of mineral Salt, almost at the surface of the 
Earth. The Savages who know it perfectly, are found to 
employ leavers to break it and get it out of the Ground 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, June 27, 1804 

Am. Stn. Pa. hid. Aff. I, 695 

Sir: 

Your Excellency's letter, of the 24th ultimo, has been duly 
received and considered. It is the opinion of the President 
of the United States, that every reasonable accommodation 
ought to be afforded the old Kaskaskias' chief [Ducoigne]. 
You will, therefoi-e, please to satisfy every reasonable request 
he may make on the score of living; he certainly is entitled 
to attention, and ought to be enabled to live decently, and in 
a due degree of independence. You v\ill please to draw on 
this Department, for such sums as may be necessary for fur- 
nishing him with suitable supplies for his family use, from 
time to time. Directions wiW be given, for having the bound- 
ary line ascertained, run, and marked as soon as possible. 
All adjustments with these nations, whose claims may inter- 
fere with the Kaskaskias' boundary, as per treaty, will rest 
with your Excellency. You will take such measures, and 
make such pecuniary advances to individual chiefs or others, 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 101 

as their respective cases require. It may not be improper to 
procure from the Sacs, such cessions on both sides of the 
Ilhnois, as may entitle them to an annual compensation of 
five or six hundred dollars ; they ought to relinquish all pre- 
tensions to any land on the southern side of the Illinois, and 
a considerable tract on the other side ; and if any of the prin- 
cipal chiefs of the other nations shall discover an indication 
to follow the example of the old Kaskaskias' chiefs they ought 
to be encouraged more especially the Piankeshaws, whose lands 
divide the Vincennes territory, on the Wabash, from the ces- 
sions of the Kaskaskias. It would also be desirable to obtain 
the tract between the southern line of the Vincennes terri- 
tory and the Ohio. You will, of course, embrace every favor- 
able opportunity for obtaining cessions of such parts of the 
above mentioned tract as may occur by a fair and satis- 
factory bargain. It is suggested by the President of the 
United States, for your consideration and opinion, whether 
it would not be expedient to give certain annuities, to each 
actual family, during the existence of said family, even if 
the aggregate to a nation, should be increased 15 or 20 per 
cent. For instance, we give the Piankeshaws five hundred 
dollars per annum ; suppose they have fifty families, we agree 
to give the nation twelve dollars for each family annually 
and when a family becomes extinct, the annuity to cease, or 
if, when its members decrease, the annuity to decrease in 
proportion. 

I am, etc. 

Gov. Wm. H. Harrison 



Secretary of Treasury to Harrison 

Treasury Department, July 10th, 1804 

Vincennes Gazette, Aug. 21, 180 ^ 

Sir: 

I had the honor to receive your letter of the 4th ultimo, 
and feel much obliged for the interesting information it con- 
tains. I have no doubt that Congress will agree that the 
parties whose lands have been surveyed under your direc- 
tion shall not be charged with additional expense for that 
object; and I have accordingly insti'ucted the surveyor-gen- 
eral. 



 

On the power of the commissioners to revise any decision 
of the Governor in case of complete grants, I have great 
doubts. At all events, it can only amount to a chancery juris- 
diction, which may set aside a patent surreptitiously and 
fraudulently obtained, through the false representations of 
the party, and never can affect a bona fide purchaser; nor 
be extended to defeat a title on account of what might, by 
the commissioners, be considered as an error of judgment in 
making the grant. On that principle, though I am not au- 
thorized to lay rules of conduct for the commissioners, in 
their judicial capacity, I have communicated my opinion in 
general terms, and have positively enjoined it on the registers 
to record in cases of Governor's grants, and demand a fee 
only for the recording of the grant itself, and not for any 
preceding or subsequent conveyances. The recording of the 
grants is essential and just, as it was undoubtedly the inten- 
tion of the legislature to ascertain the number, amount, and 
authenticity of those grants as well as of other claims; and 
they have a right to declare in what manner their own grants 
shall be recorded and authenticated. 

I have the honor to enclose copies of my letters to the regis- 
ters and to the surveyors general, and remain. Sir, 
Your obedient servant, 

Albert Gallatin 
WiLL'M. H. Harrison, Esq. Governor Indiana Territory 

License to an Indian Trader 

July 10, 1804 

Mss. in Indiana State Lihrari/ 

Whereas Michael Brouillette^ of the county of Knox hath 
made application for permission to trade with the Kickapoes 
nation of Indians, and hath given bond according to law, for 
the due observance of all the laws and regulations for the 
government of the trade with Indians that now are, or here- 
after may be enacted and established, license is hereby 
granted to the said Michael Brouillette to trade with the said 
Kickapoes nation, at their towns on the Vermillion and there 
to sell, barter and exchange with the individuals of the said 

1. See June 6, ISU. infra. The Kickapoos lived northwest of Lafayette in Indiana 



 

nation, all manner of goods, wares and merchandizes, con- 
formably to the laws and regulations aforesaid; but under 
this express condition and restriction, that the said Michael 
Brouillette shall not, by himself, his servants, agents or fac- 
tors, carry or cause to be carried to the hunting camps of the 
Indians of said nation, any species of goods or merchandise 
whatsoever, an'd more especially spirituous liquors of any 
kind ; nor shall barter or exchange the same, or any of them, 
in any quantity whatever, on pain of forfeiture of this license, 
and of the goods, wares and merchandize, and of the spiritu- 
ous liquors which may have been carried to the said camps, 
contrary to the true intent and meaning hereof, and of having 
his bond put in suit: and the Indians of said nation are at 
full liberty to seize and confiscate the said liquors so carried, 
and the owner or owners shall have no claim for the same, 
either upon the said nation, or any individual thereof, nor 
upon the United States. 

This license to continue in force for one year, unless sooner 
revoked. 
All Spirituous liquors prohibited 

GIVEN under my hand and seal, the 
Tenth day of July, in the year of our 
Lord one thousand eight hundred and 
four. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 



Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington, July 14, 1804 

Jefferson Papers, 1st scries, vol. 10, no. 119 

Dear Sir 

I received in due time your letter on the division of the 
Louisiana territory into districts, and since that I have been 
able to collect very satisfactory information on the subject 
as well from persons from that country as from good maps, 
on the whole I find we cannot do better than to adopt the 
existing divisions, which are five in number and will require 
5 Commandants of different grade. I would therefore rec- 
ommend that in the Proclamation which you will isue in due 
time for establishing the divisions, you use the following 
definitions. 



 

'All that portion of Louisiana lying North of the river 
Missouri, shall constitute one district by the name of the dis- 
trict of St. Charles. 

All that portion which heretofore constituted the district of 
St. Louis shall be one district by the name of the district of 
St. Louis. 

All that portion which heretofore constituted the district 
of Ste. Genevieve shall be one district by the name of the dis- 
trict of Ste. Genevieve. 

All that portion which heretofore constituted the district 
of Cape Girardeau shall be one district by the name of the 
district of Cape Girardeau. 

All that portion which heretofore constituted the district 
of New Madrid, and that lying Westward & Southward there- 
of to 33° of latitude shall be one district by the name of the 
district of New Madrid. 

And all the residue of the said country shall be divided by 
lines running due West from the Western termination of the 
present lines dividing the said districts, & each division there- 
of so formed shall be annexed to and make part of the dis- 
trict to which it is adjacent.' 

We learn that the Southern boundary of St. Louis is Platine 
creek : 

of Ste. Genevieve Apple creek 
of Cape Girardeau the bend above N. Madrid 
of New Madrid it was les petites prairies 
according to the latest information the districts contain in- 
habitants as follows 

whites blacks 

St. Chartes 1219 107 

St. Louis 2519 560 

Ste. Genevieve 1978 520 

Cape Girardeau 416 ) „^^ 

New Madrid 1173 [ 

I am very sorry to have found lately that Mr. [John] Gib- 
son's commission was omitted to be made out & forwarded, 
there never existed a doubt one moment about renewing it. 
it was kept back merely that it's three years might have the 
longer to run. on the last day of March (being to leave 
town the next day) I sent a memorandum to the office to 
have the commission filled up. it was by some means over- 



 

looked, and I never knew till a few days ago that it was so. 
I immediately signed one, giving the date formerly directed, 
and there is no doubt of his being considered de jure as well 
as de facto, the Secretary for the intermediate space. 

Accept my friendly salutations & assurances of great re- 
spect and esteem. Tj^ : JEFFERSON 



Brownson and Vance to Harrison 

Lawrenceburgh [Ind.], 24 July, 1804 

Mss. in Induma State Library 

Sir 

Part of the inhabitants of this county labor under great 
inconvenience for want of a magestrate, viz. between the mouth 
of the Kentucky and Col. [Benjamin] Chamber's — [Law- 
renceburg] a distance, with the courses of the river, of near 
forty miles. The reason application has not e'er now been 
made, was the want of a suitable character to recommend — 
and we are sorry to add that this difficulty is not yet re- 
moved, but we are of opinion that to make a magestrate of 
the person hereinafter named will be a benefit to the county — 
he will, we hope, be better than none — and from the best in- 
formation we have been able to acquire, the appointment ol 
this man will be agreeable to the people of his neighborhood. 
We trust it will not be long before better materials may be 
furnished for the above purpose — in the meantime, we shall 
feel ourselves obliged, if you will be good enough to forward 
a commission of Justice of the peace & Judge of the Quarter 
Session, during pleasure if you are in the habit of making 
appointments in this way, for William Cotton.^ 

We are very respectfully. Sir, 

Your most ob. Servant 

Jno. Brownson^ 
Sam C. Vance^ 
William H. Harrison, Esq. 

1. William Cotton was one of the best known pioneers of southern Indiana, rep- 
resented Switzerland county in the constitutional convention of 1816 and for many 
years was its political leader. He might not have felt flattered at this recommendation. 
He was a New Englander. 

2. Samuel C. Vance and Benjamin Chambers were founders of Lawrenceburg. 
Chambers was a U. S. surveyor. Brownson was one of the first justices of Dearborn 
county. All the justices, it seems, lived in and east of Lawrenceburg. 

Hist. Dearborn County, 113. 



 

Proclamation: For an Election on Entering Second 
Territorial Stage 

August 4, 1804 

Vincennes Indiana Gazette, August 21, 180^ 

Whereas, By a Law of the United States entitled "An act 
to divide the Territory of the United States North West of 
the Ohio, into two seperate Governments," it is enacted and 
declared "that so much of the ordinance for government of 
the Territory of the United States North West of the Ohio 
river as relates to the organization of a general assembly 
therein, and prescribes the powers thereof, shall be in force 
and operate in the Indiana Territory, whenever satisfactory 
evidence shall be given to the governor thereof that such is 
the wish of the majority of the freeholders, notwithstanding 
there may not be five thousand free male inhabitants of the 
age of twenty-one years and upward" ; 

And whereas, Petitions have been presented to me from a 
number of the good citizens of the Territory praying that a 
General Assembly may be organized, conformably to the 
above recited act, but as no evidence has been adduced to 
shew that the persons who have signed the said petitions 
are really a majority of the freeholders : 

Now therefore, for the purpose of ascertaining more cor- 
rectly the public sentiment on the subject, I have thought 
proper to issue this my proclamation hereby making known 
to all whom it may concern that an election will be held at 
the court house of each county respectively on Tuesday the 
eleventh day of September next, for the purpose of giving 
to all the citizens of the Territory who are qualified by law 
to vote on the question of going into the second or repre- 
sentative grade of government, an opportunity of declaring 
their wishes on the subject. And it is hereby made the duty 
of the several sheriffs to give due notice of the same, and on 
the said eleventh of September to open polls at the several 
court houses of their respective counties for the purpose 
aforesaid ; and the said election shall be conducted in the same 
manner and governed by the same principles as are laid dov.oi 
in a law regulating the elections of representatives for the 
General Assembly of the North Western Territory passed at 
Cincinnati, the 6th of December, 1799.' 

1. The passing to the second grade has been treated very e.xtensively by historians. 
as if it was an event of great moment and achieved by questionable methods. It seems 



 

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and 
caused the seal of the Territory to be affixed at Vincennes, 
the fourth day of August in the year of our Lord one thou- 
sand eight hundred and four, and of the Independence of the 
United States the twenty-ninth. 

William Henry Harrison 
By the Governor: 

John Gibson, Secretary 

Harrison to Stout 

August 20, 1804 

Vincennes Indiana Gazette, August 2U, 180U 

Mr. [Elihu] Stout:— The enclosed letter [July 10, 1804, 
above] from the Secretary of the Treasury, in answer to 
one addressed to him by me on the subject of the land claims 
in this and the two counties on the Mississippi, contains mat- 
ter so interesting to the citizens who are possessed of those 
claims that I have thought it proper to give it publicity, 
through the medium of your paper. 

By that letter, and those to the surveyor general and regis- 
ters to which it refers, it appears that three important points 
are established: 

1st. That the land granted by the Governors, and which 
has been laid off under their direction, is not to be resur- 
veyed at the expense of the proprietors. 

2nd. That no other title paper is to be recorded when the 
claim has been confirmed but the patent or other evidence of 
the confirmation. And — 

3rd. That all the grants made by the Governors are to 
be recognized, excepting such only as may have been "sur- 
reptitiously and fraudulently obtained, through the false rep- 
resentations of the party." 

I am very respectfully, Sir, 

Your humble servant, 

William Henry Harrison 



to have created little excitement in what is now Indiana. It certainly received little 
attention. Knox, Dearborn and Clark were the only counties in Indiana and they 
cast 249 votes ; 51 opposing and 198 favorins. 

Dunn, Indiana, 320 sfq. 
Esarey. Indiana I, IfiO 
Alvord, The Illinois Countru, 423 



 

Harrison to Findlay 

ViNCENNES, 22nd Sept., 1804 
Pub. Hist. & Phil. Soc. of Ohio, I, 102 

Dear Findlay, 

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your two letters one 
by post and one by Mr. Thomas. I began to think that you 
had forgotten me as some of my other friends in Cincinnati 
have done. I have long wished to pay you a visit but I have 
been hitherto prevented sometimes by Public and oftentimes 
by private business. I hope however that this will not always 
be the case. During the whole of this summer and part of 
last I have been engaged in building a large House [Har- 
rison House, Vincennes] which will I fear prove rather too 
expensive for my finances. However the trouble and three 
fourths of the expense will be at end in a few days and by 
next Spring I shall be in a situation to accomodate you and 
your large family,' if you should think it worth your while 
to come and see us. Independent of the gratification of see- 
ing your old friend you will be interested in the Country 
around this place — the appearance of which is altogether dif- 
ferent from anything you ever saw. 

I did not accept Mr. [Peyton] Shorts offer because I was 
informed that $1600 was not enough for my preemption 
Right; and had I been inclined to have taken $1600 the land 
which he offered me was certainly not worth $400. I have 
written to my brother to assist me in paying the first instal- 
ment in January next, and as I know he has the command of 
money I calculate with certainty upon receiving assistance 
from him unless he has entered into some engagement that 
I am unaquainted with. • I am very much indebted both to 
[David?] Killgour and yourself for the Indulgence shown 
with regard to the fees. 

Mrs. Harrison requests you to present her in the most af- 
fectionate terms to Mrs. Findlay. She (Mrs. H. — ) is very 
inuch distressed at my being obliged to leave her. I shall set 
out for Louisiana [St. Louis] about the 2d or 3d of October.^ 

1. Findlay had no children. 

2. The law of March 26, 1804. placed Upper Louisiana under Harrison's admin- 
inistration after Oct. 1. Harrison and the territorial judges reached St. Louis that 
day and took over the government from Capt. Amos Stoddard. 



 

Proclamation Dividing Louisiana Territory into 
Districts 

October 1, 1804 
Vincennes Indiana Gazette, Oct. 2, 180k 

By William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in 
Chief of the Indiana Territory, and of the District of 
Louisiana. — A PROCLAMATION : 

Whereas by an act of Congress passed the 26th day of 
March, 1804, entitled "An act erecting- Louisiana into two 
Territories, etc., providing for the temporary government 
thereof," it is declared that the district of Louisiana shall 
be divided into districts by the governor under the direction 
of the president, 

Now therefore, in conformity to the said recited law and 
the direction of the president, I do hereby make knovra and 
declare that the said district of Louisiana shall be and the 
same is hereby divided into five districts, which shall be laid 
off and bounded in the following manner, viz. : 

1st, all that part of the said district which lies above the 
Missouri river shall form one division or district, by the 
name and style of the district of St. Charles; 

2d, another district, to be called the district of St. Louis, 
shall be bounded by the Mississippi \_Missouri'] on the north, 
and on the south by Platin creek [south of St. Louis], from 
its mouth to its source, thence by a due west line to the fork 
of the Merimack [Meramec] , called the Arenean, thence down 
the said fork to the Merimack, thence up the said Merimack, 
to the upper settlements on that river, and thence by a due 
west line to the western line of Louisiana; 

3d, the district of St. Genevieve shall be bounded on the 
north by the last described boundary thro' out its whole ex- 
tent from the mouth of the Platin creek to its termination at 
the western boundary of Louisiana, and on the south by Apple 
creek, from its junction with the Mississippi, to its source, 
thence by a due west line to the western boundary of 
Louisiana ; 

4th, between the last described boundary and that which 
has hei'etofore seperated the commanderies of Cape Girardeau 
and New Madrid there shall be another district to be called 
the district of Cape Girardeau ; 

5th, all that part of the district of Louisiana which lies 



 

below the district of Cape Girardeau, shall form a fifth dis- 
trict to be called the district of New Madrid. And the seat 
of justice for the district of St. Charles, shall be at the vil- 
lage of St. Charles ; for the district of St. Louis, at the town 
of St. Louis; for the district of St. Genevieve, at the town 
of St. Genevieve; for the district of Cape Girardeau, at such 
place as may be hereafter appointed; and for the district of 
New Madrid, at the town of New Madrid. 

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and 
caused the seal of the Indiana Territory to be affixed, at Vin- 
cennes this first day of October, in the year of our Lord, one 
thousand eight hundred and four, and of the Independence 
of the United States the twenty ninth. 

Will. Henry Harrison 
By the Governor: 

Jno. Gibson, Secretary 

Harrison to Jefferson 

St. Louis 6th Novr. 1804 

Jcffci-fion Papers, 6th series, vol. X, no. Sfi 

Dear Sir 

Mr. Augustus Choteau' will have the Honor to deliver you 
this, A gentleman who is justly Considered not only from his 
large fortune & superior information but from the Amiable- 
ness of his character, as the first Citizen of Upper Louisiana. 
You will I am sure derive great pleasure from his Conversa- 
tion as his knowledge of this Country is certainly superior 
to what is possessed by any other person & every thing that 
comes from him may be relied upon with the utmost Con- 
fidence 

It gives me great satisfaction to be able to inform you that 
nine tenths of the people of this Country are warmly attached 
to the Government of the United States. If in the Petition 
of Which Mr. Choteau is the bearer there are found expres- 
sions which appear to Contradict this opinion they must be 
attributed to the irritation produced by the insulting misrep- 
resentations of them which have been published through the 

1. Auguste Chouteau was born in New Orleans Aug. 14. 1750. He early became a 
fur trader with Laclede, the founder of St. Louis and at Laclede's death in 1778 took 
charge of the business. From then until his death he was the best known business 
man in St. Louis. 



 

United States & to the violent language of the speeches of 
some of the members of Congress (particularly Mr. Lyons) ^ 
on the subject of the Louisiana bill. It was immagined that 
they ought not to speak of their own grievances in Terms 
more moderate than those used by persons who did not feel 
them. The people of this District wish for nothing more 
than to have a seperate Territorial Government of their own 
in the second or representative grade. If I had been so for- 
tunate as to have arrived here before the meeting was dis- 
solved which framed the petition it would have been clothed 
in very different language. 

I have devided the District of Louisiana into five Districts 
in the manner you directed & am now employed in organising 
the Courts & Militia. I have the Honor to be Dr. Sir 
with perfect esteem your Obliged Sevt. 

WiLLM. H. Harrison 
The President of the United States 

[Indorsed:] Harrison Wm. H. St. Louis Nov.6.04.recd Jan. 10 
by Choteau 

McKee to Indians 

November, 1801 
Dawson, Harrison, 5:J 

My Children, I am surprised that you should rob one of 
your father's traders ; the man that you took the liquor from 
lately was an Englishman, and sent to trade among you by 
me; I told him to take some liquor with him to give to the 
chiefs among my children on the St. Joseph's a dram in cold 
weather when they came to see him, but not to sell any to 
you.' 

My Children, it is true that the Americans do not wish you 
to drink any spiritous liquors, therefore they have told their 
traders that they should not carry any liquor into your coun- 

2. Matthew Lyons was an erratic Irishman then representing a district of Ken- 
tucky in eonsress. He was born in Ireland, a soldier of the American Revolution, a 
Jeffersonian republican and congressman from Vei-mont. where he was fined and im- 
prisoned under the Sedition law. Came to Kentucky; died in Arkansas, August 1. 1822. 
He was unfriendly to Harrison and the Kentucky Whigs. 

1 . The English had a trading post at the mouth of the St. Joseph of Lake 
Michigan. Here the Indians following general instructions of Harrison robbed an 
English trader of 20 barrels of liquor, which they are said to have destroyed. The 
letter is addressed to Five Medals, Topenebee and other Pottawattomies. Dawson, 



 

try — but my Children, they have no right to say that one of 
your father's traders among you should carry no liquor 
among his children. 

My Children, your father King George, loves his red chil- 
dren, and wishes his red children to be supplied with evei-y 
thing they want; he is not like the Americans, who are con- 
tinually blinding your eyes and stopping your ears, with good 
words, that taste as sweet as sugar, and getting all your lands 
from you. 

My Children, should you yet have any of the liquor that 
you took from the Englishman, I wish you to return it to him 
immediately. 

My Children, I am told that [William] Wells has told you, 
that it was your interest to suffer no liquor to come into your 
country; you all well know that he is a bad man, you all well 
know the injuries he done you before you made peace with 
the long knives, by taking and killing your men, women and 
children. 

Alexander McKee 

Proclamation : Announcing that Indiana Territory Had 
Passed to the Second Grade 

December 5, 1804 
Executive Journal, 11 

Returns of the Election held on the 11th Sept. last in the 
several Counties, having been made to the office of the Sec- 
retary of the Territory (that of the County of Wayne ex- 
cepted in which there was no Election in Consequence of the 
proclamation not arriving in time), and [it] appearing that 
there was a majority of one hundred and thirty Eight Free- 
holders in favor of the proposed Change of Government, the 
Governor Issued a proclamation in which he makes known 
and Declares the said Indiana Territory is and from hence- 
forth shall be deemed to have passed into the second or rep- 
resentative grade of Government, and that the Good people 
of the Territory, from the date thereof are entitled to all the 
rights and privileges belonging to that situation, and fur- 
ther appoints that on Thursday the third day of January 
next an Election shall be held in each of the several Coun- 
ties in the Territory respectively for the purpose of Choose- 



 

iiig the members of the house of Representatives and that 
the said house of representatives shall be composed of nine 
members of which there shall be Elected from the County 
of Knox Two from the County St. Clair one from the County 
of Randolph one from the County of Clark one from the 
County of Wayne three & from the County of Dearborn one, 
and that the said representatives Elected and every of them 
should meet at the Town of Vincennes on the first day of 
Februaiy next for the purpose of choosing members for the 
Legislative Council agreeable to the ordinance for the Gov- 
ernment of the Territory.' (Abstract) 



Harrison to Chouteau 

Vincennes, 21st. Dec. 1804 

il/ss. in St. Louis Mercantile Library, Ctwuteau, 29 

I do indeed my dear Sir, owe you an appology for not hav- 
ing written to you on the return of your courier — it was my 
intention to have answered it but before his departure I had 
not an opportunity of getting your letter explained by a per- 
son well acquainted with the French language. I was not 
sure that I perfectly understood it. I therefore postponed 
writing until an other convoy & contented myself with in- 
forming our common friend Mr. [Charles] Gratiot that I had 
received your letter as well as those which were to be for- 
warded to the Seat of the General Government.' The latter 
were all sent on by the mail succeeding their arrival — if they 
had reached me one day sooner it would have forwarded them 
one week [sooner] as one mail had set out the day before the 
arrival of your express. 

Congress have already appointed a committee to take into 
their consideration the affairs of Louisiana & I doubt not but 
a form of Government will be adopted which will prove satis- 
factory to the people of that Country. I regret exeedingly 

1. March 10, 1804 the French flag was lowered on the portico of Charles Gratiot 
and an American flag run up. Capt. Amos Stoddard took military possession. It is 
said Gratiot, a republican, called for three cheers. Stoddard did not interfere with 
affairs, merely kept order, until Oct. 1, 1804 when Harrison arrived as governor. The 
letters referred to evidently dealt with the petition read in congress Dec. 3, 1804, and 
the counter petition read Jan. 4, 1805. The report of a committee on these matters, 
John Randolph, chaii-man, was made Jan. 25, 1805. A paper is printed along with 
this report signed by L. Derbigny, P. Sauve and D. Estrehan, "agents of the in- 
habitants of Louisiana", It may be to these men that Harrison alludes in his letter. 
8—21182 



 

the misfortune which has prevented you from going on to 
Washington & which has deprived the Government of a source 
of information that would I know have been much relied on. 
I do not doubt the zeal of your colleague — I believe (from 
his character) he will not be deficient in that point at least. 
But I fear that he will not be considered better qualified to 
give information on the subject of Louisiana than most of 
the members of the body to which he will address himself. 
I have omitted nothing in my power to do, to ensure success 
to the petition which you have forwarded & the way which 
appeared to me most likely to obtain it wast to counteract 
& destroy the misrepresentations which had been made re- 
specting the disposition & feelings of the people of Louisiana 
towards the Government of the United States. 

Permit me to introduce to you Col. [Return J.] Meigs [Jr.] 
the bearer of this who is appointed to the Command of the 
District of St. Charles with the rank of Colonel in the army 
of the United States. You will find him in every respect a 
man of Honor and a gentleman. 

It would give me great pleasure to hear from you occa- 
sionally but I must be candid enough to inform you that you 
will find me a negligent & slovenly correspondent. 

Please to present my respectful compliments to Mrs. Cho- 
teau and believe me to be dear Sir With much respect and 
Consideration 

Your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
August Choteau, Esq. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

1804 

Dawson, Harriaon, 56 
It is his, Ducoigne's' wish, that a part of the additional 
annuity should be laid out in the purchase of groceries, and 
a few articles of household furniture for himself — and the 
rest applied to the purchases of horses, provisions, and such 
other articles as would be necessary to fix his tribe com- 

1. Jean Baptiste Ducoigne was the chief of the 
He had visited General Washington at Philadelphii 
which he proudly wore. This ostracised him among the Indians. I 
lived within the immediate vicinity of Kaskaskia. He died about 
Pioneer Illinois, 2.7; Handbook of American Indians, /t05. 



 

fortably in the new mode of life, which they are about to 
adopt. The old annuity furnished as many European goods 
as they wanted ; much the greater part of what they did re- 
ceive they were accustomed to sell for ardent spirits, and if 
5,000 dollars worth of those goods were given them instead 
of 500 dollars they would not be the better for it. Ducoigne 
himself is a decent, sensible, gentlemanly man, by no means 
addicted to drink, and possessing a very strong inclination to 
live like a white man ; indeed he has done so, as far as his 
means would allow. The prospect of being enabled to live 
comfortably, was the great motive with him, for selling his 
lands, and the greater part of the additional annuity could 
not be better applied than to this object. I am indeed ex- 
tremely desirous of seeing him so well situated, as to attract 
the notice of the chiefs of the other tribes, many of whom 
may probably follow his example, if they see that his situ- 
ation has been bettered by our means; I was asked this very 
day, by another, if I was not about to build a handsome house 
for Ducoigne, in such a manner as induced me to believe 
that he wished for something in the same way for himself. 

Ducoigne's long and well-proved friendship for the United 
States, of which the President is well informed, has gained 
him the hatred of all the other chiefs, and ought to be an 
inducement with us to provide, as well for his happiness, as 
his safety. He wishes to have some coffee, sugar, and choco- 
late, sent to him, and is also desirous to have a ten gallon 
keg of wine, to shew, as he says the other Indians how well 
he is treated by the United States, and how much like a 
gentleman he lives. I have published proposals for building 
his house and fence. Upon consulting with him we agreed, 
that it would be better to fence in a field of 15 acres, only, 
at first, which is full as much as his tribe will cultivate, and 
add to occasionally so as to give the quantity of fencing prom- 
ised in the treaty (Extract) 

Dearborn to Jefferson 

January 8, 1805 

gjj. Jefferson Papers, 3d series, vol. 10, no. 110 

I do not consider any territorial Govr. as having any direc- 
tion of the factories or trading houses unless by particular 
and specific directions from the Presidt. of the U. S. 



 

I think that Govr. Harrison has incorrect ideas as to the 
command of the regular troops in Louisiana, for although 
the law gives the respective Commandants the command of 
the regular troops in their respective districts, it does not 
give any new authority to the Govr. over the regular troops. 
Govr. Harrison is undoubtedly intitled to an additional com- 
pensation for his services as Govr. of Louisiana, but if Detioco 
[Detroit] & uper Louisiana shall be made each a Territory, 
his services will be very much diminished in future. 

H. D. [Henry Dearborn] 

Harrison to Chouteau 

Grouseland, Febi-uary 2, 1805 

Mss. in Missouri Historical Society 

Dear Sir 

Let me have the pleasure of Introducing to you the bearer 

hereof Mr. Michael Jones a gentleman of worth and integrity 

& one who possesses my entire confidence — any civilities 

which you may shew to my friend will be highly acceptable to 

Your Hum Servt. 

WiLLM. H. Harrison 
Augt. Choteau, Esq. 

Harrison to Chouteau 

ViNCENNES, 19th March 1805 
Mss. St. Louis Mercantile Library, Chouteau, No. 30 

Dear Sir 

It is only about 12 or 14 days ago that I received from 
My friend Mr. [John W.] Eppes [Congressman from Va.] 
an acknowledgement of the letter which accompanied your 
memorial which had been presented and refered to a com- 
mittee. He also informs me that he thinks there will be no 
doubt but the object of the Petition will be obtained so far 
as it relates to a separate Government. The Committee to 
which was referred the Memorial from New Orleans had re- 
ported in favour of granting them the rights of self govern- 
ment. Indigiiant at the charge of a breach of Treaty which 
the Memorialists have urged aginst them they refute the un- 
founded assertion but grant their request not as a right 



 

founded upon the Treaty with France but upon the broad 
basis of Justice and liberty which is the foundation stone of 
the American Constitution. 

We have had no mail here for two weeks. The communica- 
tion between us and the Ohio being entirely cut off — from an 
excessive fall of rain. As soon as I get any further infor- 
mation on the subject of your affairs they will certainly be 
communicated either to yourself your brother, Mr. [Charles] 
Gratiot or Mr. [?] 

I beg you to present me in the most Respectful manner to 
your lady & Believe me to be with much Regard^ 
Your Hu'm Servt. 

William H. Harrison 



Delaware Indians to Wells 

White River March 30, 1805 

Har. Pa. 169 

Our Nephew 

We send to you our nephew William Patterson^ to counsel 
with you, we wish that you will listen to what he says con- 
cerning of Governor Harrison's purchasing a large Tract of 
Land, we know nothing of it, we have not in our power to 
sell land and more than that it is contrary to the articles of 
the Treaty of Greenville therefore we send to you the writing 
the governor gave us, when he gave it to us, he told us that 
it was an instrument of wi-iting to keep peace and friend- 
ship among us — therefore we wish that you will see into it 
and let the President our Father know that the purchase is 
unlegal and that he may take such measures as will prevent 
it from being settled, this is all, but you will listen to what 
Patterson says, as we cannot have all wrote what we wish to 

1. This memorial reached the House January 4, 1805. It is printed in the 
appendix to Annah 8 Cong. 2d. Sess. 160S. They protested especially against being 
tacked on to Indiana territory. Harrison favored the petition and during his gov- 
ernorship interefered as little as possible with their government, which went on much 
as it had under France. There was little friction at St. Louis as compared to that 
aroused by the captious Claiborne at New Orleans. 

1. Billy Patterson ivas a half breed Delaware, perhaps a nephew of Tethteposeske, 
the sachem mentioned below. Buckongehelas was the war chief, then an old man, 
while Hockingpomskon was the young war chief. At the treaty of Fort Wayne, June 
7, 1803, the names are signed Teta Buxike, Bukongehelas and Hockingpomskenn. 



 

say, this is all at present but remain your uncles (Patter- 
son's speech follows) 
Capt. William Wells 

(Signed) Tethteposeske, his mark x 
(Signed) Buckingehelas his mark x 
(Signed) Hockingpomskou his mark x 
I certify that the foregoing is a true translation of what 
the above signed chiefs said to William Wells. 

(Signed) John Connor= 

Clark to Harrison 

Fort Mandan, April 2d [1805] 

Travels of Capts. Lewis & Clark, London, Edition, 1809 

Dear Sir, 

By the return of a party which we sent from this place 
with dispatches, I do myself the pleasure of giving you a 
summary view of the Missouri. 

In ascending as high as the Kanzas river, which is 334 
miles up the Missouri on the S. W. side, we met a strong 
current, which was from five to seven miles an hour, the 
bottom is extensive, and covered with timber, the high coun- 
try is interspersed with rich handsome prairies well watered, 
and abound in deer and bear; in ascending as high as the 
river Plate we met a current less rapid, not exceeding six 
miles an hour; in this distance we passed several small rivers 
on each side, which water some finely diversified country, 
principally prairie, as between Vincennes and Illinois, the 
bottoms continue wide, and covered with timber: this river 
is about 6000 yards wide at the mouth, not navigable; it 
heads in the rocky mountains with the North river, and 
Yellow Stone river, and passes through an open country; 
fifteen leagues up this river the Ottoes and thirty Missouries 
live in one village, and can raise two hundred men; fifteen 
leagues higher up, the Paneas and Panea Republicans live 

2. John Connor was a most interesting character. Bom perhaps while his father 
and mother were captives among the Shawnees. When the parents were liberated 
about 1775 he was kept by the Indians. He became an Indian trader and finally 
located in Indiana. He was often employed by Harrison and it seems Harrison was 
not disappointed in the confidence he reposed in him. 

Burton, Hist. Col. 00 



HARRISON: MESSACxES AND LETTERS 119 

in one village and can raise seven hundred men ; up the wolf 
fork of this river, Papia Louises live in one village, and can 
raise two hundred and eighty men; the Indians have partial 
ruptures frequently; the river Plate is six hundred and thirty 
miles up the Missouri on the south west side. Here we find 
the antelope or goat; the next river of size ascending is the 
Stone river, commonly called by the Ingaseix, Little River 
De sious; it takes its rise in lake Dispice, fifteen miles from 
the river Demoir, and is sixty-four yards wide; here com- 
mences the Sioux country. The next by note is the Big Sioux 
river, which heads with the St. Peters, and water of lake 
Winnepic, in some high wooded country; about ninety miles, 
still higher, the river Jacque falls on the same side, and 
about 100 yards wide; this river heads with lake Winnepie, 
at no great distance east from the place, the head of the 
river Demon in Pelican lake, between the Sioux rivers and 
St. Peters; the country on both sides of the Missouri from 
the river Plate to that place has much the same appearance ; 
extensive fertile plains, containing but little timber, and that 
little, principally confined to the river bottoms and streams; 
the country east of this place, and off from the Missouri as 
low as stone river, contains a number of small trees many 
of which are said to be so much impregnated with Glauber's 
salt as to produce all its effects ; certain it is that the water 
in the small streams from the hill below on the south-west 
side possesses this quality. About the river Jaqua Bruff, the 
country contains a great amount of mineral cobalt, cinnabar, 
alum, copperas, and several other things ; the stone coal which 
is on the Missouri is very indiff"erent. Ascending fifty-two 
miles above the Jaqua, the river Quicum falls in on the south- 
west side of this river, is 1026 miles up, 150 yards wide, not 
navigable ; it heads in the black mountains, which run nearly 
parallel to the Missouri from about the head of the Kanzas 
river, and ends southwest of this place. Quicum waters a 
broken country 122 miles by water higher. White river falls 
in on the southwest side, and is 300 yards wide, and navigable, 
as all the other streams are which are not particularly men- 
tioned; this river heads in some small lakes, short of the 
black mountains. The Mahan and Poncan nations rove on 
the head of this river and the Quicum, and can raise 250 
men ; they were very numerous a few years ago, but the small- 
pox and the Sioux have reduced them to their present state ; 



 

the Sioux possess the southwest of the Missouri above White 
River, 132 miles higher and on the west side. Teton river 
falls into it, it is small, and heads in the open plains; here 
we met a large band of Sioux and the second which we had 
seen called Tetons; these are rascals, and may justly be called 
the pirates of the Missouri; they made two attempts to stop 
us; they are subdivided and stretch on the river near to this 
place, having reduced the Racres and Mandans, and driven 
them from the country they now occupy. 

The Sioux bands rove in the country to the Mississippi. 
About forty-seven miles above the Teton river, the Chyanne 
river falls in from the south-west, 4000 yards wide, is nav- 
igable to the black mountains, in which it takes its rise, in 
the third range; several bands of Indians but little known, 
rove on the head of this and the river Plate, and are stated 
to be as follows : Chaoenne 300 men ; Staetons 100 ; Canena- 
viech 400; Cayanwa and Wetahato 200, Cataha seventy De- 
tame thirty; Memesoon fifty; Castahana 1300 men; it is 
probable that some of those bands are the remains of the 
Padaucar nation; at 1440 miles up the Missouri, (and a 
short distance above two handsome rivers which take their 
rise in the black mountains,) the Kicaras live in three vil- 
lages, and are the remains of ten different tribes of Paneas, 
who have been reduced and driven from their country lower 
down by the Sioux; their number is about -500 men; they 
raise corn, beans, etc. and appear friendly and well disposed ; 
they were at war with the nations of this neighborhood, and 
we have brought about peace. Between the Recars and this 
place, two rivers fall in on the south-west and one on the 
north-east, not very long and take their rise in the open 
country ; this country abounds in a great variety of wild ani- 
mals, but a few of which the Indians take; many of those 
animals are uncommon in the United States, such as white, 
red and grey bears; long eared mules, or black tailed deer, 
(black at the end of the tail only) large heares, antelope or 
goat; the red fox; the ground prairie dogs (who burrow in 
the ground) the braroca which has a head like a dog, and 
the size of a small dog; the White brant, magpie, calumet 
eagle, etc., and many others are said to inhabit the rocky 
mountains. 

I have collected the following account of the rivers and 
country in advance of this to wit : two days march in advance 



 

of this, the Little Missouri falls on the south side, and heads 
at the north-west extremity of the black mountains ; six days 
march further a large river joins the Missouri, affording as 
much water as the Main river. This river is rapid, without 
a fall, and navigable to the rocky mountains, its branches 
head with the river Plate; the country in advance is said to 
be broken. 

The trade of the nations from this place is from the north- 
west, and Hudson's Bay establishments, on the Assinneboin 
river, distant about one hundred and fifty miles ; those traders 
are nearly at open war with each other, and better calculated 
to destroy than promote the happiness of those nations, to 
which they have latterly extended their trade, and intend to 
form an establishment near this place in the course of this 
year. 

Your most Obedient servant. 

Wm. Clark 



William Patterson, a Delaware, to Wells 

Fort Wayne, April 5, 1805 

Har. Pa. 170-172 

Friend and Brother! listen, to what I now say to you. I 
am sent by the chiefs of my nation, to speak the following 
words to you. 

Friend and Brother! my Chiefs take you by the hand and 
salute you and inform you that it has pleased God that they 
should see another spring. 

Friend and Brother, my chiefs inform you that their minds 
are troubled concerning the visit they made Governor Har- 
rison. Last summer at Vincennes they were invited to that 
place by the Governor and on their arrival they were much 
pleased to hear him say that he wished to brighten the chain 
of friendship between the white and red people and that he 
had invited them to see them for that purpose. 

Friend and Brother! Our chiefs was told by the Governor 
that he wish them to become more civilized and that he would 
give them an addition to their annuity of Five hundred Dol- 
lars a year to enable them to procure the necessary articles 
for the purpose of enabling them to cultivate their lands and 
that he was present when the Miamies gave all White River 



 

to the Delawares and that he would give them an instrument 
of writing that would show that the country on White River 
belonged to the Delawares. He farther told our chiefs that 
the Piankeshaws did not acknowledge the right of the Dela- 
wares to the lands on White River, but he would satisfy them 
on this head and would give them money out of his own 
pocket in order to get them to acknowledge the right of the 
Delawares to the Lands on White River, and that the road 
from Vincennes to the Falls should in future be the boundary 
line between the Lands of the Delawares and Piankeshaws. 

Friend and Brother! When these words was spoke to our 
chiefs by the governor they were much pleased with what 
he said, the Governor then wrote two papers which he told 
our chiefs contained the woi-ds he had just spoken to them 
and that he wished them to sign them both that he would 
send one to the President of the United States and one they 
could keep themselves in order that the good words he had 
spoke might be kept in remembrance by the white and red 
people — our chiefs chearfuUy signed these papers. 

Friend and Brother! you may judge how our chiefs felt 
when they returned home and found that the Governor had 
been shutting up their eyes and stopping their Ears with his 
good words and got them to sign a Deed for their lands with- 
out their knowledge. 

Friend and Brother! the Chiefs of my nation now declare 
to you from the bottom of their hearts in the presence of 
God that they never sold Governor Harrison or the United 
States any land at Vincennes last summer to their knowledge. 

Friend and Brother! My chiefs well remembers all dis- 
putes between them and the United States are to be settled 
in a peaceable manner and I am directed by them to tell you 
that they place confidence in you and it is their wish that 
you take such immediate steps as may appear to you to be 
best for bringing about a fair understanding on the subject 
of the Treaty that it appears they signed last summer at 
Vincennes, and that you as soon as possible inform our great 
father the President of the United States how Governor Har- 
rison has attempted to impose on his Red children. 

Friend and Brother! my chiefs declare to you that they 
are not willing to sell the lands on the Ohio from the mouth 
of the Wabash to Clarks Grant at the Falls and that they 



 

consider it out of their power to do any such thing without 
the consent of the other nations in this country. 

Friend and Brother! my chiefs wishes you to prevent this 
land being settled by the white people. 

Friend and Brother! these are the words that was put in 
my mouth by the chiefs of my nation, in order that I might 
deliver them to you. 

his 
(Signed) Wm. Patterson x 
mark 

Signed in the Presence of (Signed) John Johnston^ U. S. 
Factor, (Signed) S. Owens, Lieut. 1st Regt. Infy. 

I certify that the above is a true translation of what Will- 
iam Patterson a Delaware chief said to William Wells this 
5th Day of April 1805 

(Signed) John Connor 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes, 6th April 1805 
Har. Pa. 126 

Sir: 

For several weeks passed rumours of an approaching In- 
dian war on the Missouri have reached me but I am well 
convinced that there is not the smallest foundation for them. 
The Indians on this side of the Mississippi have certainly 
nothing of the kind in view. As soon as I receive any in- 
formation that can be depended on it shall be communicated. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
your Humble Servt 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
The Honorable The Secretary of War 

3. John Johnston was born at Ballyshannon. Ireland, March 25. 1775 : came to U. S.. 
1786: was with Wayne 1793-5; Indian agent at Fort Wayne 1800-1811 and at other 
northwestern posts 20 years longer. Paymaster in army in TT. S. Died at Washington 
1861 and was buried at his home in Piqua, Ohio. 

Lossinpr, War of 1S12, 263 
Griswold, Fort Wafine. 169 



 

Harrison to Chouteau 

ViNCENNES 7th April, 1805 

Mss. in St. Louis Mercantile Library, Chouteau 31 

Dear Sir 

I have great pleasure in making you acquainted with Doctor 
Steel the bearer hereof who goes to St. Louis with the in- 
tention of settling there as a Physician. He is a gentleman 
of the most amiable character and is considered a man of 
great learning & professional talents. You will I am sure 
find him a valuable acquisition to your town & I beg leave 
to recommend him to your notice particularly. A law has 
certainly passed Congress enacting a government for Upper 
Louisiana and my most intimate friend General [James] Wil- 
kinson is certainly to be your Governor. I have not yet seen 
the law nor do I know when it is to take effect. 

With my best respect to Mr. Choteau I remain Dr Sr 
Sincerely yours, 

William H. Harrison 
Augustus Choteau, Esq. 



McKee to the Indians 

April 1805 
Dawson, Hai-rison, 53 

My Children, I have always told you that I would give you 
the earliest information of any danger that threatened you, 
that would come to my knowledge. 

My Children, there is now a powerful enemy of yours to 
the east, now on his feet, and looks mad at you, therefore you 
must be on your guard; keep your weapons of war in your 
hands, and have a look out for him.^ 

1. This seems to be a fair sample of the talk held between the British Indian 
agents and the Northwestern tribes. Most of these agents were what has been tei-med 
U. E. loyalists during the Revolution and cherished a bitter resentment toward the 
U. S. This feeling was entirely reciprocated by the western settlers who usually 
referred to them as "renegades". This "talk" was sent among the Wyandots, Ottawas. 
Pottawattomies. Shawnees, Delawares and Miamies during April, 1805. 



 

Proclamation: Calling for a New Election of Repre- 
sentatives FROM St. Clair County 

April 18, 1805 
Executive Journal, 11 

The Late Election held on the 3d of January for a Repre- 
sentative to the General Assembly for the County of St. Clair 
Being, by the resolution of the said assembly declared to be 
null and void; and by the act of Congress passed at their 
last session, the County of Wayne [Michigan] is from and 
after the 30th June next to be formed into a separate Terri- 
tory ; and in order that the said County of St. Clair [Illinois] 
may have the proportion of representatives in the Legislature 
to which its population Entitles it, and that the number of 
Representatives after the 30 June next may be made con- 
formably to the Law Creating in the Indiana Territory : The 
Governor Issued a proclamation for the holding of an elec- 
tion for the County of St. Clair, on Monday the 20th May 
next, for two persons to represent said county in the house 
of Representatives for two years after the 30th June next 
and he also makes Known and declares, that from and after 
the said 30th June next the house of Representatives of the 
Territory shall consist of seven members. [Abstract] 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 26th April 1805 

Har. Pa. 128-129 

Sir: 

The two papers herewith enclosed I received today from 
Capt. Wells. [March 30 and Apr. 5, above] I am convinced 
that this man will not rest until he has persuaded the Indians 
that their very existence depends upon the rescinding the 
Treaty with the Delawares and Piankeshaws. My knowledge 
of his character induces me to believe that he will go any 
length and use any means to carry a favorite point and much 
mischief may ensue from his knowledge of the Indians, his 
cunning and his perseverance. If I had not informed you 
that I should wait here the arrival of your further orders I 
would set out tomorrow for Fort Wayne. I have lately learnt 



 

that Genl. [James] Wilkinson' was soon expected in the In- 
dian country- He has considerable influence with the Mianiis 
and particularly with the Turtle. I take the liberty to recom- 
mend that he may be associated with me for the purpose of 
satisfying the Indians. As soon as I receive your answer to 
my letter of the 1st ultimo unless it contains other instruc- 
tions I will proceed to Cincinnati where I can meet General 
Wilkinson in his passage down the Ohio and we can then go 
to Fort Wayne together. The interruption to the General 
will not be great and the additional expense trifling. I shall 
be obliged to take General [John] Gibson with me because I 
can get no interpreter of the Delaware language at Fort 
Wayne, that can be depended on and as he was the Inter- 
preter to the Treaty with that tribe it is necessary that he 
should be present at the explanations which take place in 
presence of the other tribes. 

If your expected letter should contain no positive instruc- 
tions on the subject of my meeting the Indians at Fort Wayne 
but should leave it to be decided by myself unless some very 
unexpected circumstance should take place I will certainly 
go on. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 
Sir your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. H. Harrison 
Honble. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Secy, of War 

Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington Apr. 28, 05 

Jefferson Papers, 1st series, vol. 10, no. 290 

Dear Sir 

I received some time ago from Mr. Jesse B. Thomas,' 
Speaker of the H. of Representatives of Indiana, a certificate 

1. James Wilkinson enlisted as a private from Penn. in Rev. on staff of Gen. 
Greene 1776-6 with Arnold 1776: brisade major on staff of Gates 1777-8: Sec. to board 
of war 1778-9 : Col. in U. S. army 1791 : brig. Gen. 1792 ; major Gen. 1812 ; discharged 
June 15. 1815 : died Dec. 28, 1825. 

Heitman, Hist. Register, 10S7 

1. Jesse B. Thomas came to Lawrenceburg in 1803 from Virginia stopping on the 
way a few yeai-s in Kentucky. He was elected to the territorial legislature in 1805 ; 
helped pass the indenture law ; became delegate to congress : became U. S. judge for 
111. territory 1809; U. S. senator 1818-1829: died 1850. If he had any political principles 
they are not disclosed by his record. 

Dunn, Indiana, 327; Buck, Itlinois in IS 18, index 



 

of the election of ten persons- out of whom I am to name 
five for the legislative council, the names being new to me, 
and utterly uninformed of every character, it would be to 
substitute chance for choice were I to designate the five. I 
therefore send you an instrument designating the five who 
are to compose the council, but leaving a blank for their 
names to be filled up by you. in doing this I can only rec- 
ommend an adherence to the principles which would have 
governed myself in making the selection. 1 — to reject dis- 
honest men. 2. those called federalists, even the honest men 
among them are so imbued with party prejudice, so habitu- 
ated to condemn every measure of the public functionaries 
that they are incapable of weighing candidly the pro, and the 
con, of any proposition coming from them, & only seek in it 
the grounds of opposition, their effect in the public councils 
is merely to embarrass & thwart them. 3. land-jobbers are 
undesirable, it is difficult for them, even with honest inten- 
tions, to act without bias in questions having any relation to 
their personal interests, the principle of distribution merits 
respect, where there is not too great a disparity between two 
candidates. I observe the legislature have paid a just atten- 
tion to it. those in the county of Wayne being now out of 
the territory, we have of course but 8. out of which the 5. are 
to be named. 

Your favor of Mar. 29. is just recieved. commissions issued 
early in March to the judges of Louisiana, the map of the 
Arcansa mentioned in your letter has not come with it, but 
will I suppose find it's way here, accept my thanks for it. 
we hear rumours of combinations among the Indians on both 
sides the Missisipi for objects not explained to us. I credit 
them the less as you say nothing of them, these coalitions 
merit great attention and should be prevented if possible, 
justice, favor, & interest must all be kept in activity to coun- 
teract them, liberalities and patronage to chiefs of influence 
may be necessary & cannot but have efi'ect. if each tribe 
can be satisfied that they have a sure & separate reliance on 
the justice & liberality of the government of the union, they 
will probably see their safety and prosperity better secured 

2. The ten nominated were John Rice Jones. Jacob Kuy Kendall. Samuel Gwathmey. 
Marston G. Clark, Benjamin Chambers, John Hay, Jean Francis Perrey. Pierie Menard, 
James May. James Henry. Those selected by Harrison were Chambers, Gwathmey. Jones, 
Menard and Hay. 



 

by that than by a depenclance on rival tribes : and in this they 
shall not be disappointed, the general approbation given to 
our measures respecting the Indians, shews that they ale in 
unison with the sentiments of the great body of our nation, 
& that there is no danger of a departure from them, the 
Little Turtle is indisposed, ambition will account in some 
degree for his effoi-t to produce a great confederacy; but per- 
haps we also may have been defective in our kindnesses to 
him. a liberality towards him which would not be felt by 
us, might prevent great embarrassment & expence. the Dela- 
wares & Piankishaws will of course keep aloof from these 
plots, & attached to us, because we are maintaining their 
independance. 

Accept my friendly salutations & assurances of great esteem 
& respect 

Th : Jefferson 

P. S. be so good as to infoj-m n^e of the names you insert 
in the instrument of design •. c- that they may be recorded 
here. 

May 1.05. the map is this moment come to hand. 

Chouteau to Harrison 

St. Louis, May the 22d, 1805 

Har. Pa. 131-133 

M. Wm. H. Harrison, Governor. 
Sir: 

The barge of Capt. [Meriwether] Lewis' arrived the day 
before yesterday. He has sent by this opportunity Fourty- 
five chiefs or considered of the nations Ricaras, Poncas, 
Sioux of the tribes on the Missoury, Mahas, Ottos and Mis- 
sourys, in order that they may be conducted from here to 
the Federal city. I send you an express to give you notice 

1. Meriwether Lewis of the Lewis and Claris expedition. The party left St. Louis 
May 14, 1804. They spent the following winter at the Mandan towns. From the upper 
Missouri this party of Indian chiefs returned to St. Louis on their way to Washington. 
Captain Lewis later became governor of Missouri. October II. 1809. while on the 
Nashville Trace, 72 miles from Nashville, he either killed himself or wa.s murdered, 
most likely the latter. 

Coues, Lewis and Clark. Ex. I; Scharf, St. Louis. I. 3.19 

The barge here referred to left Fort Mandan, where Lewis and Clark wintered. April 
8. See Lewis to Jefferson April 7, 1805. 

.im. Sta. Pa. Indian .iffairs, I, 70S 



 

of their arrival, they unanimously wish to undertake this 
journey, but as my instructions, whereof you have a perfect 
knowledge do not permitt the departure of any Indians for 
the seat of government without a special permission, I think 
it is my duty to wait your answer, before I give them mine, 
and I hope that in the shortest time possible you will trans- 
mitt to me your orders and will direct my conduct on this 
occasion as minutely as possible. 

I will observe to you that I am ever in the same opinion 
that the warm season is very dangerous for these Indians of 
whom perhaps a great number will fall victims to so long 
and penible journey in a climate so different from their own 
and the nations should be certainly dissatisfied and would 
have a defavorable idea of the government if the Indians now 
here do not come back safely amongst them. I think that 
the autumn and Winter are the only proper seasons to under- 
take with security that trip. If you were of the same opinion 
it would be convenient, I believe, that these Indians stay here 
or not far from here, in going from time to time to hunt in 
the neighborhood. Whatever may be your opinion for the 
time of the departure I think that it will be necessary to call 
for some chiefs of the nations sakias and foxes who are 
called by the government which is already known to them, 
and also for some chiefs of the Sioux of the river Des Moens 
who are come here with Mr. Crawford- and have asked for 
the same journey, I promised to make them know the inten- 
tions of the government about it. As the expenses of the 
voyage will be in proportion to the number of the Indians 
which will amount to sixty at least perhaps you will find it 
convenient to send back to their nations some of them to 
bring the news of the Departure of the others. Finally I 
pray you to give me very particular instructions on every 
article, being desirous that my conduct may be approved. 
Fix, if you please the certain epoch of the Departure, the 
number of the Indians to be conducted, if some of them agree 
to go back, fix the road to be taken and authorize me to 
expend which sums you will judge necessary. 

I shall ever be ready to start with the Indians in all time 

2. Crawford was an Indian trader from what is now western Iowa who returned 
with this delegation of Indian chiefs. These chiefs had been prevailed on by Lewis 
at a meeting Auk. SI, 1804 to visit the president with Crawford and Pierre Durion "an 
old Frenchman" whom Lewis had taken along as an interpreter. 

Coues. Lewis & Clark, I, 54 

9—21182 



 

and if I propose you some objections on the season it is only 
to avoid any reproach from the government or from the 
Indians in the supposition that some unhappy event should 
arrive. 

The party of Sioux conducted here by Mr. Dixon have 
started this morning satisfied of the presents which I have 
given to them. 

As the contractor is in the impossibility to furnish me with 
the provisions dayly wanted I will be obliged to buy them 
and I believe that it will be for his o^vn account. Mr. Ewing, 
an interpreter and another man wanted by him will start in 
a few days for the Sakias. 

I remain with the greatest consideration, Sir 
Your very humble and obedient 

Pierre Chouteau,' agt. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, May 24, 1805 

Am. Sta. Pa. — Indian Affairs, I, 701 

It is the opinion of the President of the United States, 
that you ought, with as little delay as possible to cause a 
meeting of the Delaware chiefs, and some of the principal 
chiefs of the Miamies and Pattawatamies, for the purpose of 
such an explanation of the doings, so much complained of, 
as will satisfy the chiefs, generally, that the transaction was 
not only open and fair, but such as they have no right to 
object to.' 

Such as the Delaware chiefs as were present at the treaty, 
and who have made false or improper representations of your 
conduct in negotiating the treaty, ought to be severely repri- 
manded, and made to acknowledge, in the presence of the 
other chiefs, the impropriety of their conduct ; and they ought 
to be told, that, in future, no chiefs, who so far degrade them- 
selves as to deny their own doings, will be considered as de- 
serving any of the confidence of their father, the President 
of the United States, or admitted to any conference with him, 
or any of his principal officers or agents. 

3. Pierre Chouteau, son of Pierre Laclede Liguest and lialf biotVier of August 
Chouteau. Scharf, Histonj of St. Louis I. ISO 

1. This refers to the purchase of the territory south of the Vincennes trace at the 
treaty of Vincennes Aug. 18. 1804. 



 

Parke to Harrison 

Wednesday noon' May 25, 1805 

Hai: Pa. 1S5 

The Indians [Sioux] have just arrived with their prison- 
ers — between thirty and forty well made, handsome, able 
bodied men presented themselves in council. They conducted 
the whole in admirable order and with more decency and 
decorum than I have ever observed among the savages. Sev- 
eral of the chiefs delivered lengthy speeches and spoke ap- 
parently in eloquent and feeling manner. All in a word 
amounted to this: that they were fools; had lost their old 
fathers ; had been lost, and had lately found their new father ; 
had by the advice of the Mississippi traders and from inclina- 
tion seized the murderer and brought him down, that they 
believed him guilty and no better than stinking flesh; still 
they hoped for pity and compassion and would cheerfully sub- 
mit to the wisdom and clemency of the Whites. The Indian 
was then presented bound, in their estimation, in a most 
ignominious manner. He evidenced strong marks of con- 
trition and a sense of his crime — confessed the murder, that 
one had struck him over the head with a pipe and then torn 
down his hut. The other man he slew for fear of being slain 
himself — and beged that compassion might be exercised in 
deciding his case ; but declared that he was resigned to what- 
ever might be his fate — that he had no doubt but it would be 
just. 

I felt affected with the magnanimity of these people. They 
are really deserving of more attentive consideration of our 
Govt. 

M. Choteau has dismissed the council to meet tomorrow 
when he gives his answer. He effected a reconciliation be- 
tween the people and a nation, arrived a short time since, 
170 leagues up the Missouri. 

M. C. has just hinted to me that he will permit them to 
return with the prisoner subject to any further [future] 
requisition that may be made by our Government. I think 
it best. We ought to have a mode of proceeding peculiar to 
the Indian character and nature — the subtleties of our law 
are not calculated for them, and we have already played the 



 

fool with the fellow lately escaped. = These people will return 
the prisoner whenever required. 
Adieu 

B. Parke^ 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

VINCENNES 27th May 1805 
Har. Pa. 134-137 

Sir: 

The enclosed letter [May 22, above] from M. Choteau I 
received this day by a special messenger and have returned 
him an answer of which the enclosed is a copy (No. 2) [May 
27 below]. If the Indians should now go forward to the 
seat of Govermnent I will dispatch them as quickly as pos- 
sible. On their arrival at this place I will have them innocu- 
lated with the vaccine disease that they may avoid the small 
pox which is at this time in Kentucky. I have directed Mr. 
Choteau to go on with them because he is better acquainted 
with their manners and their wants than any other person 
that could be procured. A party of the Sioux of the Mis- 
sissippi have lately visited St. Louis for the purpose of de- 
livering up one of their warriors who had killed two Canadi- 
ans, the Servants of a trader in their country, but upon ex- 
amination it appeared that the Indian killed them in his owni 
defence and that they were the aggressors. He was accord- 
ingly permitted to return with his friends upon condition of 
his being delivered up at any time hereafter when he should 
be demanded. Inclosed (No. 3) is a letter from a friend of 
mine on the spot which gives a particular account of the 
transaction. The respect which has been manifested towards 
the United States by this numerous and warlike tribe and 
the favourable, reception which Captains Lewis and Clark 
have met with from the Tribes of the Missouri augers well 

2. The Sac who broke jail in St. Louis and was shot, supposedly by the guard, 
but more probably by some personal enemy. This event is explained in Harrison to 
Sec. of war May 27, 1805, and in Chouteau to Harrison May 22. 1805. 

3. Benjamin Parke, born in New Jersey, 1777, came to Vincennes in 1801, delegate 
to congress. 1806-8; judge of U. S. district court for Ind. 1808 till his death at Salem 
July 12, 1835. He was an officer under Harrison at Tippecanoe ; sat in the constitu- 
tional convention 1816; helped found Vincennes university; State Law library; and State 
Historical Society. 

Woollen, Biographical Sketches, SSi 



 

to our affairs in that quarter and forms a striking contrast 
to the conduct of some of the more neighbouring Tribes which 
have been treated by our government with the utmost tender- 
ness and indulgence. In my last letter I informed you that 
it was my intention to set out for Fort Wayne unless the in- 
structions I expected to receive from you should otherwise 
direct. Upon more mature deliberation I have been induced 
to abandon my opinion of the propriety of that step. First 
from the probability that my services will shortly be required 
here to hold a session of the Legislature and secondly Be- 
cause I think it would be a sacrifice of that dignity and au- 
thority which it is necessaiy to observe in all our transac- 
tions with the Indians. We are not conscious of having done 
them any wrong but as they pretend to think otherwise they 
have been invited to come forward and state their grievances 
and every assurance has been given that for any injury which 
may have unintentionally been done them ample remuneration 
shall be made. As they have declined this invitation I think 
it would be improper for us to discover too much solicitude 
to give them satisfaction lest they would attribute that to 
fear which is purely the effect of justice and benevolence, 
an error which the Indians above all the people in the world 
are prone to imbibe. As it is very possible however that they 
may have been imposed upon by false statements and mis- 
representations I conceived it to be a matter of importance 
to remove from their minds every false impression to ascer- 
tain whether the uneasiness and alarm really exists amongst 
them to the extent that has been spoken of and to discover 
who the persons are (for that there are such I am perfectly 
convinced) who excite their jealousy and feed their discon- 
tent. For these purposes I have dispatched General [John] 
Gibson to the Delawares and Col. [Francis] Vigo^ to the 
Miamis and Potawatomies. Upon their return I shall be 
enabled to give you satisfactory information on every sub- 
ject connected with their mission. 

In the course of this spring I have seen all the cheifs of 
the Weas one excepted a large deputation from the Kickapoos 
of the Prairie another from those of the Vermilion River. 



1. Francis Vigo 




a Sardii 


lian 


adventurer, 


born 


1740, 


came to J 


Spanish regiment. 


He aided Clark ai 


id Harrison 


and 


was 


intimately 


the early history of 


Vir 


leennes & 


Tei 


rre Haute. 








Rey 


lolds, 


Pioneer 


Hist 


. of III. as 


; Gookins, 


History of 



 

Almost the whole band of Eel River Indians and the only 
chief of the Delawares who was not present at the late treaty 
with that Tribe. In none of these have I discovered the 
smallest signs of discontent and I am persuaded that if it 
does exist it exists no where but in the immediate neighbor- 
hood of Fort Wayne and the Indians there are no more 
effected by the Treaties with the Delaware and Piankeshaws 
than the Mandans of the Missouri. 

I received by the express from St. Louis a long letter from 
Capt. [William] Clark- the companion of Capt. [Meriwether] 
Lewis. The dispatches for the President and for your de- 
partment were not sent on which will delay their arrival at 
Washington nearly a fortnight. They passed the Winter with 
the Mandans 1609 miles up the Missouri in latitude 47° 21' 
47" N. Longitude 101° 25' and had met with no material 
accident. 

Your letter of the Febry. covering the President's 

Pardon of the Sac Indian confined at St. Louis did not reach 
me until near two months after its date. It was immediately 
forwarded to St. Louis but unfortunately it did not arrive 
until the Indian had effected his escape from the guard house. 
He was fired on by the sentinel and the body of an Indian 
has lately been found near St. Louis with the marks of the 
buck shot in his head which is supposed to be the prisoner.^ 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect and con- 
sideration Sir 

your humble servt. 

Will Henry Harrison 
The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Secy, of War 

2. William Clark was a yount'er brother of George Rogers Clark — the ninth child, 
born August 1, 1770 in Caroline county Va. Came with his parents t» Louisville 1784 ; 
served under Wayne: on trip to Pacific 1803-1807: governor of Missouri Ter., 1813-1820. 
In Indian service till his death Sept. 1. 1838. 

Coues. Lewis & Clark I, p. Ixiii 

3. The Sac confined in jail was evidently very popular in his tribe. His fellows 
made every effort to save his life and it seems an important consideration in the treaty 
of June 27, 1804 by which they ceded all Northern Illinois was the liberation of this 

Gue. Hist, of Iowa I, 76 
In the hands of literary writers this story grew remarkably. See Cole. Popular Hist. 



 



Harrison to Pierre Chouteau 

ViNCENNES 27th May 1805 
Hai: Pa. 138 

Sir: 

I have this moment received your favour of the 22nd in- 
stant. The arrival of the Indians from the upper parts of 
the Missouri at this particular time is certainly an unfor- 
tunate circumstance. After as full a consideration of the 
affair as the time mil allow I have determined as follows: 
You will please to state to the Indians the inconveniences 
that will attend their going on at present and explain to them 
your arrangement for their spending the summer in the neigh- 
borhood of St. Louis. If they should readily agree to it that 
plan will be adopted. If on the contrary they should express 
a wish to go on you will proceed immediately to make the 
necessary arrangements and set out for this place with all 
the expedition in your power — expedition is the more neces- 
sary as the President and the Heads of Departments will be 
absent from the seat of Government after the month of June. 
It is impossible for me at this distance to prescribe to you in 
the detail the arrangements necessary for your outfit in this 
Trip. I must therefore leave it entirely to yourself relying 
upon your judgment and economy that no expenses vdll be 
gone into but such as the due execution of the object requires. 
I therefore hereby authorize you to draw upon the Secretary 
of War for such sums as may be required for the purchase 
of Horses and other necessaries for the Trip. On your ar- 
rival at this place you will receive more particular instruc- 
tions. If any engagement for interpreters has been made 
and no particular objection can be made to their integi-ity 
or capacity you will please to employ them. An English in- 
terpreter ^v^ll also be necessary. You will also please to apply 
to Major [John] Bruff' for an escort as far as this place 
where you will be furnished with one to take you to the Ohio. 
I wish very much to send on a few of the Sioux, of the De- 
moin, and some of Sacs and Foxes and if you can get them 

1. John Bruff was a soldier in the Revolution, servinK from his native state in 
the 6th Maryland. Wounded and captured at Camden, served in U. S. ai-my till June 
1807. Heitman. Historical Register, 256. See his notice of sale, Sept. 7, 1S08 announcing 
that he is going away from St. Louis. 

Billon, .Innals of St. Louis, 110 



 

ready to go on with the others do so. Every exertion in your 
power must be made to diminish the number by sending back 
as many of those that have come down the Missouri as you 
can get to go back. Give them a few articles that will be 
acceptable to them and send them with a speech to their na- 
tion informing them of the departure of their friends for 
the seat of Government. 

I am very Respectfully Your Humble Servant 

[Wm. Henry Harrison] 
Pierre Chouteau, Esquire, Agent of Indian Affairs, 
Saint Louis 

Proclamation : Convening the First Session of the 
First General Assembly 

June 7, 1805 
Executive Journal, 11 

The Governor Issued a proclamation for Convening the 
Legislature on the 29th July next [1805]. (The text has not 
been found.) 

]\IUNRO TO Harrison 

Detroit, June 14, 1805 

Farmer, History of Detroit and Michigan 

Sir: 

I have the painful task to inform you of the entire con- 
flagration of the town of Detroit. About ten o'clock on Tues- 
day last a stable, immediately opposite the factory was dis- 
covered on fire. The first intimation I had of it was the 
flames bursting through the doors and windows of the house ; 
I immediately gave the alarm, and with great exertion saved 
my papers and about two thirds of the goods of the factory; 
my private property was entirely consumed. 

In less than two hours the whole town was in flames, and 
before three o'clock not a vestage of a house (except the 
chimneys) visible within the limits of Detroit. The citadel 
and military stores were entirely consumed, and the furniture 
belonging to the estate of Colonel [John F.] Hamtramck, 
shared nearly the same fate; the china is the only thing I 
can mention to the contrary. 



 

I have removed the factory goods to the ship yard, and am 
now fixing a place to arrange them for disposal, agreeable to 
the original intention of the establishment, and I will speed- 
ily forward a statement of the loss that has been sustained. 
The situation of the inhabitants is deplorable beyond descrip- 
tion; dependence, want and misery is the situation of the 
former inhabitants of the town of Detroit. Provisions are 
furnished by contributions, but houses cannot be obtained. 

Mr. Dodemead lives in a corner of the public storehouse at 
the shipyard. Mr. Donavan with his family have gone to 
Sandwich; and Mr. Audrain, with many others, occupy the 
small house below Mr. May's. A number of families are 
scattered over the commons without any protection or shelter. 

I have been very much bruised and hurt by my exertion 
to save the property. My right arm particularly is so much 
swelled that I can hardly hold the pen to write these few 
lines, and my mind is equally affected with the distressing 
scenes I have witnessed for the last three days. 
I am, Sir, your ob't Serv't 

Robert Munro 

Indian Council 

Fort Wayne, June 21, 1805 

Har. Pa. H2-1U 

Minutes of a Council held at Fort Wayne on the 21st day 
of June 180.5 by General [John] GiBSON and Colonel [Fran- 
cis] Vigo present the Delawares, Eel River and Miami In- 
dians. 

Genl. Gibson 

Governor Harrison your Father has sent Col. Vigo and 
myself to speak to you, what we say you may consider as 
coming from him, he is appointed by your great Father the 
President of the U. S. sole commissioner to transact business 
with his red children, within the Indiana Territory, he has 
heard that a number of bad people has circulated a number 
of bad stories among you, he has also heard that your hearts 
are uneasy about it, that you cannot rest. In order to wipe 
off the impressions made by those bad reports your Father 
the Governor wishes the Tribes here present to send some of 
the principal chiefs to Vincennes to see him, he wishes us to 



 

assure you that the intentions of your Father towards you 
is good and that your interest and happiness is near to his 
heart. When you come to see him he will be able to remove 
all the uneasiness from your minds. In the meantime he de- 
sires you not to listen to any bad stories or any lying birds 
that may be flying about. We now request you to fix upon 
the time when it will be convenient for you to come and see 
the Governor, in order that he may have everything ready 
for your accommodation, we will set off in two nights and 
would be happy to know what time you can set off — this is 
all we have at present to say to you. 

Hockingpomskou [a Delaware] 
I am very glad to hear what you have said to us. You may 
depend on my going to Vincennes where I expect to have an 
opportunity of delivering my sentiments. 

The Little Turtle 
I have listened to what you have said to us, the Miamis 
wishes for time to consider on the subject of your speech. 
We hope you will not think hard at our not making up our 
minds immediately. We want to consult the Eel River In- 
dians who have just come in (at this time the Miamis and 
Eel River Indians retired from the Council in about an hour 
they returned when the Little Turtle proceeded). Your chil- 
dren has listened to your words and to the words of their 
great Father thro you, they have consulted together in what 
you have said and they are afraid you are tired of waiting. 
I have nothing to say to you. I am no Miami. I am only 
their interpreter. We can form no opinion at present on 
what you have said to us. We think it absolutely necessary 
to consult the Potawatomies before we can come to any con- 
clusion about the time we are to go to Vincennes. You will 
tell our Father the Governor the weather is now very warm 
and that we cannot say at what time we can come to see him. 
The Indians that live on the Wabash are convenient and can 
go along at any time, we wish to consult the Indians in this 
quarter before we come to a conclusion. 

General Gibson 
We wish that after consulting the Potawatomies and when 
you fix upon the time to come forward that you send your 



 

Father the Governor infoimation in order that he may be 
prepared to receive you. It is true the weather is now very 
warm but we hope that will not prevent you from coming 
forward as soon as possible to set all to right. 

Little Turtle 
We wish not to be hurried, we think it a matter of im- 
portance. We think we have reason to complain and we wish 
for time to deliberate on the subject. 

Richerville [Miami] 
I should wish to attend the call of the Governor but my 
business calls me in another direction. The Indians are slov/ 
in their deliberations and vdsh for time. 
Council adjourned 

In coming from the Council House to the Fort the Pucon 
[Miami] halted General Gibson and Col. Vigo and addressed 
them as follows: 

The Little Turtle has said that we wished for time to de- 
liberate on what you have said to us, he (the Pucon) did not 
want to deliberate. He wanted to go on to Vincennes now 
and would go at any time. The Turtle had no right to say 
the Indians wanted time to think on it, that was not the case, 
he said he would speak again to Genl. Gibson and Col. Vigo. 
[Enclosed in Harrison's letter July 10] [See Wells to Har- 
rison June 22] 

J. G. 

Wells to Gibson 

Fort Wayne 22 June 1805 

Har. Pa. 168 

Dear Sir : 

I have been this moment requested by the Miamis and Eel 
River Indians to make the following communication to you in 
writing. 

They say that they have no doubt but the governor has sent 
you and Col. [Francis] Vigo to call them to Vincennes but it 
appears absolutely necessary to them that you should show 
them your \vTitten instructions from the governor for that 
purpose. Should you not be instructed in writing by the 



 

Governor to give them this invitation that you would be 
pleased to inform the governor on your arrival at Vincennes 
that they wish him to confirm what you told them yesterday 
as they wished to embrace the first opportunity of making 
their sentiments known to the United States respecting the 
late treaty of Vincennes and in the meantime they would get 
themselves in readiness to meet the governor at Vincennes. 
I am requested to obtain your answer to this communication 
in writing. It appears that the Little Turtle was requested 
to wait on you this morning and to make this communication 
to you which he says he has done but has his doubts whether 
you understood him or not. [Enclosed with letter July 12, 
1805] 

I have the honor to be Sir 

your most obdt. 

Wm. Wells 
Genl. John Gibson 

Resolutions 

July 2, 1805 
Dawson, Harrison, 6 A 

To his Excellency, William H. Harrison, Governor, and the 

honorable the Judges of the Indiana territory : 
Gentlemen : 

An arduous public service assigned you by the General 
Government of the United States, is about to cease. The eve 
of the anniversary of American Independence will close the 
scene : and on that celebrated festival will be organized, under 
the most auspicious circumstances a goverment for the ter- 
ritory of Louisiana. Local situations and circumstances for- 
bid the possibility of a permanent political connexion. This 
change, however congenial to our wishes and conductive to 
our happiness, will not take effect without a respectful ex- 
pression of our sentiments to you, gentlemen, for your as- 
siduity, attention, and disinterested punctuality, in the tem- 
porary administration of the government of Louisiana. 

Accept our thanks, gentlemen, the tribute of sincerity due 
to you for your just and impartial administration of the 
government of this country during the period assigned to 
you by our national legislature. We wish you a long and 
happy administration of the government of the territory 



 

of Indiana, and that the citizens of that territoiy may justly 
appreciate your worth, talents, and services with the same 
unanimity that exists in Louisiana. 

Signed in behalf of the citizens of St. Louis, 2d July, 1805. 

Resolutions 

July 4, 1805 
Dawson, Harrison, 65 — 

To his Excellency, William Henry Harrison, Governor of 
the Territory of Indiana, and lately Governor of the 
District of Louisiana 

We the officers of the militia, in the District of St. Louis, 
with the knowledge we have of your patriotic sentiments and 
private virtues, and convinced of the high esteem you enter- 
tain for our welfare, are desirous that, at the moment you 
cease to preside over us, the most lively expressions of our 
regret should reach you, especially as our zeal to support the 
Constitution of the United States has inspired your confi- 
dence. Permit us to observe, that you have, in part fulfilled 
our wishes ; but the limited period of your administration has 
prevented the full completion of them ; and whatever may be 
left unfinished by you, we are confident will be attended to, 
and completed, by the high and enlightened character that 
succeeds you. 

Accept, sir, these sentiments as the pledge of our affection- 
ate attachment to you, and to the magnanimous policy by 
which you have been guided. May the Chief Magistrate of 
the American nation duly estimate your worth and talents, 
and long keep you in a station where you may have it in your 
power to gain hearts by vii'tuous actions, and promulgate 
laws among men who know how to respect you, and are ac- 
quainted with the extent of their own rights. 

St. Louis 

Gibson and Vigo to Harrison 

ViNCENNES, July 6, 1805 
Har. Pa. 153-157 

Sir: 

In pursuance of the instructions we received from your 
Excellency we proceeded to the Indian Towns on the Wabash 



 

River, on our road we passed the Town of the Eel river In- 
dians at the river of Le Rabellaire [La Riviere Petite?] they 
were all drunk, excepting one of their chiefs named Sam [or 
Metausauner] . We told him we wished to speak to him and 
the other chiefs, he replied that they were all drunk, but as 
they intended going to Fort Wayne in a few days to receive 
their annuity, they would at that place hear what we had to 
say to them. We then proceeded to the To\vti of Massasinewa 
on the Wabash river where we saw the Five Medals, a Chief 
of the Potawatamies, we informed him of the nature of our 
Mission in the words as delivered to the Council at Fort 
Wayne; he then informed us he intended going to Detroit 
in a few days, but that another Chief of his tribe would go 
to Vincennes, agreably to your request. At this place we 
saw the Pakaun and Hibou or the Owl, two of the Chiefs of 
the Miamies and heads of this Village. The latter of whom 
was very sick. We informed them we were sent by you and 
wished to speak to them, they informed us one of their Chiefs 
Pussewa or Richardville was gone to Fort Wayne, and as 
they intended going to that place in a few days they would 
at that place hear what we had to say to them. 

At this place I parted from Col. Vigo and proceeded to 
the Delaware towns on White River. Previous to my arrival 
there I heard of the Death of the Great Chief and Warrior 
Bokongehalas.^ I informed Telabuxika the other Chief of the 
Delawares that I was sent by you and that I had a message 
to deliver to them from you and requested them to send for 
the other chiefs. The next day the Chiefs assembled, except 
Keehlawhenund or William Anderson whose wife being dead 
prevented his coming. When I addressed them and informed 
them, that you were very sorry to hear that they the Dela- 
wares had denied that they had sold any Lands to the United 
States the last Summer and that you (with my assistance) 
had defrauded and cheated them. I then repeated every 
transaction that took place at the Treaty and told them that 
they had in the most fair and solemn manner sold the lands 
last summer to the United States and that the Treaty had 
been ratified by the President and Senate of the United States 
and that their denying it was of no effect, and would only 

1. J. p. Dunn, True Indian Stories, 60. states the old chief died in 1804. evidently 
an error. The same statements are found in Dawson's Harrison. He was able to sign 
the treaties of 1809, 1814, 1818. and out in Kansas that of 1829; Peters, Indian Treaties 



 

make them appear in a ridiculous light in the eyes of all the 
nations, and would lessen them very much in the great esteem 
and respect the United States had for them. I also told them 
White Eyes-' one of their Chiefs who had signed the Treaty, 
had told their young men that they the Chiefs had sold the 
Lands to the United States and the Chiefs were afraid to 
own it. I then asked them for the Copy of the Treaty which 
was given to them at Vincennes last summer. They informed 
me that they had left it in the hands of Mr. Wells at Fort 
Wayne and they said they would council together and speak 
to me. Soon after they sent for me, when Telabuxika de- 
livered the answer. We did not sell any lands to the United 
States last summer at Vincennes ; the Goods we received there 
were a condolance present and to pay for horses which your 
people stole from us. He trembled and appeared very much 
agitated and confused whilst speaking. He said they were 
going to Fort Wayiie in a few days to receive their annuity 
and that on their return they would pay you a visit. I then 
spoke to them again and told them that I was sorry to find 
they had denied the Truth, that they had known me many 
years, and I never deceived them and that as several of their 
people understood English very well, it was impossible for 
me as Interpreter to deceive them. I told them the Bounds 
of the Lands was first pointed out to them by me on paper, 
viz. the road leading from Vincennes to Clarksville. the White 
River, the Ohio and the Wabash rivers, and repeatedly ex- 
plained by me to them, and that the Governor had in the 
presence of the Witnesses who signed the Treaty explained it 
to them. I then told them I would go to Fort Wayne as they 
had left the Treaty there and would speak to them again at 
that place. After the council a number of their principal 
warriors and young men came to me. They said that they 
were sorry that their chiefs had behaved so foolishly as to 
deny the Truth and that they were convinced that they had 
sold the Land and were afraid to own it, that White Eyes had 
told them so and they also said that the Little Turtle and 
Wells had said the sum specified in the Treaty was a mere 
nothing and that they were cheated and imposed on. I then 
set off for Fort Wayne. On the road I was joined by Hock- 

ne as he variously signed his 



144 INDIANA HISTOKICAL COLLECTIONS 

ingpomskan one of the chiefs who signed the Treaty. In 
conversation he told me that they had sold the land that he 
intended going to Vincennes to settle everything with the 
Governor. I joined Col. Vigo at Fort Wayne; after the In- 
dians arrived we held a council with them the Minutes of 
which are marked, (a). Previous to the council I called on 
Mr. Wells and asked him for the copy of the Treaty, I then 
spoke to the Delawares who were present, showed them the 
Treaty, pointed out the Bounds of the Land they had sold 
and I told them that when the Council met I intended to 
mention it to them. The Delawares requested me not to men- 
tion it in Council as everything would be settled when they 
came to Vincennes. Pakaun and Richardville two of the 
Miami Chiefs came to Col. Vigo and me and informed us 
that as soon as Richardville returned from Detroit, which 
would be in twenty-five days, that they would set out for 
Vincennes. The Little Turtle came to us and informed us 
that since he said as in council they had agreed to set off 
for Vincennes in 25 days he went over the river the same 
night to Mr. Wells. In the morning he returned and de- 
manded our Instructions. I told him mine were verbal from 
you that I was an officer of the Government which he well 
knew and that Col. Vigo and myself would not dare to say 
anything unless we had been sent by you. Shortly after I 
received the Letter marked (73) from Mr. Wells. The Mi- 
amies mentioned in the letter had set off early in the morn- 
ing and we believe knew nothing of the Letter, and we think 
the same was fabricated by the Little Turtle and Wells. At 
the Time I explained the Treaty to the Delawares at Fort 
Wayne Wm. Wells was present. He spoke to the Delawares 
and told them that they need not be afraid to own that they 
had sold the Land as they the delawares had only sold their 
right and that it could not affect the claim of the other In- 
dians. I then asked Mr. Wells whether he recollected Bo- 
kongehalas in the presence of the Potawatamie chiefs 2 years 
ago having informed you that the Pakaun, the Owl, Chiefs 
of the Miamies and the Chiefs of the Eel river Indians had 
confirmed the claim of the delawai-es to the Lands which was 
given to them by the Piankshaws and that he showed the 
Wampum delivered on the occasion. Mr. Wells replied he 
did not recollect it. On Col. Vigo's arrival at Fort Wayne 



 

he went to see Lieut. [John] Bronson^ the commanding offi- 
cer. Mr. Wells came in and he Col. Vigo mentioned he was 
sorry for the death of Bokongehalas the Delaware Chief, as 
he was a great man and that he would be much missed by his 
nation. At the same time he said it was a pity he had tar- 
nished his character by telling a Lye in denying his having 
sold the Lands to the United States. Mr. Wells replied and 
said, he dare say the Lands were fairly sold and that if he 
Bekongehalas had told a Lie it was a Lie of necessity. Short- 
ly after Lieut. Bronson remarked in conversation that Mr. 
Wells had altered his tone very much, that he Lieut. Bronson 
had heard Wells repeatedly say the Indians were very much 
imposed on at the late treaty at Vincennes. Monsieur Rich- 
ardville [Miami Chief] in conversation informed Col. Vigo 
that when they were receiving their annuity Mr. Wells ad- 
dressed the Miamies and advised them to stick together and 
keep their right, that he Wells if he was a Miamie would do 
so; afterwards Richardville in conversation told Col. Vigo 
that he was much supprised to hear an officer who had taken 
an oath in the manner Wells had done to support the Govern- 
ment of the United States express himself in the manner 
Wells had done. Mr. [John] Johnson the Factor of the United 
States at Fort Wayne informed us that Mr. Wells had re- 
peatedly said that the Indians would never approve of the 
Treaty of last summer and he Mr. Johnson as well as every 
other gentleman with whom we conversed in that place were 
of the opinion that there never would have been any noise" 
about the Treaty had it not been occasioned by the Little 
Turtle and Wells. On our Meeting the Five Medals at Mas- 
sasinawa, we asked him if he had come from his Village. 
He replied that he came from Fort Wayne with a keg of 
Whiskey, which keg' he got from Mr. Wells. The Indians all 
got drunk at that Village. On our seeing Richardville at Fort 
Wayne we mentioned it to him, he said he was much sup- 
prised that Wells would give Liquor to other Indians to make 
his people drunk when he Wells would not even suffer him 
to take a single bottle for his own use, and had seized Liquor 
belonging to the Owl, which he was bringing from Detroit. 

3. John Brownson was an ensign in the army 1804 ; First Inf., served till June 1815 
when he was discharged — a captain. He was a native of Vermont. A John Brownson 
was in the Dearborn militia just previously. 

Heitman, Historical Register, S55 



 

The Indian chiefs will certainly come at the Time they prom- 
ised unless they are prevented by the Little Turtle and Wells, 
who we believe will do everything- in their power to prevent 
their coming. We beg further to add as our own opinion 
that no noise or clamour respecting the Treaty last summer 
with Delawares at this place would have been made had it 
not been occasioned by the Little Turtle and Wells, the latter 
of whom seems more attached to the Indians than to the 
people of the United States. In the several towns which we 
passed thro, the Indians although drunk in almost every one 
of them behaved in the most friendly manner to us and never 
once mentioned the Treaty, or anything respecting it. Rich- 
ardville also informed us that the Little Turtle in the pres- 
ence of Wells produced a paper and requested Richardville 
to sign it. Being a remonstrance to the President of the 
United States in favour of Mr. Wells, he Richardville re- 
fused to sign it saying that if Mr. Wells had behaved well 
there was no occasion for to write to the president in his 
favour that he did not wish to interfere in matters which 
belonged entirely to the White people, and that he the Little 
Turtle had frequently wrote letters to the president, without 
their being consulted or asked to sign them. 

We have the Honour to be very respectfully your Excel- 
lency's most obedient and very humble servants 

JNO. Gibson 
Vigo 
VINCENNES, July 6th 1805 

In passing thro several of the Indian Towns we heard of a 
Speech or Talk which was said to be sent to the Indians by 
the British, the purport of which was in addressing them. 

My Children, 

I promised that whenever I heard anything relating to you 
I would inform you. I have been traveling through a great 
many nations. I see a great stonn rising in the south which 
may affect you My Children 

I desire you not to be alarmed, plant your corn and do not 
quit your towns. But keep your guns ready in your hands. 
Mr. Wells showed us a speech which he said was sent to the 
Indians by Capt. [Alexander] McKee at Maiden but of this 



 

we heard nothing of amongst the Indians we are inclined to 

think it was fabricated by himself. 

JNO. Gibson 
[Francis] Vigo 

His Excellency, GOVERNOR Harrison 



July 12th. 1805. 

and other communications of several dates from the Gcnl. and from Wells relating to 
conference at Fort Wayne between Col. Gibson Col. Viso and the Indians respecting 
the sale of the lands by the Delawares and Piankeshaws to the U. S. to be laid before 
the Presidt. of the U. S. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 10th July, 1805 

Har. Pa. H6-151 

Sir: 

General [John] Gibson and Col. Francis Vigo returned a 
few days since. Inclosed herewith is the report of their pro- 
ceedings. [See June 21 above] If the Indians should come 
to this place as they have promised you need be under no 
apprehension of having the affair of the Delaware Treaty 
settled to the satisfaction of the President. 

A person situated as Mr. Wells is might have thwarted the 
measures of the government for years without being de- 
tected but altho possessed of a good deal of cunning he has 
so entangled himself in the mazes of his own intrigues that 
he cannot move without making disclosures that are fatal to 
him. [See Wells to Vigo, June 22] I could freely forgive 
him for the past if there was any security for his future 
good conduct but I believe that he is still doing his utmost 
to prevent a favorable issue to the proposed conference with 
the Indians. The visit of the Five Medals to Mississiniway 
with a keg of whisky given him by Wells was for no other 
purpose than to counteract General Gibson and Col. Vigo or 
to procure the signatures of the Indians to the recommenda- 
tion of Wells which the Miami chief refused to sign at Fort 
Wayne. 

Being fully persuaded that firmness and decision are abso- 
lutely necessary in every transaction with Indians I shall 
state to them in the most explicit manner that the United 
States are determined to keep possession of the land ceded 



 

by the Delaware and Piankeshaw Treaties as they are fully 
satisfied as well of the fairness of the transaction as of the 
right of those tribes to sell. If we recede one inch these 
people ^vill be never satisfied until they have gained the ell. 
A respectable citizen of the state of Ohio came to this place 
a few days ago and informed me that in his Journey he had 
stopped at a camp of Delawares, with one of whom who spoke 
good English he had a long conversation respecting the 
Treaty. The Indian informed him that some of the chiefs of 
the other Tribes were very angry \vith the Delawares for 
selling the land without including them and the Delaware 
chiefs had been informed that if they would deny having 
made the Treaty a new one would be made, and a much 
larger consideration given. He further observed that the 
chiefs were very much laughed at by some of the white peo- 
ple in their country for having sold so valuable a country 
for so contemptable a sum. I am convinced that a certain 
[John] Conner and one [Peter] Audrian' who trades with 
the Delawares have acted as Well's agents in this affair and 
this is also the opinion of Col. Vigo (Genl. Gibson however 
thinks otherwise with regard to Conner who he says behaved 
very well when he was at the Delaware towns). They have 
both very advantageous contracts from Wells for making 
rails for the Indians. Audrain altho established within a 
few miles of the Falls of the Ohio has found it to his ad- 
vantage to undertake the making of rails at the Turtle's Town 
north of Fort Wayne. The Chiefs of the Mississineway Mi- 
amis, complained to Col. Vigo that they do not receive a 
proper proportion of the annuities of their Tribe ; altho they 
compose two thirds of the Tribe they received this year but 
$400. In short, Sir, I am really of opinion that the Turtle, 
the Five Medals and two or three others receive much the 
greater part of the annuities and provisions which are in- 
tended for and said to be given to the Potawatomies and 
Miamis and I am by no means certain that Wells himself 
does not largely participate. The fact is admitted that he 
makes more money than any man in the Territory. Mr. 
[John] Johnston told Col. Vigo that he cleared last year up- 

1. Peter Audrain was born in France, came to America about 1781. Trader out of 
Pittsburg ; engaged in Whiskey Rebellion ; came to Detroit with Wayne's army, was 
judge, prothonotary, land commissioner and merchant in Detroit till, his death. Mich- 
Pioneer and Hist. Col. XlII, 607. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 149 

wards of $6000. How he can do this honestly I am at a loss 
to know. I think that measures ought to be taken to control 
this vicious inclination or to remove him from office and from 
the Indian country. I had determined to inform him of the 
suspicions which had arisen against him and to order him 
to come to this place for the purpose of explaining his con- 
duct but I thought it best to delay it until I could receive 
your instructions. If an inquiry would be made into his con- 
duct I must beg leave to recommend that General [James] 
Wilkinson may assist at it. It will be very little trouble for 
the General to come over to this place for a few days and I 
am satisfied the trip would not be disagreeable to him. 

If the management of the Indian Department is replaced 
upon the footing of your general instructions of the 23rd of 
February 1802 i. e. that all the Agents and Sub Agents would 
be immediately accountable to and make their reports to the 
superintendent alone I will answer with my head to execute 
every wash of the President relative to the Indians in this 
quarter. 

I have understood that it was intended to sell immediately 
the United States land around Fort Wayne. I am very cer- 
tain however that the money which will be put into the Treas- 
ury by the sale of it will not counterbalance the inconveniences 
which will arise from having it settled with the description 
of people who will naturally buy it. It is too far removed 
from any other settlement to entice Ainerican farmers to go 
there but the few sections that are sold will be purchased by 
the Indian traders and we shall then have in the Heart of 
the Indian country a number of unprincipled people who will 
be entirely out of the reach of the laws of the United States 
regulating the Trade and intercourse with the Indian Tribes. 
If the immediate settlement of it is an object I think it would 
be better to sell it by contract upon the condition that there 
would be within a given time a certain number of American 
farmers upon it. 

[Billy] Patterson the Delaware who made the speech to 
Wells was present at every conference pending the Treaty 
and also at the signing of it and he understands English as 
well as his native tongue. George White Eyes one of the 
Chiefs who signed the Treaty also speaks English indeed 
there are few Delawares that do not understand something 
of it 



 

Before this letter comes to hand you will have heard of 
the dreadful conflagration at Detroit. [Munro to Harrison 
June 14 above] One third of the factory goods were de- 
stroyed and they would all have been burned if Mr. [Robert] 
Munro had not been more attentive to them than to his o^vn 
property of which he lost the whole.-' 

I received some time since a letter from the Factory at 
Fort Wayne enclosing a certificate of several officers who 
were called upon to examine the public goods. They report 
that a considerable number of those which have lately been 
sent on were entirely damaged and that many of them were 
altogether unfit for the Indian Trade. The Piankeshaw and 
Wea annuities which I received this Spring were also in a 
most wi-etched state, a considerable portion of these for the 
latter were actually rotten in consequence of their being sent 
on in boxes instead of tight casks. Under present circum- 
stances I thought it proper to make the chiefs some retri- 
bution in saddles, etc and to the principal I gave an eligant 
rifle, these presents and the kind treatment they received 
had such an eflPect upon them that I am persuaded they would 
have done anything I requested. Parties were dispatched in 
all directions to bring in stolen horses and the persons who 
went in pursuit of them had orders from the chiefs to bring 
the horses or the scalps of those who took them. The pres- 
ents to those people and those to the two large parties of 
the Kickapoos of the Prairie who visited me in the latter 
part of the Winter has advanced the half yearly contingent 
account a few hundred dollars higher than usual. The money 
has not however been misapplied. Mr. Wells very improperly 
retained the Kickapoos annuity and wrote to me that he will 
send for these Tribes to Fort Wayne and justifies himself by 
informing me that by your order the annuities for the Kicka- 
poos would be sent to Chicago in future. I have however 
directed them to send them here from a conviction that he 
wanted them at Fort Wayne for no other purpose than to 
obtain their remonstrance also against the Delaware treaty. 

The first representative legislature of the Indiana Terri- 
tory will meet in a fortnight. I shall do everything in my 

2. This fire started June 11, 1805, about 9 A. M. and by 12 M. the old town was 
completely gone, every house burned. Robert Monro was the government agent there. 
Lanman, Michigan, 373 ; Burton. Hist. Col. 91 



 

power to get them to inhibit the sale of ardent spirits to the 
Indians. 

I have the honor to be with tlie greatest respect and esteem 
Sir your humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

P. S. I have opened my letter to acknowledge the receipt of 
yours of the 20th ultimo (that of the 11th had been previ- 
ously received and Mr. Wells instructed accordingly) the 
greater part of the paragraphs in the papers respecting com- 
binations of the Indians are mere fabrications. The Sacs and 
the Southern Indians have attempted to form a grand con- 
federation against the Osages and the Delawares and the 
Shawnese of Cape Girardeau have acceded to it. I believe 
however that none of the Tribes in this Territory have en- 
gaged in it. The subject has engaged my attention and will 
not be neglected. I shall consult with Genl. Wilkinson as 
you have directed. 

(Rec'd. Aug. 10, 1805) 

The Honble. Henry Dearborne Secy, of War 



Harrison to Chouteau 

Vincennes 20th July 1805 

Mss. St. Louis Mercantile Library, Chouteau No. 32 

Dear Sir 

I received your vei-y friendly letter by the last mail from 
St. Louis — Believe me sincere when I assure you that I re- 
ciprocate the sentiments of regard and attachment which 
you were so obliging as to express for me. Indeed the polite- 
ness and attention which I received from your self and all 
the members of your family have made a lasting impression 
on me and I would have been equally ungrateful as unjust 
not to have impressed my friend General [James] Wilkinson 
with the same sentiments toward you which I feel. A friend- 
ship with that gentleman which known no reserves and which 
had its commencement when I was yet a youth gave me an 
opportunity of expressing all I felt with regard to your coun- 
try and the characters in it. It will give me great pleasure 
to hear from you occasionally. Please to present me in the 



 

most respectf uly manner to Mrs. Choteau and believe me Sin- 
cerely your friend 

Wm. H. Harrison 
Augustus Choteau, Esq. 

Harrison's Address to the General Assembly 

July 29, 1805 
Dawson, Hwrrison, 71-7(1 

The sincerity of the congratulations which I offer you, 
fellow citizens, upon entering on a grade of government which 
gives to the people the important right of legislating for 
themselves, is sufficiently manifested by the ready sanction 
I have given to their wishes and the promptitude with which 
the organization has been effected.' The long and protracted 
investigation which preceded the first adoption of this meas- 
ure, on the part of your constituents, proclaims it to be the 
result of deliberation and reflection, and exhibits a temper 
and judgment which do them great honor and cannot fail to 
produce the most salutary effects. On you, however, it rests, 
gentlemen, to realize the wishes of those who were friendly 
to the second grade of government, to disappoint the fears 
of its enemies, and to show that every approximation towards 
a republican system is attended with a certain and solid ad- 
vantage. Our means, however, are far from being equal to 
the support of an expensive establishment; and it would be 
equally impolitic and unjust to tax the incipient exertions of 
the settlers with more than they could conveniently pay ; and 
it would have the certain effect of diverting from us the tide 
of emigration, upon which are founded all our hopes of po- 
litical emancipation. 

Upon a careful review of our situation, it will be found 
that we have great cause of felicitation, whether it respects 
our present enjoyments or our future prosperity. An en- 
lightened and generous policy has for ever removed all cause 

1. The councU were: Benjamin Chambers. Samuel Gwathmey, John Rice Jones, 
Pierre Menard. John Hay. The representatives were: Jesse B. Thomas, Davis Floyd, 
Benjamin Parke, John Johnson, Shadrach Bond, William Beggs, George Fisher. This 
is the first message of the Governor to an Indiana legislature. In the preceding procla- 
mation dates are given for the passage of the Territory from the first to the second 
grade. This Assembly sat from July 29 to August 26, 1805. It passed thirty-two laws, 
two resolutions, and one charter. Dunn, Indiana 325, 277; Dillon, Indiana, 416; Esarey, 
Indiana, 169. 



 

of contention with our western neighboi's. The mighty river 
which separates us from the Louisianians will never be 
stained with the blood of contending nations; but will prove 
the bond of our nation, and will convey upon its bosom, in 
a course of many thousand miles, the produce of our great 
and united empire.- The astonished traveller will behold, 
upon either bank, a people governed by the same laws, pur- 
suing the same objects, and warmed with the same love of 
liberty and science. And if, in the immense distance, a small 
point should present itself where other laws and other man- 
ners prevail, the contrast it will afford will serve the useful 
purpose of demonstrating the great superiority of a repub- 
lican government, and how far the uncontrolled and un- 
biassed industry of freemen excels the cautious and measured 
exertions of the subjects of despotic power. ^ 

The acquisition of Louisiana will indeed form an important 
epoch in the history of our country. It has secured the hap- 
piness of millions, who will bless the moment of their emanci- 
pation and the generous policy which has secured to them the 
rights of man. To us it has produced immediate and impor- 
tant advantages. We are no longer apprehensive of waging 
an eternal war with the numerous and warlike tribes of 
aborigines which surround us, and perhaps being reduced to 
the dreadful alternative of submitting to their depredations 
or of exterminating them from the earth. 

By cutting off their communication with every foreign 
power, and forcing them to procure from ourselves the arms 
and ammunition, and such of the European manufactures as 
habit has to them rendered necessary, we have not only se- 
cured their entire dependence, but the means of ameliorating 
their own conditions and of devoting to some useful and 
beneficial purpose the ardor and energy of mind which are 
now devoted to war and destruction. 

The policy of the United States with regard to the savages 
within their territories forms a striking contrast to the con- 
duct of other civilized nations. The measures of the latter 
appear to have been well calculated for the effect which has 
produced the entire extirpation of the unhappy people whose 
country they have usurped. It is in the United States alone 

2. Louisiana Territory had just been purchased, giving the flatboatmen an open 
way to New Orleans. 

3. French law and customs prevailed at New Orleans and were protected by the 
treaty of cession. 



 

that laws have been passed, not only for their safety and 
protection from every species of injury, but considerable 
sums of money have been appropriated, and agents employed, 
to humanize their ininds, and instruct them in such of the 
arts of civilized life as they are capable of receiving. To pro- 
vide a substitute for the chase, from which they derive their 
support, and which from the extension of our settlements is 
becoming daily more precarious, has been considered a sacred 
duty. 

The humane and benevolent intentions of the government, 
however, will be forever defeated unless effectual measures 
be devised to prevent the sale of ardent spirits to those un- 
happy people. The law which has been passed by Congress 
for that purpose has been found entirely ineffectual, because 
its operation has been construed to extend to the Indian coun- 
try exclusively.* In calling your attention to this subject, 
gentlemen, I am persuaded that it is unnecessary to remind 
you that the article of compact makes [it] your duty to at- 
tend to it. The interests of your constituents, the interests 
of the miserable Indians, and your own feelings will suffi- 
ciently urge you to take it into your most serious considera- 
tion, and provide the remedy which is to save thousands of 
our fellow creatures. You are witnesses to the abuses, you 
have seen our towns crowded with furious and drunken sav- 
ages, our streets flowing with their blood, their arms and 
clothing bartered for the liquor that destroys them, and their 
miserable women and children enduring all the extremities 
of cold and hunger. So destructive has the progress of in- 
temperance been among them, that whole villages have been 
swept away. A miserable remnant is all that remains to 
mark the names and situation of many numerous and war- 
like tribes. In the energetic language of one of their orators, 
it is a dreadful conflagration, which spreads misery and deso- 
lation through their country and threatens the annihilation 
of the whole race. Is it then to be admitted, as a political 
axiom, that the neighborhood of a civilized nation is incom- 
patible with the existence of savages? Are the blessings of 
our republican government only to be felt by ourselves? And 
are the natives of North America to experience the same fate 
with their brethren of the southern continent? It is with 

United States Statutes At Large. H, Ch xiii. approved 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 155 

you, gentlemen, to divert from those children of nature the 
ruin which hangs over them. Nor can I believe that the 
time will be considered as misspent, which is devoted to an 
object so consistent with the spirit of Christianity, and with 
the principles of republicanism.' 

In the examination of our statute laws, which you will 
naturally make, it will no doubt be found that there is much 

5. My stay at Fort Vincents save me an opportunity of oliservini: tlie savages; 
whom I found assembled to sell the produce of their red hunt. There were reckoned 
to be four or five hundred men, women, and children, of various nations or tribes, 
as the Weeaws, Payouries, Saukies, Pyankishaws, Miamis, &c.. all living toward the 
head of the Wabash. It was the first time of my observin;-j: at leisure these people, 
already become rare on the east of the .\llefihanies. Their appearance was to me a 
new and whimsical siffht. Conceive bodies almost naked, embrowned by exposure to 
the Sun and air. shining with srease and soot ; a head uncovered ; hair coarse, black, 
sleek, straight, and smooth ; a face disguised with black, blue, and red paint, in round, 
square, and rhomboidal patches : one nostril bored to admit a large ring of silver or 
copper : earrings with three rows of drops reaching down to the shoulders, and passing 
through holes that would admit a finger ; a little square apron before, and another 
behind, both fastened by one string or riband ; the legs and thighs sometimes naked, 
at others covered with long cloth spatterdashes : socks of leather dried in the smoke : 
on some occasions a shirt with short, wide sleeves, variegated or striped with blue and 
white, and flowing loose down the thighs ; and over this a blanket, or a square piece 
of cloth, thrown over one shoulder, and tied under the opposite arm, or under the chin. 
On particular occasions, when they dress for war or for a feast, the hair is braided 
and interwoven with feathers, plants, fiowers, and even bones ; the warriors wear 
round their wrists broad rings of copper or silver, resembling our dogs collars, and 
round the head a diadem foi-med of silver buckles and trinkets of glass : in their hand 
they have their pipe, or their knife, or their tomahawk, and the little looking-glass, 
which every savage uses with more coquetry, to admire so many charms, than the 
most coquettish belle of Paris. The women, who are a little more covered about the 
hips, differ from the men likewise in cari-ying almost continually one or two children 
on their back in a kind of bag, the ends of which are tied on their forehead. Who- 
ever has seen gypsies may form a vei-y good idea of this luggage. 

Such is the outline of the picture, and I exhibit it in the most favourable point of 
view. For if I were to display the whole, I must add, that from early in the morning 
both men and women roam about the streets, for no other purpose but to procure them- 
selves rum ; and for this they first dispose of the produce of their chase, then of their 
toys, next of their clothes, and last they go begging for it, never ceasing to drink, till 
they are absolutely senseless. Sometimes this gives occasion to ridiculous scenes ; they 
will hold the cup to drink with both hands like apes, then raise up their heads with 
bursts of laUKhter. and gargle themselves with their beloved but fatal liquor, to enjoy 
the pleasure of tasting it the longer ; hand the cup from one to another with noisly in- 
vitations : call to one only three steps off as loud as they can bawl : take hold of their 
wives by the head and poui- the rum down their throats with coarse caresses, and all the 
ridiculous gestures of our vulgar alehouse sots. Sometimes distressing scenes ensue, 
as the loss of all sense and reason, becoming mad or stupid, or falling down dead di-unk 
in the dust or mud, there to sleep till the next day. I could not go out in a morning 
without finding them by dozens in the streets or paths about the village, literally wallow- 
ing in the dirt with the pigs. It was a very fortunate circumstance if a day passed 
without a quarrel, or a battle with knives or tomahawks, by which ten men on an 
average lose their lives yeaily. On the 9th of august, at four o'clock in the afternoon, 
a savage stabbed his wife in four places with a knife within twenty steps of me. 
A fortnight before a similar circumstance took place, and five such the year pre- 
ceding. For this vengeance is immediately taken, or dissembled till a proper oppor- 
tunity offers, by the relations, which produces fresh causes for waylaying and assassina- 
tion. Volney, View of the United States 393 seq. (Aug. 2, 1796) 



 

room for alteration and improvement. I presume, however, 
that the circumstances of the Territory are not such as to 
authorize an entire change in the system which is in opera- 
tion. The formation of a new code would be attended with 
an expense which our citizens are at present ill able to sup- 
ply ; and the advantages which would result from it would be 
probably, more than counterbalanced by the many embarrass- 
ments which it might occasion. Some alterations are, never- 
theless, necessary, and none more than in the organization of 
the inferior courts of judicature. As the judges of those 
courts derive little or no emolument from their commissions, 
in order to secure the attendance of a sufficient number for 
the business I have been obliged to multiply them to an ex- 
tent which precludes all hope of a uniformity of decision. It 
is, indeed, not unfrequent that the judges who determine the 
question are not those who have presided at its discussion. 
Limited as our means certainly are, and cautious as we must 
be of drawing from the people a single cent that can be dis- 
pensed with, it is indispensably necessary that an evil should 
be corrected which strikes at the root of one of the first ob- 
jects of civil society.** 

The militia law is much too complicated for the state of 
our society and population. A system which would unite sim- 
plicity with energy would be highly desirable, and would leave 
us nothing to apprehend from a rupture with our Indian 
neighbors. The importance of this subject is so manifest that 
it cannot be necessary for me to press it upon your attention." 

Excepting in a single instance — horse stealing, to which 
there is not an adequate punishment affixed — our penal laws 
are as perfect as our situation will admit. A considerable 
accession of population and riches must accrue to us before 
we can be enabled to change the present sanguinaiy system 
for one equally preventive of crime, and which, by a just 
and humane discrimination, apportions the punishment to the 
offence." 

From the construction which I have put upon the ordinance 
of Congress, the erection of new counties will rest with the 

6. Foi- a discussion of these eaily courts see Esarey's Courts and Laicycrs oj 
Indiana, Ch. ii. 

7. See Harrison's letter to Governor Shelby, below. 

8. For a discussion of our "barbarous" criminal laws see David D Banta in Indi- 
ana Magazine of Historii IX. 234 seq. ; and George E. Howard. Local Constitutional 
History of the United States. 



 

legislature. It is a power, however, which ought to be cau- 
tiously used, as the advantages produced by it are often illu- 
sive or partial, whilst the expense is certain and general. 

In the apportionment of representatives among the sev- 
eral counties, I have aimed at an impartial distribution; but 
as the documents from which my estimation is made are ex- 
tremely defective, it is more than probable that some injus- 
tice may have taken place. 

Before another election be held, it is expedient that some 
plan should be adopted for ascertaining the number of free 
made inhabitants of the respective counties. It is believed 
that the militia returns, under proper regulations, might be 
made sufficiently accurate for the purpose, and this mode is 
also recommended by its superior cheapness. 

But the most difficult and delicate of your duties, gentle- 
men, will be to create a revenue which shall be adequate to 
the expenses of the government, without imposing too great 
a burthen upon your constituents; and to appropriate with 
the strictest frugality and economy the sums which must be 
chiefly drawn from industry and improvement. Few indeed 
are the objects of taxation in a newly settled country. In 
the commencement of our financial operations, some trifling 
embarrassments must be expected ; however, I trust they will 
be of momentary continuance. The progress of our popula- 
tion, in spite of those difficulties which have impeded it, leaves 
no room to doubt that, when those impediments are removed, 
the settlement and improvement of our country will corre- 
spond with its fertility and its advantageous situation. A 
few months have already produced the most favorable change 
in the aspect of our affairs. Our possessions, circumscribed 
on all sides by the Indian territory, have been enlarged to 
the extent of an empire ; and the most fertile and contiguous 
parts opened for sale and settlement upon terms which must 
give hopes of becoming a freeholder to the most indigent of 
our citizens. The wisdom and liberality of our government 
have been equally manifested in the disposition of their valu- 
able salt springs on the Saline creek [in southern Illinois] ; 
as in the lease which has been granted, every idea of pecuni- 
ary advantage has been abandoned, and the reduction of the 
price of salt alone considered. It is with great satisfaction 
that I inform you, gentlemen, that the object of the govern- 
ment has been fully obtained, and that this indispensable 



 

article of domestic economy will never again be subject to 
the disgraceful and destroying monopoly which has hitherto 
prevailed. 

The treasurer will lay before you an account of all the re- 
ceipts and expenditures, from the commencement of the gov- 
ernment. If a considerable deficit is found, it will be also 
found that not a sixpence has been appropriated which had 
not for its object some public and important purpose. Al- 
though our situation precludes us from a vote in the councils 
of the Union, and from many other advantages which are 
enjoyed by our fellow citizens, we must, nevertheless, rejoice 
in the unexampled prosperity of our common country, and 
the elevated rank which she has attained among the nations 
of the earth. It is not, however, by that rank which we may 
hold in the scale of wealth and power that the American citi- 
zen is so pre-eminently distinguished. The enjoyment of civil 
and religious liberty is exclusively his own. In vain shall we 
search through the world for another government whose only 
object is the happiness of the governed, whose only support is 
the affections of the people. 

By a compact which is coeval with the establishment of 
government northwest of the Ohio [Ordinance of 1787], the 
right of being admitted, as soon as our population will justify, 
into the great family which composes the American Union, is 
firnily secured to us. Let us unite our exertions, fellow citi- 
zens, to hasten a consummation which is to restore to us all 
our political rights, and to place us in the elevated station of 
a free, sovereign, and independent State, equal to our sister 
States in dignity and rights. If wisdom and unanimity should 
preside in our councils, a very few years will accomplish this 
important object. But if, on the contrary, dissension and 
discord should spring up among us — if local prejudices and 
local politics should prevail, and banish from among us those 
liberal and expanded sentiments which can forego a partial 
advantage for the benefit of a community — then are we un- 
worthy of the dignified station that awaits us, and the pres- 
ent colonial government is the best calculated for our hap- 
piness. I am, however, well persuaded, gentlemen, that your 
deliberations will produce a different result, and that the 
candor and liberality which marked your conduct in private 
life, and which pointed you out to the notice of your fellow 
citizens, will be equally rnanifested within these walls. You 



 

may with confidence rely upon my co-operation in every 
measure which is calculated to promote the interests of the 
territory; and I fervently supplicate the Supi-eme Ruler of 
the world to crown your labors with honor to yourselves and 
advantage to your constituents. 

House of Representatives to the Governor 

July 30, 1805 
Dawson, Han-ison, 77 

To the Governor of the Indiana Territory : 

Accept, sir, the thanks of the house of representatives for 
the speech you made to both houses of the legislature on the 
opening of the present session. In it we discern the solicitude 
for the future happiness and prosperity of the territory which 
has been uniformly evinced by your past administration. 

We feel a pleasure, correspondent with that which you 
express, for the happy change that has taken place in our 
form of government. The system is still very imperfect; 
but we believe many solid and essential advantages will re- 
sult to the territory from the respresentative grade. 

We consider the acquisition of Louisiana highly important, 
not only to the interest of the western people, but to the 
United States in general. While it has greatly enlarged our 
boundary, it has secured to us the peace and friendship of 
the neighboring Indian tribes, and removed a danger justly 
to be apprehended, from its being possessed by a powerful 
and ambitious European nation. 

We hope neither party animosity nor local prejudice will 
influence our proceedings. Although our settlements are 
widely dispersed, our respective interests are the same, and 
we know no cause that ought to excite disunion among us. 

To prevent the sale of ardent spirits among the Indians; 
to form a more perfect system of courts of judicature; to 
improve the militia system ; to revise and correct, in part the 
criminal laws; and to devise ways and means for raising a 
revenue, adequate to the exigencies of the territory, without 
oppressing our fellow citizens, are objects of the utmost im- 
portance. These, with the other subjects recommended to 
our consideration, will receive all the attention to which they 
are entitled respectively; and from your uniform zeal in 



 

whatever relates to the interests of the territory, we have no 
doubt of your cordial co-operation. 

We look forward with peculiar satisfaction to the period 
when our population will enable us to assume the dignity of 
a state government for the extinguishment of Indian claims, 
and foi- the settlement of the territory, we have the fairest 
prospects of a speedy and immense increase in our popula- 
tion; and we will readily concur in any measure that will 
have a tendency to promote our political emancipation. 



Legislative Council to the Governor 

July 30, 1805 
Dawson, Harrison, 76 

Sir— 

The Legislative council have received the speech by you 
delivered to both houses of the legislature. They agree with 
you in opinion that the government of the territory has as- 
sumed a milder form, and that our grateful acknowledgments 
are due to the Almighty Ruler of the universe for the bless- 
ings which we now enjoy. 

Although we are not as completely independent in our legis- 
lative capacity as we would wish to be, yet we are sensible 
that we must wait with patience for that period of time when 
our population will burst the trammels of a territorial gov- 
ernment, and we shall assume a character more consonant 
to republicanism, and which alone will secure to the inhabi- 
tants of the territory a full participation of the rights now 
enjoyed by the citizens of the United States. That period 
we hope is not far distant; and we have every reason to be- 
lieve, from past experience, that your exertions will not be 
wanting for the attainment of the so much desired object. 

The confidence which our fellow citizens have uniformly 
had in your administration, has been such that they have 
hitherto had no reason to be jealous of the unlimited power 
which you possess over our legislative proceedings. We how- 
ever, cannot help regretting that such powers have been 
lodged in the hands of any one; especially when it is recol- 
lected to what dangerous lengths the exercise of those powers 
may be extended. 

The several subjects which you have particularly recom- 



 

mended, will engage our peculiar consideration; and we beg 
you to be assured that we shall concur with you in every 
measure that may tend to the welfare and happiness of the 
territory. 

Harrison to the Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 10th August 1805 
Har. Pa. 15S 

Sir: 

I am now surrounded by the Chiefs of the Delaware, Miami 
and Eel River Tribes. A part of the Patawatimies have also 
arrived and others are every moment expected. 

The Delawares have explicitly acknowledged the Treaty 
they made here the last year in the presence of a number 
of respectable characters whom I assembled for the purpose 
and will do so in the General Council that will take place upon 
the arrival of the Patawatimies.^ 

Capt. Wells and the Turtle are both here and I have re- 
ceived from each a positive assurance of a friendly disposi- 
tion as well towards the Government as myself and inci- 
dentally — With Captn. Wells I have had an explanation and 
have agreed to a general amnesty and act of oblivion for 
the past. I hope that this treaty will be ratified by you. I 
am convinced that both him and the Turtle will exert them- 
selves to bring the present conference to a happy issue. 

I have the Honor to be with highest respect 
Your humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. The Secy of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, 26th August, 1805 
Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs, I, 701 

Sir: 

The distance between us is so great, and the communication 
so irregular, as to render it impossible to recur to you for 

1. This council was called by the governor largely to talk over with the chiefs the 
general situation and attitude of the Indians. By private conversation and a judicious 
use of "presents" it seems all were placated and the governor succeeded in purchasing 
all the lands of the Kaskaskias (Aug. 13) as well as getting quit claims from all in- 
terested tribes for all previous cessions. 
11—21182 



 

advice and instructions, in many cases of importance, where 
I feel myself much at a loss to know how to act without them. 
Thus it has been in the late conference with the Indians, 
which resulted in the treaty that I have now the honor to 
enclose. 

The first object that engaged my attention, at the opening 
of the council, was, to satisfy the Indians of our right to 
make the treaty with the Delawares, that has been so much 
complained of; and I found little difficulty to getting them to 
recognize every part of that treaty, excepting the article 
which guaranties to the Delawares the country between the 
White river and the Ohio. As the information upon which 
that article was founded was derived from the Delawares 
themselves, a good opportunity was offered to ascertain the 
truth of the cession said to have been made by the Miamies 
at Fort WajTie, in the year 1803. The latter strenuously con- 
tended, that the declaration which they made, on that occa- 
sion, meant nothing more than an assurance to the Delawares, 
that they should occupy the country as long as they pleased, 
but that they had no intention to convey an exclusive right. 
During the whole contest between these tribes, which lasted 
several days, I observed the mo.?t exact neutrality. I made 
the Delawares perfectly comprehend, that the guarantee of 
the United States depended upon their being able to make 
the Miamies acknowledge the cession of Fort Wayne. This 
aclcnowledgment, however, the Miamies would not make, and 
the Delawares finally gave up the contest, although it was evi- 
dent to me, that the declaration made the Owl, on behalf of 
the Miamies, at Fort Wayne, was fully as strong as the Dela- 
ware chiefs had reported it to be. At the commencement of 
the council, the Miami and Pattawatamy chiefs had hinted 
at the necessity of increasing their annuities, so as to put 
them on a footing with the Delawares. But I soon put an 
end to their hopes, by assuring thSm, in the most positive 
terms, that, as the United States had made a fair bargain 
with the Delawares and Piankeshaws, who were the owners 
of the land that had been ceded, not a six pence would be 
given to any other tribe, in consideration of that purchase;' 

1. This refers to the famous Grouseland purchase. Aug. 21, 1805. It comprised 
the lands south of White river, west of Clarli's Grant and north of the Ohio, remaining 
an Indian possession. The Delawares. Pottawattomies, Miamis and Weas signed by their 
20 chiefs. There were 15 white signers, besides Harrison, including the whole official 
family. Grouseland was the home of Harrison. 



 

but, that they might obtain a further annuity, by a further 
cession of land; and this brought on the negotiation for the 
tract ceded by the enclosed treaty. The consideration is 
greater than I could have wished, but it was not possible to 
reduce it one single cent; indeed, they insisted, for several 
days, on having their former annuity doubled for a much 
smaller tract than that which was finally given up. A knowl- 
edge of the value of land is fast gaining ground amongst the 
Indians, and, in the course of the negotiation, one of the chiefs 
observed, that he knew that a great part of the land was 
worth six dollars per acre. The admission of the Pattawata- 
mies, as a party to the treaty, could not well be avoided, 
under the circumstances which gave rise to the conference, 
and I am confident that it will, eventually, be highly advan- 
tageous to us. They have given up all right to interfere in 
any future sales of lands by the Miamies, on the Wabash and 
its waters. The guarantee of those lands to the three tribes, 
who call themselves Miamies, could not be avoided, as they 
insisted upon it with the most persevering obstinacy. But, 
I conceive that it v/ill be no difficult matter to get them, in 
the course of a few years, to make a division of the land 
that they now hold in common. At any rate, a point of much 
consequence has been gained, by getting the other tribes to 
acknowledge their exclusive title to the country of the Wabash, 
above the Vincennes tract. The Miami chiefs were extremely 
desirous to have the Piankeshaws included in the treaty, but 
this I would on no account suffer, reserving to the United 
States the right of purchasing the remaining Piankeshaws' 
lands, at any time that they could agree for them with that 
tribe. This aftair is now in a prosperous train, and can be 
completed, on the most advantageous terms, whenever the 
President shall think proper to direct it. I think, upon the 
whole, that it would be as well to postpone the purchase a 
short time, perhaps until next spring; but, if it should be 
determined otherwise, I can venture to promise that all the 
lands which lie between the Wabash and the lands ceded by 
the Kaskaskias treaty, and below a continuation of the line 
running through Point Coupee, will be the property of the 
United States in ten days after I shall receive your instruc- 
tions for that purpose, and for a consideration, too, which 
will compensate for any excess in that given by the present 
treaty. From the best calculation that I have been able to 



 

make, the tract which has now been ceded contains at least 
two millions of acres, and embraces some of the finest land 
in the Western country. I shall do myself the honor to write 
to you by the next mail, and give a particular account of the 
bills I have drawn for the purposes of the treaty. 

In pursuance of the President's directions, I have promised 
the [Little] Turtle fifty dollars, per annum, in addition to 
his pension ; and I have, also, directed Captain Wells to pur- 
chase a negro man for him, in Kentucky, and draw on you 
for the amount. 

I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your humble 
servant 

William Henry Harrison 

Message Proroguing the General Assembly 

August 26, 1805 

Executive Journal 12 

This day the Governor prorogued the General Assembly 
of the Territory, to meet again on the last Monday in Octr. 
1806. [Abstract] 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(Enclosures: Liquor Law and Invoice of Indian Goods) 

Vincennes 16th Sept. 1805 

Har. Pa. 159-1(16 

Sir: 

After the conditions of the late treaty had been agreed 
upon finding that the Delawares were not well pleased with 
the conduct of the Miamis I made an attempt to induce the 
latter to give up to the U. S. a tract of about 400,000 acres 
adjoining to and west of the line running from the mouth 
of the Kentucky River to Fort Recovery and above the line 
which is to run from the Vincennes trace to the last men- 
tioned line upon condition that the United States should 
change the annuity which the Delawares are to receive for 
ten years into a permanent one. This proposition gave much 
pleasure to the Delawares and was agreed to by the other 
Tribes but when the Treaty was prepared for signing one of 
the principal chiefs refused to sign until that article was ex- 



 

punged and prevailed upon a majority of the others to accept 
his opinion. The Delawares indignant at the Treatment de- 
clared an intention of removing altogether from the neigh- 
bourhood of the Miamis and joining the part of their tribe 
that reside on the w^est bank of the Mississippi. They would 
not agree that any part of the money which by the Treaty 
of August 1804 was to be appropriated to the purpose of 
ameliorating their condition should be paid out in improve- 
ments where they now reside. I was therefore obliged to 
give them the two sums of $300 for their five and ten years 
annuity which was to have been laid out in horses cattle &c. 
in cash and have drawn on you three several drafts for those 
sums one of $300 in favour of Mr. Wallace and the other two 
in favor of Mr. Bullit. Inclosed herewith is the receipt of 
the Delawares for the aggregate amount of $1000. 

The four thousand dollars given by the late Treaty was 
divided in the following manner. To the Delawares $1000, 
to the Miamis $1000 the Pattawatomies $1000 and to the 
Eel River and Wea Tribes $500 each. The Delawares Miamis 
and Eel River Tribes received the whole of their proportion 
and the Potawatimies $700 of theirs from the factory at 
Fort Wayne and I have drawn on you in favor of Mr. [John] 
Johnston for the aggregate amount of $3200. The $500 for 
the Weas and the ballance of the $300 for the Patawatomies 
were paid here and the drafts given for the former to Mr. 
[William] Bullit^ and for the latter to Mr. [Touissant] Du- 
bois.= I have also drawn two other bills in favor of Mr. Bul- 
lit one for $600 and one for $150 to cover the contingent ex- 
penses of the Treaty which have been greater than usual for 
two reasons, first, from the necessity there was (to prevent 
jealousy) for treating many of the other chiefs with the 
same indulgence that the Turtle and Richardville had long 
enjoyed, and second from my being obliged to trust entirely 
to Mr. Wells and [Joseph] Barron^ on account of indisposi- 

1. William Bullit was a land speculator from Louisville who operated in several 
sections of southern Indiana especially in Terre Haute. See his commission Sept. 24 

2. Touissant Dubois was of an old French family. He was engaged extensively in 
mercantile business at Vincennes, Kaskaskia and Cahokia. He did a large Indian trade 
and was especially useful to Harrison. 

For an excellent history of this famous pioneer see Wilson, Dubois County History. 

3. Joseph Barron was a French fur trader out of Vincennes and Harrison's most 
capable and trusted interpreter and scout. He was present at and attached his name 
to nearly all Harrison's Indian treaties. 



 

tion. As soon as the accounts are collected they shall be for- 
warded. 

I shall set out on the 25th Instant for St. Louis accom- 
panied by the chiefs who compose the Deputation appointed 
to meet the Osages. 

I have the honor to inclose herewith the copies of two laws 
that were passed by the Legislature of the territories at their 
late session. I exerted myself to procure the passage of a 
law confining the Indian trade entirely to their own country, 
but the Legislature were unwilling to go so far. I am per- 
suaded that a letter from you to the Executives of the neigh- 
boring States and Territories would greatly expedite the pas- 
sage of a law forbidding the sale of ardent spirits to the In- 
dians. The reason assigned by the legislature for passing the 
law with the condition of its not taking efi'ect until a similar 
one was passed by our neighbours, was that it would be of 
little beneift to the Indians to prohibit their getting liquor 
here if they could obtain it by going into a neighbouring state 
or Territory and by returning with it into this Territory. 
The citizens would suffer all the inconveniences of their 
drunkenness without the advantage of their trade. 

I have the honor to be with great respect and consideration, 
Sir your humble servt. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Secy, of War. 

August 15, 1805 

An Act to Prohibit the Giving ob Selung Intoxicating Liquors to Indians. 

Whereas many abuses dangerous to the lives peace and property of the good citizens 
of the Territory and derogatoi-y to the Dignity of the United States have arisen, by 
reason of Traders, and other pei-sons furnishing Spirituous and other Intoxicating 
Liduors to the Indians inhabiting this Territory for remedy whereof. 

Be it citactfd by the Legislative Council and house of Representatives and it is 
hereby enacted by the authority of the same that if any Trader or other person whom- 
soever residing in coming into, or passing through the said Territory, or any part 
thereof shall presume to furnish, vend, sell or give, or shall direct or procure to be 
furnished vended, sold or given, upon any account whatever, to any Indian or Indians, 
or Nation or Tribe of Indians bring within the Territory or Waters adjoining to or 
Bounding the same any Rum, Brandy whiskey or other intoxicating liquors, or drink, 
he, she, or they so offending shall on Conviction by presentment, or Indictment, forfeit 
and pay for every such offence, any sura not exceeding one hundred dollars, nor less 
than five dollars to the use of the Territory. Provided that nothing herein contained 
shall be taken or construed to impair or weaken the powers and authority that now 
are or at any time hereafter may be vested in the Governor or other person as Super- 
intendent or agent of Indian affairs, or Commissioner plenipotentiary for Treating with 
Indians. 



 

This Act shall commence and be in force when and as soon as the Governor of this 
Territory shall be officially notified that the States of Kentucky and Ohio and the 
Territories of Louisiana and Michigan have passed or shall pass Laws for prohibiting 
the sale or gift of intoxicating liquors to Indians within their respective states and 
Territories and it shall continue in force so long as the said acts made or to be made in 
the said States or Territories shall continue in force therein. The Governor of the Terri- 
tory is requested to transmit copies of this law to the Governors of the several States 
and Territories above mentioned. 

WiLLM. Henry PLxrrison. 
Approved August 15th 1805. 

Secretary's office Vincennes. Sept. 6th 1805. 
I do certify the above is a true copy of the original act deposited in this office. 
Jesse B. Thomas Siicakcr of the House of Rci>resentatives. 
P. Menard prt:sidiiit pro Tempore of the Council. 
JNO. Gibson, Secrctanj. 

BILL OF INDIAN GOODS 
The United States 

To Geo. Wall.\ce< Junior and Co. Dr. for the following articles furnished George 
White Eyes a Delaware by order of Gov. Hakrison. viz: 
1805 

Sept. 9th To Castor hat (g36p 1 16 

To % yd. Superfine buff cloth @36p 1 7 

To 1 Silk Shawl (gl2p A 12 

To Cash paid Daniel Black for making suit of clothes 2 2 

Virginia currency £ 5 17 

The United States 

To Geo. Wallace Junior & Co. for the following articles furnished Lapoussier' a 

Weatmaw Chief by order of Governor Harrison, viz. 

Chief by order of Governor Hai:rison. viz. 

1805 

Sept. 20th To .31/2 yds. Superfine blue cloth r(?42p 7 7 

To % yd. Ditto buff ditto fr7 .36p 1 7 

To 1 Tent furnished for three chiefs (^15$ 4 10 

To cash paid Daniel Black for making suit of clothes 2 2 

To 1 Castor hat (fTeS 1 16 

To 1 Cotton Shawl Cf. & 2 Scalping Knives ft?:2/3 10 6 

Virginia Currency £17 12 6 
The United States 

To Geo. Wallace Junior & Co. Dr. for the following articles furnish Winnemac" 
a Patawatami Chief by order of Governor Harrison Viz 
1805 
Sept. 27th To 1 Man Saddle $1.5 £ 4 10 

4. George Wallace was an early American settler at Vincennes. His name appears 
on the militia roll, as a justice, a trustee of Vincennes university and as an attorney, 
son-in-law of John Gibson. 

5. Lapoussier, Laboussier. or Labossier, attached his name to a number of treaties 
with Harrison. He was the spokesman of the Weas whose home was not far below 
Lafayette. Burton, Historical Collection, lOS 

6. Winamac was the chief of the Pottawattomies who opposed Tecumseh, but later 
led in the massacre of Fort Dearborn. Soon after this. Nov. 22, 1812, he was killed 
by chief Logan of the Shawnees in a hand-to-hand encounter. Hodge. Handbook of 
Indians, I, 956 



 

Harrison to Bullit Commission 

September 24, 1805 

Mss. Vincennes D. A. R. 

William Henry Harrison Esquire 

Govemor & Commander-in-chief of the Indiana Territory 

To William Bullit, Esq. Gentleman, greeting: 

Reposing special trust and confidence in your patriotism 
courage and good conduct I have appointed you Lieutenant 
in the Battallion of the Regiment of the Militia of the county 
of Knox and you are hereby appointed accordingly. You are 
therefore carefully and diligently to discharge the duty of a 
Lieutenant in leading ordering and exercising said company 
in arms, both inferior oflicers and soldiers, and to keep them 
in good order and discipline ; and they are hereby commanded 
to obey you as their Lieutenant, and you are yourself to ob- 
serve and follow such orders and instructions as you shall 
from time to time receive from me, your superior officers, or 
the Governor of the territory for the time being. 

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the Terri- 
tory to be affixed the twenty-fourth day of September in the 
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and five and of 
the independence of the United States of America the thir- 
tieth. 

William Henry Harrison 
Seal 

By the Governor's command 
John Gibson, Secy. 

Harrison to Parke Commission 

September 24, 1805 
Mss. Vincennes D. A. R. 

William Henry Harrison Esquire 

Governor & Commander-in-chief of the Indiana Territory 

To Benjamin Park, Esq., Gentleman, Greeting; 

Reposing special trust and confidence in your patriotism 
courage and good conduct I have appointed you Captain in 
the Battallion of the Regiment of the Militia of the county of 
Knox and you are hereby appointed accordingly. You are 
therefore carefully and diligently to discharge the duty of 



 

a Captain in leading ordering and exercising said company 
in arms, both inferior officers and soldiers, and to keep them 
in good order and discipline ; and they are hereby commanded 
to obey you as their Captain, and you are yourself to observe 
and follow such orders and instructions as you shall from 
time to time receive from me, your superior officers or the 
Governor of the territory for the time being. 

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the Ter- 
ritory to be affixed the twenty-fourth day of September in 
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and five 
and of the independence of the United States of America 
the thirtieth. 

William Henry Harrison 
Seal 

By the Governor's command 
John Gibson, Secy. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, October 11, 1805 

Dawson, Harrison, SO 

Sir — Your letter, accompanying the treaty with the Miamis, 
etc. has been duly received. Its contents are highly satis- 
factory and pleasing. The amicable adjustment of all diffi- 
culties and uneasiness in relation, made by the Delawares 
and Piankishaws, is a desirable event, especially when con- 
nected with the subsequent cession, which gives us the whole 
margin of the Ohio above the mouth of the Wabash, and 
connects the state of Ohio with the Indiana territory for 50 
miles in extent, free from Indian claims. 

I am directed by the President of the United States, to 
request you to close a bargain, as soon as it can be effected, 
with the Piankishaws, for their claim to the lands between 
the Wabash and the eastern boundary of the Kaskaskia ces- 
sion, as proposed in your letter of August 26th, on such rea- 
sonable terms as have been usual in that quarter; and for 
any sums which may be necessary for the prompt payment, 
you will please draw on this department. I hope we shall 
soon hear of a favorable result from St. Louis. 

Your explanation with [Wells], resulting in a confident 
hope of future good conduct on his part, and mutual har- 



 

mony hereafter, is not uninteresting. That he had been play- 
ing a foolish and what he thought a cunning game, I have 
no doubt. 

With sentiments of the highest esteem, I am 

Your excellency's obedient servant 

H. Dearborn 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

St. Louis, 18th October 1805 

Hnr. Pa. 16 h 

Sir: 

I beg bearer to repeat to you by Capn. [Amos] Stoddard' 
what I have before communicated that his whole conduct 
whilst acting as Civil Commandant of Upper Louisiana was 
as far as I can judge extremely proper and upright and such 
as in my opinion greatly contributed to destroy the preju- 
dices which existed in this country prior to the cession against 
our country and countrymen. 

I have the Honor to be with perfect respect Sir 
your Humble servant 

WiLLM. H. Harrison 
Honble. Henry Dearborn Esq. Secy, of War 

Petition of the Governor, Judges and Secretary of 
Indiana Territory 

November 10, 1805 
House of Representatives Collection no. 9, 1805-07 

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress Assembled — 

The Petition of the Governor, Judges and Secretaiy of the 
Indiana Territory respectfully Sheweth — 

That by the Act of Congress entitled an act Erecting Louisi- 
ana into two Territories and for providing for the Temporary 
government thereof; it was made the duty of your Petition- 

1, Major Amos Stoddard was born in Mass. 1762 : educated as a lawyer but for 
some reason came west in 1798 as a captain of artillery. He was the officer in charge 
when France turned the government of St. Louis over to U. S. in 1804. He became 
a close personal friend of Harrison and in the war served on his staff till in the siege 
of Fort Meigs he was killed by the fragment of a shell. Scharf, St. Louis, S6S : Burton. 
Hist. Col. lOi. 



 

ers to Organize a Government in the District of Louisiana, 
to establish courts of Justice therein, to make and PubUsh a 
code of laws for its government, and to hold two courts An- 
nually in the said District. 

To meet those weighty duties, not less important in their 
nature than unexpected to your petitioners, they convened in 
the month of Sepr. 1804 in their Legislative capacity, and 
Entered upon the arduous task pointed out by the law — after 
a lengthy and laborious Session, under many difficulties, they 
were enabled to complete a code of laws for the District, 
which were in due time promulgated by the Executive of this 
Territory. 

That in order to discharge the Several duties enjoined on 
your Petitioners, they have been obliged, at a considerable 
expence to Travel from hence to Louisiana a distance of more 
than Two hundred miles through a Wilderness exposed to 
all the difficulties and hardships attendant on such Journies. 
The courts of Justice have been regularly holden in the Dis- 
trict, the Session of the General court in May last continued 
two weeks. 

That all the duties assigned to your Petitioners by the 
aforesaid law have been fully and faithfully performed, for 
which no compensation has been provided. Your Petitioners 
therefore riiost earnestly pray that your Honorable body 
would take their case into your Serious consideration and 
grant such compensation to your Petitioners respectively, for 
the services by them rendered in conformity to the said Act, 
as in your wisdom and Justice shall seem right — and your 
Petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray.' 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 
Thomas T. Davis 
Henry Vander Burgh 
John Griffin 
Jno. Gibson 
Vincennes 10th Novr 1805 

20th December, 1805. Referred to the Committee of Claims. 
10th February 1806 Bill reported. 

1. This was referred to the committee on claims, John C. Smith, chm. who reported 
by bill, but at the end of the session it was still before the committee of the whole. 
Early in the next session a bill passed. Mar. 3, 1807, allowing the judges a salary of 
$1200 to commence on Jan 1, 1806 in lieu of all back claims. 

Annals 9th cong. index 



 

Madison's Report on Preceding Petition 

Department of State 6 Feby. 1806 

House of Representatives Collection no. 9, 1805-07 

Sir 

In answer to your letter of the 11 ult, enclosing to me the 
memorial of the Governor, Judges and Secretary of the In- 
diana Territory, claiming compensation for certain services 
rendered by them in relation to the territory of Louisiana, 
under the Act of Congress, which constituted it, I can only 
state, that the code of laws to which the memorialists refer 
has been received at this Department, and that although the 
other general facts are believed to be true, I have not any 
formal evidence of them. 

I have the honor to be, Sir, very respectfully Your most 
obed. servt. 

James Madison 
John C. Smith Esqr. Chairman of the Committee of Claims 



Harrison to Congress 
(Enclosing Resolutions of Territorial Legislature) 

Vincennes Indiana Territory 15th Novr. 1805 

House of Representatives Collection no. 9, 1805-07 

Sir 

I Have the Honor to enclose herewith a Resolution of the 
House of Representatives of this Territory and must Request 
the favour of you to lay it before the House over which you 
preside. 

I Have the Honor to be with the Most Respectful Con- 
sideration 

Sir your Hume Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble The Speaker of the House of Representatives of 

the United States 
[Indorsed] 

19th December 1805. referred to the Committee appointed yesterday, 
on a letter from Govr. Harrison, and the report of a select Committee 
thereon, of 17th February 1804. 

14th February 1806. [Adverse] Report made, and referred to a com- 
mittee of the whole House, on Tuesday next. 



 

In the House of Representatives of the Indiana 
Territory 

February 7th 1805 

This House has learned with hvely regret that certain dis- 
contented factious men are endeavouring to effect a division of 
this Territory and to attach the Western Counties, on the 
Mississippi, to upper Louisiana. It is understood they are, 
and have been petitioning the Congress of the United States 
to this purpose ; that very improper means have been employed 
to obtain signatures to their memorials ; and that to augment 
their numbers, small boys and the most worthless characters 
in the Country are permitted to subscribe to them. The rea- 
sons assigned for this measure are, the essential difference in 
the interests of the Western counties from the other parts of 
the Territory, and the distance of the Mississippi Country 
from, and the obstacles that exist in the communication with 
the seat of Government Vincennes, which, 'tis said, operate 
a serious injury to the inhabitants. It is true that the Settle- 
ments of the Territory are widely dispersed and five of them 
are unconnected with each other; but viewing them as they 
are situated from the Great Miami to the Mississippi, we can- 
not perceive that, with the exception of Detroit, there is any 
material difference in their respective interests, or most cer- 
tainly not so much so as to render a separation, in the least, 
necessary. And it is not believed that any peculiar advantage 
is derived to any particular part of the Territory from its 
proximity to the seat of Government. If these reasons are 
Just, distinct Governments ought to be found for each distinct 
settlement; for they are all, except Detroit, nearly equidistant 
from each other. But the difficulties that now exist in the 
communication between the respective settlements will shortly 
be entirely removed. The Indian Titles to all the lands from 
Vincennes to the Ohio above the Great Falls, and down to the 
junction of the Wabash River with the Ohio and some distance 
West of the Wabash, and the Kaskaskia claim which compre- 
hended a large portion of the tract of Country which lies be- 
tween the Mississippi, Ohio, Wabash and Illinois Rivers have 
lately been purchased by the United States ; and the Measures 
that have been taken for the disposal of these lands will open 
the whole Country for settlement. The situation of the Terri- 
tory, its climate productions and fertility of soil, afford the 



 

most flattering prospects of an immence influx of Emigrants, 
and that at no distant period all the settlements from the 
Great Falls of Ohio to the Mississippi will be connected with 
each other. But further — The people of the Territory have 
lately assumed the second or representative grade of Govern- 
ment. This measure will involve considerable expence and 
from the smallness of population will probably be a very seri- 
ous burden ; but if a division of the Territory takes place the 
evil will be very greatly augmented. 

Therefore Resolved That detaching the Counties on the 
Mississippi from the Government of Indiana is inexpedient 
and derogatory to the Interests of the Territory, and that the 
speaker of this House do sign and request the Governor of 
this Territory to forward the above to the Congress of the 
United States. 

Jesse B. Thomas, Speaker 
Henry Hurst' C. H. R. 

Accompanying a Letter from William Henry Harrison, 
Governor of the Indiana territory, received the 19th Decem- 
ber, 1805. 



Harrison to Jefferson 

ViNCENNES 20th Novr. 1805 

Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. 42, no. 83 

Dear Sir 

Mr [John] Hay' having declined the appointment of a mem- 
ber of the Legislative Council for this Territory two other 
persons have been nominated agreeably to the Ordinance and 
I presume their names have been sent on to you. — viz Mr 
Bond- & Mr John Perry^ — the former is certainly the 

1. Henry Hurst born in Jefferson Co. Va. 1769 came to Ky. while young; lawyer 
and clerk at Vincennes enlisted and served on Harrison's staff in 1811; removed to 
JefEersonville IS13 ; later clerk in U. S. court at Indianapolis: in Indiana legislature 
1838-9 ; rode beside Harrison at Tippecanoe and 40 years later rode by his side in 
Washington at his inauguration. Died at Jeffersonville about 1854. 

Esarey. Courts and Lawyers, Xli5 

1. John Hay was born in Detroit May 7. 1769, son of a Pennsylvanian, governor 
of Upper Canada, a U. E. Loyalist ; highly educated, spoke French as his native tongue ; 
engaged in fur trade : settled in Cahokia 1797 and was its leading citizen for many 
years. He died in Belleville, 1843. He was highly respected and trusted by St. Clair 
and Harrison ; Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, 225 

2. Shadrach Bond Sr. was a native of Maryland ; served under Clark ; crossed the 
mountains with a small band of hunters in 1781 and settled with his family near 
Kaskaskia — block house fort. Sat in legislature at Cincinnati 1799; justice in his com- 



 

most proper character; — altho' he has had Httle ad- 
vantage from education he posses [ses] a very strong nat- 
ural capacity & his character for honesty has never been im- 
peached. He is withall a staunch repubHcan & much more 
popular than any other man in his County — I believe it was 
the wish of the members of the House of Representatives as I 
know it is of his present Constituents that he should be in the 
Council — Mr Perry is a French man — I know nothing against 
his character excepting that he has been pretty deeply en- 
gaged in purchasing the land claims in the Illinois Country — 
Both these gentlemen were unfortunately opposed to our going 
into the second grade of Government — Mr Bonds opposition 
was very extraordinary & unexpected — the greatest efforts 
were however made by the land Jobbers to gain him over to 
their interest — & those gentry (some of whom own upwards 
of 100,000 acres of land) frightened at the Idea of having a 
land tax did not hesitate to spread any falsehood that was 
likely to defeat the Measure. 

I Have the Honor to be with the most perfect Respect & 
Esteem Dr Sir your Hume Servt. 

WiLLM H. Harrison 

Harrison to Sec. op War 

ViNCENNES 29th November 1805 
Har. Pa. 17 S, 17i 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favours 
of the 2nd September and the 11th October. In the former 
you observe that the sum of seventy eight dollars paid to 
Abraham Brinker for a horse stolen by the Delawares was to 
be taken from the Delaware annuity for 1806. But the Treaty 
made with that Tribe in 1804 obliges the United States to pay 
for those horses. I have sent for the Piankeshaw chiefs to 
negociate for the tract of land between the Wabash and the 
Kaskaskias purchase — two or three of them are near me but 

munity for years and took an honorable part in politics. He was a friend of St. 
Clair and Harrison, though like all his class took orders from no one. Bond was 
selected by the president. Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois^ index 

3. Jean Francis Perry was an emigre noble from Lyons, France ; came to America 
in 1792 ; brought goods west and went into business at Prairie du Pont, III. ; purchasing 
the old St. .Sulpice mill and estate. He was educated as a lawyer but made a fortune 
in business, principally in land speculation. He died in 1812. 

Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, index 



 

one of them whose presence I think necessary is on the 
Mississippi and it will take some time to get him here. It 
appears to me to be incumbent upon the United States to pass 
a law to protect the Kaskaskias Tribe from the impositions 
which are constantly practiced upon them by white people. 
Designing persons are in the habit of getting them in debt 
and then threatening them with a suit unless they prevail 
upon me to assume payment. I have in several instances been 
obliged to become responsible for Ducoign to save him from a 
suit when I was by no means certain of the justice of the de- 
mand. I have this day drawn upon you in favor of Geo. 
Wallace Junior & Co. [merchants of Vincennes, son-in-law of 
General Gibson] for $298.31 a part of this account is for arti- 
cles furnished the Deputies from the Wea, Patowatimi and 
Delaware Tribes who went with me to St. Louis. I have en- 
closed their several accounts that the amount of them may be 
deducted from the annuity of their Tribes should you think it 
proper. 

I have the Honor to be with perfect Respect Sir your humble 
servant. Willm. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. Henry Dearborne, Secretary of War 

Perry and Bond to Harrison 

Cahokia 10th Deer. 1805 

Har. Pa. 177 

Sir: 

We went according to your request and delivered your mes- 
sage to the Kickapoo chiefs as named in the following speech ; 
[Dec. 16, 1805] we found them on the frontiers very quiet and 
in appearance very amicably disposed and in fact, the Amer- 
ican settlements that are near them speak much in their 
favour. The Chief Pawatamo, kept to himself during the 
Counsel, the relation of some insult, that he and his family 
had received from the Americans, not wishing to show (as 
he told us afterwards) any animosity or even any thought of 
hostility in their speech. This as he himself afterwards re- 
lated to us, is the insults; that the Americans stole two Bells 
from off his horses' necks, whilst he was at the Mamelles^ ; 

1. Mamelles were hills on the east side of the Wabash about the mouth of the 

Embarrass river. ^ . r.- . ■ , ^ .. 

Burton, Historical Collections, 105 



 

that whilst his son was a hunting, an American threatened to 
kill him and that his son was obliged to escape by flight and 
that as customary, as they were gathering Pipyminnt [Per- 
simmons] about Goshen [Madison County, 111.] which they 
generally do by cutting down the Trees, the Americans drove 
them away by force. 

We are Sir, with respect Your Very Obdt. and Hbl Servts. 

Perren [Perry] 

N. B. Mr. Bond being anxious to get home, left me on the 
Hills and took the strait road and as I had written the speech 
in french it was necessary to have it translated for you. 

PERRIN 

Govr. Harrison 



Bond to Harrison 
St. Clair county December 16th 1805 

Hai: Pa. 175-176 

Dear Sir: 

I don't doubt but you will think it strange that you have not 
heard from me before this time but when you have my rea- 
sons I hope you will not think hard. When I received your 
letter with your mesage to the indiens I was so ill that I was 
not able to travel ten miles. I sent the papers to Mr. Perry 
and made a request to Mr. [William] Biggs^ to go to the 
Indians But he could not go therefore it was not done until I 
found myself better and on Tuesday the third of this instant 
I went to Cahokia and waited for Perry and the interpreter 
until Thursday wen myself Perry and a Frenchman by the 
name of mime [?] who is the best interpreter in this county 
started and went through the back settlements to ascertain 
the facts about the burning wich detained us the most of that 
day. We arrived on Friday about Nine o'clock at Mr. Ogles= 
about twelve miles from the Indians and Mr. Perry was taken 

1. William Biggs was a soldier under Clark : born in Maryland 1755. at the age 
of 23 he joined Clark. He lived at Bellefontaine. Sheriff of St. Clair Co. 1790 : General 
Assembly of Ind. Ter. 1808: of 111. 1812, died 1827. A highly respected pioneer of 
Illinois. Reynolds, Pioneer History, SJ,1 

2. The Ogle farm was on the old road from Bellefontaine to Cahokia, in the 
Bottom. Here Benjamin Ogle was shot and severely wounded by an Indian in 1788. 
In 1791 he and Joseph Ogle, both famous Indian scouts, are mentioned as of a party 
making an attack on Indians. Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, index 

12—21182 



 

so ill that he could travel no furder that day. But we sent 
our interpreter to find thare camps and know where the chiefs 
was and to let them know that we was coming with a message 
from their father and to request them to collect as many as 
posable. He returned on Saturday about ten o'clock and we 
started. But did not arive at thare camps until late in the 
after noon on Sunday morning the three hed chiefs and some 
other chiefs with about thirty men in the whole assembled. 
We delivered your message and received thare answare wich 
Perry took home with him and was to have sent it to me with 
his Remarks in A day or two But I have Not yet received it 
But in two or three days I shall go for it and send it on to 
you. [Dec 16, 1805] We found the indians very frendly 
and seems to wish for peace to continue Betwen them and the 
whits and furder the settlers that live nerrest to thare camps 
say they have Never seen them so friendly in thare lives and 
that thay have done them No harm except that of Burning 
and the Indians Reasons for that you will see in thare answar 
to your measage We spoke to them considerable on the ad- 
vantage of peace as we live so Neare to gether and that we 
ought to do eatch other all the good we could and as little 
harm as posible and they seemed to desire it as much as we 
we give them forty three pounds of tobaco and about half 
a bushel of sault and parted I got home on munday the Ninth 
we was out from Cahokia five days I think the interpreter 
ought to have three dollars per day as he got five dollars in 
Peltry to go out and traid with the Indiens and we could 
Not get him for les I have no news we are all well and I hope 
that you and yours is the same and dear Sir I remaine with 
respect and esteem your most obedient humble servant 

Shadrach Bond [Sr.] 
To his excelency, William H. Harrison 

The Answer of Pawatamo, Chasso and Oulaqua, the 
Speech Pronounced by the Latter 

[Dec 16, 1805] 

Har. Pa. 179 

He that made us, made us and made fire, it is the master 
of life we are accused of having set fire — we did it and we also 
saw white people do it. The Deer was put on the Earth by 



 

the Master of Life, and we endeavour to make our wives and 
children live, and if we are not permitted to set fire we cannot 
live. You then want us to die. You the whites would be 
very angry if we were to die with hunger, for the want of 
hunting, and that we should go and kill your cattle to eat. At 
the time we lived with the French, our first father we were 
happy, they never said anything to us, Since we have known 
our father the Long Knife, there are always some complaints 
though we do not think to do them any harm, at present that 
we are endeavouring to make our wives and children live, we 
do not dare set fire; when we do set fire, we think ourselves 
distant from the settlemts — and we are close. In all Counsels 
we have been we are desired to hunt and not go to v.'ar, now 
we are quiet and hunting, and we believe to do right ; it is im- 
possible to hunt without setting fire. The whites arrive every 
day, they settle, we know nothing of it, and if they suffer in 
the fall, it is rather their fault than ours, because we do not 
know where they are. The master of Life gave us this land 
it is to live on and our wives and children, whilst you were on 
the other side of the Great Lake, that land was given you to 
live on. In all the Counsels our father has nothing but hard 
things to tell us, whilst we are endeavouring to do everything 
to please him, we strive to hunt in such places, as will be of 
no injury to them, and whilst we are endeavoring to do good, 
we find ourselves near the Long Knives who complains imme- 
diately, now that we think to do well, we are exposed to re- 
proaches, which renders our Life, a hard one, if we set fire to 
the weeds or grass, it is to live on the game, we have no other 
means to subsist. All that the maker of Life placed on the 
Earth is to live upon and we endeavour to live as in the times 
of our first fathers. Why do you reproach us of setting fire? 
You are glad to receive our skins, without which we would 
have none. In all our Counsels the Chiefs exhort us, to make 
our wives and Children live, it is our sole occupation and we 
strive to do no hurt to any person. We have had our first 
father the French, then the English and Spaniard, today we 
have our Father the Long Knife, who does not like our Con- 
duct. We are not the only ones who set fire, the Kaskaskians, 
the Shawnese and the Miamis have set fire ; as well as us. We 
know not of any horse belonging to the whites amongst us 
if there were any we should not hide it, we saw one light bay 
that the Miamis have that has the four feet and nose white. 



 

Proclamation Concerning Selling Liquor to Indians 

December 17, 1805 

Executive Journal, 12 

A Council or Conference with certain tribes of Indians being 
about to be held, the Governor Issued his proclamation pro- 
hibiting any Citizen or other person from giving Bartering or 
selling ardent spirits or other intoxicating liquors to any In- 
dian or Indians in the Town of Vincennes or within 30 miles 
of the same, until such Council or Conference shall be termi- 
nated, on pain of being dealt with agreeably to the provisions 
of the law in that case made and provided. (Abstract) 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 24th December 1805 

Har. Pa. 180-182 

Sir: 

In consequence of the great alarm which existed in the 
Illinois country from the Hostile dispositions which some par- 
ties of Kickapoos were said to have manifested towards the 
settlers by setting fire to their fences and hay stacks and 
otherwise abusing and insulting them I thought it highly ex- 
pedient and proper to send to them a respectable deputation 
to demand an explanation of their conduct and if it was found 
to be as criminal as it has been represented to insist upon 
the surrender of the culprits and an unequivocal declaration 
as to their future intentions. In order to give satisfaction 
to the citizens I selected two of the most respectable char- 
acters of that neighbourhood one an american [Shadrack 
Bond] and the other a Frenchman [Jean Perry] who have 
executed their commission much to my satisfaction and whose 
respective reports I have now the Honor to inclose. From 
these and from other information which I have procured I 
am convinced that the conflagrations complained of were en- 
tirely accidental and that the extensiveness of the mischief 
they have occasioned is to be attributed to the unusual 
drought of the season. 

General Wilkinson will have communicated to you the un- 
fortunate catastrophe which has befallen the Osages. As soon 
as I was informed of it I dispatched instructions to Messrs. 



 

Wells and Jouett' by a special express directing- to use their 
utmost endeavours to get possession of the prisoners that 
they may be restored to their friends. I have little doubt of 
their success as the most influencial of the Potawatimi chiefs 
are upright well meaning men. However disagreeable and 
afflicting this affair may be at the moment when we had flat- 
tered ourselves that a general pacification had been effected, 
the Patawatimies are certainly not so much to blame as they 
may appear to be upon a first view of the Transaction for 
the party which made the stroke were certainly uninformed 
of the Treaty at St. Louis nor could they know (from the 
time that they crossed the Mississippi) that anything of the 
kind was in aggitation. 

The murders committed on the Missouri and Saint Francois 
rivers have excited I understand much alarm in that coun- 
try. It is with great pleasure I inform you that the Tribes 
on this side of the Mississippi are as well disposed towards 
us as ever they have been. 

The Delawares are indeed extremely restless and uneasy, 
they are much dissatisfied with the Miamies and all the young 
men are very desirous to join their countrymen on the west 
side of the Mississippi. The chiefs and old men wish to re- 
main where they are and have applied to me to use my in- 
fluence to prevent the intended emigration. I have as yet 
returned them no answer because I wished to be informed 
whether their stay or removal would best comport with the 
views of the President. 

I have the honor to be with great respect and esteem Sir 
your humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Deer. 28th. 

I have had more difliculty in assembling the Piankeshaw 
chiefs and bringing them to reasonable terms than I at first 
apprehended. The Treaty will however be signed this day or 
tomorrow and will be forwarded by the next mail. 
The Honble Henry Dearborn Esq. Secretary of War 

1. Charles Jouett. the first Indian agent at Chicago, was born in Va. 1772. He 
was appointed Indian agent at Chicago. 1805, coming from Detroit where he had been 
agent since 1802. He was a giant 6 ft 3 and stout in proportion. In 1811 he located 
In Mercer Co. Ky. where he became a judge of note. He was agent again at Chicaeo 
1815-1818. Died in Trigg Co. Ky. May 28, 1834. Andreas. Chicago, S7 



 

Commission of Pierre Menard 

December 27, 1805 
Fergus Hist. Series, 31 ; Early Illinois, Si 

William Henry Harrison, Governor, and Commander in 
Chief of the Indiana Territory, To PiERRE Menard, Esquire, 
of the County of Randolph sends Greeting: 

Know you, That reposing special trust and confidence in 
your integrity, judgment and abilities, I have appointed, and 
by these presents I do appoint and commission you the said 
Pierre Menard JUDGE of the Court of Common Pleas, in 
the said County of Randolph hereby giving and granting unto 
you, as judge of the common pleas, full right and title to have 
and execute all and singular the powers, jurisdictions and 
authorities, and to receive and enjoy all and singular the 
lawful emoluments of a judge of the said court of common 
pleas: to have and to hold this commission, and the office 
hereby granted to you, the said Pierre Menard, so long as 
you shall behave yourself well. 

-o--, . , , Given under my hand, and the seal of the said ter- 
ritory, at Vincennes, this Twenty Seventh day of 
December in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred 
and Five, of the independence of the United States of Ameri- 
ca the thirtieth. 

This Commission to be in force from and after the 1st day 
of January, 1806. 

By the Governor's Command, 

Jno. Gibson, Secretary 



Harrison to the Dela wares 

Early in 1806 
Dawson, Harrison, 8S 

Speech of Governor Harrison, delivered to the Delaware 
Indians, on the delusion which prevailed among them with 
respect to sorcery.^ 

1. Harrison thought this was a carefully laid plan ot Tecumseh and the Prophet 
to get rid of the Indian chiefs and reorganize the tribes. Joseph Renard's son had been 
deposed among the Kickapoos and Winnemac was marked. Little Turtle was ignored 
and the old chief Teteboxti of the Delawares murdered. He usurped the power of the 
Shawnee chiefs so much that they applied to Harrison for protection. They had fol- 
lowers in evei-y tribe within a hundred miles and it seems they insisted on their converts 
acknowledging the chieftainship of the Prophet. 



 

My Children — 

My heart is filled with grief, and my eyes are dissolved in 
tears, at the news which has reached me. You have been 
celebrated for your wisdom above all the tribes of red people 
who inhabit this great island. Your fame as warriors has 
extended to the remotest nations, and the wisdom of your 
chiefs has gained for you the appellation of grand-fathers 
from all the neighboring tribes. From what cause, then, 
does it proceed, that you have departed from the wise coun- 
cils of your fathers, and covered yourselves with guilt. 

My children, tread back the steps you have taken, and en- 
deavor to regain the straight road which you have abandoned. 
The dark, crooked and thorny one which you are now pur- 
suing will certainly lead to endless woe and misery. But who 
is this pretended prophet who dares to speak in the name of 
the Great Creator? Examine him. Is he more wise or vir- 
tuous than you are yourselves, that he should be selected to 
convey to you the orders of your God? Demand of him some 
proofs at least of his being the messenger of the Deity. If 
God has really employed him he has doubtless authorized him 
to perform some miracles, that he may be known and re- 
ceived as a prophet. If he is really a prophet, ask of him to 
cause the sun to stand still — the moon to alter its course — 
the rivers to cease to flow — or the dead to rise from their 
graves. If he does these things, you may then believe that 
he has been sent from God. He tells you that the Great 
Spirit commands you to punish with death those who deal 
in magic, and that he is authorized to point them out. 
Wretched delusion ! Is, then, the Master of life obliged to em- 
ploy mortal man to punish those who offend Him? Has he 
not the thunder and all the powers of nature at his com- 
mand? — and could he not sweep away from the earth a whole 
nation with one motion of his arm? 

My children! do not believe that the great and good Cre- 
ator of mankind has directed you to destroy your own flesh; 
and do not doubt but that, if you pursue this abominable 
wickedness, his vengeance will overtake and crush you. 

The above is addressed to you in the name of the Seventeen 
Fires. I now speak to your from myself, as a friend who 
wishes nothing more sincerely than to see you prosperous 
and happy. Clear your eyes, I beseech you, from the mist 



 

which surrounds them. No longer be imposed upon by the 
arts of an impostor. Drive him from your town, and let 
peace and harmony once more prevail amongst you. Let your 
poor old men and women sleep in quietness, and banish from 
their minds the dreadful idea of being burnt alive by their 
own friends and countrymen. I charge you to stop your 
bloody career; and if you wish the friendship of your great 
father the President if you wish to preserve the good opinion 
of the Seventeen Fires, let me hear, by the return of the 
bearer, [Capt. William Prince] that you have determined to 
follow my advice. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, 1st January, 1806 

American State Papers, Indian Affairs, I, 705 
Sir : I have the honor to forward the treaty concluded with 
the Piankeshaws, on the 30th ultimo. [Peters, Indian Treaties, 
100] It will, I hope, be found such as I promised it should 
be, i. e. highly advantageous to the United States; nor is it 
by any means a bad bargain for the Indians themselves. The 
annuity which is now promised, together with that which 
they formerly received, will be a certain resource to them, 
when they shall be no longer able to procure subsistence from 
the chase. In the course of the negotiation, I had promised 
that the United States would, for five years, bear the ex- 
pense of repairing their guns, but I forgot to insert it in the 
treaty. It would, perhaps be found more economical to send 
an armorer to this place, to work altogether for the Indians, 
than to employ the artizans on the spot, whose prices are 
most enormously extravagant, as you will obsei^ve by exam- 
ining their accounts, heretofore forwarded. The neighboring 
tribes will be highly pleased with such an indulgence, for 
which they have made frequent application. 

It is, in my opinion, essentially necessary that the law 
regulating the trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, 
should be so altered at the present session of Congress, as to 
prohibit any person from trading with the Indians, anywhere 
upon the lands of the United States, without a licence. The 
title to so large a portion of the Indian country has been 
extinguished, from which a great number of them still draw 



 

their support, that it is much to be feared they will fall a 
sacrifice to the merciless rapacity of the traders, unless they 
are restrained by the same penalties to which those are sub- 
jected who reside at the Indian towns. 

Notwithstanding the recent murder of two white men on 
the Missouri, by three Indians (as it is supposed) from this 
territory, viz : a Miami, Pattawatamy, and a Kickapoo, I can 
with confidence repeat to you the assurances lately given, of 
the pacific disposition of the tribes under my superintendence. 
The three murders certainly belong to the banditti of the 
Illinois river, of which the noted Turkey-foot was the chief.' 
Governor Wilkinson, hearing that two of them were at no 
great distance from him, has very properly demanded them 
of the Kickapoo chief, who had them in his custody. I shall 
endeavor to secure the other as soon as possible. 

I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect, sir, 
your humble servant, 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. The tract now ceded is about eighty or ninety miles 
wide, from the northwest corner of the Vincennes tract to 
the Kaskaskia cession, and about the same distance from that 
line to the Ohio. 

W. H. H. 
The Hon. Henry Dearborn, Esq. Secretary of imr 



Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington, Jan. 16.06 

Jefferson Papers, 1st series, vol. 11, no. 102 

Dear Sir 

Your several unacknowledged letters of June 16, Aug. 29, 
Nov. 12 & 20 prove me an unpunctual correspondent, it is 
not because I do less than I might do, but that there is more 

1. "A small impediment to the growth of the settlement was the killing of Dennis 
and Van Meter by the Indians in 1802. Turkey Foot, an evil-disposed and cruel chief 
of a band of the Pottawatomie Indians, and his party returning home from Cahokia 
to their town toward Chicago, met Dennis and Van Meter at the foot of the Missis- 
sippi Bluff, about five miles southwest of the present town of Edwardsville (III.). The 
country contained at that day very few inhabitants above Cahokia, and Turkey Foot, 
seeing the Americans extending their settlements toward his country, caught fire at 
the spectacle and killed these two men. These Indians may have been intoxicated, as 
they were frequently drunk when they were trading in Cahokia. This was not con- 
sidered war, but a kind of Indian depredation." 

Reynolds, Pioneer Hist, of III. iSO 



 

than I can do. I will now summarily reply to their several 
articles. And first I pray you to deliver to the legislature 
the inclosed letter in answer to the Address they favored me 
with, of the two persons [Bond and Perry] chosen to supply 
the place of Mr. Hay in the legislative council, I nominated 
Mr. Bond, which nomination has been with others 3 weeks 
before the senate, so has that of Judge [John] Griffin^ for 
the Michigan territory. I am told it is doubtful whether the 
Senate mil confirm this last [Conf. Jan. 9, 1806]. I have 
earnestly inculcated the necessity of raising the salaries of 
the territorial governors & judges, and it will be attempted 
this session ; but with what success is very doubtful. [Raised 
to $1,200, Mar. 3, 1807] 

the British have clearly no right to trade with the Indians 
in Louisiana, it is therefore decided to keep that trade to 
ourselves as the only means of governing those Indians 
peaceably, this will render it important to be particularly 
friendly to the Sacs, Foxes, Kickapoos, Sioux, & other In- 
dians residing on the borders between the British & us; and 
by taking their pelts & furs at higher prices, & selling them 
goods at lower prices than the trade will bear without loss, 
to let them see their own interest in an exclusive adhesion 
to us. what we lose with them, we must make up from other 
quarters, our principle being neither to gain nor lose on the 
whole Indian trade taken together, the late stroke^ of the 
Poutewatamis on the Osages must be strongly reprimanded, 
and no exertion spared to recover & restore the prisoners & 
make satisfaction for the killed, the Indians on this side 
the Missisipi must understand that that river is now ours, 
& is not to be a river of blood, if we permit those on this 
side to cross it to war against the other side, we must permit 
the other side to come over to this for revenge, the safety 
of our settlements will not admit of this, and in the present 
case of the Poutewatamies they should be made to under- 

1. John Griffin, the third territorial judge appointed for Ind. Ter. He was from 
Va. When Mich. Ter. was organized he was transferred for personal reasons to that 
territory. Dec. 23, 1805. His place in Ind. Ter. was taken by Waller Taylor ; Esarey. 
Courts and Lawyers, 40i 

2. "Sometime in the latter part of 1805 a war party of the Potawatamie tribe had 
crossed the Mississippi on an e.xcursion about the time the treaty was made at St. 
Louis between the Osages and Potawatamies and on falling in with a hunting camp 
of Osages had killed or carried off 73 women and children. This was done when all 
the men were away hunting. The Osages at once notified Governor Wilkinson." Dawson. 
Harrison, 78 



 

stand that unless they make to the Osages every satisfaction 
in their power, & satisfy us they will cease crossing the Mis- 
sipi to war on nations which never injured them, we may 
give a free passage & support to the Osages to come over 
and take such revenge as will glut them, but it is from the 
Secretary of War that you \vill receive what is to be con- 
sidered as official, & as your guide in this business, among 
the Misipi Indians now here, is one Poutawatami chief, noth- 
ing has yet been said to him on this subject, but some ex- 
planations will take place before he leaves us, which prob- 
ably will not be till late in February. Accept my friendly 
salutations & assurances of great esteem & respect 

Th : Jefferson 

Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington, Feb. 2, 180G 

Jefferson Papers, 2d seiies, vol. i2, no. 'JJ, 

Th: Jefferson presents his friendly salutations to Gover- 
nor Harrison and puts under cover to him a duplicate of his 
answer to the legislature of Indiana, the original of which 
was inclosed in his letter of Jan. 16. the Commission for 
the legislative council [for Shadrack Bond] gpes by this post, 
having till now been lying before the Senate [letter not found] 
[Indorsed:] Harrison Govr. Feb. 2, 06 

House Report, — Slavery 

February 14, 1806 
Am. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, 450 

Mr. Garnett', from the committee appointed Dec. 18, 1805, 
to whom were referred the I'eport of a select committee, made 
on the 17th of February, 1804, [see same date above] on a let- 
ter of William Henry Harrison, [see Dec. 22, 1802] president 
of a convention held at Vincennes, in the Indiana Territory, 
[see Nov. 22, 1802, above] declaring the consent of the people 
of the said Territory to a suspension of the sixth article of 
compact between the United States and the said people ; [Nov. 

1. This committee was composed of James M. Garnett i 
C. Benjamin Parke of Ind., Philip van Cortlandt of N. Y 
Matthew Walton of Ky., and a Mr. Smith of S. Car. 



 

22, 1802, above] also on a memorial and petition of the in- 
habitants of the said Territory; [see Oct. 10, 1807] also on 
the petition of the Legislative Council and House of Repre- 
sentatives of the said Territory ; [see Feb. 12, 1807, and Sept. 
19, 1807, above] together with the petition of certain purchas- 
ers of land, settled and intending to settle on that pai-t of the 
Indiana Territory ; west of the Ohio, and east of the boundary 
line running from the mouth of the Kentucky river; and on 
two memorials from the inhabitants of Randolph and St. Clair 
— made the following report : 

That having attentively considered the facts stated in the 
said petitions and memorials, they are of opinion that a quali- 
fied suspension, for a limited time, of the sixth article of com- 
pact between the original States and the people and States 
west of the river Ohio, would be beneficial to the people of the 
Indiana Territory. The suspension of this article is different 
from that between slavery and freedom, inasmuch as it would 
merely occasion the removal of persons, already slaves, from 
one part of the country to another. The good effects of this 
suspension, in the present instance, would be to accelerate the 
population of that Territory, instead of seeking as they are 
now compelled to do, settlements in other States or countries 
permitting the introduction of slaves. The condition of the 
slaves themselves would be much ameliorated by it, as it is 
evident, from experience that the more they are separated 
and diffused, the more care and attention are bestowed on . 
them by their masters, each proprietor having it in his power 
to increase their comforts and conveniences in proportion to 
the smallness of their numbers. The dangers, too, (if any 
are to be apprehended,) from too large a black population 
existing in any one section of country, would certainly be very 
much diminished, if not entirely removed. But whether dan- 
gers are to be feared from this source or not, it is certainly an 
obvious dictate of sound policy to guard against them as far as 
possible. If this danger does exist, or there is any cause to 
apprehend it, and our Western brethren are not only willing 
but desirous to aid us in taking precautions against it, would 
it not be wise to accept their assistance? We should benefit 
ourselves, without injuring them, as their population must al- 
ways so far exceed any black population which can ever exist 
in that country, as to render the idea of danger from that 
source chimerical. 



 

Your committee consider the regulation, contained in the 
ordinance for the government of the territory of the United 
States, which requires a freehold of fifty acres of land as a 
qualification for an elector of the General Assembly, as limit- 
ing too much the elective franchise. Some restriction, how- 
ever, being necessary, your committee conceive that a resi- 
dence continued long enough to evince a determination to 
become a permanent inhabitant, should entitle a person to the 
rights of sufl:rage. This probationary period need not extend 
beyond twelve months. 

The petition of certain settlers in the Indiana Territory, 
[Dearborn County] praying to be annexed to the State of 
Ohio, ought not, in the opinion of your committee be granted. 

It appears to your committee that the division of the Indi- 
ana Territory, in the manner directed by the ordinance of 
1787, and for which the people of Randolph and St. Clair have 
petitioned your honorable body, would be inexpedient at this 
time. The people of the two sections have lately entered into 
the second grade of government, the whole expense of which 
would fall on the people of one section, if a division were now 
to be made. This, in the opinion of your committee, would be 
neither politic nor just. But, although a division of the Terri- 
tory appears improper at this time, we think it should be made 
as soon as the population of either section has increased so far 
as to entitle them to form a State Government. The petition 
which prays that such a Government may be formed, by unit- 
ing the two sections as soon as their inhabitants shall have 
augmented so far as to authorize it, your committee conceive 
ought not to be granted. A territory, when once erected into 
a State, cannot be divided or dismembered without its own 
consent; the formation therefore, of two States out of this 
Territory, originally intended by the ordinance of 1787, could 
not constitutionally be effected, if the two sections were once 
permitted to form one State, without the consent of that State, 
however necessary the extent and population of that Terri- 
tory might render such division. 

After attentively considering the various objects desired in 
the memorials and petitions, the committee respectfully sub- 
mit to the House the following resolutions : 

1. Resolved, That the sixth article of the ordinance of 
1787, which prohibits slavery within the Indiana Territory, 
be suspended for ten years, so as to permit the introduction 



 

of slaves, born within the United States, from any of the indi- 
vidual States. 

2. Resolved, That every white freeman of the age of 
twenty-one years, who has resided within the Territory twelve 
months, and within the county in which he claims a vote, six 
months, immediately preceding the election, shall enjoy the 
rights of an elector of the General Assembly. 

3. Resolved, That the petition of certain settlers in the 
Indiana Territory, praying to be annexed to the State of Ohio, 
ought not to be granted. 

4. Resolved, That it is inexpedient, at this time, to grant 
that part of the petition of the people of Randolph and St. 
Clair [counties in 111.] which prays for a division of the In- 
diana Territory. 

5. Resolved, That so much of the petition of the Legis- 
lative council and House of Representatives of the Indiana 
Territory as prays that the two sections may be united into 
one State Government, ought not to be granted. 

Proclamation: Offering a Reward for the Arrest of 
THE Two Men Who Had Broken Jail at Vincennes 

June 21, 1806 

Executive Jourrud, IS 

A proclamation was Issued by the Governor and a Reward 
of three hundred dollars offered to any person or persons who 
should apprehend and deliver to the Sheriff of Knox County 
James Red a prisoner Confined in the Jail of Said County, 
charged with the murder of a Delaware Indian, and who on 
the night of the 18th ulto [May, 1806] Escaped from the same, 
and a further reward of one hundred Dollars for the discovery 
of any accomplice or accessory (Before the Fact) to the es- 
cape and a full and perfect pardon on Conviction of the ac- 
complice or accessory. [See July — 1806 below] 

Pike to Harrison 

[Extracts of a letter from Lieut. [Zebulon M.] Pike to Gov- 
ernor Harrison] 

28th June 1806 

Bisselt Mss. 7, St. Louis Mercantile Library 

I have observed by a Letter and Deposition of Capt. Daniel 
Bissell, that Mr. B. [Lemuel] Harrison wrote you a letter, 



 

complaining of me, and asserting that I had basely treated him 
(in connection with Captain Bessell) by taking a House from 
him in his absence. 

This circumstance is fully explained by Capt. Daniel 
Bissell's Deposition, and I should never have conceived his 
letter as worthy my further notice. But allow me to say that, 
the nature of your Notes on that letter were such as wounded 
my feelings and more deeply as they came from a character, 
whom I had always been induced (as well from duty as in- 
clination) to respect and esteem. Your note says "He ought 
to have looked to Parkinson for redress and "to have made 
use of the Arms of the United States which was put under his 
direction for different purposes. To dispossess the person 
who has obtained a legal possession". It would be difficult 
to when where in any passage of L. Harrison's letter, (even 
admitting it directly true) would justify the foregoing con- 
clusion, of my having taken possession by force of Arms. 
And, when we refer to Cap. Bissell's Deposition, we will per- 
ceive, that I obtained a peaceable and legal possession of prop- 
erty, which I had been some years illegally deprived of. It is 
unnecessary for me to attempt to be the panegyrist of Capt. 
Bissell's character; but I presume that no person can for one 
minute doubt his having acted with no unpropriety in this 
affair, and, that the insinuations of Mr. L. Harrison, was as 
unfounded and groundless as many others raised by the Scoun- 
drels who resided in the vicinity of Massac. 

As the before mentioned Documents were handed to my 
Colonel [Bissell] I should be happy if Governor Harrison felt 
himself at liberty, to honer me with a line, expi-essing his sat- 
isfaction of the foregoing explanation. 

Harrison to Prince 

July ? 1806 

Daw.son, Harrison, S7-S9 

As soon as you [William Prince^] arrive at the Vermillion 
town, you will deliver my speech to the chiefs, and cause it 

I. William Prince was a native of Ireland. Early settled in what is now Gibson 

county he became a prominent citizen. He was elected to congress in 1823 but died in 

Princeton Sent. 8, 1824, before his term expired. ... ^ , ,,. 

History of Vigo county, 186 

History of Gibson County 91 

A Frenchman had told Wells of a plot being formed among Chippcwas. Ottawas & 

Pottawattomies to capture Detroit. Wells wrote this to Harrison June 19, 1806. Prince 

was sent to investigate. Dawson, Harrison, SJ 



 

to be minutely interpreted to them; you will add to it such 
observations as may occur to you, to enforce upon them the 
belief that the United States are extremely desirous to pre- 
serve a friendly intercourse with them, and will not commence 
hostilities unless driven to it by the conduct of the Indians 
themselves. But if they should be forced into a war, after 
having done every thing in their power to avoid it, the Kicka- 
poos must take the penalty of their own rashness. It will be 
of advantage to dwell upon the immense force of mounted 
militia which the United States can bring upon them from the 
neighboring states of Kentucky and Ohio, and the Louisiana 
and Indiana territories. It may also be suggested to them, that 
(a feAV stragglers excepted) there is not the smallest probabil- 
ity of their receiving any aid from the Potawatamies, 
Miamies, Weas, or Delawares, who have too just a sense of the 
danger of their situation, to engage in any such rash enter- 
prise. 

After having delivered the speech to the chiefs at the Ver- 
million if you should discover that there is no danger of pro- 
ceeding to the villages on the Prairies, (and you are not on 
any account to expose yourself to any danger,) you will go 
there, and, if possible, prevail on Joseph Renard's son,= their 
head chief, to accompany you to both places. You will omit 
no means of obtaining information, as to the general disposi- 
tion of the Indians, as it relates to peace or war; and the re- 
sources which they calculate on for carrying on a war, par- 
ticularly their means of procuring arms and ammunition, and 
the deposites they may have of either. Should time and other 
circumstances unite, to make it proper in your opinion, to pro- 
ceed to the Potawatamie villages on the Wabash, you will do 
so ; but, at any rate, I wish you to go to the Delaware towns, 
on White river to deliver the speech which I have sent to them, 
for the purpose of explaining to them the circumstances re- 
lating to the escape of Red,' who murdered one of their men. 
Whilst you are there, you will collect such information as you 

2. "Shortly after the mission of Captain Prince the prophet found means to bring 
the whole Kickapoos tribe entirely under his influence. He prevailed on the warriors 
to reduce their old chief, Joseph Renard's Son, to a private man. He would have been 
put to death but for the insignificance of his character." Dawson, Harrison, 85 

3. James Red was a Tennesseean who lived in 1805 a few miles— 20— above Vin- 
cennes. In November a Delaware Indian called at the house. Some trouble arose when 
Red picked up a rifle and shot the Indian dead. It was a cold-blood murder. Red was 
jailed and a militia guard placed around but he escaped. (See June 21, 1806. above) 
Dawson, Harrison, SS 



 

may think necessary or interesting. You can also visit the 
establishments of the Eel river and Miami Indians, on White 
river, and Sugar creek. Your having been at St. Louis at the 
time the Kickapoo was killed by Mr. Hammond, which is given 
as the reason of their discontent, you will have it in your 
power to explain the circumstance, and convince them it was 
purely accidental. You may also assure them that the pres- 
ents to the relations of the deceased will not be withheld. 

William Henry Harrison 

July ? 1806 

William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in 
Chief of the Indiana Territory, and Superintendent of 
Indian Affairs, to his Children, the Chiefs and Warriors 
of the Kickapoo tribe. 

My Children: 

I lately sent you a message by one of your warriors, but I 
have not yet received an answer. The head chief of the Weas 
[Lapousier] has however been with me, and has assured me 
that you still keep hold of the chain of friendship which has 
bound you to your father, since the treaty made with general 
Wayne. 

My Children, this information has given me great pleasure, 
because I had heard that you had suffered bad thoughts to get 
possession of your minds. 

My Children, what is it you wish for? have I not often told 
you that you should inform me of all your gi-ievances, and 
that you should never apply to your father in vain ? 

My Children, be wise; do not follow the advice of those who 
would lead you to destruction ; what is it they would persuade 
you to? — To make war upon your fathers, the Seventeen 
Fires? — What injury has your father done you? — If he has 
done any, why do you not complain to him and ask redress? — 
Will he turn a deaf ear to your complaints? — He has always 
listened to you, and will listen to you still ; you will certainly 
not raise your arm against him. 

My Children, you have a number of young warriors, but 
when compared to the warriors of the United States, you know 
they are but as a handful. 



 

My Children, can you count the leaves on the trees, or the 
grains of sand in the river banks? So numerous are the 
warriors of the Seventeen Fires. 

My Children, it would grieve your father to let loose his 
warriors upon his red children; nor will he do it unless you 
compel him ; he had rather that they would stay at home and 
make corn for their women and children ; but he is not afraid 
to make war ; he knows that they are brave. 

My Children, he has men armed with all kinds of weapons; 
those who live on the big waters and in the big towns, under- 
stand the use of muskets and bayonets, and those who live on 
this side the mountains use the same arms that you do. 

My Children, the Great Spirit has taught your fathers to 
make all the arms and ammunition which they use ; but you do 
not understand this art; if you should go to war with your 
fathers, who would supply you with those things? The 
British cannot; we have driven them beyond the lakes, and 
they cannot send a trader to you without our permission. 

My Children, open your eyes to your true interests; your 
father wishes you to be happy. If you wish to have your 
minds set at ease, come and speak to him. 

My Children, the young man who carries this is my friend, 
and he will speak to you in my name ; listen to him as if I were 
to address you, and treat him with kindness and hospitality. 

Harrison to Jefferson 

ViNCENNES 5th July 1806 
Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. U'2, no. 86 

Dear Sir 

I received a few weeks ago from the Secretary of State the 
new Commission with which you have been pleased to honor 
me and I beg you to receive my warmest thanks for this addi- 
tional proof of your confidence and friendship'— The emolu- 
ments of my office afford me a decent support and will I hope 
from henceforth enable me to lay up a small fund for the edu- 
cation of my children — I have hitherto found however that my 

1. Harrison's first nomination is dated May 12, 1800: second, Feb. 4. 1803: third, 
Decembei- 15, 1806 ; fourth, December 19, 1809. August 22, 1812, he was commissioned 
brigadier general; major general. February 27, 1813. At the latter date he ceased to 
be governor of Indiana. His commissions as governor date from May 13. His salary 
for 1802 was $2,000 : that of Gibson $750, and those of the judges $800 each. 



 

nursery fills much faster than my strong box and if our future 
progress in this way is as great as it has been and our Gov- 
ernment should adopt the Roman policy of bestowing rewards 
on those who contribute most to the population of the country 
I do not despair of obtaining the Highest premium. 

I have taken the liberty to enclose herewith a paragraph 
from the Farmers library the vehicle of the abuse which a cer- 
tain Isaac Darneille^ has poured upon me for many months 
past under the signature of Decius and which I believe was 
foi-warded to you subscribed with his own name — This re- 
cantation was not extorted by the dread of powder and ball or 
steel — Arguments which I have long declined the use of in 
private quarrels but from the dread of the indignation of 12 
of the Citizens of Kentucky who were about to decide upon the 
merits of his accusations. 

I am sorry to inform you that the Indians on the Illinois 
river and the neighbourhood of the Lakes discover a good deal 
of that kind of restlessness & Jealousy which usually precede 
a rupture and if the information I have just received be cor- 
rect there is a probability that we shall shortly receive some 
pretty strong manifestations of the enmity of the Sacs and 
Kickapoos. 

An elderly Squaw who resides at the principal Wea village 
about 50 miles from the place has communicated to me 
through a trader of unquestionable veracity that about 10 days 
ago a Kickapoo arrived in their village with a war belt invit- 
ing the Weas to join his nation and the Sacs in a war against 
the United States. The belt and speech were delivered as the 
squaw says to the Wea chiefs — She further said that she had 
conversed with the bearer of the belt & demanded the reasons 
which induced the Kickapoos to go to war with the Americans 
who were strong enough to destroy all the Indians in a very 
short time. He answered that all this was well understood 
but that they had received so many injuries from the Amer- 
icans that they were determined to perish to a man rather than 
not revenge them — I do not believe this tale altho I think it 
highly probable that some part of the Conversation passed be- 

2. Isaac Daineille was the second lawyer in the Illinois country, arriving in 1794 
at Caholiia. He seems to have been a preacher in Maryland but in the west he played 
the Chesterfield in a social way and engaged in land speculation and law for a liveli- 
hood. He was engaged in a number of discreditable episodes and finally became a school 
teacher in western Ky. where he died in 1830. He had a good classical education. His 
Letters of Decius was the most talked of book in the territory for a time and caused 
the governor much trouble. Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, SSI 



 

tween the Kickapoo &. the squaw. I have the highest confi- 
dence in the Wea chief- — I know he has a warm friendship 
for me & I am sure he would have communicated the proposi- 
tion which the Kickapoos are said to have made to him if there 
was really any such made — The affair however deserves at- 
tention & I shall take care to have it properly investigated — 
the result of my enquiries shall be communicated to the Sec- 
retary of War by the next mail. 

In a letter which I did myself the honor to write to you some 
time in the last Summer I took the liberty to request the 
Appointment of Judge of this Territory if a vacancy should 
occur for my brother in law Mr Coupland whose embarrassed 
Circumstances would have been much relieved by such an ap- 
pointment — If however Mr Coupland should not be deemed a 
proper person or should decline the office I beg leave to solicit 
it for my friend Mr [Benjamin] Parke our Delegate to Con- 
gress who is also the Attorney General of the Territory & who 
unites all the qualifications requisite for such an appointment 
I believe that he would be more acceptable to the people of 
the Territory as a Judge than any other who could be ap- 
pointed. 

I have the Honor to be Dear Sir your faithful & obliged 
Hume Servt. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 

The President of the United States 
reed July 28 

Harrison to Menard, Commission 

July 12, 1806 

Fergus Hist. Series SI, Early Illinois 35 

William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in 
Chief of the Indiana Territory, to PIERRE MENARD, Esq'r, 
Greeting : 

Reposing special trust and confidence in your fidelity, cour- 
age and good conduct, I have appointed you a Lietutenant 
Colonel Commandant of the first regiment of the Militia of 
the county of Randolph and you are hereby appointed ac- 
cordingly. You are therefore carefully and diligently to dis- 
charge the duty of Lieut. Colo. Commandt. in leading, order- 
ing and exercising the said regiment in arms, both inferior 



 

officers and soldiers, and to keep them in good order and dis- 
cipline, and they are hereby commanded to obey you as their 
Lieutenant Colo. Commandt. and you are yourself to observe 
and follow such orders and instructions as you shall from 
time to time receive from me or your superior officers. 

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto caused the seal 
(Seal) of the territory to be affixed, the twelfth day of July 
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and six 
and of the Independence of the United States of America the 
thirty first. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
By the Governor's Command, 

Jno. Gibson, Secretary 

Indiana Territory | Before me the subscriber (author- 

Randolph County J ^^' ized by Dedimus Protestatem from 
the Governor of said Territory, dated the third day of May, 
1806, to administer the oaths of office to all officers civil and 
military of said county) personally appeared PETER Menard, 
Esquire, and took the oaths of office as Colonel of the first 
Regiment of Militia of Randolph County as required by law. 
Given under my hand at Kaskaskia the 18th day of July, 1806. 

Mich. Jones 



Proclamation : On Selling Liquor to Indians 

July 26, 1806 
Executive Journal, 13 

A proclamation was Issued by the Governor prohibiting the 
sale of ardent Spirits to any Indian or Indians at this place 
or within 30 miles of the same during the Confei'ence or 
Council which is about to be held with the diferent tribes of 
Indians. [Abstract] 



Wilkinson to Harrison 

September 19, 1806 
Parton, Aaron Burr, vol. II, 50 

Shall I say in return I have a boon to ask of you, of no or- 
dinary import? No, I will not! because the commutation 
would dishonor my application ; but I will demand from your 



 

friendship a boon, in its influence coextensive with the Union ; 
a boon, perhaps on which that Union may much depend; a 
boon, which from my knowledge of men, motives, and prin- 
ciples, will be acceptable to those whose politics we are bound 
to support. If you ask, what is this important boon which 
I so earnestly crave? I will say to you, return the bearer to 
the councils of our country, where his talents and abilities 
are all-important at the present moment. But you continue, 
how is this to be done? By your fiat! Let Mr. [Benjamin] 
Parks adhere to his profession; convene your Solomons and 
let them return him (Colonel Burr) to Congress. If you 
taste this proposition, speak to him, and he will authorize you 
to purchase, if necessary, an estate for him in your Terri- 
tory.' 

Harrison to Bissell 

Grouseland 8th Oct. 1806 

Bissell Mss. No. 8, St. Louis Mercantile Library 

Dear Sir 

You must by this time suppose me one of the worst cor- 
respondents in the World & I have no inclination to deny the 
charge for all my friends tell me so & what every one be- 
lieves must be true. I wrote to you however about six weeks 
ago by Col. [Francis] Vigo but as that gentleman did not 
visit your post as he intended when he set out from this 
place the letter was returned to me & I intended to have 
wi-itten by Mr. [Charles] Gratiot but he left this place with- 
out my knowing it having called at my house when I was 
absent. Your letter of the 4th of April last was duly re- 
ceived & removed every difficulty with regard to the affair 
of T. Harrison — indeed I never had an idea that Lt. Pike for 
whom I have a great esteem & friendship had done anything 
more in that affair than what would have been considered 
when subjected to the most serious scrutiny as an act of im- 
prudence Such as I myself have committed whilst in a military 
command & such as all men of ardent minds are likely to 
commit. I have appointed Mr. [Gratiot?] Quater a magis- 
trate & I am very glad to find from are mutual friend 

1. This is only a fragment of the letter. Compare Wilkinson's testimony at Burr's 
trial when he said he would go to jail rather than produce the entire letter from 
Harrison. 



 

Whittlock that he will be agreeable to you. I intended to 
have given him a letter to your requesting your advice and 
assistance in the performing of his duty respecting which 
he may be at a loss from his limited acquaintance with our 
language manners & laws — I think that a good understand- 
ing between you may be production of mutual advantages & 
tend to preserve tranquility in the settlement adjacent to your 
post. 

With much Respect & Esteem I am Dr. Sir, Your Humbl. 
S^^^- Will. H. Harrison 

Harrison: Message to Legislature 

November 3, 1806 

Dillon, History of Indiana, U23-U2U 

In a message which was delivered before the territorial 
legislature of Indiana, in 1806, Governor Harrison stated that 
he had received from all the Indian tribes, under his super- 
intendence, "the most solemn assurances of a disposition, on 
their part, to preserve inviolate their relations of amity with 
the United States." The same message contains the follow- 
ing passages in relation to the condition of Indian affairs at 
that period : 

They [the Indians] will never have recourse to arms, I 
speak of those in our immediate neighborhood, unless driven 
to it by a series of injustice and oppression. Of this they 
already begin to complain ; and I am sorry to say that their 
complaints are far from being groundless. It is true that 
the general government has passed laws for fulfilling, not 
only the stipulation contained in our treaty, but also those 
sublimer duties which a just sense of our prosperity and their 
wretchedness seem to impose. The laws of the territory pro- 
vide, also the same punishment for offenses committed against 
Indians as against white men. Experience, however, shows 
that there is a wide difference in the execution of those laws. 
The Indian always suffers, and the white man never. This 
partiality has not escaped their penetration, and has afforded 
them an opportunity of making the proudest comparisons be- 
tween their own observance of treaties and that of their 
boasted superiors. If, in your review of our penal code, gen- 
tlemen, any regulation should suggest itself which would 



 

promise more impartiality in the execution of the laws in 
favor of this unhappy people, the adoption of it will be highly 
acceptable to the government of the United States and honor- 
able to yourselves. But should you suppose it dangerous to 
make any discrimination in their favor, I pray you to lose 
no opportunity of inculcating, among your constituents, an 
abhorrence of that unchristian and detestable doctrine which 
would make a distinction of guilt between the murder of a 
white man and an Indian/ 

Harrison to Chouteau 

Grouseland, 17th Nov. 1806 

Choteau Mss. 33, St. Louis Mercantile Library 

Dear Sir 

Permit me to introduce to your acquaintance Captain 
[James] House' of the United States Artillery whose amiable 
character and manners have gained him the respect and 
esteem of all who have had the pleasure of an introduction 
to him. He is to command the troops that are stationed in 
your neighborhood and from what I know of him myself 
and what I have heard from others upon whom I can rely a 
more fortunate selection could not have been. I must ask 
the favour of you to make him acquainted with Messrs Gratiot 
and Fouland and the rest of my friends in your to\vn. 

I am Dr. Sir with great Respect and Regard Your Humble 
S^^^^"^ William H. Harrison 

August Choteau. Esq. 

Burr to Harrison 

November 27, 1806 

Parton, Life of Aaron Burr, Vol II, 72 

Considering the various and extravagant reports^ which 
circulate conceiTiing me, it may not be unsatisfactory to you 

1. This message was addressed to the Second Session of the First General Assembly, 
which met at Vincennes, November 3, 1806, and enacted twenty-eight laws. The full 
text of this message has not been found : but from a passage in No. 30 it is evident 
that one of the Governor's recommendations was a revision of the plan of taxation. 

1. James House was bom in Conn, enlisted Feb. 22, 1799, from Penn. as a 
lieutenant in the artillery; became paymaster 1799: captain 1805; colonel 1822; Brig. 
Gen., 1832, died Nov. 17, 1834. Heitman, Register, 5H 

1. This was one of a number of letters written soon after his affair with the 
Frankfort grand jury. This is evidently the letter which Harrison says almost misled 
him. 



 

to be informed (and to you there can be no better source of 
information than myself) that I have no wish or design to 
attempt a separation of the Union, that I have no connection 
with any foreign power or government, that I never medi- 
tated the introduction of any foreigni power or influence into 
the United States, or any part of its territories, but on the 
contrary should repel with indignation any proposition or 
measure having that tendency; in fine, that I have no project 
or views hostile to the interest or tranquillity or union of 
the United States, or prejudicial to its government, and I 
pledge my honor to the truth of this declaration. It is true 
that I am engaged in an extensive speculation, and that with 
me are associated some of your intimate and dearest friends. 
The objects are such as every man of honor and every good 
citizen must approve. They have been communicated to sev- 
eral of the principal officers of our government, particularly 
to one in the confidence of the administration. He has as- 
sured me my views would be grateful to the administration. 
Indeed, from the nature of them, it can not be otherwise, 
and I have no doiibt of having received your active support, 
if a personal communication with you could have been had. 

Waller Taylor to Harrison 

Louisville, January 12, 1807 

Dillon, History of Indiana iSl 

I arrived at Jefi'ersonville on Saturday morning last, after 
an extremely disagreeable journey, occasioned by the badness 
of the roads, and the difficulty of making our stages of a 
night. The public mind at this place appears to be much 
agitated, on account of Colonel [Aaron] Burr's mysterious 
movements.^ Conjectures are various about his intentions; 
but nothing certain has transpired to throw any light on his 
views. There is stationed at this place about two hundred 
militia, who examine all boats that descend the river. No 
discoveries have yet been made by them ; and only two boats 

1. Burr's movements had been the chief object of interest in the Ohio Valley since 
the summer of 1805. Davis Floyd had been active in his support, building and loading 
boats. Burr had visited Harrison at Vincennes, with what result is not known. So 
far as is known Harrison offered no opposition. Taylor was perhaps sent on this 
trip by the governor to watch developments. Butler, Histori/ of Kentuckji, SSO, says 
Burr made advances to Harrison but the latter repelled him. It seems that Burr 
Bent Captain Westcott to Harrison but without results. 



 

have yet been detained, which were built by Burr's direction 
at Jeff ersonvi lie, or this place, I am not certain which. A 
large drove of horses, said to be purchased for the expedition, 
will be seized to-day, by the civil authority of the State. It 
seems to me that the precautions now taken are perfectly 
useless ; because Burr, I believe has got all the force he could 
raise from this State, and is, probably, before this time, at 
Natchez. 



Slavery Petition 

February 12, 1807 

Annuls of Ninth Congress, Sec. Sess. i82 
Am. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, 477 

Mr. Parke, from the committee' to whom was referred the 
letter of William Henry Harrison, Governor of the In- 
diana Territory, enclosing certain resolutions of the Leg- 
islative Council and House of Representatives of the said 
Territory, made the following report : 
That the resolutions of the Legislative Council and House 
of Representatives of the Indiana Territory relate to a sus- 
pension for the term of ten years, of the sixth article of com- 
pact between the United States and the Territories and States 
northwest of the river Ohio, passed the 13th July, 1787. That 
article declares "there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary 
servitude in the said Territory." 

The suspension of the said article would operate an imme- 
diate and essential benefit to the Territory, as emigration to 
it will be inconsiderable for many years except from those 
States where slavery is tolerated ; and although it is not con- 
sidered expedient to force the population of the Territory, 
yet it is desirable to connect its scattered settlements, and, in 
regard to political rights, to place it on an equal footing witli 
the different states. From the interior situation of the Ter- 
ritory, it is not believed that slaves would ever become so 
numerous as to endanger the internal peace or future pros- 
perity of the country. The current of emigration flowing to 
the western country, the Territories ought all to be opened 

1. This committee consisted of Benjamin Parlte of Ind.. John Rhea of Tenn.. 
Jeremiah Morrow of Ohio, Willis Alston of N. C, Josiah Masters of N. Y., Thomas 
Sanford of Ky., and Abram Trigg of Va. The petition from Indiana is given in 
Annals of Congress, Jan. 20, 1807. 



 

to their introduction. The abstract question of liberty and 
slavery is not involved in the proposed measure, as slavery 
now exists to a considerable extent in different parts of the 
Union ; it would not augment the number of slaves, but merely 
authorize the removal to Indiana of such as are held in bond- 
age in the United States. If slavery is an evil, means ought 
to be devised to render it least dangerous to the community, 
and by which the hapless situation of the slaves would be 
most ameliorated; and to accomplish these objects, no meas- 
ure would be so effectual as the one proposed. The commit- 
tee, therefore, respectfully submit to the House the following 
resolution : 

Resolved, That it is expedient to suspend, from and after 
the 1st day of January 1808 the sixth article of compact be- 
tween the United States and the Territories and States north- 
west of the river Ohio, passed the 13th day of July, 1787, for 
the term of ten years. 

Gibson to Madison 
Secretary's Office, Vincennes March 7th 1807 

Har. Pa. Itl9 

Sir: 

I have the honour of enclosing to you the Laws of the as- 
sembly of this Territory at their 2nd session [of the First 
Assembly, Nov. 3, 1806], also a list of stationary for the use 
of this office, as that wrote for last year has not as yet ar- 
rived. Mr. George Wallace [Gibson's brother-in-law] the 
contractor at this place, who is now on his way to the City 
of Washington, will take charge of it and have it brought on 
to this place. 

I have the honour to be with the highest consideration and 
respect. Sir, your most obedient humble servant. 

Jno. Gibson 
The Honble. James Madison Esqr. 



204 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Petition: Justice of the Peace 

Indiana Territory, Randolph County [III-] 
23d March 1807 

Mss. Indiana State Library 

Sir: 

We whose names are hereunto subscribed take the liberty 
of Informing your Excellency that our Settlement at this 
time is destitute of a Justice of the peace owing to Capt. Fords 
Resignation; and we are frequently much imposed upon by 
Boatmen and other persons strageling through our part of 
the country and we fear we will be much more imposed on if 
we don't have a Justice appointed amongst us in a short time, 
we further take the liberty of recommending Samuel Omel- 
veny as the most proper person on our settlement to fill that 
office ; he has resided here for better than a year and has still 
behaved himself as a just uprite Honest man. We therefore 
pray your Excellency would Commistion the said Omelveny 
or any other person that you in your wisdom may think 
proper, wilest we remain with Due Submition your Excel- 
lency Most Obedient and Humble Servants. 
His Excellency Governor Harrison 



Ja. Smith, Sen 
Daniel Havel 
Thomas Wallis 
Thomas Jons 
Isaac Ralston 
Samson Dunn 
Robert Hays 
Benjamin Smyth 
John Fisher 
Nathan Fisher 
James Panky 
Moses Oarlock 
Wm. Simpson 
Mell Self 
Samuel Blanton 

Simpson 
William Daniel 
Simon Womble 
Elisha Browning 
Richard Bankson 
Jacob Wallis 
William Hall 
Chambertson Hutson 



John Hutson 
John Wratlif 
James Ford 
William Rogers 
Wiley Hutson 
David Self 
James Steel 
Alexander Blair 
Elijah Estes 
John Browning 
James Wilson 
James Bales 
Warren Cox 
Thomas Jordan 
Jorge Sellig 
William Batley 
Leopold Crownvalley 
Nathaniel Shields 
William Christy 

EZEKIAH STELLY 

Jacob Robortson 
Robart Shays 
Silas Byers 



John Vaun 
Francis Jourdan 
Edward Rose 
Thomas Rose 
John Smyth 
Spencer Mercer 
John Wilson 
Richard Lee 
James Bain 
John Russel 
Julius Wicker 
James Wilson, Sr. 
John Richards 
Elisha Colbert 
Ress Jones 
Jacob Self 
Solomon Redfern 
Linsey Moglen 
James Hicks 
Gershom Clemen 
Benjamin Page 
Shangeman Moglin 
Hugh Logan, Jr. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 205 

Harrison to Williams 

Vincennes 3rd April 1807 

Jeffe)-f!on Papers, 2d Series, Vol. Sd, No. 50 
Dr Sir 

Mr Davis Floyd' who was so unfortunate as to have become 
the dupe of the artful & mischievous Aaron Burr- has re- 
quested me to write to you in his favor, and to State his 
Standing and Character in this Territory before his late ex- 
pedition. I have been intimately acquainted with this Gentle- 
man for Six Years and I can truly affirm that there was not 
a man in the Territory, who possessed more intirely my Con- 
fidence & esteem, As sheriff of the County [Clark] in which 
he resided. Representative in the Legislature and an Officer 
in the Militia, (in which he held the rank of Major) his Con- 
duct was equally honorable to himself and useful to his fel- 
low Citizens nor do I believe that there is any man who pos- 
sessed a higher sense of Patriotism or more devotion to 
the Constitution of his Country, You will ask then how he 
came to engage in the late treasonable enterprise? The copy 
of Colo. Burrs'' letter to me which is inclosed will furnish the 
Solution from which You will See that the grosest falshoods 
were Used to entrap those whose honesty he knew to be proof 
against any proposal to violate the Laws of their Country, — 
This letter of Colo Burrs, was addressed to me in Conse- 
quence of Major Floyd and another Gentleman having waited 
on him at Louisville & declared their intention of abandoning 
him unless he would give to me the most explicit assurances 
in writing that his object was known to, and approved of by 
the Government, This You see he did not hesitate to do, and 

1. Davis Floyd openeJ a tavern at Clarkville in 1801, where he was a falls pilot 
for many years. He was actively associated with Burr for which he was tried and 
convicted, fined $10 and sentenced to jail for 3 hours. He moved to Corydon and rep- 
resented that county in the legislature; was circuit judge from 1816 to 1823 and was 
then appointed by Jefferson. Dec. 5, 1823, as a commissioner to adjust land claims 
in Florida. It is thought he died there. Esarey, Courts and Laicijers, 62 

2. Aaron Burr--"On the 1st of Sept, (1805) I leave this (Frankfort) for St. 
Louis. My route is to Louisville, 55 miles. Vincennes on the Wabash 150 miles." 

Memoirs of Aaron Burr, II, 37i 

There is a literature on Aaron Burr, perhaps the best is Parton's Burr though it 

is rather hostile. Safford, The Blennerhassett Papers, and his Memoirs by M. L. Davis 

are good. The evidence is given in Am. Sta. Pa., Mis. I, 468-646. See also Dillon, 

Indiana, 431 

3. Two letters one from Burr to Harrison, Nov. 27, 1806, and one from Wilkinson 
to Harrison, Sept, 19, 1806, are herewith printed from Partem. The allusion may be 
to the latter. The letter of Taylor to Harrison, January 12, 1807, is also copied from 
Dillon. 



II, 68. When Burr 


was 


arrested 1 


in his coat 


to C. T. 


(com 


fort Tyler 


ire together, 


, keep so. 


and 


I will joi 


™ur ai-ms ii 


n perfect 


orde.- 


." 



 

I must Confess that the Solemnity of his Declarations im- 
posed for Some time on me as well as Major Floyd.* 

4. On the third of Nov., 1806, U. S. attorney Joseph Davies asl<ed for an in- 
dictment against Burr. Judse Innes denied the application but at Burr's request 
granted it. Daviess said his witness could be there on the following Wednesday, but 
on that day announced that his witness, Davis Floyd, could not attend as he was 
attending the Indiana legislature, Parton, Burr, 
sent his colored servant with a dispatch sewed 
and D. F. (Davis Floyd) as follows: "If you 
you tomorrow night. In the meantime put all 

Floyd went down the Ohio and Mississippi with Burr. He had charge of a boat. 
This entry is in Blennerhassetfs journal for January 9, 1807: "Major Floyd's boat 
put ashore in consequence of being deterred by a sudden squall of wind." On Jan. 12: 
"This day Major Floyd joined us from Nachez." 

Safford, BIcnnerhassctt Papers. 187, 180 

On page 190 is a letter from Floyd to a U. S. Officer at Petit Gulf showing that 
Floyd was not conscious of opposing the U. S. Government. June 25, 1807, the Federal 
grand jury under Chief Justice Marshall, Henrico Co., Va. indicted Davis Floyd along 
with Burr for high treason. 

Parton. Life of Burr, II, 126 

Samuel Moxley testified at the trial of Burr. Sept. 21, that he joined Burr at the 
Falls in Captain Thomas Berry's boat. That Major Floyd's boat as well as Berry's was 
built at the Fails and loaded with provisions. Moxley was hired by Berry twelve miles 
back of Jeffersonville. 

AnnaU of Cong. 10th, first eess. I, iS6 

David risk testified that "some time in the month of September, 1806, a certain 
Davis Floyd, of the Indiana Territory, came to this affiant, and asked him if he did 
not wish to take a voyage down the river with him during the course of the fail or 
winter ; that he was going to settle a new country, the Washita, on the Red river. 
This happened either the next day. or a few days after Colonel Burr had left Jeffer- 
sonville, the residence of the said Floyd. At that time this affiant did not tell him 
whether he would go or not ; but about two or three weeks afterwards he did agree 
to go, the said Floyd having several times mentioned what a fine chance there would 
be for him : that they would not agree to give to any one man more than twelve dollars a 
month, and one hundred and fifty acres of land at the end of six months, besides clothes 
and provisions : but as he and this affiant were well acquainted, if he would have confi- 
dence in him, he would do something very clever for him ; and if they succeeded in 
their object, there would be fortunes made for all that went. This affiant asked what 
other object they had besides settling the Washita land. The said Floyd answered that 
there was a new road to be cut a great distance and several houses to be built, which 
would be a very profitable undertaking. No positive bargain was made between the 
said Floyd and this affiant. On the 16th of December, 1806, this affiant moved down the 
river from the falls of the Ohio, in the Indiana Territory, with the said Davis Floyd, 
with two boats and one batteau, which the said Floyd had built there. After the boats 
had left the falls of the Ohio three or four days, he discovered for the first time, on 
board one of Floyd's boats, a chest and a box, the former of which, it afterwards 
appeared, contained muskets and bayonets, a few fuses, and blunderbusses and pistol ; 
the latter rifles. A day or two afterwards, the said Floyd inquired of the men if they 
did not want, each of them, a gun to take care of : that he had some there which he 
was afraid would get rusty. The chest box was then opened, and all the arms taken 
out and cleaned and some of them occasionally used by the men in hunting as they 
went down the river. There were as near as he can judge, between twenty-five and 
thirty muskets with bayonets, two or three fuses, three or four blunderbusses, ten 
pairs of pistols and about eight or ten rifles. 

Some short time after the boats had joined Colonel Burr, and before they had 
got into the Mississippi river, while this affiant was lying sick on his trunk, he heard 
the said Floyd tell several of the men that they were going to take Baton Rouge and 
Mexico ; this affiant asked how they were going to do it with so few men : the said 
Floyd answered, that a large party of men were to join us at Natchez, and General 
Wilkinson and his army were to join us at the mouth of Red river. Nothing of im- 



 

Should You be able Consistently with Your duty to render 
Major Floyd any Service in the prosecution now pending 
against him it would Confer an Obligation on me and restore 
to his family and numerous friends a man whom I am Con- 
vinced never had an intention of Violating the Laws of his 
Country 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect and Esteem — 
Dr Sir Your Humble Servt. 

(Signed) Willm. Henry Harrison 
His Excy. 

Governor Williams 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 12th April 1807 
Ha.r. Pa. 196 

Sir: 

I wrote to you about eighteen months ago that some 
roumours unfavourable to the reputation of Mr. [Charles] 
Jouett' had reached me. I have however never found a per- 
son who would make any specific charge against him, Mr. 
Munro,- excepted who asserted that he had applied a part of 
the Public provisions to his own use. 

Mr. Jouett having heard that some unfavourable impres- 
sions had been made on my mind against him has now volun- 

]>ortance occuiTed till the boats got down to Bayou Piei*re. A day or two before their 
arrival there. Colonel Burr took a boat and four or five men. and went on ahead, as 
this affiant understood, to do some business, which he expected to do before the boats 
got down. Floyd's boat, in which he went himself, and in which this affiant was. 
arrived there on a Sunday morning, and the other boats not till the evening. On our 
arrival. Col. Burr was standing on the bank of the river, about a mile above the town : 
some short time after the men from our boat went ashore, this affiant saw Colonel Burr 
and a certain Robert A. New (who had the charge of Floyd's boat in his absence, he 
having then gone to Natchez) talking together for some time. The said New then 
came on board our boat, and called all the men into it, and said he understood they 
were all going to be stopped, and inquired of them whether they would stand by 
Colonel Burr and go on, or quit. Most of the men were for going on, but two or 
three were for quitting. In the course of that day, this affiant mentioned to the 
said New that he mistrusted they were going on some unlawful scheme. He assured 
3t, that nothing was going to take place but what was lawful 



1. See Dec. 24, 1805, Supra. It is sigi 
Chicago at this time. 

2. Dr. John Munro was a wealthy merchant of Detroit. Other members of the 
name were Capt. John Munroe, a loyalist of Vermont, then in upper Canada, Robert 
Munro, who wrote to Harrison on account of the Detroit fire. There is no indication 
here of which is meant. 



 

tarily come forward and declared his willingness to submit 
to any investigation that I might think proper to institute. 

His explanation of the circumstances which gave rise to 
Mr. Munro's accusation is entirely satisfactory and I have 
no hesitation in saying as far as I am acquainted with his 
conduct as a public officer he has acted with zeal and integrity. 
It is true that a great clamor has been raised against him at 
Detroit by persons in the British interest but this is easily 
accounted for as the establishments of an Indian agency at 
that place had a powerful effect in checking their illicit prac- 
tices in the Indian country. 

I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect and esteem 

Sir your humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. Henry Dearbourn Esq. Secretary of War 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, April 16, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, 203, 20U 

Captain William Hargrove:' 

This will be handed to you by Ell Ernest, one of our scouts. 
Since you were here on last Friday the 10th inst. two of our 
scouts are in and report that last Sunday night, the 12th inst., 
a band of roving Indians captured a white family on the old 
Indian road from this place to Clarkesville this side of the 
mudhole [near where Otwell, Indiana, now stands] killed the 
man and took into captivity the woman and her five children.^ 
Governor Harrison and Adjutant General John Small' are 
both away. The Governor before starting instructed me to 
write you that if it was possible without taking too many 
men out of your settlement, that you enlist at least twenty 

1. William Hargrove was a native of South Car., born 1775. He settled in Indiana 
in 1803, having spent some time in Ky. He sei-ved many years in the militia and is 
said to have been the first to raise a company for the Tippecanoe campaign. He died 
at his old home in Gibson County in 1843. Cocki-um, Pioneer History, 203: Gibson 
County, 51, 154, 219; Storraont, Gibson county, iO, U, seg. 

2. This refers to the murder of the Larkins family by a band of Delawares. The 
father was killed at the time and the mother and five children taken captives. Mrs. 
Larkin was a daughter of Judge Greenup of Ky. A sei-vant escaped and carried the 
news to Gibson at Vincennes. Cockrum, Pioneer History, SOI 

3. John Small was living near Vincennes as early as 1784. In 1790 he became 
sherifT of Knox county ; in 1798 he represented Knox in the territorial legislature at 
Cincinnati. He was a gunsmith by trade and no doubt a farmer and trader. He died 
in 1821. 



 

men for Ranger service giving a preference at all times to 
men who have been on Indian campaigns, but not to leave 
any family without some able-bodied man to protect them, un- 
less they are in block houses. This should be done at once 
so that the men can be on duty in five days.* Send in two 
days from the time you receive this by the same hand an 
answer. I will then send you instructions as to your duties. 
By the order of the Governor. 

John Gibson Sec'y Indicia Territory 



Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory April 21, 1807 

Cockium, Pioneer Histon-y, 20i, 205 

Captain William Hargrove : 

Your report by the hand of scout [Ell] Ernest has been re- 
ceived. The Governor is very much pleased at your prompt- 
ness. The supplies for the families of those who will serve as 
Rangers will be sent as often as needed. 

I have ordered sent you today, one sack of salt, ten bags of 
meal, for you to distribute before you leave home. Also 
twenty-five pounds of powder, twenty-five pounds of lead, two 
hundred gunflints, one bundle of tow [to clean rifles]. You 
will divide your force and form a squad of six men under a 
reliable man who will act as Sergeant to patrol the main 
travelled way from your settlement south to the Ohio river, 
at Red Banks [Henderson, Ky.]. Instruct the Sergeant to 
make two trips each way every ten days. I will send a scout 
who will come with the men and carts that bring the supplies. 
He will go on duty with the squad patrolling to the south. 
The other thirteen men will be with you ; also one scout and 
two friendly Indians. You are to patrol the old Indian trace 
[Vincennes — New Albany] that leads from this place to 
Clarksville on the Ohio river, from a point where this old road 
crosses White river [Wrights Ferry] and going as far as 

4. On account of the large numbers of travelers over the traces in southern 
Indiana, Harrison org;anized three divisions of rangers to patrol the main roads, espe- 
cially the one from the Falls. Hargrove commanded the First company. John Tipton 
the Second, but the captain of the Third is not known. This correspondence between 
Harrison and Hargrove is taken from Col. William M. Cockrum's valuable Pioneer 
History of Indiana, to whom full credit is hereby given. The original letters are in 
his possession. 

14—21182 



 

thirty-five miles east of the mudhole. The two Indians to be 
directly under the orders of the scout who will keep you in- 
formed of the orders he gives them. Once every week send a 
report of your work to this office. It has been ordered that 
movers coming over the old trace shall be held on the other 
end until a number of them are together. Then they will 
travel with the rangers as they are coming west on the trace. 
Any coming into your territory will be sent to a point out of 
danger by you, if coming to the older settlements. If they 
intend to form a new settlement, they must build a fort and 
stay in it until the season for raids has past. They can pre- 
pare houses where they intend to locate but they must remain 
in the blockhouses at night. If there should be extra men 
with the movers who have had experience as hunters or in 
Indian fighting enlist them if you can. I hope that your ex- 
perience in Indian warfare will help you protect your men. 
The roving bands of Indians prowling over this unprotected 
country in the warm season aim to murder helpless people for 
their scalps and the capturing of prisoners for what they can 
realize from the sale of them for servants to the British posts 
on the lakes. They are not hunting for armed soldiers. A 
careful and vigilant scouting service will in a great measure 
do away with these prowling bands of Indians. 

By order of the Governor, 
John Gibson, Sechj. Indiana Territory 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, April 29, 1807 

Cockruiti, Pioneer History, 205, 206 

Captain William Hargrove, in the Ranger Service of Indiana 
Territory: 
Your report by the half-breed Twenney came to hand this 
evening. The Governor wishes to say that he is well pleased 
with your work and fully agrees with you that the route from 
the forks of White river, south to the Yellow Banks on the 
Ohio river [Rockport, Indiana] should be patrolled at least 
once each week. The three men you have recruited can take 
the place of some of your best men that you are acquainted 
with. You will send them over the route in company with one 
of the scouts. The Governor suggests that you send scout 



 

[John] FuQuay' with them, as he is familiar with the coun- 
try south of you on the Ohio river. In your next report fully 
describe what was found on the Yellow Bank route and if 
any Indian sign has been seen near the Ohio river. 

It is utterly impossible at this time to furnish anything 
like a company of men to assist the father of Mrs. Larkins 
in releasing her from captivity. The Governor directs that 
you say to Colonel Greenup that if he can bring the aid from 
Kentucky that he thinks he can, that scouts and guides will 
be furnished them from this post and that he is truly sorry 
that he has not the men to furnish all the help needed. 

John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Territory 
By order Wm. H. Harrison, Governor, Indiana Territory 

Jones to Harrison 

I^SKASKIA May 4th 1807 

Har. Pa. 197-199 

Sir: 

On the 29th ultimo Gabriel, one of the Kaska. Indians 
(Brother-in-law to Ducoigne) was found dead on the Massac 
road about seven miles from this place. He was scalpt his 
scull cut in pieces with three strokes of the tomahawk two 
bullet holes thro' his body one entered the breast the other the 
left side, his left arm broke by the stroke of a ball — his Riffle, 
accoutrements, blanket cloath saddle and bridle were carried 
off. The sadle was found by a party of the Kasa. Indians 
who, the day after the murder was committed pursued the 
trail of a party of eight Indians in a direction towards the 
Kickapoo Towns. Two old blankets an old blue Cappeau and 
a Jole of bacon were left by the perpetrators with the dead 
body. Also an Indian war sign was found on the body. 
Ducoigne believes it to have been done by the Kickapoos or 
Potawatomies. A few days before this event happened, the 
Horse of Mr. Doza' on which he was riding was shot thro' the 
neck a little after dark, on the road leading to Prairie 
Durocher^ about two miles from this Village ; by the aid of a 

1. John Fuquay had been a scout for Harrison since 1801. He covered the south- 
western corner of Indiana. The family settled in Pilie county, before the land was 
purchased from the Indians. 

1. Reynolds speaks of a block house on Doza creek, a branch of the Kaskaskia. 

Pioneer Illinois, iOS 

2. One of the old French settlements about 20 miles up the Mississippi from 
Kaskaskia, near old Fort Chai-tres. 



 

flash of lightning Doza discovered two men whom he took to 
be Indians — a Horse belonging to a Mr. Patten was also shot 
thro the neck (and killed) by an Indian in the woods near the 
farm of Mr. Patten, at no great distance from the place where 
the murder was perpetrated. The bell on the horse which 
Mr. Patten's negro found the preceding morning was carried 
off ; the negro saw an Indian in pursuit of the Horse a short 
time before the horse was shot. 

Ducoigne as well as all his people are in a great dread at 
present. His situation is certainly a very unpleasant & un- 
safe one. Some strange Indians are said to be skulking about 
this place. The Kaskaskians have all come to the village and 
dare not venture out unless they are permitted to fire on the 
Indians whom they may meet in the woods. I have advised 
them to act only on the defensive for the present; to which 
he replied in a sarcastic way "Yes When I meet an Indian I 
must stand until he shoots me down, and then make a defence, 
and thus lose my life and the lives of my people. I have had 
ample protection promised to me by the United States and yet 
the officers do not interest themselves in my behalf. No es- 
cort can be obtained to bring in my dead people and they even 
doubt their authority to rescue me from an attack, under these 
circumstances I ought at least to be placed on a footing with 
my enemies". 

I stated to you in my former letter that some of our officers 
entertain eronious opinions as to the protection they are 
authorized to give to the Kasa. Indians in certain cases and 
suggested the propriety of giving instructions to the officers 
on this subject. I am Dear Sir 

your friend and humble servt. 

Mich. Jones^ 
His Excellency Wlvi H. HARRISON. 

3. Michael Jones was a native of Pennsylvania, came to Kaskaskia in 1804 as 
register of the land office. He died apparently at Kaskaskia Nov. 26, 1822. He is 
frequently confused with the Michael Jones, half brother of Jesse B. Thomas, who went 
from Lawrenceburg with Thomas to Illinois and was a lawyer and politician at 
Shawneetown. Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, 351: Buck, IlUtiois in ISIS, 201 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana territory, May 10, 1807 

Cockrum, Picmeer History, 206, 207 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, In the Indian Ranger Service : 

Your report with enclosures have been received. The Gov- 
ernor feels very sorry that Colonel Greenup feels as he ex- 
presses himself. He ought to know and if reasonable would 
understand that to govern this wild territory and furnish half 
protection to the scattered settlers in this wilderness, that we 
have all we can do with the limited number of men that is at 
our command. It would be a very pleasing thing to aid your 
old soldier mate and recapture Mrs. Larkins and her children. 
It is but natural that her father should feel very anxious about 
her release but he could do nothing with the few men we could 
send him on such an expedition. After leaving the old Indian 
road that you are on there is no settlement north and it would 
take an army to invade the country north of White river. You 
will please convey to him the Governor's compliments and in- 
form him of the contents of the letter. As soon as it is pos- 
sible, we will give him all the aid we can, but it would do him 
no good to make the attempt with a few men as they would 
all be destroyed. 

The report of the three men on the trace south to the Yellow 
Banks is noted. There is most likely but little travel on that 
route. The one family which your men excorted to safty is 
a sufficient answer as to the usefulness of the patrol. They 
will be continued at least until the warm weather is over. 

William H. Harrison, Governor of Indiana Territory 

Harrison to Menard 

ViNCENNES 18th May 1807 
Har. Pa. 200, 201 

Sir: 

The United States having guaranteed to the Kaskaskias 
Tribe of Indians a protection against every Indian Tribe or 
Foreign power equal to what is enjoyed by their own Citizens 
and as it appears that there is a design formed by some of the 
neighbouring tribes to cut them off it becomes necessary that 
measures should be immediately taken to pi-event a catas- 
trophe so horrible in itself — and which would justly subject 



 

our government to the reproach of having violated its most 
solemn engagements. 

You are therefore hereby directed to take immediate meas- 
ures to have the militia of the Town of Kaskaskias and its 
vicinity in readiness to repel any attack that may be made 
upon them and in order that your protection should be as 
effectual as possible I have directed the Chief [Ducoigne] to 
put himself and his tribe under your orders and not to suffer 
them to leave the town without your permission — this per- 
mission should not be given unless you should think proper to 
employ them as scouts until it is ascertained that they can 
go out in safety. I have requested Michael Jones Esq. to sup- 
ply them with provisions and ammunition and with this gen- 
tleman to whom I have hitherto entrusted the management of 
the Indian business in the Illinois country you will please to 
consult on the measures to be adopted to carry the Orders 
contained in this letter into effect. It will be necessary that 
every party of Indians who may come into your vicinity should 
be watched and that they should be informed of the direc- 
tions you have received to protect the Kaskaskians and this I 
hope will be sufficient to prevent their attempting to do them 
any farther mischief. I have sent a message [See next num- 
ber] to the Chiefs of the Illinois Kickapoos through the Chief 
of that Nation who resides on the Vermilion and a duplicate 
of the same to Mr. Jones who will convey it to them by some 
intelligent person who understands their language. You will 
please to communicate to me as soon as possible any informa- 
tion you may possess relative to the late murder of the Kas- 
kaskian Indian which will lead to a discovery of the 
perpretrators and whether it proceeded from an accidental 
rencounter or a determination upon the part of the Tribe to 
which they belonged to make War upon the Kaskaskians. 

I am most respectfully your humble servt. 

Signed W. H. H. 
Col. [Pierre] Menard' as the Commanding Officer of The Mili- 
tia of Randolph County 

1. Pierre Menard was one of three brothers (Pierre, Hypolite and Francis) who 
came to Kasl<askia from Canada. Pierre was born in 1767 and fairly well educated. 
He reached Vincennes in 1786 and worked for Vigo. He went with Vigo in 1789 to 
meet Washington. For a time he was a partner of Dubois at Vincennes. He spent 
his life in the Indian trade — a large part of the time in official capacity. He was 
often elected to civil office, being the first lieutenant governor of 111. He died in 
Kaskaskia in 1844. Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois, S91 



 

Harrison to Kickapoos and Kaskaskias 

May 19th 1807 

Har. Pa. 202, 203 

William Henry Harrison Governor of the Indiana Territory 
and Superintendent of Indian Affairs to his children the 
Chiefs and head men of the Kickapoos Tribe [of Illinois] 

My Children: 

Why does it happen that I am so often obliged to address 
you in the language of complaint? 

Will your young men never listen to the advice of their 
father? My Children You cannot be ignorant that the 17 
fires of America have taken the Kaskaskians Tribe under their 
Wings. 

You know this and yet you suffered your young men to shed 
their blood and scatter it in your father's face. 

My Children— the great Chief and the Council of the 17 fires 
have said to the Kaskaskian Tribe: "My Children, your 
voice has been heard by your father. He will take you in his 
bosom and let no man hurt you". 

My children — your father does not lie — He will not suffer 
you to kill the Kaskaskians when they do you no injury. 

My Children. Let me know by the return of the bearer 
who it was that covered your father's road with blood. 

My Children. I want to see some of you here to speak to 
you on the subject of the Kaskaskians. 

My Children. The blood that was shed on your father's 
road must be covered up. [This was enclosed with the letter 
to Menard May 18.] 

From your Father 

(Signed) Wm. H. Harrison 



Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, May 22, 1807 

Cockvuni, Pioneer History, 207 

Captain William Hargrove, Commanding a detachment of 
Rangers : 
Ell Ernest is in with your report. Will send you a Cree 
Indian for the one you say is too lazy to hunt. This Indian 



 

has been here for a long time and has the reputation of being 
a great hunter. He can keep your rangers in meat. I have 
had an interview with him and he is delighted with the pros- 
pect of going as a scout. Ernest is acquainted with him and 
can make him understand what is to be done. Ernest said 
that he saw a number of Indians in bathing on the south bank 
of the White river and a number of them were fishing. They 
did not see him. As they were near here, a platoon of cavalry 
has been sent with several scouts to look after them. These 
troops before they return may report to you and will inform 
you what these Indians were up to. There are always some 
contrary people in all walks of life who are hard to manage. 
The ones you report are not all who have been troublesome. 
There is no deviating from the rule. Anyone who refuses to 
stay in the fort when ordered, arrest them and send them to 
this post, under guard. When the Government does all that 
it can to protect its people they must and shall obey the rules. 
This territory is under no law that can force obedience but the 
Military and all of its subjects must obey the governing rule 
or be sent out of it. 

By the order of the Governor. 

By John Gibson, Secretary of Indiana Territory 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 23d May 1807 

Hur. Pa. -20^-206 

Sir: 

I have the Honour to enclose herewith a letter [May 4] 
from Michael Jones, Esquire, the Register of the Land office 
at Kaskaskias, upon the subject of a murder lately committed 
upon one of the Kaskaskias Indians in the vicinity of Kas- 
kaskias by a party of Indians supposed to belong to the Kicka- 
poo or Potawatimi Tribes. From the circumstances attending 
the murder and others which have come to my knowledge I am 
induced to believe that a design has been formed by one or 
both of the last mentioned Tribes to destroy the remnant 
of the Kaskaskias Tribe. As the United States have guaran- 
teed to the Kaskaskians a protection as effectual as "that 
which is enjoyed by their own Citizens" I had no hesitation 
in giving the orders of which the enclosed is a copy to the 



 

Commanding Officer of the Militia at Kaskaskias [Pierre 
Menard]. I hope however that there will be no necessity of 
having recourse to arms to protect them. The message which 
I have sent to the Kickapoos (of which I enclose a copy) will 
I believe produce a suspension of Hostilities and satisfaction 
for the injury that has been already done. The killing of the 
Horse mentioned in that of Mr. Jones' letter and the firing 
at the frenchman do not in my opinion indicate any hostile 
design against the Whites. The Indians frequently steal 
horses that they are unable to catch by shooting them through 
the upper part of the neck, which only stuns them a little — 
but if the shot is a little too low the horse is killed. Doza the 
Frenchman who was shot at he might easily have been mis- 
taken in the night for a Kaskaskias Indian. 

I am utterly at a loss to know what to do with the Banditti 
of Creeks which have so long infested this country. They are 
the most daring mischevious fellows in existence. The set- 
tlers on the Ohio have suffered so much from them, that they 
say They can no longer bear with them. At the earnest 
solicitation of the People in that quarter I have authorized the 
Capt. of the Militia [Pierre Menard] with the concurrance 
of a Justice of the Peace to disarm them, if they do not attend 
to the solemn admonition which I have lately sent them. They 
are in the daily habit of committing every species of aggres- 
sion excepting murder, &c. and should they begin with this 
I know no other way of managing them than hunting them 
like wild beasts. For I am persuaded from their characters 
that if any individual amongst them was to be brought to 
punishment the families of many of our scattered settlers 
would fall a sacrifice to the revenge of the others. 

I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect Sir Your 
humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble The SECRETARY of War 



 

Wells to Harrison 

Fort Wayne June 1807 

Dawson, Harrison, 92 

Mr. [William] ' Kirke is now about to retire from this place, 
and form a settlement at the Ottawa towns, among the 
Shawanese, and there wait the orders of the government. 

I have done every thing in my power to carry the views of 
the President into execution among the Indians, under Mr. 
Kirke, but to no purpose. The Indians too plainly see, that he 
cannot fulfil the views of the President, and say they will not 
acknowledge the receipts of a thing they never received. 

Now sir, as I firmly believe that the Indians are very 
anxious to receive what the President has offered them — as 
I am convinced that it would add much to the welfare of the 
Indians, and believing that I could come nearer executing the 
views of the President among the Indians of this agency, than 
any other person he could appoint for that purpose, I now 
offer him my services through you, and beg that you will as- 
sure him that any money that may be appropriated for this 
purpose, will not be misapplied, but will be at all times faith- 
fully and honestly accounted for to his satisfaction. 

I declare to you that I am not actuated by any personal 
views. I do not wish the President to add one cent to my 
salary, unless it is his opinion I deserve it. I am afraid that 
a wrong construction will be put upon the conduct of the In- 
dians in rejecting Mr. Kirke, and discourage the President in 
his benevolent intentions ; and I will exert myself to the utmost 
to forward the views of the President among the Indians of 
this agency, should he think proper to trust them to my care. 
And I trust you will advocate the cause of the Indians on this 
occasion. 

etc. etc. etc. [William Wells] 

1. William Kirke was sent by Baltimore Quakers as a missionai-y to the Wabash 
Indians. Upon a favorable report by him the Quakers petitioned the president for 
aid and received 5G.000. He recruited a small band of assistants and came on to 
Fort Wayne. At a meeting of the chiefs they refused to sanction his work, because 
they said he was a stranger. Harrison implies that agent Wells was the one opposed 
to the missionary. Dawson, Harrison, 01 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory June 7, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 208 
Captain Wm. Hargrove, In the Ranger Service 

The requisition for provision has been filled and forwarded 
under escort. One of our scouts reports that Indians were 
seen passing to the west on the south side of White river a 
little way west of the place where the Indian trace to Louis- 
ville crosses that river. Whether they are a roving band of 
friendly Indians or hostile ones has not been found out at 
these headquarters. There was a runner sent to David 
Robb's' notifying him about the Indians. When you receive 
this you had better return to this end of your route and leave 
one-half of your men under your ranking non-commissioned 
officer. With the rest you had better examine the country 
to the west on the south side of the river as far as two or 
three miles west of David Robb's place and see if you can 
find the cause of these Indians prowling over that section. If 
the fort at White Oak Springs- is too small to hold the new 
comers, have them build another block house near it and have 
them both enclosed inside the same stockade with only two 
gates for the two forts. If you can enlist of the new arrivals 
as many as twenty-five men for service at this post, your 
effort will be duly appreciated. The time of enlistment of 
quite a number of our troops expires next month and at least 
twenty-five Kentuckians will not re-enlist. 

By the direction of Wm. H. Harrison 

Governor of Indiana Territory 
John Gibson, Sec'y of Indiana Territory 

1. David Robb was born in Ireland, July 12, 1771 ; came with his father's family 
to Kentucky, near Louisville. Here he became a good hunter. In 1800 he crossed to 
Indiana and located on lower White river near Hazleton, one of the best beaver localities 
in the state. After the wars he became land agent at Laporte. He died Apr. 15, 1844. 
He was a member of the con. convention of 1816 and a close personal friend of 
Harrison. For a full account see Stormont, Gibson Countu, U 

2. Near Petersburg. It was established by Wolsey Pride and others about 1800. 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 

Headquarters, Post Vincennes, 
Indiana Territory, June 20, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 208, 209 

Captain William Hargrove, Commanding a Detachment of 
Rangers, Indiana Territory 
Your repoi't by the hand of Ranger Hogue shows that it is 
best to be determined and firm in dealing with our friends as 
well as foes. You will not have to arrest any more for refus- 
ing to obey the orders for their own protection. Ernest can 
remain two months longer. The service that he was wanted 
for was in a section where he had done scouting service some 
years ago. Mr. David Robb visited the Governor last Satur- 
day the 13th inst. and remained over until Sunday. He says 
that everything is quiet in your home neighborhood. If you 
can make the exchange without weakening your force it would 
be well. Men of families are more liable to yearn for home 
than single ones. Do not make the exchange until the young 
men are at the post of duty. Under no circumstances weaken 
your force, as you have a very important district to guard. 
Computation for rations are paid for as the regular wages of 
the soldier, but not when they are in active service and living 
from supplies furnished by the hunters or by the commis- 
saries. Computation for rations is intended for those who are 
on detached duty and paying for their provisions. The laws 
of the United States govern land warrants or land script and 
each man who serves the required time is entitled to it and 
can claim any land that is surveyed and not allotted on his 
warrant. You are correct when you say that in these trouble- 
some times that soldiers who are serving to protect their 
homes and country are much better troops than those who are 
serving with the hope of securing large pay. This country 
must depend on its soldiers and must pay them but the loyalty 
and patriotism of those enlisted should be well looked after. 
In giving these certificates whose time of enlistment is up, be 
sure to note on their discharge, the amount they have been 
paid and whether they prefer all in land or part in land and 
part in Treasury notes. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Sec'y of Indiana Territory 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 221 

Petition to Harrison 

[July 1, 1807] 

Mss. in Indiana State Libra/ry 

To his Excellency William H. Harrison, Governor of the In- 
diana Territory: 
The Petition of a number of the Inhabitance Knox County 
on the Ohio River [Now Posey] in the 12th Range [about 
midway between Evansville and Mt. Vernon] Humbly Shewith 
that by means of rong or Pertial Information Given to Your 
Excellency a Certain Jacob Windmiller [Winemiller] was ap- 
pointed a justice of the peace for Sd. County, your Petitioners 
Humbly Represents that the Said Windmiller^ Cannot or at 
least dos not speak or Write any language so as to be under- 
stood — Your Petitioners therefore Recommend Paul Castel- 
bery as a Gentleman of Good Charrector Education and In- 
formation and has made himself a pirmenent Setler in our 
Sd. County — Your Petitioners therefore pray that Your Ex- 
celancy Will take this matter into Consideration and make 
Such appointments as you shall think Wright and your Peti- 
tioners as in duty Bound will Ever Pray 

James Lennv Henry McGuire Nickles Long 

Robert Lenny Thomas Choat William Smith 

John Simpson John Crumps John Slover, Jr. 

Amos Kuykendell Adam Kuykendall his 

James McGuire Jonathan Hampton John X Slover, Sr. 

Joseph Griffin Jabob Lanoers mark 

John Landers Abner Kuykendall Daniel Miller 

James McGuire, Senour Robert Kuykendall Isaac Slover 

John McGuire James Shain Jaremia Rust 

Thomas McGuire Moses Beason Chas. Carson 

Harrison to Hargrove 
Headquarters Indiana Territory Vincennes, July 6, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 209, 210 

Captain William Hargrove, Commanding a Detachment of 
Rangers 
Last Saturday, the 4th inst. a number of friendly Indians 
were in to see the celebration of Independence Day. A half- 
breed Delaware Indian named "Swimming Otter" reported 
that there was likely to be a raid made by young Indian 

1. Winemiller was appointed July 1, 1807. 



 

hunters on boats loaded with people and their plunder com- 
ing to this section by the Wabash or going down the Ohio 
river. He said that the band would be led by an Indian who 
lost his father in a battle with a boat crew near the Red 
Banks [Henderson, Ky.]. The scouts thoroughly interrogated 
the Indian and he has promised to let them know the time 
they are to start and the route they will follow. The raiders 
will not get started, so the half-breed says, in less than ten 
days before they go. You will then be informed by a runner 
so that you can thwart their designs if they attempt to cross 
your territory. It is reported here by friendly Indians that 
a band of Miami Indians captured a boat on the Ohio river 
some forty miles below Clarksville and captured the crew, 
killing two men and carrying two women and four children 
into captivity. You can do no better than you have. You 
could not do any good by roaming over the wilderness unless 
it was to make a short cut to reach a point on one of the 
other routes. The white people coming to this section are 
on the three traces [Vincennes, Yellowbanks, Redbanks] or 
down the Ohio and up the Wabash river. 

For the Governor 

By John Gibson Secretary of the Indiana Territory 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 11th July 1807 

Har. Pa. 207-210 

Sir: 

About five weeks ago I was informed that a Kaskaskias In- 
dian had been killed and scalped a few miles from the Town 
of Kaskaskias and that the murder was supposed to have 
been perpetrated by the Kickapoos. I received also at the 
same time from the chief Ducoigne a demand that the per- 
petrator should be sought after and brought to punishment. 
A few days after a party of Kickapoos who were in the 
neighbourhood of St. Louis waited on Genl. Wm. Clark [Gov- 
ernor of Missouri] acknowledged that the murder had been 
committed by some of their tribe and requested Genl. Clark's 
interference to make up the matter with the Kaskaskias de- 
claring at the same time that the Tribe disavowed any par- 
ticipation in the murder or any wish to do injury to the Kas- 



 

kaskias. Not having then heard of this conciliatory dispo- 
sition on the part of the Kickapoos and believing from cir- 
cumstances which attended the murder that they intended 
further mischief I immediately dispatched a strong speech to 
the chiefs demanding retribution for the past and satisfactory 
assurance of a disposition to maintain peace in future. Their 
answer was sufficiently conciliatory excepting they made no 
mention of any intention to give up the murderer. They 
employed however the Shawanos and Delawares who re- 
sided on the west side of the Mississippi to go to the Kas- 
kaskias with the property which had been taken from the 
murdered Indian and endeavour to settle the affair with Du- 
coign in the Indian way by presents and wampum. Ducoign 
would not agree to their proposals but referred them to me. 
He has however in the speeches he has sent me insisted in 
the strongest terms that the murderer should be delivered 
up and punished and declares that nothing less than his being 
hanged will satisfy him. The Kickapoos will however cer- 
tainly not deliver up murderers be the consequences what they 
may. It is with the utmost reluctance that these surrenders 
are made when white people are killed but I am persuaded 
that no consideration on earth could induce them to do it in 
the case of a murdered Indian it is so contrary to their ideas 
of propriety and to the universal practice of all the tribes on 
the Continent. As Ducoign however insists upon it and the 
right to a protection as effectual as that which is enjoyed by 
our own citizens as guaranteed to him by their treaty the 
attempt to get the murderer must be made. But as his per- 
sisting in having him punished by our Laws will draw down 
upon him the jealousy and hatred of all the other Indians I 
shall endeavour to persuade him to submit to the mediation 
of the neighbouring Tribes and abide their award which be- 
ing made under my superintendence and influence will be as 
favourable to him and his Tribe as any that has been made 
in similar circumstances. 

Mr. Wells informs me that he has made you several com- 
mendations on the subject of the Shawnee Prophet who at- 
tracts so much of the attention of several of the Tribes. I 
really fear that this said Prophet is an engine set to work 
by the British for some bad purpose. A respectable Trader 
lately from Detroit informs me that he was told that [Alex- 
ander] McKee the British Indian Agent was lately seen to 



 

pass up the Miami of the Lake to Greenville where the 
Prophet' resides and where there has been a considerable col- 
lection of Indians for many weeks. The Prophet contrives 
to have every Indian put to death who attempts to open the 
eyes of their unfortunate countrymen and I am told that his 
vengeance has been particularly directed against those whom 
he suspects of an attachment to the United States. Five 
Delaware Chiefs of this Description were lately sent for from 
them under guard. I have serious apprehensions for their 
safety. I have received information which cannot be doubted 
that war belts have been passing through all the Tribes from 
the Gulf of Florida to the Lakes. The Shawnees are the 
bearers of these belts and they have never been our friends. 
The Traders who are attached to our Government are unani- 
mously alarmed and agree on the opinion that a general com- 
bination of the Indians for a war against the United States 
is the object of all these messages and councils. My own 
opinion is that this is certainly the object but I hope and be- 
lieve that it will not be accomplished. The several branches 
of the Miami Tribe are immovable in our interest. The In- 
fluencial chiefs of the Delawares are equally so but if the 
machinations of the Prophet should be successful in getting 
these removed I cannot answer for the fidelity of the rest of 
the Tribe. They have certainly gre'at cause of irritation 
against us in consequence of our being unable to bring to 
justice any one of those miscreants who have murdered their 
people. This is made a handle of by the malcontents amongst 
the other Tribes and has given a very unfavorable opinion 
of our impartiality and justice. The apprehension and pun- 
ishment of [William] Red would at this time be attended with 
the most beneficial consequences. He if taken can be con- 
victed and in my opinion the energy- of the Government ought 
to be excited to apprehend him. Both justice and policy 
strongly demand it. I have offered $300 for him several 
months ago. The sum ought in my opinion to be doubled 
or even trebled. It is true that the offence committed was 

1. The Prophet (Tenskwatawa) was a twin brother of Tecumseh. a shawnee. He 
was born about 1770 and died among his people in Wyandotte, Kans., Nov. 1837. His 
well-known portrait was drawn by George Catlin in 1832. By various ways he had 
established an intertribal reputation as a religious leader. He began his priesthood 
around his home at Greenville about 1805. He had followers among the lake Indians 
beyond Superior and among the Creeks, Osages, and other southern tribes. E. H. Blair, 
Indian Tribes of the Upper Mississippi, II, $73: Mooney, Handbook of American Indians, 
7t9 



 

against the Territorial Laws but as the United States have 
by Treaty Guaranteed the safety of the Indians and the Ter- 
ritory is unable to bring him to justice they could not in my 
opinion employ $600 or $1000 to a better object. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your humble 
seiM;. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. Henry Dearborn Esq. Secy, of War 

P. S. There is a Mr. Lorimier^ who resides on the Mis- 
sissippi who has great influence over the Delawares and Shaw- 
nees. I have thought of sending a confidential person to him 
to endeavour to ascertain from him the object of the fre- 
quent councils held by these tribes and if he does not know 
to engage him to visit their settlements on the Heads of White 
River and at Greenville for that purpose. I have the honor 
to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 16th of May. 
The $1000 mentioned shall be employed agreeably to your 
directions. 

W. H. H. 

Harrison to Hargrove 
Headquarters Post Vincennes July 12th, Sunday, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 210, 211 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, Indiana Territory Ranger Service: 
This will be handed you by a Piankashaw Indian who is 
thoroughly reliable. ,He will remain with you until you send 
your next report. The half-bi'eed. Swimming Otter, came in 
this noon and reported there were twelve in the band of In- 
dians hunters and they will start Tuesday night, aiming to 
cross White river above White Oak Springs [Petersburg] 
and go in a direction that will place them on the Ohio at the 
mouth of Green river. It is hard to determine where they 
will cross the old Indian road that you are on, but some place 
between the mudhole and the White Oak Springs fort. The 
people at that Fort must be advised. You have the authority 
to secure as many men for temporary service from the White 
Oak Spring fort as they can spare. You must have the sec- 

2. Louis Lorimier, a Canadian, settled at Cape Girardeau. Mo., 1793. He had 
traded amonB the Shawnees and Delawares. Burton. Historical Col. 138: Houcli. Spanish 
Regime in Missouri, vol. 2, 59-100. 



 

tion all along for fifteen miles to the east thoroughly patrolled. 
There will be thirty mounted men from this Post sent to the 
south of you who will patrol along and near to the Patoka 
river with scouts at the different fords on that river. With 
all this vigilance I feel sure that the Indian band will be de- 
stroyed or turned back. 

By the direct order of Wm. H. Harrison Governor of In- 
diana Territory 
John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Territory 

Post Script: Have the scouts with the Indians on duty near 
White river, send the Piankashaw Indian to a point near the 
forks of White river to report to you every morning. He is 
thoroughly acquainted with that section. 

By the Governor 

Harrison to Hargrove 
Headquarters Post Vincennes, July 17, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 211 

Captain Wm. H. Hargrove, Commanding a Detachment of 
Rangers: 

Your report by the Piankashaw Indian is to hand. The 
service rendered by your scouts is of such value to the coun- 
try that the nation should substantially reward you and your 
commands. The Piankashaw Indian is well acquainted with 
the White river for many miles east of the fork. The chastise- 
ment given this band of robbers and cutthroats will have a 
good effect on them and others who would have followed them 
if they had been successful. The Indian only learns as it is 
shot into him. There will be no more raids from that direc- 
tion this season but it is only safe when we are prepared to 
meet them, if they should attempt to come again. Say to 
young Hogue that the Governor will write him a personal 
letter complimenting him for the good shot he proved to be. 

By order of Wm. H. Harrison, Governor of Indiana Terri- 
tory. 
John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Territory 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Terrirory, July 23, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 212 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, iii the Ranger Service: 

Your report is to hand. The salt, meal and other supplies 
were sent by cart two days ago. The receipt paper I enclose 
to you. Also fifty pounds of lead, fifty pounds of powder, two 
hundred gun-flints, one bail of tow sent to White Oak Springs 
Fort in care of Woolsey Pride. The ten men you enlisted for 
extra service should have a certificate something like the fol- 
lowing : 

'James Blank served ten days on extra military duty with 
the Rangers under Captain William Hargrove, commanding, 
dated and signed.' 

The rangers on the traveled way to the south need not make 
more than one trip each way every ten days. The danger 
does not exist on that route that did some months ago but 
they will patrol to the east, south of the Patoka river a dis- 
tance of forty miles as the river runs, to a trace that crosses 
that river coming north from the Yellow Banks. There is 
no regular traveled way. John Severn' will guide them over 
a blind trace which runs on a line on which formerly there 
was a chain of small Indian towns running many miles to 
the east. They can go over this route as often as once each 
ten days until further orders. Mr. Severns has been seen 
and will go as soon as you can make the necessary arrange- 
ments. You will want good axemen to mark the traces plain 
by making blazes on the sides of the trees near the road so 
that it can be easily followed without a guide. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Territory 

1. John Severn was the first permanent settler of Gibson Co. it is thought. He 
was a Welshman who had come with his parents to Va. He served as a soldier in the 
Rev. War. While home on furlough in the Mts. of western Va. the family was sur- 
prised by Indians ; parents and two young children killed. He was a prisoner amons 
the Indians and hunted over the place where he later settled: in 1790 he squatted at 
Severn's bridge 21/^ miles north of Princeton. Cocl(rum. Pioneer History, 165. For 
a more detailed account of the e.xperience of John Severn see Stormont, Gibson County, S7 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
Headquarters Indiana Territory, August 13, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 212, 213 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, Commanding Rangers: 

Scout FuQuay with your report is here. This office is well 
pleased to learn that everything is so quiet in your district. 
It often happens that the lull in Indian warfare is only tem- 
porary and that they are preparing to make a much larger 
raid at a point where you don't expect them. Indian war- 
fare as I have learned, after thirty years of experience is 
like no other campaigning. Their approach is so sly and 
stealthy that you can never tell where or when they will come. 
They are the slyest and most treacherous enemy that any 
civilized troops ever had to contend with and the only se- 
curity on the border is continual vigilance. The camp of 
white people that Scout FuQuay found east of the trace to 
the Yellow Bank are no doubt a part of the misguided people 
who have scattered over the country as fugitives from jus- 
tice that had assembled at an island up the Ohio river as 
followers of that arch traitor and murderer, Aaron Burr.' The 
Governor has closely interogated FuQuay and this is his 
opinion. The people are guilty of no more wrong than that 
of being duped by one of the smartest villian in the country. 
They only acted as was dictated to them by those who held 
and had held high positions in the Government. It is broadly 
hinted that a man [Wilkinson] high in military command in 
the American army was strongly tinctured with Burr's chi- 
merical conspiracy that saved himself from disgi-ace by turn- 
ing a traitor to Burr. The thing to do is for you to have 
these four misguided men with their wives and helpless chil- 
dren, prepare a fort some place where you think best in your 
military territory so you can give them your protection. Your 
good judgment is depended upon to keep this matter close 
and so instruct the refugees. FuQuay has been obligated to 
secrecy. These people are no doubt worthy and will grow 
up among the other pioneers and be useful to our country. 
You will find out from them if they know of any other bands 
in hiding. This territory needs more people and these mis- 
guided, duped men and women will make as good citizens as 

1. For an account of one of these small bands see Cockrum. Pioneer History, i7l. 
See also Harrison to Hargrove Aug. 20. in/ro. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 229 

any. Your requisition for provision and ammunition has been 
sent to you at White Oak Springs in care of Woolsey Pride 
who was at this Post yesterday. 

By the authority of the Governor 

John Gibson, Sec'y of Indiana Territory 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 13th August 1807 

Har. Pa. 211 

Sir: 

It is with great pleasure I inform you that the Result of 
several councils held by the Indians in this quarter has been 
an unequivocal and unanimous determination to preserve the 
relations of peace and amity with the U. S. from which they 
derive so much advantage. I pledge myself for the peace- 
able disposition of the Delawares, Miamis, Weas, Eel River 
Tribe, Piankeshaws, Kickapoos and the greater part of the 
Shawanos. Overtures have been made to them both by the 
British and Spaniards which they have rejected with indigna- 
tion. The speech from one of the agents of the latter said 
to be in writing I expect to get possession of. The determina- 
tion of the council held at the Kickapoo town at which the 
above mentioned tribes were represented have been forwarded 
by them to the Indians of the Lakes. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect and consideration 

your humble servant, 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Hon. The Secretary of War 

Message to the Legislature' 

August 17, 1807 

Western Sun, August 22, 1807 
Dawson, Life of Harrison, 9A-99 

Fellow citize^is of the Legislative Council and Hoiise of Rep- 
resentatives- 
The existence of difficulties in the execution of our revenue 
law, which could not be overcome but by the interposition of 

concerning: the date of this 
ives the date as August 18, 



 

the legislature, has occasioned your convention at an earlier 
period than that which was assigned by the prorogation which 
terminated your last meeting. I regret the inconvenience 
which this measure has probably occasioned to some of you, 
gentlemen, but the public exigencies could not, in my opinion, 
admit of delay, and I was moreover persuaded that you would 
think with me that the calls of official duty were paramount to 
every private or personal consideration. 

I have directed the auditor to lay before you, gentlemen, a 
statement of the causes which have produced the embarrass- 
ments in the collection of the taxes for the present year, which 
will enable you to determine more correctly on the remedy 
that is to be applied. An amendatory act to the one which is 
now in force may answer for the present ; but nothing less, in 
my opinion, than a total change in the whole system will save 
us in future from the disagreeable consequences of a deficient 
revenue and an empty treasury. The defects in the present 
system were early foreseen, and at the opening of the session 
I strongly recommended to the two houses the adoption of a 
diflterent plan. The combination of so many circumstances, 
such as this law requires, must always render the execution 
of it uncertain and precarious. It appears to me, also that it 
is bottomed upon an improper principle; the quantum and 
ratio of the tax should be fixed by the legislator alone, and not 
by an executive officer. This important subject, gentlemen, 
claims your earliest attention; it will require the exercise of 
much industry and patience, to remedy the evils which have 
arisen from the present unfortunate system, and to provide 
one which shall give certainty and stability to your revenue. 
In aflfairs of this kind, experience is the best guide which the 
legislator can follow — he will seek out cases that are parallel 
to the one on which he is called to act, and will thus possess 
himself of sure landmarks to guide him to his object. In the 
present instance there is no necessity of a recurrence to for- 
eign or distant examples, the neighboring states affording pre- 

it as August 17. Apparently it was dated on the 17th, but not delivered till twelve 
o'clock on the 18th when the governor met both houses of the legislature in the repre- 
sentative chamber. The laws of 1807 bear the date August 16, Sunday. 

2. The Second General Assembly was composed of Jesse B. Thomas of Dearborn, 
Shadrach Bond and William Biggs of St. Clair (111.), George Fisher of Randolph (111.), 
James Beggs of Clark and Luke Decker and General W. Johnston of Knox. These 
were elected on the first Monday of Feb. 1807. The councillors were as before, except 
that Shadrach Bond took the place of John Hay. resigned. When Bond was elected 
B representative, Shadrach Bond, Jr., took his place. (See page 1.) 



 

cisely what we seek — a people similar in manners, in habits, 
and in the state of information, raising their revenue from the 
same objects. Notwithstanding the embarrassments which 
have hitherto attended our financial operations, gentlemen, 
there is one consolatory circumstance, which has been fully 
established, that a revenue equal to all our necessities can be 
raised, and that too without oppression or inconvenience to the 
people. 

The organization of the inferior courts, which was adopted 
at the first session, continues as far as I am informed to pro- 
duce all the good effects which was expected to flow from it. 

No session of the court of chancery has yet been holden; 
whether the blame is attributable to the chancellor, or to the 
legislature in not providing him a compensation, I shall not 
attempt to determine ; it is, however, a state of things which 
cannot but produce great inconvenience and distress to the 
suitors in that court, and a speedy remedy ought certainly to 
be applied. If in the review, gentlemen, which you shall take 
of the other parts of the judiciary system, it should appear 
susceptible of improvement in the important points of facili- 
tating the operations of justice and lessing the burdens to its 
attainment, the adoption of it would, no doubt, be grateful to 
your constituents. 

The law which was passed at the last session of the legis- 
lature for regulating marriages does not authorize the clerks 
who issue the licenses to demand security of the applicants 
that there exists no lawful impediment to the proposed union. 
This omission, which I suppose was accidental, occasions a 
very glaring inconsistency in our code. Conforming to the 
practice in most of the United states, our laws consider and 
punish bigamy as a capital off'ense. The facility with which 
licenses may be procured, and the want of authority in the per- 
son who issues them to ask a single question of the applicants, 
seems to invite to the commission of an off'ense which is 
deemed sufficiently heinous to merit the punishment of death. 
It is certainly better, when it is practicable, to prevent crimes 
by regulations which the unprincipled and wicked cannot 
evade, than by the infliction of punishment. An amendment 
to the law in question, which should direct the applicants for 
licenses to give bond and security in a small amount of their 
legal ability to marry, would probably save many unsuspect- 
ing females from being made the victims of their credulity. 



 

Connected in some measure with this subject is the law- 
authorizing the general and circuit courts to grant divorces. 
The propriety and policy of a law of this kind has been 
strongly contested in many parts of the United States ; and it 
is believed that the principle has been everywhere condemned 
save in one or two States only. It cannot be denied, that the 
success of one applicant for a divorce has always the effect of 
producing others, and that the advantages which a few indi- 
viduals may derive from the dissolution of this solemn con- 
tract are too dearly purchased by its injurious effects upon 
the morals of the community. The scenes which are fre- 
quently exhibited in trials of this kind are shocking to human- 
ity: the ties of consanguinity and nature are loosened; the 
child is brought to give testimony against the parents; con- 
fidence and affection are destroyed; family secrets disclosed; 
and human nature is exhibited in its worst colors. In the 
time of the Roman republic divorces might be obtained by a 
summary and easy process, but so great was the abhorrence 
of them amongst these enlightened people that, in a period 
of five hundred years, but one person had been found to take 
advantage of the privilege which the law allowed. But when 
their manners became corrupted by luxury, divorces were so 
common that applications were frequently made to the College 
of Augurs to ascertain the father of a child born in legal wed- 
lock. A few years ago there were but two instances on rec- 
ord in the State of Virginia of applications for divorces. One 
only of these had been successful ; and although that was ac- 
knowledged to be a case which had as strong claims to indul- 
gence as any that could happen, it was nevertheless opposed 
by some of the most enlightened patriots of the State, upon 
the principle that it was better for an individual to suffer some 
inconvenience than that an example should be established so 
injurious (as they supposed) to the morals of the community. 
There ought certainly, however, to be some tribunal for grant- 
ing divorces; but I am decidedly of opinion that this power 
can nowhere be so properly lodged as with the legislature. 

The perfection of the militia system, gentlemen, is an object 
of the first importance. To render it an efficient and compe- 
tent protection to our country in time of war, it is requisite 
that its organization and discipline should be attended to in 
time of peace. I fear, however, that our progress in these es- 
sential points will fall far short of the public expectations and 



 

my wishes, unless the state of our treasury will authorize the 
disbursement of a small sum as a compensation for a staff 
officer in each county to attend to the disciplining the men and 
regulating the returns. It gives me pleasure to state that 
some degree of military spirit begins to manifest itself in sev- 
eral parts of the territory, and that there is a probability that 
we shall at least furnish our quota of volunteers, to serve upon 
the terms of a late act of Congress. The deficiency of arms 
and accoutrements throughout every corps of the militia, is 
however truly alarming and disgraceful. Men in easy cir- 
cumstances are not ashamed to appear upon the parade with- 
out a firelock, or bearing one which would be more harmless 
to an enemy than the sticks carried by others. Whilst we 
should pity and endeavor from the public purse to furnish 
those who are unable to supply themselves, those who are able, 
and neglect to equip themselves, should be denied the honor- 
able appellation of defenders of their country. One of the 
principal characteristics which distinguishes the citizens of a 
free government from the subjects of a despotic one is the 
right of keeping arms ; and that any American should neglect 
to avail himself of this valuable privilege manifests a supine- 
ness which is highly censurable. It is possible, gentlemen, 
that the moment is not far distant when every capable man 
will be called upon to assume the character of a soldier. The 
situation of our affairs on the Atlantic coast, as well as on this 
frontier, makes it necessary that there should be no delay in 
preparing ourselves for the worst that may happen. A rest- 
less and dissatisfied disposition has manifested itself among 
some of the neighboring tribes, and a few individuals are 
believed to be decidedly hostile. It gives me pleasure, how- 
ever, to state that I have within a few days received from two 
of the tribes the most positive assurances of friendship and 
their unalterable determination to submit themselves entirely 
to my direction. These assurances, although in my opinion 
sincere, ought not entirely to be relied upon; and the prepara- 
tions ought still for defense to go on until the real disposition 
of all the tribes is perfectly ascertained. Although [that] the 
agency of a foreign power is producing the discontents among 
the Indians cannot be questioned, I am persuaded that their 
utmost efforts to induce them to take up arms would be un- 
availing, if one only of the many persons who have committed 
murder on their people could be brought to punishment. 



 

Whilst we rigorously exact of them the delivery of every 
murderer of a white man, the neglect on our part to punish 
similar offences committed on them forms a strong and just 
ground of complaint, for which I can offer no excuse or palia- 
tion. A powerful nation rendering justice to a petty tribe of 
savages is a sublime spectacle, worthy of a great republic, 
and of a people who have shewn themselves as valiant in war 
as in peace moderate and forbearing. I do not know, gentle- 
men, whether it will be in your power to remedy the evil com- 
plained of, as the defects seems to be not so much in the 
laws as in the execution. But if any means can be adopted 
which would insure the execution of justice in any cases in 
which the Indians are concerned, the measure would reflect 
honor on yourselves, and be of undoubted advantage to your 
country. 

The sale of the public lands in the district of Vincennes 
since the last session of the legislature, and the preparations 
for opening other land offices, gives us a nearer prospect of 
the accomplishment of our hopes and wishes, by the forma- 
tion of a State government. An event of so much importance 
to the prosperity and character of the country ought to be 
accelerated by every means within our reach. 

I should not do justice to my own feelings, and perhaps 
disappoint your expectations, gentlemen, should I neglect on 
this occasion to mention a subject which has greatly agitated 
our country, and called forth the warmest expressions of 
patriotic ardour from every class of its citizens. The United 
States, true to those principles which ought to prevail in every 
republic, preferring happiness to splendor, and safety to glory, 
have endeavored to abstract themselves from the entangling 
politics of Europe, and by practicing the most perfect neutral- 
ity to keep clear of those bloody wars which have so long 
desolated the finest quarter of the globe! The justice and im- 
partiality of her conduct towards the belligerents has not, 
however, been reciprocated, and from one of those powers 
insult and injury have followed each other in quick succession, 
and promised satisfaction been anticipated by further out- 
rage ! The ships of our merchants pursuing a legal commerce 
upon that ocean to which all have an equal right, have been 
captured, plundered, and their men impressed to serve a for- 
eign tyrant, and shed their blood in battles in which they 
have no interest. For these aggressions our government. 



 

without mingling with its pohtics those passions which agi- 
tate the breasts of monarchs, and which produce the greater 
part of those wars which overwhelm their unhappy subjects 
with misery and ruin, have demanded redress but have de- 
manded it in vain, still calculating, however, upon the exist- 
ence of a better disposition on the part of the power which 
had injured us. That last resort, which is literally "a trial 
of who can do the other the most harm", was deprecated by 
the people as well as by the government and as long as there 
remained the most distant hope of an amicable adjustment 
argument and negotiation were thought preferable to war. 
This delusion has, however, passed away, and has given place 
to the opinion that moderation and forbearance have been mis- 
taken for timidity and fear. Some nations, like some indi- 
viduals will not profit by the lessons of experience. Great 
Britain might have remembered that the arms of America 
were not palsied by the previous use of remonstrance. A 
blind fatality hurries her on to that destruction which Amer- 
ica had no wish to accelerate ; and an act of tyranny and in- 
justice, surpassing anything that can be found even in the 
history of her depredations upon neutrals, has converted an 
useful friend to a foe, able to punish her for her multiplied 
agressions.'' 

The blood rises to my cheek when I reflect on the humiliat- 
ing, the disgraceful scene, of the crew of an American ship of 
war mustered on its own deck by a British lieutenant for the 
purpose of selecting the innocent victims of their own 
tyranny! But an act of this kind was perhaps necessary to 
convince all our fellow-citizens that they had nothing to ex- 
pect from British generosity or justice, when these were op- 
posed by British interest. The unheard of outrage has made 
a deep impression upon the American mind ; citizens of every 
political denomination are rallying round the standard of their 
country, and pledging their lives and fortunes in support of 
her rights.^ I should do injustice to the well-known patri- 
otism of our territory to suppose that either yourselves or your 
constituents, gentlemen, felt less on this interesting occasion 
than the rest of your countrymen. We are, indeed, from our 



3. This perhaps refers to the killina of John 


Pierce, helmsman of the sloop 


"Richard" off Sandy Hook light by a solid shot fron 


1 the British warship "Leander" 


April 26. 1806. 




4. The "Chesapeake" was boarded by the crew 


of the "Leopard" off Fortress 


Monroe, June 22, 1807, and some of the seamen imprc 


issed into the British Service. 



 

situation, peculiarly interested in the contest whicli is likely to 
ensue ; for who does not know that the tomahawk and scalping 
knife of the savage are always employed as the instruments 
of British vengeance. At this moment, fellow citizens, as I 
sincerely believe, their agents are organizing a combination 
amongst the Indians within our limits, for the purposes of 
assassination and murder ; and if these their worthy allies are 
not let loose to slaughter our women and children, it will not 
proceed from the humanity and mercy of a nation which 
boasts of her attainments in every art and science. 

At this important crisis but one sentiment should animate 
the breasts of every American. Disregarding every personal 
consideration, he should think only of the tie that binds him 
to his country; and confiding in the wisdom and firmness of 
his government, he should patiently wait the signal which 
calls him to the field. How deep the humiliation ! How last- 
ing the disgrace! How injurious to the cause of republican- 
ism, should the blood of our murdered fellow citizens remain 
unsatisfied, or unrevenged! But it cannot be; Americans 
must prize too highly their dear-bought rights, tamely to sur- 
render them to the proud nation from whom they were 
wrested. A beneficent and discriminating Providence will 
make us the objects of his peculiar care ; another Washington 
will arise to lead our armies to victory and glory, and the 
tyrants of the world will be taught the useful lesson that a 
nation of Free men are not to be insulted with impunity. 

William Henry Harrison 

Reply of the Legislature to the Message 

St. Vincent, August 19, 1807 

Dawson, Harrison, 99 

His Excellency, William Henry Harrison, Governor of the 
Indiana Territory: 

Accept, sir, the merited thanks of the house of representa- 
tives, for the speech which you delivered to the two branches 
of the legislature, on the 18th instant, in which we discover 
nothing more than those true and independent principles 
which compose the patriotic heart. 

The subjects which you have taken notice of in your speech, 
the injurious consequences resulting from them, and the im- 



 

propriety of their continuance, are, we are assured from ex- 
perience, far from being chimerical. 

We have seen, sir, and, with you, regret, the insufficiency of 
our militia system; and, by every constitutional exertion in 
our power, will endeavor to avert the great calamity of im- 
mediately falling a sure prey to any and every savage or 
dastardly foe; which would surely and inevitably be the case 
under our present military or defensive arrangements. 

The recent lawless and piratical conduct of some of the 
officers of the British navy, upon one of the United States' 
vessels, riding at anchor in the waters of peace, and near the 
shoi-es of honest content, and she, too in an unprepared state 
of defence, harrows up our very souls, and fires our just 
indignation. We are assured that nothing but unpunished 
example dared them to the commission of a deed so unwar- 
rantable, base, and truly despicable; highly honorary and 
imitative of the nation and government under which they 
serve. Suffer us, sir, to assure you, that but one sentiment 
animates the representatives of the sons of Indiana, who es- 
teem themselves heirs to freedom; and until the last drop of 
blood shall be drained from our hearts, we will defend our- 
selves, our rising posterity, and the freedom of America. 

With equal pleasure with yourself, we view our progressive 
population, which is, as it were the key stone of that desirable 
arch, (we mean a free and independent state,) in the com- 
pletion of which alone, we will ever be useful or ornamental 
to our general government. And we most ardently pray that 
our superstructure may have the three necessary and inesti- 
mable qualities of beauty, strength, and wisdom, which will 
secure us our true standing amongst the states of the Union. 

It is with heartfelt pleasure and real satisfaction, that we 
unanimously acknowledge, sir, our firm belief that we shall 
receive your co-operation in any measures that may be deemed 
for the general good. 

Jesse B. Thomas 
Speaker of the House of Representatives 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, August 20, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, olJ, JIJ,, 315 

Captain William Hargrove, Commanding Scouts and 
Rangers : 
Your report by the Crea Indian. He was detailed here to 
carry you this letter of instruction. The four young men' you 
sent with him have enlisted and look like good material to 
make soldiers. The Governor is well pleased with your suc- 
cess in having the four families located in your district. The 
young men you sent were interrogated separately. They all 
agree in their statements that there are several other bands 
scattered over the territory some distance north of the Ohio 
river from ten to fifteen miles east of the yellow bank trace 
to something like the same distance west of the same trace. 
They claim that there is one band of these refugees west of 
the Yellow Bank trace about ten miles. They were camped 
near a large creek. It is thought best for you to send FuQuay 
with two other men to find these people and have them locate 
in a place that they can be given protection and that they 
can aid in giving protection to others. Young Bailey, one 
of the men you sent in some time ago has orders to report 
to you to go with FuQuay. He is acquainted with the people 
and has been at their camp. He says that there are six men, 
three women and five children in the band. Instruct FuQuay 
to infoi-m the refugees that they must move near some of 
the settled sections and build a block house for their pro- 
tection and there will be no question asked. That as soon 
as the dangerous season for Indian raids has passed, they 
can go to work preparing homes. If you can enlist the men 
without families, do so. If you don't need them send them 
to this Post. If these people should refuse to settle as has 
been suggested, after you have plainly informed them it 
must be done, then you send such a number of men as will 
be required to arrest and bring them and their belongings to 
this Post. The wounded old soldier and his family you can 
put in charge of one of your stockade camps. The man to 
look well for Indians that may be prowling around, the woman 
to oversee the culinary affairs of the camp. 

I. These were Burr refugees, one being William Bailey. For Bailey's remarkable 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 239 

John Severns was here today and had an interview with the 
Governor about opening a trace from the one that runs south 
from your neighborhood to the Red Banks, to commence fif- 
teen miles north of the Ohio river on that trace, running 
thence east parallel with the river from forty to fifty miles. 
If it should become necessary to reinforce the Rangers on 
either of the traces running to the south or the main one 
running to the east, it would be almost impossible to do it 
as the country between the traces is one vast unbroken wil- 
derness. Severns says that many large creeks will have to 
be crossed that empty their waters into the Ohio. The trace 
just south of the Patoka river opened some time ago, will 
be extended from the Yellow Banks trace, thirty or forty 
miles east. You had better have the same men go over this 
route as soon as Severns is through with the new survey far- 
ther south. Mr. Severns says that in going near the Patoka 
river many abrupt banks and deep gorges are met with. In- 
form him that it is not necessary to make a straight line but 
to so blaze and mark it that it can be easily traced. It is 
not intended for wheeled vehicles or sleds to pass over but 
for foot soldiers mostly. The logs need not be moved but 
the brush had better be cut seven or eight feet wide. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Territory 



Wells to Harrison 

Fort Wayne, the 20th August 1807 

Hu.r. Pa. 1 89-191 

Dear Sir: 

Since I wrote you on the 14 instant the Indians have con- 
tinued to flock to Greenville which increases the fears of our 
frontiers. These Indians are from the Lakes near Mackinac 
they appear to be deff to everything I say to them tho I can 
see nothing among them that carrys the appearance of Dan- 
ger. 

Two confidential Indians that I sent to that quarter have 
returned today and say that all the Indians in that quarter 
believe in what the Prophet tells them which is that the great 
spirit will in a few years distroy every white man in america 
that every Indian has made himself a war club that the militia 



 

and military at Mackanak are constantly under arms and that 
they could here no friendship expressed among the Indians 
for the United States. I am also this moment informed by 
a letter from Detroit that the inhabitants of that place are 
fortifing themselves. 

It appears by information I this moment received that up- 
wards of 200 Delawares have gone to meet the other Indians 
at the Kickapoo tov^^n in the prairie where it is expected 13 
different nations will be represented. 

The Delawares have received this invitation from the Mi- 
amis at Massacinwa to attend this council. Since Rusherville 
[Richardville] returaed from Detroit all the Miamis have re- 
fused to attend this counsel 3 excepted. Rusherville,' Pecan 
and the Owl it is believed will be at this place to mori'ow to 
receive their goods and to cover their designs in assembling 
the Indians at the Kickapoo towns— none of the Pawtawata- 
mys from this quarter have gone to this council. This busi- 
ness as I before told you was kept a secret from the Little 
Turtle^ the mesenger sent from Massacenwa to the Delawares 

1. Richardville was a Miami chief born near Furt Wayne about 1761. His father 
was the Indian trader Druet de Richardville and his mother an Indian named Taucumwa. 
This Indian family had a monopoly of the transportation business between the Maumee 
and Wabash and was wealthy. John Baptist Richardville or Peshewa was her only 
son. He succeeded to the leadership of the tribe after the death of Pecan in 1814. 
He died in 1841. He is thought to have been a nephew of Little Turtle. Brice, 
Fort Wayne. M. tM. 2Sr,, 31i; Burton. Hist. Col. 66 

2. Little Turtle. "Misch-e-can-o-quoh," or the Little Turtle, agreeably to the best 
received authorities, was of a mi.xed origin — his mother beinp a Mohegan woman and 
his father a Miami chief — born about the year 1747, at the latter's village on the 
upper waters of Eel river, some twenty miles west of Ft. Wayne. He planned and 
won decisive victories in the two engagements against detachments of Gen. Harmar's 
army, near Ft. Wayne, in October. 1790: was conspicuous as the leader in the attack, 
on the morning of November 4. 1791, upon the forces of Gov. St. Clair, that resulted 
in the terrible disaster known in history as "St. Clair's Defeat", and which was 
without a parallel in Indian warfare until the disastrous ertgagment of Gen. Custer, 
on the Little Big-Horn River of the Upper Missouri. He was also in the action of 
June 30. 1794, in the severe attack upon Major McMahon's escort of ninety riflemen 
and fifty dragoons, under the walls of "Fort Recovei-y". a militai-y post erected in 
December, 1793, upon the ground where St. Clair had been defeated. Satisfied that 
the Indian confederation could not successfully contend with Gen. Wayne, he advised 
them to listen to the latter's overtures for peace. Overruled in this, he led his own 
warriors in the battle of August 20. 1794. known as the "Battle of the Fallen Timbers", 
in which Gen. Wayne achieved a decisive victory. From this time forward, the Little 
Turtle was the open and abiding friend of the United States. He would before this 
have broken away from the malign influence operating from Canada through its 
agents and traders, but he was powerless to carry his people with him until after 
they had suffered serious reverses. 

At the Treaty of Greenville, he shone as the brightest light in the assembled orators, 
gathered at this great council-fire from the entire Northwest, to plead the cause of 
their tribes and of their starving women and children. After the conclusion of peace. 
Little Turtle resided at his village, where the Government had built him a comfortable 
house. "He took," says Gov. Harrison, "great interest in everything that appertained 



 

in delivering his message said he was directed to tell them 
(the Delawares) that this Business must be kept a secret 
from the Turtle, the White Loon,- 5 Medals* and Charley=^ as 
they weai-e Big Knives — and ought not to know anything 
about the affairs of the Indians. I believe the Pawtawatamys, 

to civilized life, and possessed a mind capable of understanding their advantages in a 
degree far superior to any other Indian." In his character he combined, in an eminent 
degree, the qualities of the military strategist, the wily diplomat, the orator, and the 
philospher, winning distinction in all. 

He died of gout, July 14, 1812, on the side of the St. Marys river, opposite Ft. 
Wayne, in the orchard of his son-in-law Capt. Wm. Wells, from whose house, at his 
own request, he had been removed to the open air. He was buried upon the spot with 
military honors, by the troops of the garrison, and with his remains were deposited 
the sword and large silver medal presented by President Washington, and his other 
war implements and ornaments." Brice's Fort Wayne; Harrison, The Aborigines of the 
Ohio valley, 70 

3. White Loon or Wapa Mangua a Miami chief. His village was on the Mississinewa 
near Marion. His town was burned by Campbell Dec. 14, 1812. Harrison had met him 
at Greenville and was personally acquainted with him and considered him friendly to 
the Americans. 

Harrison, Discourse on Aboriffines, 7 
Burton, Hist. Col. H2 
Fergus, Hist. Ser. 26, p. 73 
4. "Five Medals or Waugshe was a celebrated war-chief of the river St. Joseph of 
Lake Michigan, whose village was upon the Elkhart tributary of that stream, in north- 
ern Indiana. He is recognized under various names, viz, ; at the treaty of Greenville 
as "Wau-gshe" — from "Wau-gese", the Odjibwa name for a favorite silver ornament in 
the shape of and called a Half-Moon : at the second treaty of peace executed at Green- 
ville, July 22, 1814, he is written down as "0-nox-a, or Five Medals": while, at the 
treaty of Spring Wells, near Detroit, in 181.5, his name is affixed to the parchment as 
"Noun-geesia, or Five Medals." The two are synonymous, the first being compounded 
from "Noun", Five, and "Gee-sia", medals or ornaments, in the Pottawatomie dialect, 
allowing for a somewhat defective spelling that fails to fully preserve the sound of 
the word as the Indian would pronounce it. He wore upon his person medals presented 
to him by both British and American authorities, with other ornaments, from which 
he came to be designated as "The Five Medals." 

Harrison, Discourse of Aboriffines, 73 

5. Charley or Katunga. A chief of that subdivision of the Miamis who were called 
Eel-Rivers (and Eel-Creeks), for reason that their ancient and principal village— known 
by the Indians as Ke-na-pa-com-a-qua, to the early French writers as L'Anguille (the 
Eel), and to the Americans as the "Eel River Town" was situated on this stream, 
some six miles above its confluence with the Wabash at Logansport, Ind. However, 
it is evident, from Gov. Harrison's instructions to Col. Campbell, already referred to, 
that Charley lived in one of the villages on the Mississinnewa which Col, Compbell was 
ordered to destroy : for among those whose lives were to be saved is named that of 
"Charley, the principal of the Eel River Tribe." The chief figures at several of the 
treaties, on behalf of his tribe, both before and after the war of 1812, as "Ka-Tun-ga" 
"Ke-tan-ga" (with the addition of "Charley") ; and, in some instances, as simply 
Charley. His original name — the signiiication of which is nowhere given — is neither 
Indian, French, or English, but savors of the cori-uption of all. 

His people were swept over to the British by the current of events immediately 
following Gen. Hull's surrender of Detroit, and which carried with it nearly all the 
other Northwestern tribes. The failure of the attack upon Fort Harrison, near Terre 
Haute, Ind., September 4. 1812, and upon Fort Wayne early in this month, together 
with the energy Gov. Harrison displayed in organizing the militia of Indiana, Ohio, 
and Kentucky, all ablaze with enthusiasm, to recover the prestige and territory lost 
by the unexplainable conduct of Gen. Hull at Detroit thoroughly alai-med those of 
the Miamis who had taken sides with Te-cum-the and the British. Accordingly we 
learn, from an official letter of Gov. Harrison, dated Franklinton, O., October 13, 1812, 

16—21182 



 

miamis and Delawares are our friends. Lapasin" is to be 
suspected — the prophet keeps up a communication with the 
British at Maiden. We are all allarmed at this place, my 
self excepted as I can see no danger as yet at our doors. 

Something must be done it cannot be done too soon for the 
Indians are certainly forming an improper combination one 
that it is not friendly towards us otherwise the Leaders in 
it would not keep it so much in the Dark from every person 
that is friendly disposed towards the united States. I have 
sent Mr. [John] Connor with this letter to you in order that 
you may receive all the information he possesses respecting 
the Delawares. 

I have promised him that you would reward him liberally 
for his trouble — treat him well He may be usefull to us. 

I shall do everything for the best and hope to secure such 
instructions from you as may be calculated to meet the pres- 
ent times as soon as possible. 

It is my opinion that the British are at the bottom of all 
this Business and depend on it that if we have war with them 
that many of the Indian tribes will take an active part against 
us — and nothing would have a better effect on the minds of 
the Indians than an immediate show of resentment on our 

that: "Before I left St. Mary's for Defiance, some Miamis had arrived, via Fort 
Wayne, with a flag and a message from their chiefs, begging for peace. I had no 
time then to listen to their speech, and on my return here I found the Owl, (a dis- 
tinguished chief, who had long been a confidential friend of the Governor) Charley, 
the Eel-River Chief, the Turtle's son, and several others who had joined them. They 
came prepared to palliate or deny the hostility of their tribe, as. one or the other might 
best suit their purpose." 

Charley survived the war, and was living as late as October 6, 1818, when he, with 
other "chiefs and warriors of the Miami nation of Indians", executed the Treaty of St. 
Mary's ; and he was dead before October 23, 1826, when, at the treaty held at the 
mouth of Mississinewa, a reservation of "five sections of land, above the old village on 
the north side of Eel River." was made in favor of his son "Little Charley". 

Harrison, Discourse on Aborigines. 69 

6. LePousser (French), A-she-non-qua in the Miami dialect, signifying the Speech 
Maker, the Persuader, or Talker. At the treaty held October 26. 1809, at Vincennes, 
this chief's name is signed Lapousier (the article La and the word Pousser run together 
as in the Ft. Wayne manuscript), while at the "Treaty of Peace and Friendship," 
between the U. S. and the Miamis and other hostile tribes in the War of 1812, e.\ecuted 
at Greenville, Ohio, July 22. 1814, his name appears thus, "Lapassiere or A-she-non-qua." 
Vide History of the War of (1S12), by Sam'l R. Brown, vol. ii ; Appendi.x, where the 
text of the Treaty is supplemented with the signers' names interpreted and carefully 
spaced so as to preserve the correct sound in their pronunciation. 

The Weas, for whom A-she-non-qua was a leading orator, were a band of the 
Miami tribe having their principal village on the east bank of the Wabash, below 
Lafayette, and above Attica, and known in early history as Ouiatanon, or the Wea-town. 
The name is yet preserved, and the identity of the neighborhood retained, in its 
bestowal upon "Wea-Prairie" and "Wea-creek." 

Harrison, Discourse on the Abori^'nes, 6S 



 

part at their endeavoring to form unfriendly combinations 
towards us. 

The prophet and his insolent band should be the first object 
of our resentment. He should be punished for his insolence. 

I am dear Sir with respect Your most obt. servant 

W. Wells 
Governor HARRISON 

N. B. I despair of getting the Indians to move the prophet 
from Greenville and I doubt whether matters can be kept in 
there present state until I have time to hear from you. The 
Miamis Eel river Indians and Pautawatomis will be at this 
place tomorrow I shall treat them well and endeavour to 
git everything I can out of them and from time to time write 
you everything that comes to my knowledge worth your at- 
tention. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCBNNES, 29th August 1807 

Har. Pa. 192-195 

Sir: 

Since my last I have made every exertion to ascertain the 
real disposition of the neighbouring Tribes and the cause of 
the stir and commotion which have existed amongst them 
for some time past. The avowed object of the latter is to 
cement a more perfect union and friendship amongst them- 
selves as they have often been advised to the United States 
but to which I am persuaded they were stimulated in the 
present instance by British influence. I am confident how- 
ever that the ultimate object of the British (which no doubt 
is that of forming a general confederacy against us) has not 
yet been communicated either to the Miamis, Weas, Dela- 
wares or even to the Kickapoos. The Shawnees are certainly 
entirely devoted to the British as are a part of the Pota- 
watomies, the Chippeways and Ottawas. From the enclosed 
deposition of [Dominique] Ducharme' sent to me by Mr. 
Jouitt it would appear that the latter tribes have actually 

1. Dominique and Jean Marie Duchanne were Canadian traders (1770-1810) who 
lived in the woods. At times they had headquarters at such towns as Cahokia. They 
were intimately acquainted with all the Northwestern tribes from the Ohio to Lake 
Superior. Reynolds. Pioneer HI. 113; Mich. Pioneer Hist Col, Index 



 

determined on commencing hostilities. I have adopted meas- 
ures which I think cannot fail to put me in possession of the 
intentions of the British in this quarter, at least as far as 
they are known to the Indians. As soon as my emissary 
returns you shall be informed of everything he may be able 
to discover. I am in the meantime doing all in my power to 
organize and discipline the Militia of the Territory. As it 
is almost impossible to find persons who are acquainted even 
with the rudiments of tactics, I am obliged to perform alter- 
nately the duties of Commander-in-chief Adjutant and even 
drill corporal. The habits of my early life are not however 
so far obliterated as to make this duty irksome or unpleas- 
ant, were it not for the great deficiency of ai-ms and accou- 
trements. We have cavalry without swords, light infantry 
without bayonets or cartridge boxes and battalions armed 
with a mixture of rifles, fowling pieces, broken muskets and 
sticks. To a man accustomed to the uniformity of a regular 
and disciplined army, these things are really shocking. I 
must beg of you sir to submit to the President the propriety 
of having our deficiency made up from the publick arsenals. 
A small deposit of arms might be made with good effect at 
this place, at Kaskaskia or Cahokia, and Jeffersonville. The 
Militia of Dearborn county, the seat of Justice of which is 
not more than 18 miles from the Arsenal at New-Port, might, 
in case of emergency be supplied from there. 

I have not been able to collect the returns from the distant 
counties of the volunteers who have off"ered on the terms of 
the late act of Congress. I am in hopes to be able to forward 
them to you in the course of a fortnight. Two troops of 
cavalry one of light infantry, one or two of expert riflemen, 
and two or three others to be armed with rifles or muskets 
as the President may chose, may I think be calculated on. 

I am extremely anxious to know the President's determina- 
tion on the subject of a supply of arms etc. If he should 
direct them to be supplied, on order to Major [Thomas] Mar- 
tin- to send them on immediately to the places above desig- 
nated would enable us to get them much sooner than if the 
order were in the first instance sent to me. 

2. Thomas Martin, Georgia, served throush revolution and at its close became a 
first lieutenant in the First infanti-y. Relieved of active service in 1802. and made 
military store keeper. Died Jan. IS, 1819. Heitman Register, 6SJ 



 

I have the honour to be with the greatest respect Sir Your 
humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. Henry Dearbourn, Secretanj of War 

This Day, Francois Ducharme personally appeared before 
me John Kinzie a Justice of the Peace, in the presence of 
Charles Jouett Esquire Indian Agent at the Post of Chicago 
and Maketh oath that he verily believes that the Indians of 
St. Josephs are hostile to the United States and meditates 
an attack on some part of the American settlements or gar- 
risons, but at what time they will strike he cannot tell. 

his 
Signed FRANCOIS X DUCHARME 

mark 
Sworn before me this 
Six day of July 1807 
At Chicago Indiana Territory 
Signed J. Kinzie, Jus. P. St. Sinclair County 

I do hereby certify that I have been eleven years acquainted 
with Francois Ducharme and have every reason to believe his 
affidavit is intitled to credit as a man of truth he speaks the 
Potawatomi Tongue remarkably well and from a residence 
of many years with the Indians and having among them an 
Indian wife and several children I do not hesitate to state 
he is as likely to ascertain their views as any man within my 
knowledge. 

Signed J. Kinzie 



Nomination of a Councillor 

In General Assembly of the Indiana Territory 

St. Vincennes August 31, 1807 

Har. Pa. i.21 

His Excellency the Governor of the Territory having noti- 
fied the House of Representatives of the resignation of Shad- 
rach Bond as a Member of the Legislative Council from the 
county of St. Clair. 

The House then proceeded to Ballot for a person to be 
nominated to the President of the United States from St. 



 

Clair County, to supply the said vacancy, and on counting 
the Ballots, it appeared there were for 

Shadrach Bond Junior' Five 

John Messenger^ One 

Shadrach Bond Jr. was therefore declared duly nominated. 

The House then proceeded in like manner to nominate an- 
other person from the County of St. Clair and on counting 
the Ballots it appeared that Thomas Todd-' was nominated. 
[See letter of Sept. 2, below] 

By Order JESSE B. Thomas, 
Speako- of the House of Repr-esentatives 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, September 1, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 215, 216 

William Hargrove, Commanding first division of Rangers, 
east of the Wabash river: 
There has been a trace cut from the Clarksville and Vin- 
cennes road that leaves that route at a point about forty 
miles east of the Mudhole and running to the south, coming 
to the Ohio river at the west end of a large bend about three 
miles west of the mouth of Blue river [Fredonia]. There is 
a traveled way that comes to the south bank of the Ohio 
opposite this point that runs to the south and far into Ken- 
tucky and people coming to this and other sections of In- 
diana Territory are crossing the river at that point and fol- 
lowing Blue river to the old Indian road before mentioned. 
The two traces to the east which are now being opened should 
go into this Blue river trace. You are instructed to have a 
patrol of three men go over the new rou^te nearest the Ohio 

1. Shadrach Bond. Jr. was the first governor of the state of 111. He was born in 
Frederick Co. Md. in 1778 on a plantation. He was reared a farmer and that was 
his occupation in 111. He came west in 1794 with his uncle Shadrach Bond, Sr. and 
opened a fine farm on the American Bottom and lived the life of a southern gentleman. 

Reynolds. Pioneer 111. 323 

2. John Messenger was born in West Stockbridge, Mass. in 1771 and grew up on a 
farm. In 1783 he went to Vermont. Mathematics was his hobby. In 1804 he pur- 
chased a mill at New Design. 111., later going to near Belleville. He taught school and 
surveyed, usually under William Rector. He was the author of a manual on sur- 
veying. He was in the Indiana Territorial legislature and speaker of the first House 
in III. Died on his farm near Belleville 1846. 

Reynolds. Pioneer III. 330 

3. Thomas Todd was one of the settlers of New Design. HI. but soon moved to the 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 247 

river to the east as often as once, both ways, each week. 
Also a patrol of two men, one scout, to go over the trace to 
the east just south of the Patoka river as often as both ways 
once each week. If you do not have men enough and cannot 
enlist them, they will be furnished from this Post. It will 
be the best to send men who have seen service over these new 
routes and keep the newly enlisted men with you. 

By order Wm. H. Harrison, Gov. Indiana Territory 
John Gibson, Sec'y 

Nominations for Councillors 

ViNCENNES, 2d Sept. 1807 

Har. Pa. Jt20 

Sir: 

I have the honor herewith [See Aug. 31, above] to forward 
you the nomination [Shadrach Bond and John Todd] made 
by the House of Representatives of this Territory of persons 
fit to fill the office of a member of the Legislative Council. 

I am Sir your most obt. and very humble servt. 

Jesse B. Thomas 
Thomas Jefferson, Esqr. President of the United States 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes Sept. 5th 1807 

Har. Pa. 186-188 

Sir: 

The letter herewith enclosed [August 20, above] from Mr. 
Wells I received four days ago, and I at first thought it of 
sufficient Importance to authorise my sending it by a special 
Express but upon conversing with Mr. [John] Connor the 
Bearer of it It appeared to me that there was no danger of 
hostilities being immediately commenced altho I do Believe 
that the Chippeways, Ottowas and part of the Pottawatamies 
only wait for the signal from the British Indian Agents, to 
commence the attack. 

I have sent Connor with a Talk [immediately following] 
to the Shawnese requiring the Immediate removal of the Im- 
postor from our Territory and the dispersion of the War- 



 

riors he has collected around him. The British could not 
have adopted a better plan to effect their purpose of alienating 
from our government the affections of the Indians than em- 
ploying this vile Instrument. It manifests at once their in- 
veterate rancour against us and their perfect acquaintance 
with the Indian character. I think however that the Miamies, 
Weas, Delawares and Kickapoos have not as yet been seduced 
and that we may rely on their fidelity. I believe their in- 
clinations are on our side but if that were not even the case 
I am persuaded that they are too well acquainted with their 
Interest to dare to lift the Tomahawk. 

Wells has been endeavouring for some time past to get the 
Impostor removed from Greenville by means of the Delawares 
and Shawnese but without effect ; he has also I Believe threat- 
ened him with the vengeance of the United States, if he con- 
tinues to Excite disturbances amongst the Indians. To pro- 
tect himself from this is I imagine the reason of his retain- 
ing about him the armed pilgrims that have come from the 
Lakes to visit him. Connor says that 12 or 15 days ago they 
amounted to upwards of Three hundred Men, and that a 
larger body were hourly Expected. It would require a con- 
siderable force to remove those Fellows, and it is my opinion, 
it should not be attempted, but with one that would leave 
nothing to the hazard. Filled with the enthusiasm as those 
wretches certainly are, they would no doubt defend the object 
of their veneration with all their force and an unsuccessful 
attempt to drive them off would confirm his influence and per- 
haps draw over to his party those tribes who now regard 
him with contempt. Believing that it was all important in 
the present crisis to obtain Correct information from the In- 
dian country and to secure the friendship of those who are 
best calculated to give it I have appointed Mr. Connor Inter- 
preter for the Delawares with the same pay as that Mr. 
[Joseph] Barron receives and have directed him to employ 
himself altogether in developing the designs of the British 
and such of the Indians as they have gained over to their 
interest. I have entire reliance on his fidelity, and am con- 
fident that he can do us much service. I have placed myself 
under no obligation to Continue him longer than his services 
will be wanted. I trust that this step will meet the Presi- 
dent's approbation. 

Since I had the honour to write to you on Saturday last 



 

two other companies of Volunteers Consisting of young active 
Woodsmen have oifered their services. This County alone 
will furnish a good Battalion from the other Counties there 
will be at least a sufficiency to form a Regiment or rather a 
Legionary Corps composed of Dragoons, Riflemen, and in- 
fantry. 

I have the honor to be with perfect respect your most obedi- 
ent and humble servant. 

William Henry Harrison 
Honble. Henry Dearborn, Esq. 

William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in 
Chief of the Indiana Territory, and Superintendent of 
Indian Affairs, to the chiefs and head men of the Shaw- 
anese tribe of Inians 

August, 1807 

Dawson, Hariison, 101 

My Children: 

Listen to me, I speak in the name of your father, the great 
chief of the Seventeen Fires. 

My Children, it is now twelve years since the tomahawk, 
which you had raised by the advice of your father the king 
of Great Britain, was buried at Greenville in the presence 
of that great warrior. General Wayne. 

My Children, you there promised, and the Great Spirit 
heard it, that you would in future live in peace and friend- 
ship with your brothers, the Americans. You made a treaty 
with your father, and that contained a number of good things, 
equally beneficial to all the tribes of red people, who were 
parties to it. 

My Children, you promised in that treaty to acknowledge 
no other father than the chief of the Seventeen Fires, and 
never to listen to the proposition of any foreign nation. You 
promised never to lift up the tomahawk against any of your 
father's children, and to give him notice of any other tribe 
that intended it: your father also promised to do something 
for you, particularly to deliver to you every year a certain 
quantity of goods, to prevent any white man from settling 
upon your lands without your consent, or to do you any per- 
sonal injury. He promised to run a line between your land 
£^nd his, so that you might know your own ; and you were to 



 

be permitted to live and hunt upon your father's lands, as 
long as you behaved yourselves well. 

Ahj Children, which of those articles has your father 
broken? You know that he has observed them all with the 
utmost good faith. But, my Children, have you done so? 
Have you not always had your ears open to receive bad ad- 
vice from the white people beyond the lakes? 

My Children, let us look back to times that are past. It 
has been a long time since you called the king of Great 
Britain father. You know that it is the duty of a father to 
watch over his children, to give them good advice, and to do 
every thing in his power to make them happy. What has 
this father of yours done for you during the long time that 
you have looked up to him for protection, and advice? Are 
you wiser and happier than you were before you knew him ; 
or is your nation stronger or more respectable? No, my 
Children, he took you by the hand when you were a powerful 
tribe ; you held him fast, supposing that he was your friend, 
and he conducted you through paths filled with thorns and 
briars, which tore your flesh and shed your blood. Your 
strength was exhausted, and you could no longer follow him. 
Did he stay by you in your distress, and assist and comfort 
you? No, he led you into danger, and then abandoned you. 
He saw your blood flowing, and he would give you no bandage 
to tie up your wounds. This was the conduct of the man who 
called himself your father. The Great Spirit opened your 
eyes, you heard the voice of the chief of the Seventeen Fires, 
speaking the words of peace. He called to you to follow 
him — you came to him, and he once more put you on the 
right way, on the broad smooth road that would have led you 
to happiness. But the voice of your deceiver is again heard ; 
and, forgetful of your former suff'erings, you are listening to 
him. 

My Children, shut your ears, and mind him not, or he will 
lead you to ruin and misery. 

My Children, I have heard bad news. The sacred spot 
where the great council fire was kindled, around which the 
Seventeen Fires and ten tribes of their Children smoked the 
pipe of peace — that very spot where the Great Spirit heard 
his white and red children encircle themselves with the chain 
of friendship — that place has been selected for dark and 
bloody councils. 



 

My Children, this business must be stopped. I wll no 
longer suffer it. You have called in a number of men from 
the most distant tribes, to listen to a fool, [the Prophet] who 
speaks not the words of the Great Spirit but those of the devil, 
and of the British agents. 

My Children, your conduct has much alarmed the white 
settlers near you. They desire that you will send away those 
people, and if they wish to have the imposter with them, they 
can carry him. Let him go to the lakes; he can hear the 
British more distinctly. 

The Prophet to Harrison 

[August] 1807 

Dawson, Harrison, pp. 102 & 103 

Father, 

I am very sorry that you listen to the advice of bad birds. — 
You have impeached me with having correspondence with the 
British ; and with calling and sending for the Lidians from the 
most distant parts of the country, "to listen to a fool that 
speaks not the words of the Great Spirit ; but the words of the 
devil." Father, those impeachments I deny, and say they are 
not true. I never had a word with the British, and I never 
sent for any Indians. They came here themselves to listen 
and hear the words of the Great Spirit. 

Father, I wish you would not listen any more to the voice of 
bad birds ; and you may rest assured it is the least of our idea 
to make disturbance, and we will rather try to stop any such 
proceedings than encourage them. 

[The Prophet] 
Reply sent by John Connor. 



Harrison to Hargrove 

Headquarters Indiana Territory 

VINCENNES, Sept. 12, 1807 

Cockium, Pioneer History, 216, 217 

Captain Wm Hargrove, Commanding Rangers east of the 
Wabash river 
There has long been an old traveled way from this Post 
that crosses the White river near David Robb's place and the 



 

Patoka rivei- at John Severns', thence in a southwest direction 
to the Wabash river near the point where the Little Wabash 
empties into the main river, thence across the main Wabash 
at that place which can only be crossed by canoes or check 
boats. This route is known by some as the Salt Route. Salt 
has become so scarce and high priced that a number of settlers 
south of White river have petitioned the Governor for an es- 
cort of soldiers to protect them whilst on the trail and at the 
salt works west of the Wabash river. This petition has been 
under consideration for several days. The Governor sent for 
Mr. Robb about this matter and it has been arranged that 
a meeting with the petitioners and other citizens would be 
held at Mr. Kimbles [Jesse Kimball]' who lives on the site of 
the southwest of Mr. Severns', on Thursday the seventeenth 
day of September, 1807. You will temporarily place your 
command in the hands of your Ranking Sergeant and attend 
that meeting, taking two men and one scout with you. After 
due deliberation and consultation with the people present, if 
you think it best you can place two men on duty on the trail 
west of the river but their main camp must be on the east side 
of the Wabash when there are no parties to guard at the salt 
works. The scouts will remain with the two soldiers doing 
regular scouting duties. Instruct him to go for miles on every 
side of the salt works and learn the lay of the country and 
at night to be near the works or with the soldiers at their 
camp east of the river. The salt makers are to be instructed 
to have certain days to make salt and that they must go to the 
works in a body of not less than fifteen men, one-half of that 
number to be at all time ready for military duty, subject to 
the orders of the Sergeant which you place in command, to 
protect the others while the work is in progress. That from 
this relief the camp guards must be furnished day and night. 
The two soldiers are to remain on duty as long as you shall 
think it will be necessary to have a guard. After the first of 
December there is but little danger of Indian raids. This 
side of the Wabash is considered sufficiently safe for so large a 

1. Jesse Kimball, of an old New England family, was boi-n at Preston, Conn. Mar. 
19, 1760 ; served in the Revolution : moved to N. Y. ; served in the legion under Wayne : 
located at Henderson, about 1793 and thence moved to Gibson Co. Ind. in 1804. 

"Jesse Kinball", Ind. Mag of Hist. XVIII No. 1 
Morrison and Sharplis, The Kimball FamUy, Index 



 

number of cautious men to travel at any time. After the 
meeting you will send a report of the proceeding to this office. 

By directions of the Governor 
John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Territory 

Resignation of a Councillor 

In General Assembly, Indiana Territory 
St. Vincennes, 12 Sept. 1807 

Hur. Pa. U22 

The House of Representatives being informed by Pierre 
Menard from the County of Randolph of his resignation as a 
member of the Legislative Council of this Territory; pro- 
ceeded by Ballot to the nomination of two persons to the Presi- 
dent of the United States, to fill the vacancy in the Legislative 
Council, occasioned by the resignation of the said Pierre 
Menard, when upon counting the ballots : 

George Fisher^ was declared duly nominated. 

The House then proceeded in like manner to the nomination 
of another person when upon counting the Ballots 

James Finney was declared duly nominated.^ 

By Order Jesse B. Thomas, 
Speaker of the House of Representatives 

Petition from Indiana, Slavery 

Sept 19, 1807 

Ho2ise of Representatives Collection portfolio 180 
Various resolutions & petitions 1807-08 

In the Legislative Council and House of Representatives of 
the Indiana Territory: 
Great solicitude has been evidenced by the Citizens of this 
Territory on the subject of the introduction of Slaves. In the 

1. George Fisher was appointed sheriff of Randolph County (III) Aug. 1, 1800. 
He was the best known physician in the Illinois country. He came from Virginia to 
Kaskaskia at an early day and spent his life in the immediate neighborhood. He died 
in 1820. He was a member of the 111. constitutional convention and sat in the First 
assembly. 

Reynolds. Pioneer Illinois, 358 

2. James Finney was appointed a justice for Randolph county by Harrison, Nov. 
19, 1806 and on Oct. 7. 1807 was made judge of the Common Pleas. 

Executive Journal, Ind. Index 



 

year 1802 a special convention [Dec. 25, 1802 above] of Dele- 
gates from the respective Counties petitioned Congress for a 
suspension of the sixth article of Compact, contained in the 
Ordinance of 1787 : in 1805 a majority of the members of the 
Legislative Council and House of Representatives remon- 
strated with Congress on the subject. [Feb. 7, 1805, above] 
In 1806 the Legislative Council and House of Representatives 
passed sundry resolutions [Feb. 14, 1806, above] which were 
laid before Congress, declaratory of their sense of the propri- 
ety of admitting slaves : and as the Citizens of the Territory 
decidedly approve of the toleration of Slavery the Legislative 
Council and House of Representatives consider it incumbent 
on them, briefly to state, on behalf of themselves and their 
constituents, the reasons which have influenced them in favor 
of the measures. 

In the first place candor induces us to premise that in re- 
gard to the right of holding slaves a variety in opinion exists ; 
whilst some consider it decent and Just to acquire them either 
by purchase or conquest, others consider their possession by 
either tenure as a crime of the deepest stain ; that it is repug- 
nant to every principle of natural Justice of political rights 
and to every sentiment of humanity. Without entering into 
the merits of this controversy it need only be remarked that 
the proposition to introduce Slavery into the Territory is not 
embraced by them. It is not a question of liberty or Slavery. 
Slavery now exists in the United States and in this Territory. 
It was the crime of England and their misfortune. And it 
now becomes a question merely of policy in what way the 
Slaves are to be disposed of, that they may be least dangerous 
to the community, most useful to their proprietors, and by 
which their situation may be most ameliorated. 

As the law of Congress prohibiting the further importation 
of slaves into the Lfnited States takes eff'ect the first of Janu- 
ary next [1808], it is evident that the proposed toleration will 
not increase the number in the United States. 

It is believed, and has not experience verified the fact? that 
such is the number of slaves in the Southern States that the 
safety of individuals as well as the political institutions of 
those States are exposed to no small hazard. However desir- 
able it may be to emancipate them, it can never be done until 
they are dispersed ; it would be equally impolitic for the whites 
as for the 'slaves ; — The great current of emigration is con- 



 

stantly flowing from the Eastern & Southern States to the 
Western States and Territories. The increase of population 
in the Western Country for the last twenty years may afford 
some idea of its probable amount in the course of the present 
century; — It must be immense; and were all the Territories 
opened to the introduction of slaves, a large proportion of 
them would naturally be drawn from the southern States. 

From a reference to the States of Kentucky and Tennessee 
and at the time of the last United States Census, it is not be- 
lieved that the number of Slaves would ever become so great 
as to indanger either the internal peace or future prosperity 
of the Territory. It is also rendered improbable from the in- 
terior situation of the Territory its climate and productions. 

Slavery is tolerated in the Territories of Orleans Mississippi 
and Louisiana; — Why should this Territory be excepted? 

It is believed that Slaves possessed in small numbers by 
farmers are better fed and better Clothed than when they are 
crowded together in quarters by hundreds; — their situation 
in Kentucky, Tennessee, and the back parts of Maryland and 
Virginia verify this belief. 

Resolved by the Legislative Council and House of Repre- 
sentatives of the Indiana Territory That it is expedient to 
suspend for a given number of years the sixth article of com- 
pact contained in the Ordinance for the Government of the 
North- Western Territory passed the 13th day of July in the 
year 1787. 

Resolved that a Copy of the foregoing be forwarded to the 
Vice President of the United States with a request that he 
will lay the same before the Senate and that a Copy be for- 
warded to the Speaker of the House of Representatives with 
a request that he will lay the same before the said House of 
Representatives; and that the Governor of this Territory be 
requested to forward the same as aforesaid. Passed the Leg- 
islative council September the 19th 1807 

Attest Hey Hurst, clc. 

Jesse B. Thomas 
Speaker of the House of Representatives 
Saml Gwathmey 
President Pro tern of the Legislative Council 
[Endorsed] 
4ccg. a letter from Wm. H. Harrison, rec. 6 Nov. 1807 



 

Menard to Harrison 

KJ\SKASKIA September 19th, 1807 

Har. Pa. U23 

Sir: 

The private circumstances of my family render it necessary 
that I should resign my seat in the Legislative council of the 
Indiana Territory. I must therefore beg that you will accept 
of this as my resignation.^ 

I am Sir with high consideration yr. most obt. st. 

Pierre Menard 

Resolutions of Loyalty by the French 

Sept 20, 1807 
Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. U~, no. SI, 

At a general Meeting of the French Inhabitants of Vin- 
cennes holden at Mr. Mc.Candless'' Tavern on the 18th Sep- 
temper 1807 to agree upon and make an Answer to His 
Excellency the Governor's verbal Communication made to 
them at a general Meeting called by him on the 16th at the 
Tavern of Peter Jones^ Esqr. 

Laurent Bazadone,^ was elected President, and William 
Mcintosh* Secretary. 

1. Effort has been made to attach crioat political signific; 
resignations. Harrison had great difficulty in keeping the varioi 
was the pay. and so disagreeable the duties, esiiecially to an old man. 

1. John McCandlass was appointed sheriff of Knox county April .5, 1! 
shop was frequented by the natives while that of Peter Jones at the feri-y 
resort of the gentry, or high brows. 

2. Peter Jones was appointed a judge of common pleas and quarter 
Nov. 1, 1803. Sept. 5, 1805 he became auditor of Knox county. March 17. 1807 he 
became a lieutenant in the light infanti-y and Mar. 25. 1808, he was promoted to the 
captaincy in place of William Prince. June 21, 1810 he became captain of the First 
battalion and in the Tippecanoe army he became a captain. 

Executive Journal index 

3. Lawrence Bazadone or Bazadona was a Spanish trader who finally located at 
Vincennes where he kept a store. In 1788 he ransomed William Biggs, near the Wea 
town above Attica. April 29. 1811 Governor Harrison ordered a special session of court 
to try Bazadone, then in jail, for killing a Musco Indian. In 1805 he had a large 
store near the ferry at Vincennes. 

Reynolds. Pioneer Illinois 
Executive Journal Ind. Ter. 

4. William Mcintosh was a U. E. loyalist who had come to Vincennes after the 
Revolution, about 1787. He was widely interested in land speculation, at times with 
Harrison. His brother Angus Mcintosh was a well known trader of Canada. At first 
he was a warm friend of Harrison but was strongly opposed to advancing the territory 
to the second grade. 

Dawson, Harrison^ 175 



 

The following Answer was then read and agreed to, and di- 
rected to be prepared by the Secretary to be read again on 
Sunday next, and to be signed by the President, and attested 
by the Secretary in triplicate. 

The French Inhabitants of Vincenes return Thanks to His 
Excellency the Governor for the Communication he has been 
pleased to make to them, correspondent with the sense they 
entertain of the frankness and patriotism with which they are 
addressed; and conceiving that the occasion and the impor- 
tance of the subject communicated, dictate the propriety of 
stating their answer in the form of Resolutions they have 
adopted that mode, as follows. 

Having taken into consideration that part of the Governor's 
Communication which relates to the late outrage committed by 
the British against the United States. 

Resolved unanimously that the french Inhabitants of Vin- 
cennes freely and explicitly unite their feeble but determined 
voice with those of their fellow citizens on the atlantic so gen- 
eraly proclaimed throughout The United States, in the Just ex- 
pression of their detestation and resentment of the late un- 
provoked, cruel and outrageous aggression committed by 
Captn. Humphries of the British Navy in wresting by force of 
Arms four of our Brethren from on board one of the Frigates 
of The United States, in time of Peace. 

Resolved unanimously that we will support with our Lives 
and Fortunes such measures as the constituted authorities of 
our Country may deem proper to adopt and pursue in demand- 
ing and enforcing such Satisfaction from the British Govern- 
ment for this recent, and every other outrage committed by 
them on our National dignity or our Commercial Rights, as 
the United States are entitled to from a Nation boasting to act 
on principles of Right and not of Force. 

Having taken into our serious consideration that part of 
the Governor's Communication which relates to the Patriotism 
and Fidelity of the French Inhabitants of Vincennes and the 
circumstances connected thereto.'^ 

6. "Shortly after the melancholy affair of the Chesapeake, the Governor con- 
vened a meeting of the French inhabitants of Vincennes. for the purpose of declaring 
their sentiments upon the abominable outrage and insult committed upon the flag of 
the United States, and the murder of one of their citizens, as well as to express their 
attachment to the government of their country, and their determination to fight for 
and support it. In his address to the meeting, he informed them of the attempts made 
by the emissaries of the British government to prejudice the Indians against the 
Americans, and strongly urged them to detect, and to conmiunicate to him, the names 



 

Resolved unanimously that we perceive with great surprise 
and indignation that there appears to exist in the mind of the 
Governor suspicions of our Patriotism and Fidelity to The 
United States. That under such circumstances a recurrence 
to the evidence of facts in the past conduct of the French In- 
habitants of Vincennes will furnish the strongest arguments 
and proofs in our power to adduce to remove such injurious 
suspicions if they realy exist. 

Was it not with the aid and comfort of our ancestors as 
well as many yet sui-viving, that the Troops of Virginia re- 
duced these Posts? Have we not at all times since, upon 
every occasion demonstrated our Zeal and attachment to the 
United States, and joined their Army in defence of our Coun- 
try, and thereby drawn upon ourselves the eternal hatred of 
the Indians in our vicinity? Have we since the establishment 
of our Territorial Government refused to coopei-ate with our 
fellow citizens in the faithful performance of every required 
duty? But we are disposed to admit that should those in- 
jurious suspicions be entertained by the Governor, they must 
have been imparted to him by evil Counsellors. Should there 
be any persons amongst us, who by their actions or expres- 
sions may have given occasion to such Calumnies, let them 
be exposed and brought to condign punishment. 

It is ungenerous to involve indiscriminately the innocent 
with the guilty, and we deem it no less odious to be suspected 
than to be guilty of infidelity to our Country. If any expres- 
sions favorable to France have been made by any amongst us, 
they arose only from an impression that the coalesced Powers 

of any persons of that description which might come to their ItnowledKe. He also ex- 
pressed some apprehensions that some attempts might be made to weaken their own 
attachment to the government of the United States, and seriously warned them to be 
on their guard against any insidious observations having that tendency : which latter 
remark was made in conseciuence of one of the oldest and most respectable of their 
number having said, that he would have no objections to fight against the Indians. 
but he could not think of taking up arms against the king of Great Britian : to whom 
he had once sworn allegiance. . 

This observation of the Governor called forth the ire of a Scotchman. [Mcintosh] 
notorious for his tory principles ; and he, having considerable influence among the 
persons composing the meeting, by being employed in transacting their business, and 
having a good knowledge of their language, procured himself to be chosen secretary 
of the meeting: and supposing himself to be alluded to as a British emissary, he 
induced them to step forward in his vindication : and he the better succeeded in this. 
as he contrived to impress them with the belief that the Governor had questioned their 
own patriotism, which induced them to make common cause with him. But this 
delusion was soon dissipated, and appropriate resolutions were entered into and handed 
over to the Governor, in order to have them transmitted to the President of the United 
States." 

Dawson, Harrison, lOi 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 259 

in Europe had views of dismembering a Country from which 
our ancestors emigrated, and for whose Prosperity we do not 
wish to be understood to feel indifferent, while we explicitly 
disavow any partiality for France or any other country, which 
is not consistent with our allegiance to The United States. 
It may be, and we believe it is part of the Governor's official 
duty, to warn the People of the danger that may flow from the 
specious attempts which may be made by British or other for- 
eign Agents, to alienate our affections from our Government, 
and attach us to the British or other Nations: and we seize 
the present occasion to assure His Excellency, and through 
him the General Government, that our attachment and Fidel- 
ity to The United States are sincere, strong and permanent. 
That we know not of British or any other Emissaries or 
Agents in this place, or in the Indian Country: and if ever 
such infamous attempts should be made upon us by any, we 
would regard ourselves as unworthy of our Country, if we 
concealed them for a moment from the constituted authorities. 
We must be permitted to observe that the Person [William 
JMcIntosh] pointed to by your Excellency has lived amongst us 
upwards of twenty years, has acquired a handsome Property, 
and has never to our knowledge or belief attempted to weaken, 
but on the contrary has always, as on the present occasion 
strengthened our zeal in the common cause of our Country. 
It is therefore but an act of Justice to our own honour as well 
as to him to declare, that we regard the means practised to 
lessen him in the good opinion of his fellow citfzens as re- 
pugnant to our sense of the rights secured to every citizen by 
the laws of our Country, as the accusations appear to us to 
be ill founded. 

Resolved, that the Governor be waited upon by the Presi- 
dent, and a committee of two Members of this meeting at one 
o'clock on Sunday next, and present to him two Copies of 
these Proceedings, and that he be and he hereby is requested 
to transmit one of them to the President of The United States, 
as the Answer of the French Inhabitants of Vincennes to His 
Excellencies' Communication. 

On Sunday the 20th September 1807. the foregoing Answer 
was agreed to unanimously. 

his 
Laurent X Bazadone President 
mark 
Attest Wm. Mc.Intosh Sy. 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 

Post Vincennes, Sept 27, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 217, 218 

Captain William Hargrove, Ranger Service : 

Your report of the 19th inst. by your hunter, the Cree In- 
dian, came in two days ago. He was retained to carry mes- 
sages to parties on the old Salt trace. That information was 
wanted from us before this was sent to you. David Robb, 
John Severn, Sr. and Isaac Montgomery^ were here last night. 
The matter of a guard at the salt works was gone over care- 
fully. They all agree with your report that there is no need 
of guards on the east side of the Wabash and if it were not 
for a lot of foolhardy, earless people who would insist on 
going there in small parties, there would be no need of guards 
on the west side of the river. The two men and the scout 
which you have there will remain on duty. The most prob- 
able trouble, if any comes, will be from south of the Ohio river. 
You can have your scout informed of this and have him keep 
a close lookout in that direction. Young Bailey returned sev- 
eral days ago with your report about the refugees [Burr]. 
Retain the three young men which you enlisted if you need 
them. If the three families will come to a point within two 
miles of the Yellow Banks road it will do. If they prefer, 
they can move on to the new road that is being located to the 
east no far from where they are now camped. It is thought 
best for you to have Bailey look after this matter,. These 
people must be near one of these routes and must prepare 
themselves a strong blockhouse with a stockade around it. 

By order of W. H. Harrison Gov. of Indiana Territory 
John Gibson, Secretary 

1. Thomas Montgomery (Pretty old Tom) "a man who had fought Indians over 
half of Va., all of Ky., and southern Indiana," was the youngest son in a family of 
ten, born to Hugh Montgomery, an Irish emigrant to Va. He served in the Revolution 
and in 1793 came to Ky. He lost his land in Montgomery Co. Ky. and in 1805 located in 
Montgomery Tp. Gibson Co. Ind. His wife was a cousin of Davy Crockett. 

Cocknma, Pioneer History, £29; Stormont, Gibson County, 47 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 

Headquarters, Indiana Territory, 
ViNCENNES, Sunday, October 4, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 218, 219 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, in command of Rangers: 

The Governor wishes to assure you of his appreciation of 
your successful work in gathering so many of the unfortunate 
refugees at points near the Yellow Banks and other traces 
and the large colony which you have gathered on the new 
trace crossing the Yellow Banks road. This is very desirable 
place to have a strong fort. In making the building be sure 
that it is strongly put together, made out of large logs and 
that a stockade ten feet high be built that will enclose one acre 
of ground. In this enclosure can be erected a number of 
strong buildings that will safely protect fifty people. This 
will be a rallying point for all who may come later to that sec- 
tion. The times are very unsettled. The Indians are con- 
tinually grumbling because the white people are in this coun- 
try and threatening that unless their lands are restored they 
will drive them back across the Ohio river. North of the 
White river they could' easily concentrate in such numbers 
that should they find our people unprepared could overrun the 
most of your territory. It is hard to tell anjrthing about what 
an Indian will do when he has the advantage. They are the 
most treacherous, cunning rascals on earth and the most 
brutal as well. The only safe way is to keep the advantage 
on our side and put the Indians on the defense. When they 
know that your position makes one white man equal to ten 
Indians there is no danger of an attack. The two men com- 
ing into your lines east of the Mud-hole have certainly re- 
pented of all the wrong which they have done by following 
after Traitor Burr. It is best for you to see all these people 
who are connected with that unfortunate affair and instruct 
them under no circumstances to let any one know that they 
were in the Burr conspiracy. If they do in after years they 
will be accused of being traitors by people not half so worthy 
as they are. 

By William H. Harrison, 
Governor of Indiana Territory 

Per John Gibson, Secretary 



 

Harrison to Jefferson 

VINCENNES lOth Octr. 1807 
Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. ^2, no. 85 

Dear Sir 

I have the Honor to enclose herewith some Resokitions 
adopted by the French Inhabitants of this place on the 18th 
Ultimo but which were not put into my Hands until a few 
days ago. [September 20, above] 

In the preamble to the Resolutions there are some Circum- 
stances Mentioned which require explanation, thinking that 
a public declaration of attachment to the Government at this 
Crisis would be acceptable to you & honorable to themselves 
I assembled the French Citizens some time since and after 
informing them of the late outrage Committed on our flag by 
the British Vessel & the probability that it might lead to 
War with that nation I recommended to them to take the sub- 
ject into Consideration & adopt some mode of expressing their 
sentiments. The Communication was received by them with 
apparent pleasure and they promised to follow my advice. In 
the course of my address [at Jones' Tavern] I informed them 
also of the attempts which were making by British emissaries 
to prejudice the Indians against the United States & urged 
them to endeavour to Detect & Communicate to me the names 
of any Characters of that description which might Come to 
their knowledge — I expressed also an Apprehension that at- 
tempts might be made to weaken their attachment to the 
American Government — & warned them to be on their guard 
against any insidious obsei-vations having that tendency. The 
latter remark was made in consequence of the oldest & most 
I'espectable of their number having declared that he would 
freely take up ai-ms against the Indians but he could not think 
of fighting against the king of G. Britain to whom he had 
once taken an Oath of Allegiance. A Scotchman of the name 
of Mcintosh who is as inveterate a tory as any of his nation 
and who has considerable influence over them from the neces- 
sity they are under of employing him to transact their busi- 
ness procured himself to be appointed Secretary to their meet- 
ing and supposing that he had been alluded to as a British 
Emissary prevailed upon them to step forward in his vindica- 
tion. To effect this more easily & to induce them to make 
a common cause with him they were prevailed upon to think 



 

that I had in my address expressed some doubts of their 
patriotism, an assertion equally false & mischievous. 

I have the Honor to enclose also the Resignation of Pierre 
Menard [Sept. 19, above] one of the Legislative Council 
which was sent to me only a few days ago from Kaskaskias 
altho it had some time since been announced by him to the 
House of Representatives & Nominations made to fill his va- 
cancy. The persons nominated Messrs [George] Fisher & 
Finne [James Finney] are both respectable men & good Re- 
publicans. Mr Fisher is however the choice of the House of 
Representatives & I believe of his County. [Sept. 12, above] 

I am Dr Sir with the greatest Respect & Consideration your 
Hume Sevt. 

WiLLM H. Harrison 
The President of the United States 

Memorial from Clark County, Slavery 

Oct. 10, 1807 

House of Rrepresentatives Collection portfolio ISO 
Various resolutions & petitions 1807-08 

At a numerous meeting of the Citizens of Clark County in 
Springville (agi-eably to notice previously given) on Satur- 
day the [10] day of October 1807 for the purpose of taking 
into consideration the Resolution past at the last Session of 
the Legislature of the Indiana Territory praying the Congress 
of the United States to suspend for a certain time the sixth 
article of compact contained in the Ordinance, Mr John Beggs^ 
was chosen chairman and Davis Floyd Secretary. 

On Motion Ordered that a Committee of five suitable per- 
sons be appointed to draft and report to this meeting a Me- 
morial to Congress in opposition to the Resolutions of the 
Legislature of the Indiana Territory on the subject of Slavery 
in this Territory by the suspension of the sixth article of 
Compact contained in the Ordinance and the said Committee 
was appointed of Messrs Absalom Little^ John Owens^ Charles 

1. John Bei,'K3. The BeEss family was descended from James Bet'es of Ireland. 
The grandfather, Thomas Beg^s. was born in New Jersey but soon moved to Western 
Va. He died in the service as a Revolutionary soldier. The three brothers, James, 
John and Charles came to Clark county, early, by way of Kentucky, and bought laree 
farms. All were church leaders, John, the oldest was a Baptist. All served in various 
capacities. Charles was a captain of militia under Harrison at Tippecanoe. 

S. E. BesBS, Early History of West and Northwest, 9; Dunn, Indiana, 355 



 

Beggs* Robert Robertson' and James Beggs"* Mr Little from 
the aforesaid Committee reported a memorial pursuant to the 
aforesaid Order in the words and figures following (Viz, 

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States in Congress assembled 

The memorial of the Citizens of Clark County Humbly 
sheweth, that great anxiety has been and still is evinced by 
some of the Citizens of this Territory on the subject of the 
introduction of Slavery into the same ; But in no case has the 
voice of the Citizens been unanimous. In the year 1802 at 
a special convention of delegates from the respective Coun- 
ties a petition was forwarded to Congress to repeal the sixth 
article of Compact contained in the Ordinance, But the rep- 
resentation of all that part of the Territory East of Knox 
County were present and were decidedly opposed to that part 
of the petition 

In the year 1805 the subject was again taken up and dis- 
cussed in the general assembly and a Majority of the house 
of Representatives voted against said memorial on the afd. 
subject, and consequently, the Memorial was rejected as the 
Journals of that House doth sufficiently evince; But a num- 
ber of Citizens thought proper to sign the same and amongst 
the rest the speaker of the House of Representatives, and the 
President of the Council (tho the president of the Council 
denies ever having signed the same) and by some Legislative 
Legerdemain it found its way into the Congress of the United 
States as the Legislative act of the Territory. In the present 
year 1807 the subject was again taken up by the Legislature 
of this Territory and a Majority of both houses passed cer- 
tain resolutions (in the proportion of two to one) for the 
purpose of suspending the sixth article of compact contained 

2. Absalom Little or Littell with his family was one of the first settlers of Clark 
county. His home was near Sellersburg. He came from Penn. in 1779. He was an 
elder in the Presbyterian church. On or near his farm was or^'anized one of the 
earliest protestant churches in Ind. — a Baptist church. 1788. In 1801 Little was ap- 
pointed an appraiser for Springville. Harrison appointed him a justice Oct. 27, 1808. 

Ohio Falls Counties, II, SSS 

3. John Owens was one of the original settlers of Clarksville, 1783 ; Dec. 24, 1803 
he was appointed a Falls pilot : Sept. 20, 1803 he was made Capt. of militia : promoted 
to major Auk. 16. 1806: during the war of 1812 he served with the mounted rifles as a 
lieutenant and captain. He served under Bigger at Tippecanoe, 

4. Charles Beggs. See note 1. 

B. Robert Robertson, capt. of militia of Clark Co. Nov. 18, 1806 ; made major June 
12. 1806 and colonel Apr, 13, 1812. 
6. James Beggs, See note 1, 



 

in the Ordinance which we presume is before your Honorable 
body 

But let it be understood that in the Legislative Council 
there were but three members present and the president of 
the same (for certain reasons) positively refused to sign 
the said Resolutions and they were reduced to the last subter- 
fuge of prevailing- on the president to leave his seat and one 
of the other members take it as president pro tern, for the 
purpose of signing the said Resolutions (whether this is right 
or wrong Judge ye) 

And altho' it is contended by some that at this day there 
is a Majority in favour of Slavery (whilst the opposite opin- 
ion is held by others) tho' the fact is certainly doubtful. But 
when we take a view of the vast emigration into this Terri- 
tory and of Citizens too decidedly opposed to the measure we 
feel satisfied, that at all events Congress will suspend any 
Legislative act on this subject until we shall by the Constitu- 
tion be admitted into the Union and have a right to adopt 
such a constitution in this respect as may comport with the 
wishes of a Majority of the Citizens. 

As to the propriety of Holding those in slavery whom it 
hath pleased the divine Creator to Create free, seems to us 
to be repugnant to the inestimable principals of a Republican 
government. Altho' some of the States have and do hold 
slaves, Yet it seems to be the general opinion even in those 
states that they are an evil from which they can not extricate 
themselves. As to the Interest of the Territory a variety 
of opinion exists; But suffer your memorialists to state that 
it is a fact that a great number of Citizens in various parts 
of the United States are preparing and many have actually 
emigrated to this Territory to get free from a government 
which does tolerate Slavery. 

The Toleration of Slavery is either right or wrong and if 
Congress should think with us that it is wrong that it is in- 
consistent with the principals upon which our future Consti- 
tution is to be formed, your Memorialists, will rest satisfied, 
at least, that this subject will not be by them taken up until 
the Constitutional number of the Citizens of this Territory 
shall assume that right 

It is considered useless for your Memorialists to recapitu- 
late the many reasons and objections which might be ad- 
vanced, relying that this subject is fully and fairly under- 



 

stood by your Honorable Body as it relates to the natural 
right policy and prosperity of a free and independent nation. 

On Motion Resolved that the chairman be requested to for- 
ward duplicate Copies of these proceedings (Signed by the 
said Chairman and Counter signed by the Secretary) One to 
the Vice President of the United States or President of the 
Senate pro Tern and One to the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives in the Congress of the United States 
By Order of the meeting 

John Beggs Chm 
Attest 

Davis Floyd Secy. 

[Indorsed:] 

Memorial of the inhabitants of Clark county in the Indiana territoiy. 

6th November 1807— referred to Mr. Jacob Richards, Mr. Kirk- 
patrick, Mr. Love, Mr. Sloan, Mr. Deane, Mr. Davenport and Mr. Parke. 

17th Novemr. 1807 — report made and referred to a Committee of 
the whole House. On Monday the 30th instant. 

Harrison to Hargrove 

Headquarters, Indiana Territory, 

VINCENNES, Oct. 12, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 218, 219 

William Hargrove, Ca'ptain Commanding in Ranger Service: 
Your report and the man you sent in under guard, are here. 
You did the right thing in an-esting this man. All such sus- 
picious cases as this should be investigated. What this man 
is has not yet been found out and it is doubtful if it ever is. 
If this country were at war with a white race it would evi- 
dently be determined that he was a spy locating the military 
strength and positions of our army. It may be that he is 
doing that v.ork for the British. He evidently is not what he 
claims to be. A prisoner for two years among the Indians 
would not have such clean underwear beneath his buckskin 
suit. Then his hair has been recently cut by a barber. He 
will be retained for the present. This is Sunday and the cart 
drivers are all at a gathering down the river someway. Will 
forward the supplies tomorrow. 

By order of the Governor 

John Gibson. Sect, of Indiana Territory 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 

Headquarters, Indiana Territory, 
Sunday, Oct. 18, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer- History, 220 

Captain William Hargrove, Commanding Rangers: 

Your report by FuQuay is received. The flints were of a 
new lot. Since your statement has come they have been ex- 
amined and found to be of shelly material and are of no value. 
Others will be sent you as soon as possible. Have your men 
save the old ones until the others come. 

The statement of the Delaware Indian that he has seen the 
prisoner whom we are holding as a spy at Clarkesville, two 
moons ago is noted. 

The old trace that runs near the Ohio river crossing the 
Wabash and on the saline regions of the Illinois has been a 
regular pass way for Indians from time when none know. 
The Shawnees under chief Setteedown^ have, as you know, a 
straggling settlement along this trail and extending to about 
ten miles off the Yellow Banks trace that you patrolled. Our 
scouts from this place have often been over the route and vis- 
ited some white people located on the north bank of the Ohio. 
Major John Sprinkles,- who lives on the north bank some six 
miles up the river from the mouth of Green river was to see 
the Governor yesterday and informed him that detached bands 
of Indians had been passing east for eight or ten days and 
appeared to be carrying their luggage with them. Bailey 
Anderson,^ who lives in the neighborhood of a few of the 

1. Setteedown or Settetah was chief of a small straggling band of nondescript 
Indians, mostly Shawnees. Their village from 1807 to 1811 was near the mouth of 
Cypress creek Warrick county. In 1811 he was implicated in the murder of the Meeks 
family of Spencer county and killed. 

Warrick, Spencer, & Perry Counties, SSI 
For a more detailed account see Arvil Barr, in Indiana May. of Hist. XIV, 301,-331 

2. John Sprinkle was the first permanent settler of Warrick county, he was a 
Pennsylvanian born 1772. From there he located in Henderson 1792. He came to 
Indiana in 1803 and settled at Newburg Warrick county where he died, 1821. His 
title of Major is from the Ky. militia. A brother, George, was captured during the 
Miami war, about 1790 and ransomed at Fort Wayne about 1794. 

Indiana Magazine of Hist XIV, 308 
Warrick county, (1885) il 

3. Bailey Anderson came to Warrick county about 1806 and may have been a 
follower of Burr. His place was near the mouth of Cypress creek — "Bailey's Roost". 

Ind. Mag. of Hist, XIV, SOS 
1818 he went on to Texas. Anderson Tp. Warrick Co. 

Warrick county (1885) Si 



 

Shawnee wigwams, informed Mr. Sprinkles that some of these 
visiting Indians were preparing a camp not more than one 
mile from his cabin. This may be nothing but hunting par- 
ties from over the Wabash. Any unusual gathering of In- 
dians on the Ohio river at this time of the year is looked on 
with suspicion. They may intend to remain during the winter 
and if a chance comes, attempt to capture boats and movers 
descending the river as soon as the water is in sufficient stage. 
You will temporarily leave your command in charge of Ser- 
geant Hogue, taking two reliable men with you and at your 
settlement secure mounts for your parties. Then go south 
along the Red Banks route and up to Major Sprinkles' cabin, 
who is aware of your coming. Bailey Anderson will fall in 
with your party as you go east from the Major's. You are 
to make an official visit to chief Setteedown. Bailey Ander- 
son understands their language and will act as interpreter. 
Before leaving the old Chief invite him to bring some of his 
young men and visit Governor Harrison at this Post. Have 
him set the day as early as he will. You will then proceed 
east on the trace until you come to where it crosses the road 
running to the north that comes to the Ohio river just west 
of the mouth of Blue river. Thoroughly familiarize yourself 
with the route. In returning, note well the topography of the 
country. Return the two men to their station and you report 
in person to this post. 

By the direction of Wm. H. Harrison Governor of Indiana 
Territory 
John Gibson secretary 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory. October 20, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 221, 222 

Captain William Hargrove, Commanding the Western Divi- 
sion of Rangers east of the Wabash river: 
Last Sunday night the 18th inst. two of our scouts returning 
from a long trip found themselves at White Oak Spring 
[Petersburg] for a little after seven o'clock in the evening. 
On going to the gate asked permission to stay over night in 
the stockade, which was denied them. They were informed 
that when the gates were closed for the night that they could 



 

not be opened for anyone. The scouts showed their passes 
signed by Governor Harrison, yet they were refused admit- 
tance saying that Governor Harrison nor any of his men could 
get in after night. The Governor directs that you investigate 
this matter. Scout Ell Ernest, the bearer of this order, will 
be permitted to be present while the investigation is being 
made as he was one of the scouts who was refused permission 
to stay in the stockade. Go fully into the details. The Mili- 
tary authorities are doing everything possible with the few 
men at their command to protect the settlers who are scattered 
on the southern borders of this Territory and cheerfully do 
this hard service, imperilling the lives of the best men of the 
country, trying to give protection to those who are exposed 
to danger; but when it comes to such actions as is above re- 
lated of men who were being guarded, insulting and denying 
the common coutesies to those guarding them that is so fully 
extended by all decent pioneer settlers to all who come to their 
cabins. Some parties at that fort are guilty of indignities 
that will not be silently passed over. Find, if you can if the 
owner of that fort was at home that night. Secure the names 
of the men who were there and if possible the one who was 
spokesman. When you have made this investigation send the 
report to this office by Ell Ernest. 
Ordered by W. H. Harrison 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, Oct. 23, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 222 

Captain Wm. Hargrove: 

The Governor directs me to send his compliments and in- 
form you that he appreciates the prompt and thorough man- 
ner in which you made the investigation wanted. Woolsey 
Pride is here and is fully exonerated and commended for so 
summarily punishing the parties who were guilty of the petty 
meanness. 

Your obedient servant, John Gibson, Sec'ij of I. T. 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
Headquarters, Indiana Territory, October 28, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 222, 223 

Wm Hargrove, Captain Commanding Rangers: 

Chief Settedowii and his young men have retunied to their 
homes. He assured the Governor that the Indians gathering 
in his neighborhood were very peaceable inclined toward the 
■ white people and gave as a reason for their being there that 
game was more plentiful than across the Wabash and that 
they intended to stay only a short while. In answering the 
inquiry why he did not want to keep all the game for himself 
and people, said, that there was much more than he wanted. 
Finally said in less than one moon they would all go back over 
the Wabash. It is hoped that this will be true, but the only 
security with the Indians is to be always prepared and watch 
them. FuQuay is better acquainted with that section than 
any one else we have in the service. He and Ben Page have 
orders to report to you at your east stockade camp, on the 
Clarksville trace and will hand you this letter. It is thought 
best for you to go with the two scouts to the Yellow Banks 
and have them make such disposition of their time during 
the next thirty days as will secure the best information of the 
movements of the strange Indians. This suggestion is made 
for your consideration in this matter. You are on the ground 
and will understand the situation better than can be under- 
stood at this distance. The two scouts have each a new ax 
besides their rifles and ammunition. This is the equipment 
that most of the newcomers bring to the Territory. Have 
them go into the section a few miles east of Bailey Anderson's 
and build a small cabin and put in their time hunting and 
roving over as large a territory around their cabin as they 
can. In doing this they will have a pretty good idea of what 
the Indians are doing around them. If there is any design 
other than friendship by the newcomers, the Shawnees know 
it. Of all this you are in the best position to find out the 
truth. The two scouts will send or bring you a report as often 
as you think best to require it. You are safe in giving FuQuay 
your confidence as he is one of the most trusted men that is 
in the employ of these head-quarters. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Secretary of Indiana Territory 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 

Post Vincennes, November 4, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 223 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, Commanding a Detachment of 
Rangers: 

The location for the refugees is no doubt a good one. 
Plenty of water is very desirable. The Governor is favorable 
to your suggestion. It certainly would be to the advantage 
of the new emigrants for them to prepare a little cabin in- 
side of the stockades and to remain in it during the winter. 
If they prefer to go to some other place in the spring they 
can do so. The advantage of being with a number of people 
during the cold season in hunting and the social advantages 
is recompense enough for all the trouble they would be at to 
erect the little cabin. 

Your opinion of FuQuay is correct. He has been closely 
identified with the work in this part of the Territory since 
1801. The Governor would gladly comply with your request 
but his services as scout is of such importance that it is not 
thought best to take him out of that position. Sergeant Hogue 
would fill the place you wanted FuQuay for with a little train- 
ing. 

The supposed spy has been sent to Fort Washington [Cin- 
cinnati] with a statement of the evidence and the affidavit 
against him. There will be no further need of hunting evi- 
dence in that case. Without a doubt he is a spy for the 
British and will be held as such for an indefinite time unless 
direct evidence of his guilt should be secured. Then he v\rill 
be summarily dealt with. 

You now have four roads or traces running to the east that 
can be easily found and traveled over, dividing your territory 
into sections between the Ohio and White rivers. Also you 
h^ve four roads or traces running north and south dividing 
your territory in that direction from near the Wabash on the 
west to Blue river on the east, thus enabling you to give much 
better protection to settlers nov/ there and to the emigrants 
coming into your territory.^ This condition makes that sec- 
tion of this territory very desirable for settlers. The most 



 

important thing that you can do is to see that the blockhouses 
are so located that they will be accessible to those in the sur- 
rounding country if danger should come. There is no cer- 
tainty that we will have a continuation of the quiet that now 
exists. The English on the north are doing all that they can 
to cause trouble between the Indians and the pioneers, using 
the treaties which have been made as a pretext, claiming that 
it was fradulently obtained. 

It is thought best that you make a personal inspection of 
all the blockhouses that are now built and the several that 
are being constructed at the different stations in your ter- 
ritory and see that they are securely built and good, strong, 
durable stockades surrounding them that will have sufficient 
room for the construction of from six to ten small cabins. 
Some one who is most competent in each fort must be placed 
in command and it must be understood that he is to be obeyed 
by all of those who will use that fort as a place of refuge. 

Have them select by lot the man they want, but advice those 
interested that the most efficient men thay have should be 
chosen. You will make a careful inspection of their arms 
and ammunition and should you find them deficient in either 
you can make a requisition on the ordnance office at this 
place through these head-quarters for the needed supplies. 
That needed for the eastern forts will be forwarded to you 
at White Oak Springs fort. That for the western division 
will be sent to David Robb's fort. You will have the proper 
parties meet you at a stated period at these places and give 
out the guns and ammunition to them taking their receipts 
for the same. This will simplify the work as soon as you can 
have a sufficient number of forts so that they will be reason- 
able accessible in all the Territory, which you command, the 
need of the Rangers continually marching over the traces 
will be done away with. Carefully read this letter of sug- 
gestions and when you send in your next report any sugges- 
tions you may have to make will receive careful consideration. 

By direction of W. H. Harrison Gov. of Indiana Territory 
John Gibson, Secretary ■ 



 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, November 12, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, 225-227 

Capt. Wm. Hargrove, Commanding first division of Rangers, 
east of the Wabash river: 

Your report enclosing a letter from FuQuay. The contents 
of that letter were fully considered by the Governor. That 
there would be some excuse made for the Indians to remain 
during the winter months has been suspected. The fact that 
they are building such secure tepees warrants that suspicion, 
but their attempt to be adopted into the tribe of the Shawnees 
was unlooked for. The Governor directs that you have a 
vigilant watch kept on their actions until about the 26th 
inst. the time Chief Setteedown set for their return will then 
be up. Better have Bailey Anderson interview the old Chief 
and in their talk remind him of his promise to Governor that 
they would be gone in one moon. FuQuay and Anderson it 
seems found out that the Illinois Indians on the visit are 
Kickapoos and that they have one of their subchiefs in com- 
mand of them. This looks suspicious. You can do nothing 
as yet, only have FuQuay and Ben Page keep a vigilant watch 
on the Indians and instruct them to send one of your runners, 
who you will keep near them, to you with any information 
that they may secure. If you should learn any new danger- 
ous developments, send immediately to this head-quarters a 
report of it. If it should become necessary, one hundred men 
can be sent from this Post to any point which you may think 
best to place them. The Governor thinks it best to make a 
camp on the Yellow Banks trace at the point where the large 
fort is located [formerly called Taylorsvile, now Selvin, War- 
rick county, Ind.] If the stockade is not as large as is 
needed, it can be enlarged and in a short time the soldiers 
can put up such barracks as will make them comfortable for 
the short time that they will likely stay. 

The Piankashaw Indian, named Yellow Bird has just re- 
turned from a visit to Indian friends on the west fork of 
White river. He said to one of our friendly Indians that 
the Indians on White river were grumbling about the treaties 
and threatening to drive the Americans back over the Ohio. 
That there is a great unrest among the Indians is not doubted 



 

by those whose business it is to know what is going on out- 
side of the settlements. What it may terminate in is un- 
certain. It is best for our people to be well on their guard 
and be ready in the event war should come. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Sec'y. of Indiana Temtory 

Post Script. : The Governor directs that you ascertain how 
many able-bodied men you have in your district that would 
be able to bear arms. This duty can be done by some of your 
active young men. 

Senate Report on Slavery in Indiana 

November 13, 1807 

Am. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, i8i 

Mr. Franklin, from the committee^ to whom was referred 
the representation and resolution of the Legislature Council 
and House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory, bear- 
ing the date of 13th of July, [?] 1807; [September 19 above] 
and, also, the remonstrance of the citizens of Clark county, 
of the Territory aforesaid, [October 10, above] reported : 

The Legislative Council and House of Representatives, in 
their resolutions, express their sense of the propriety of in- 
troducing slavery into their Territory, and solicit the Con- 
gress of the United States to suspend, for a given number 
of years, the sixth article of compact, in the ordinance for 
the government of the Territory northwest of the river Ohio, 
passed the 13th day of July, 1787. That article declares: 
"there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in 
the said Territory." 

The citizens of Clark county, in their remonstrance, ex- 
press their sense of the impropriety of the measure, and 
solicit the Congress of the United States not to act on the 
subject, so as to permit the introduction of slaves into the 
Territory; at least until their population shall entitle them 
to form a constitution and State Government. 

1. This committee consisted of Jesse Franldin of North Car., Aaron Kitchell of 
New Jersey and Edward Tiffin of Ohio. The two petitions, one from the territorial 
legislature, dated Sept. 19, 1807. the other from citizens of Clarl< county, dated Oct. 
10, 1807 are given in the Annals. (Senate) under date of Nov. 13, 1807. 



 

Your committee, after duly considering the matter, respect- 
fully submit the following resolution: 

Resolved, That it is not expedient at this time to suspend 
the sixth article of compact for the government of the ter- 
ritory of the United States northwest of the river Ohio. 

House Report on Slavery in Indiana 

November 17, 1807 

House of Representatives Collection portfolio 180 
Various Resolutions & petitions 1807-08 

The Committee,^ to whom were referred the letter from 
William Henry Harrison governor of the Indiana territory, 
inclosing certain resolutions passed by the Legislative Coun- 
cil and House of Representatives of said territory [Sept. 19, 
supra] , relative to the suspension for a certain period, of the 
sixth article of compact [Ordinance of 1787] between the 
United States and the territories and states north-west of 
the river Ohio, made the 13th of July 1787. And the Me- 
morial of the inhabitants of Clark county in the Indiana ter- 
ritory — 

Report 

They have attentively considered the Resolution of the Leg- 
islative council and House of Representatives of the Indiana 
territory — stating the expediency of suspending for a given 
number of years — the sixth article of Compact — contained in 
the ordinance for the governinent of the North Western ter- 
ritory — passed the 13th of July in the year 1787 — together 
with the reasoning in favor of said resolution — And also — 
a counter memorial of a number of Citizens of Clark county 
in the said Territory of Indiana — [October 10, above] 

It appears to the committee as well from the statement of 
the Legislative council & House of Representatives of said 
territory — as from the Memorial of the Citizens of Clark 
county, — that a difference of opinion exists in the territory, 
as to the right of holding slaves — and as to the propriety of 
introducing them within the said territory. 

1. This committee was composed of Jacob Richards of Penn.. William Kirk- 
patrick of N. Y., John Love of Va., John Davenport of Conn., Josiah Deane of Mass. 
and Benjamin Parke of Ind. appointed Nov. 6, 1807. They reported Nov. 17. It will 
be noted it was a northern committee. These petitions were presented in the senate 
Nov. 7. See Senate report supra. 



 

On a subject of such magnitude, as the introduction of 
slavery (which by numbers is considered as a serious evil, 
and to be cautiously avoided) the voice of the Citizens should 
be clearly ascertained. How far the introduction of slavery 
in said territory would operate to the prejudice, & injuiy of 
one part of the Citizens; and to the advancement & pros- 
perity of the other, your committee cannot undertake to say — 
but the policy of a measure, that probably would have that 
tendency, without promoting the public-good, is at least ques- 
tionable. 

In a few years, from the rapid grovsrth of population in the 
territory, its numbers, will entitle it to be admitted into the 
Union, as an Indepe^ident State, when the Citizens will have 
a right to adopt such measures, as may comport with their 
wishes on the subject. 

Your Committee are of opinion — that it would be im- 
proper at this time for Congress to legislate on the subject — 
And submit the following Resolution. — 

Resolved, 

That it is inexpedient to suspend for a given number of 
years, the sixth article of Compact, contained in the ordi- 
nance for the government of the North-Western territory, 
passed the 13th day of July in the year 1787 — 

[Indorsed:] 

Report (Mr. J. Richards) from the Committee to whom was re- 
ferred on the 6th instant, a letter from William Henry Harrison, gov- 
ernor of the Indiana territory, inclosing certain resolutions passed by 
the legislature of the said territory, relative to a suspension, for a 
certain period, of the sixth article of compact between the U. S. and the 
territories and states, north west of the river Ohio; also a memorial 
of the inhabitants of Clark county in the territory aforesaid. 

17th Novemr. 1807 — read and referred to a committee of the whole 
House on Monday the 30th instant. 

Report Mr J Richards order for Monday week 



Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, November 18, 1807 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 227 

Captain Wm. Hargrove, in the Ranger Service: 

The men will be sent in two hours from the time your 
runner arrives if they will be needed. If you think that fifty 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 277 

men will be sufficient, that number will be sent. It is best 
to have all that will be needed. 

At a point some miles below the mouth of White river, 
there has been some trouble between the settlers and the In- 
dians who had a few wigwams some distance to the east of 
the Wabash river. Two Piankashaw Indians are here to-day. 
They say that their people were driven away across the 'Wa- 
bash river and their tepees, skins and plunder burned. 

It is directed that you go and investigate this matter and 
see what can be done about obtaining a satisfactory adjust- 
ment with the Indians. Everything has been done here to 
allay the ill feelings of the two Indians. The Governor ordered 
some tents, blankets and kettles to be sent to those who lost 
their property. If you can find out who the white people 
were you will remind them that such conduct as this must 
not occur again. This Territory is in no shape for a race 
war with the Indians, v^hich they would be only too glad for 
an excuse to engage in. It might be best that you take David 
Robb and some other of your best informed citizens with you 
when you make the investigation. The Indians who were 
driven away are with another band of Piankashaw Indians 
west of the Wabash several miles below the mouth of the 
White river. 

By order of Wm. Henry Harrison Governor of Indiana 
Territory 

John Gibson, Secretary 



Harrison to Hargrove 
Headquarters Indiana Territory, Vincennes, Nov. 23, 1807 

Cocki-um, Pioneer History of Indiana, 228 

Captain Hargrove, Commanding Rangers: 

You will personally invite Bailey Anderson to visit these 
Headquarters. The Governor wishes to properly recognize 
his services in persuading old Chief Setteedown to force the 
Kickapoo Indians back to their homes west of the Wabash. 
There will be no further trouble in that direction. Your esti- 
mate of the number of men in your Territory able to bear 
arms shows a very gratifying condition. A little more work 
in locating forts and stockades at two or three exposed places. 



 

will place you in good condition to repel any attack that may 
be made on the settlements. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Secretary 

Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, November 27, 1807 

Cockium, Pioneer History of Indiana, 228, 229 

William Hargrove, Commanding the Western Division of 
Rangers east of the Wabash river: 

The Governor directs that you discharge the men v/ho are 
on patrol duty except those who are on duty on the trace 
east of White Oak Springs Fort. The patrol over that route 
need not go over that trace but once in every eight days. 
The scout and the two friendly Indians will patrol the sec- 
tion of White river from the forks up to as far as twenty- 
five miles east of the Mudholes. There is more danger aris- 
ing from stray bands of Indians attempting to come into the 
settlement for the purpose of stealing horses than there is 
of an attack on the settlers. 

In discharging the men, any whom you find who wish to 
remain in the service, you will enlist for regular soldiers and 
order them to report to these head-quarters with a copy of 
their enlistment papers. When you have finished this work, 
have scouts, FuQuay and Page remain with you and with 
them visit every portion of your Territory and notify the 
people at the blockhouses and the settlements that they must 
keep a vigilant lookout, as the Rangers will be withdrawn. 
After having visited all the stations, return to White Oak 
Springs and discharge all but two of the men and Sergeant 
Hogue who you will place in command with instructions to 
carefully watch the section east of the Mudholes on his patrol ; 
and for him to report by the hand of one of the friendly 
Indians to these head-quarters once every two weeks. When 
you have finished this work you will report to this Post, bring- 
ing FuQuay and Ben Page with you. 

By order of the Governor 
John Gibson, Sec'ij. of Indiana Territory 



 

House Report on Vincennes University 

December 17, 1807 

Am. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, 65i 

The Committee^ on Commerce and Manufactures report: 

The petitioners state that the Legislature of the Indiana 
Territory in the year 1806, passed an act incorporating a 
university in the district of Vincennes. styled the University 
of Vincennes ; and that the same act authorized the petition- 
ers to dispose of a small part of the land appropriated by an 
act of Congress for the purpose of erecting the necessary 
buildings for said institution. The petitioners state that, as 
the land belonging to the institution cannot be leased at pres- 
ent to advantage, they pray that Congress will pass a law 
laying a small tax on salt made at the public works in that 
Territory, and also on Indian traders, for the support of the 
said institution, until the other institutions in the Territory 
are organized can be benefited by the fund accruing there- 
from. 

The committee have given to the petition of the trustees 
of the University of Vincennes that deliberate attention 
which its importance demands. They are sensible of every 
disposition that can be friendly to institutions the objects of 
which are to inculcate and disseminate knowledge of every 
kind. The people of no nation can be so deeply interested in 
promoting and encouraging the sciences as the citizens of a 
republic. They are frequently called upon personally to per- 
form public duties of high concern, on the right discharge of 
which the happiness of individuals and the prosperity of the 
community depend. Information in the mass of the citizens 
is one of the best securities that can be devised against the 
abuses of power; and it operates no less forcibly in checking 
and restraining the aspiring ambition and subtle arts of those 
to whose care is confided the public welfare. 

As public and private virtues spring from and are fostered 
and matured by true knowledge, it becomes one of the first 
obligations of this Government, if it can constitutionally ex- 
ercise the power to take under its patronage institutions 
that are calculated to insure its diffusion. 

1. This committee consisted of Thomas Newton of Va., Richard Cutts of Mass- 
David Thomas of N. Y.. William McCreery of Md.. Samuel W. Dana of Conn., Robert 
Marion of South Car., and John Porter of Penn. The report is Riven in Annals (H. R.) 
Dec. 17, 1807. The petition is not given. 



 

The committee will inquire what considerations have been 
given to a subject of so much moment by the National Gov- 
ernment? The Territories of the United States are under 
the superintending authority of the General Government. 

In the acts of Congress we are, therefore, to look for the 
care and solicitude they had a right to expect from their 
common guardian. As the district of Vincennes, in the In- 
diana Territory, is brought into view by the petition of the 
trustees of the Vincennes University, it becomes the duty of 
the committee to ascertain whether the bounty of the Gen- 
eral Government to that Territoi-y has been sufficiently large. 
By an act of the 26th of March, 1804, making provision for 
the disposal of the public lands in the Indiana Territory, and 
for other purposes, a section of land, equal to 640 acres, in 
each township, is reserved for the support of public schools; 
and one entire township is set apart in each of the three dis- 
tricts into which that Territory is divided for the use of 
seminaries of learning. To the district of Vincennes is al- 
lotted one entire township, which contains twenty-three thou- 
sand and forty acres of land. The price of an acre is esti- 
mated at two dollars ; and the value of the donation amounts 
fully to forty-six thousand and eighty dollars. On this state- 
ment the committee are willing to rest the claim of Congress 
to the gratitude of the citizens of that Territory and their 
posterity for the munificent allotments of land which have 
been made for the promotion of the sciences. The commit- 
tee are constrained to notice the prayer of the petitioners. 
It is, that a law may be passed "laying a small tax on salt 
made at public works in that Territory, and also a tax on 
Indian traders, for the support of the Vincennes University, 
until the other seminaries are organized, and are in a situ- 
ation to participate in the revenue raised and collected from 
those taxes." The committee will here take the liberty of 
observing, that, whenever the population of that Territory 
shall be so advanced and increased as to requii'e seminaries 
of learning on the extensive scale of universities the liberal 
donations of the General Government will be found to be com- 
mensurate with the views of the petitioners and with the just 
and laudable intentions of the donor. The reservation of the 
salt springs for future disposal in that Territory evidently 
points out the desi^ of Congress, which was to furnish a 
necessary of life at a moderate price, by keeping and pre- 



 

serving the source of it from the monopoly of spectulators. 
The committee are not a little surprised that the enlightened 
policy of Congress should escape the notice and penetration 
of so intelligent and so respectable a body of men as the 
trustees of the University of Vincennes. 

The committee, flatter themselves that the withholding of 
their assent from the prayer of the petition will be justified 
by that liberal mode of thinking v/hich is inspired by the 
sciences, and by that true spirit of justice which equally and 
impartially regards the rights of all. 

With deference to the House, they submit the following 
resolution : 

Resolved, That, ample provision having already been made 
for the support of public schools and for seminaries of learn- 
ing in the district of Vincennes, the prayer of the trustees of 
the University of Vincennes is unreasonable, and ought not 
be granted. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 27th Jany. 1808 

Har. Pa. 212 

Sir: 

The Delaware Tribes have determined to remove the ensu- 
ing Spring from their present habitations to settle over on 
the west side of the Mississippi. Their particular destination 
is White River [Missouri] to which they say they have been 
invited by the Indians of that country. I can see no injury 
that will result to the United States from this removal; on 
the contrary it will leave vacant a fine tract of country im- 
mediately contiguous to the settled parts of the State of Ohio 
and the upper county of this territory which may in a short 
time be purchased. If however the President's view of this 
subject should be difi'erent from mine I will upon receiving 
your instructions endeavour to stop their emigration which 
will probably take place in the latter part of March and the 
beginning of April next. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 
Sir your humble servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. Henry Dearborn Esq. Secy, of War 



 

Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington Jan. 30. 08 

„ „ Jefferson Papers, 1st series, vol. 12, no. S81 

Dear Sir 

I duly received your letter of Oct. 10. covering the resolu- 
tions of the French inhabitants of Vincennes, and had hoped 
that their uneasiness under your supposed want of confidence 
in them had subsided, but a letter lately received from their 
chairman, [Laurent Bazadone, Chm. Wm Mcintosh is meant] 
covering another copy of the same resolutions induces me to 
answer them, in order to quiet all further uneasiness. I in- 
close you my answer, [January 30, below] open, for your 
perusal, and will thank you to seal and deliver it. I have ex- 
pressed to them the opinion I have long entertained of the 
antient Canadian French, on a long course of information, & 
as it is favorable to them, I trust it will be soothing, and re- 
store those good dispositions which will ease the execution of 
your duties, and tend to produce that union which the present 
crisis calls for. 

Russia and Portugal have cut off all intercourse with Eng- 
land, their Ambassadors recalled, and war follows of course. 
Our difficulties with her are great ; nor can it yet be seen how 
they will terminate. Accept my salutations & assurances of 
great respect & esteem. 

Th .-Jefferson 
Governor HARRISON 

Jefferson to McIntosh 

Washington Jan. 30. 08 

Jefferson Papers, 1st series, vol. 12., no. 3 SO 

I received some days ago your letter of Dec. 15. covering 
a copy of the resolutions of the French inhabitants of Vin- 
cennes of Sep. 18. in answer to the address of Govr. Harrison, 
who had, in the month of October forwarded me a copy of the 
same, in his letter inclosing it he assured me that his address 
to them on the subject of our differences with England was 
merely monitory, putting them on their guard against insinu- 
ations from any agent of that country, who might find their 
way among them, and containing no expression, which if truly 
explained to them, should have conveyed the least doubt of his 



 

confidence in their fidelity to the United States. I had hoped 
therefore that the uneasiness expressed in their resolutions 
had been done away by subsequent explanations, as I have 
no reason to believe any such distrust existed in the gover- 
nor's mind. I can assure them that he never expressed such 
a sentiment in any of his communications to me, but that 
whenever he has had occasion to speak of them, it has been 
in terms of entire approbation & attachment, in my own 
mind certainly no doubts of their fidelity have ever been ex- 
cited or existed, having been the Governor of Virginia when 
Vincennes & the other French settlements of that quarter 
surrendered to the arms of that state, 28 years ago, I have had 
a particular knolege of their character as long perhaps as any 
person in the US, and in the various relations in which I have 
been placed with them by the several offices I have since held, 
that knolege has been kept up. and to their great honor I 
can say that I have ever considered them as sober, honest, and 
orderly citizens, submissive to the laws, and faithful to the 
nation of which they are a part: and should occasion arise of 
proving their fidelity in the cause of their country, I count 
on their aid with as perfect assurance as on that of any other 
part of the US. in return for this confidence, and as an addi- 
tional proof on their part that it is not misplaced, I ask of 
them a return to a perfect good understanding with their gov- 
ernor, and to that respect for those in authority over them 
which has hitherto so honorably marked their character, as 
to myself they may be assured that my confidence in them is 
undiminished, and that nothing will be wanting on the part of 
the general goveinment to secure them in the full participa- 
tion of all the rights civil & religious which are enjoyed by 
their fellow citizens in the union at large. I beg leave through 
you to salute them as well as yourself with affection & respect. 

Th : Jefferson 

MClNTOSH, Wm. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 18th Feby. 1808 

Ha>: Pa. 21 i 

Sir: 

From everything that I see and hear it appears that the 
disposition of the Indians in this vicinity is as friendly 



 

towards the United States as it every has been. I have how- 
ever no faith in the pacific declarations of those in the neigh- 
borhood of the lakes. If they do not take up the hatchet in 
the event of a war with Great Britain fear not love will re- 
strain them. And this is the opinion of all the well informed 
chiefs in this quarter. Should they meditate hostilities you 
may depend on it that they will not throw off the mask until 
they are ready to strike. The professions of no Indians are to 
be relied upon implicitly but the Potawatimis, Ottawas and 
Chippewas who reside in the neighborhood of Detroit are the 
most perfideous of their race. They have been so long used 
to play a double game between our agents and those of the 
British that they are perfect in the arts of deception. I have 
also very strong suspicions that the Sacs are not friendly to 
us. A few weeks ago a party of 8 or 10 passed through the 
Delaware towns on White River, a mission to the Shawnee 
Prophet. In a conversation with the chief of the village they 
declared it to be the intention of their tribe to support the 
prophet against all his enemies. 

Mr. Wells informs me that there is a very unusual assem- 
blage of Potawatomies in the vicinity of Fort Wayne. He 
thinks their intentions perfectly pacific and that their only 
object is to get an occasional supply of provisions of which 
he says they are in great want. I have directed him to keep 
a watchful eye over them and to send me two or three of the 
chiefs whom I have designated that I may endeavour to dis- 
cover what their designs really are. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir Your humble 
servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. Henry Dearbourn Esq. Secy, of Wa7- 

[Endorsement] 

Posted at Jeffersonville Feb. 20; Rec'd March 7. Relative to the 
disposition of the Indians in that vicinity and on the Lakes. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

Jeffersonville Feby. 20. [1808] 

Sir: Your Excellencies letter of the 18th ult. has been re- 
ceived All prudent measures ought to be pursued to counter- 
act the management of our neighbours but we ought not to 



 

shew any improper anxiety for cultivating peace with those 
Indians who may have hostile views, the principal chiefs ought 
to be told in strong terms that their future existence must in 
a great measure depend on their own conduct in case of war. 
I wish you could find sufficient leisure to visit Ft. Wayne for 
the purpose of ascertaining the real objects and views of Wells 
as well as the Indians at Greenville &c. I fear that Wells 
is too attentive to pecuniary considerations.^ 

Glaus to Gore 

Amherstburg 27th Feby. 1808 

Mich. Pioneer & Hist. Col. XV, U 
[Lieut. Gov. FRANCIS GORE]i 
Sir, 

The Messenger sent out to the Glaize [on the Maumee] on 
the 10th Instant, is not yet returned, I am much at a loss to 
account for his delay, he was desired to proceed to that place 
and see Mr. Fisher, who your Excellency has appointed an 
Interpreter, and to desire him to come in immediately & to 
bring the Shawanese Chiefs with him, and also the Prophet, 
the message was verbal, no writing was trusted with him for 
fear of accidents; the only way that I can account for his 
delay, is that there may be some difficulty in persuading the 
Prophet (Lau-be-was-i-kaw) also (Els-qua-a-tawa) to come 
in. 

On the 24th instant I had a long conference with Guyash, a 
Chief of the Chippewa Nation, a tried soldier & trusty man, 
after a good deal of conversation he told me, that on his way 
here he called on the Governor [William Hull] at Detroit and 
asked him for news, the Govr. told him he had received let- 
ters from Washington, and said that the English and Amer- 
icans were getting nearer to each other and that he expected 
they were now one people, and that as soon as he heard any 
news he would let him know it, the conversation with Gov- 
ernor Hull took place last Saturday the 20th Instant. I then 
came to the point and asked him his opinion if there should 

1. This letter, evidently in answer to that of Harrison, Feb. 18, has neither sig- 
nature nor date. It appears to be a mere memorandum on the back of the Harrison 
letter for the direction of the clerk in answering Harrison. It must have been written 
as late as March 7 when the Harrison letter was received at Washington. 

1. Francis Gore had been superintendent of Indian affairs since 1796. He was 
stationed at that time on the Niagara frontier. 



 

be any disturbance between Great Britain & America, he said 
there were three Nations that spoke the same Language, the 
Ottawas Potawatamies and Chippewas that he heard that they 
had spoke often on that subject among themselves, and ex- 
pected that they would be called on by the King if a War took 
place between the two countries, but that they must sit quiet ; 
he continued & said, if the whole of the Nations were to talk 
together, that may not be the case, I told him that I hoped his 
idea of his friends would prove true if required, for that the 
King their Father had always shown a great regard for them 
& spared no expence to make them comfortable & that he 
would most certainly keep his eyes looking towards them. 

Two days ago I had a private meeting with the little King, 
an Ottawa Chief, from L'Arbre Croche, [on Little Traverse 
bay] and after talking some time I asked him the same ques- 
tion that I did Guyash (what was his opinion of the Indians 
if a disturbance took place between Great Britain & Amer- 
ica?) his reply was, the gi'ound is smooth yet, I pressd it again 
& his answer was, you will know if it happens. Your Ex- 
cellency knowns how cautious Indians are in general in giving 
their opinion, particularly on so delicate a matter, but from 
the manner in which he spoke it is easily to be understood 
that he considers the Indians decidedly opposed to the Amer- 
icans. With the eKception of the Hurouns, who are very few, 
those two are the only men on the ground that I would speak 
to in confidence the rest are a very indifferent set. The Little 
King's Band, present, only 11 men, are very respectable In- 
dians & appear to be most completely under his control. 

The season for boiling Sugar is now arrived & the whole are 
pressing me very hard to return to their sugar Bush and to 
give them clothing as they have been kept here the whole 
winter, which has prevented them from hunting ; I do not see 
how it is possible to keep them here without a verj^ great ex- 
pence indeed; I am obliged to give them this day, what 
presents remain in store, & if I was to detain them Just now, 
they would look for payment for the loss of the sugar season, 
and make a claim on Government for bread, from a pretence 
of losing the opportunity of preparing the ground for their 
corn, I shall use every endeavor in my power to detain some of 
the young men, those with families will go and it is more than 
probable that they will not return before the latter end of 
April or May. 



 

I cannot discover that the American Government have had 
any public or private meeting with the Indians, except the one 
of the 4th Novr last, with Governor Hull for the purpose of 
making a purchase of land which has caused much dissatisfac- 
tion among the several Nations between this Post & Lake 
Michigan, in my opinion it will not be settled without the loss 
of some lives. 

I cannot close my letter without expressing my thanks to 
Your Excellency for Captain [Matthew] Elliott's assistance, 
which I have found of great use on several occasions. 

with much respect I have the honor to be Your Excellencies 
most obedient and most humble Servant 

W. Claus= D. S. G. 



Glaus to Selby 

[Lieut Prideau Selby Asst. Sec. Indian Affairs York] 

Amherstburg 25th March 1808 
Mich. Pioneer & Hist. Col. XV, J,5 

Sir, 

The indisposition of Captain Johnny the Shawanese chief 
prevented me from seeing him on business untill this day, he 
still continues very ill, but his people being anxious to return 
hom, induced me to go to their quarter & I there spoke to him 
on the situation of public affairs. 

I cannot find out that any communication has been made to 
any of the Indian Nations by the American Government re- 
specting the difference between Great Britain and America. 

The enclosed is what was said to Capt. Johnny in the pres- 
sence of Blackbear and the Buffaloe, Capt Elliot was present 
& I was obliged to employ James Girty' as my Interpreter as 
I had done on former occasions Fisher not having yet arrived. 

I am rather disappointed at not hearing from you, particu- 
larly as you promised me that once a week at least you would 
send, I have been here seven weeks & not one message yet, 
I have wrote twise officially to the Governor & twice to you, 

2. William Glaus was in general charge of Indian affairs of Upper Canada. His 
field reached down the Mississippi to St. Louis. 

1. James Girty was a Pittsburg trader at the beginning of the Revolution. He 
with his brothers George and Simon joined the British. He owned a farm near 
Amherstburg. 

The Girtys, index 



 

probably I have erred in writing to the Governor instead of 
its going through, which enduces me now to transmit the en- 
closed to you, that you may lay the same before His Excel- 
lency. 

No doubt but His Excellency must see some necessity for 
my stay here, or I should have received directions to return 
before now. The number of Indians victualed now amounts 
to 259 men, women, & children, & many of them go off tomor- 
row the Shawnese also. 

I am Sir Your most obedt. Huml. sert. 

W. Claus D. S. G. 



Report on Division of Indiana Territory 

April 11, 1808 

Am. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, 922 

That the petitioners^ state many inconveniences, hardships, 
and privations, as well as the discouragement of emigration 
into their country, under which they labor, in consequence of 
a connexion which they call unnatural, between the two very 
distant settlements, whose country, by the compact between 
the United States and the State of Virginia, is ordained to 
constitute two separate and distinct States. 

Among the disadvantages, they state that the inhabitants of 
their two large and populous counties are subject to be called 
from one hundred and eighty to one hundred and fifty miles 
through a wilderness (which, for want of wood and living 
water, must long remain dreary and difficult to pass through) 
to attend as suitors, witnesses, &c., as the general court, which 
is held at Vincennes, has cognizance of every matter in con- 
troversy exceeding the value of fifty dollars. 

They state, also, that the country, wich is to constitute the 
Eastern State, having three-fifths of the representation in the 
Territorial Legislature, with all the officers for the admin- 
istration of the Territorial Government, appointed by the 
President of the United States, they who live in the country 
which is to constitute the Western State, are oppressed with 

1. These petitions, from Randolph and St. Clair counties, were presented April 
6, 1808, by Nathaniel Lyons, and referred to the following committee: Nathaniel Lyons 
of Ky., Benjamin Parke of Ind., Francis Gardner of N. H., Killian K. van Rensselaer 
of N. Y., William Hoge of Pcnn., Adam Boyd of N. J. and Josiah Dean of Mass. The 
report is given In the Annals (H. E.) Apr. 11, 1808, but not the petitions. 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS. 289 

taxes, the avails thereof are expended in the country which is 
to form the Eastern State, and at the discretion of those over 
whom they can have no control. They pray for a dissolution 
of this connexion, and the establishment of a new Territorial 
Government consisting of the country, which, by the compact, 
is designated for the Western State, as it is marked out on the 
map of the United States. 

The committee, however, considering the press of important 
business which must occupy the attention of the National Leg- 
islature, during the short time proposed for the continuance of 
the session, the unpromising aspect of our fiscal concerns, and 
particularly the impolicy of increasing the number of Terri- 
torial Governments without its being manifestly necessary, 
are of opinion that it is inexpedient, at this time to grant the 
prayer of the petitioners. 

Harrison to Secretary op War 

Jeffersonville (Falls of Ohio) 14th April 1808 

Har. Pa. 216 

Sir: 

I left Vincennes a few days ago and the day before my de- 
partune a young man from the Delawares Towns came to 
inform me that a Potawatime Indian had arrived at the Towns 
with a speech from the British in which they were informed 
that they (The British) were upon the point of commencing 
hostilities against the United States and requesting the Dela- 
wares to join them. The latter gave a flat refusal and de- 
clared their determination to adhere to the United States. I 
am endeavouring to make the friendly Tribes enter into an 
association to oblige the others to keep the peace. Unless we 
have a law which will prevent white persons from going into 
and residing in the Indian country we will have it filled with 
British agents, who will constantly counteract us. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir, Your humble 
servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. HENRY DEARBORN Esqr. Secty. of War 



 

Claus to Selby 

[Lieut Prideau Selby] 

Amherstburg 3rd May, 1808 
Mich. Pioneer & Hist. Col. XV, 49 

Sir, 

Mr. Fisher, whose receipts to the 25th March last I now en- 
close, arrived here on the 22d ulto. he brings nothing new 
with him but what I have mentioned on a former occasion — 
the Language of the American Govt, to the Indians, to sit 
quiet in case of hostilities. 

There is little doubt in my mind of the weight it has with 
them, owing to the very weak state of this country, it makes 
them extremely cautious. The Prophet has moved to the Wa- 
bashe with his people, nearly eighty men. he expects a visit 
from thirty different nations from the Southward and West- 
ward of the Mississippi. I reed, a message from him through 
Fisher assuring me of his friendship, I find the cause of his 
not coming in when I sent for him with the Shawanese Chiefs, 
was owing to a little jealously between him and those chiefs. 
I understand that Mr. McDonald has left a packet for me at 
Mr. Dalsons which he brought from York, I have sent over 
for it. 

Everji;hing appears perfectly quiet among the Indians. 
Your obedt. Sert. 

W. Claus, S. W. G. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 19th May 1808 
Har. Pa. 218 

Sir: 

The Shawnese imposter [The Prophet] has acquired such 
an ascendency over the minds of the Indians that there can 
be little doubt of their pursuing any course which he may dic- 
tate to them, and that his views are decidedly hostile to the 
United States is but too evident. I had a very considerable 
confidence in the Delawares and Miamis to resist his designs, 
but a late circumstance has convinced me that altho they may 
not be converted to his divine mission they are under the 
greatest apprehensions of his temporal power. (The Prophet 



 

has selected a spot on the upper part of the Wabash [Tippe- 
canoe] for his future and permanent residence and had en- 
gaged a considerable number of Potawatimies, Ottawas, 
Chippewas and other northern Indians to settle there under 
his auspices.) This circumstance so alarmed the Miamis and 
Delawares that they resolved to defeat the measure at any 
risk and the Chiefs of the latter set out to inform him of their 
determination. The Prophet would not however deign them 
an interview but dispatched his brother to meet them whose 
threats or whose persuasions were sufficient to drive back the 
chiefs with some indications of apprehension and terror. 
Fi'om the latest information it appears also that the Delawares 
were in a state of considerable alarm. Altho the council of 
their chiefs had but a short time ago directed the warriors to 
prevent the Prophet from approaching the Wabash. 

I have lately conversed with an intelligent man who passed 
(a few weeks ago) through some of the villages of the Pota- 
watimies that are under the Prophet's influence. He says that 
they are constantly engaged in what they term religious 
duties. But that their prayers are always succeeded by or 
intermixed with warlike sports, shooting with the bow, throw- 
ing the tomahawk or wielding the war club. This combina- 
tion of Religious and warlike exercise and the choice of weap- 
ons of their own manufacture sufficiently indicates the designs 
of their author. 

I most sincerely wish the President would think himself 
authorized to have him seized and conveyed to the interior of 
the United States until the present appearance of war is re- 
moved. 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Sir your 
Humble Servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honorable HENRY DEARBORN Secretary at War 

The Prophet to Harrison 

June 24th 1808 

Har. Pa. 219-225 

My Father The paper which I now deliver to you is the 
speech you sent to us by [John] Connor ; [Sept. 5, 1807] when 
it was delivered we were surprised to find that we had been so 



 

much misrepresented. The chief, the prophet had sent us to 
speak to you in his name. 

My Father. It never was my intention to lift up my hand 
against the Americans; on the contrary we had determined 
to follow the advice of the great Spirit, who has told us that 
our former conduct is not right ; that we ought to live in peace 
upon the land he has given us. This is our positive determina- 
tion and we are resolved not to listen any longer to bad advice. 

My Father you have always told us to let you know what is 
done amongst us and I now inform you that I sent you word 
by Connor, that we were shortly to move to the Wabash, we 
have lately done this and I now send some of my chiefs to visit 
you and to inform that the bad reports you have heard of me 
are all false and beg you not to believe them. 

My Father. As a proof of our sincerity we have brought 
our women and children to reside near you. I am now very 
much engaged in making my new settlement but as soon as 
it is completed I will pay you a visit and hope to remove every 
bad impression you have received against me. 

Father- I hope what I now say will be engraven on your 
heart. It is my determination to obey the voice of great spirit 
and live in peace with you and your people. I do not mean to 
do anything to risk the safety of our children, but on the con- 
trary to multiply them as much as possible. This is what the 
Great Spirit has told us repeatedly. We are all made by him, 
although we differ a little in colour. We are all his children 
and should live in peace and friendship with each other. 

Father. Believe what I say, it is the truth. The Great 
Spirit has told us not to lie you must know that I did not make 
my own Head and Tongue, they were made by the Great Spirit 
and that I cannot lie without offending him. 

Father. In consequence of our removal we are in great 
distress. We hope that you will assist our women and chil- 
dren with a little corn. We are now planting and hope to 
have a plenty when it is ripe. 

Speech of the Shawnees Prophet to Govr. Harrison 

Harrison to the Prophet 

My Children. I have listened to the speech you brought 
to me from the Shawnee chief or prophet and now return you 



 

my answer, to which I request you to pay particular atten- 
tion that you may truly repeat it to him. It is true that I 
have heard a very bad report of you, not only the white people 
in your country but many of the Tribes your neighbours have 
taken up very unfavorable opinions of your intentions. It is 
believed by them that you are endeavouring to alienate the 
minds of the Indians, from their great Father, the President 
of the 17 fires, and once more to bring them under the in- 
fluence of the British and I must confess that I have myself 
given credit to this report. But the solemn assurance which 
you now give me that you have no other object but that of 
making your people happy and live in peace with all man- 
kind have in a great measure removed my prejudices and if 
your subsequent conduct agrees with your present profes- 
sions you may rest satisfied that you will continue to enjoy 
the lavor and protection of the 17 fires. Very dift'erent how- 
ever will be your lot if you permit yourselves to be seduced 
by the British agents. By those enemies to your repose and 
happiness who have as often deceived you and led you into 
difficulties and dangers. You need only to recollect their 
conduct to you during the last war [Wayne's Campaign] in 
which you were engaged with the 17 fires to laiow the man- 
ner in which you will be treated should you again open your 
ears to their council. 

It was by their persuasions that you took up the tomahawk 
but they abandoned you as soon as distress came upon you 
and left you to the mercy of those very enemies whom you 
had provoked and, angered to gratify their revenge and 
malice. How dift'erent has been the conduct of the chief of 
the 17 fires towards you. Like a true Father he watches 
over your happiness and gives you the same advice that you 
say you have received from the great spirit that is to have 
pity on your women and children and live in peace with all 
mankind. War he detests and never engages in it, but in 
his own defence nor will he ever condescend to ask assistance 
of his children confident in his own strength and knowing 
the calamity which war always brings on those who engage 
in it without sufficient cause, he is desirous that his children 
should remain at peace in their cabbins If any of the na- 
tions which reside beyond the great lake waters should pro- 
voke him to war he is sufficiently able to punish them. He 
wants the aid of no power on earth and relies on his own 



 

strength and the favor of the great spirit who always takes 
the side of the injured. 

Your Father the president will be much pleased when he 
hears your determination to consider his protection and to 
shut your ears against the bad talks of the people on the 
other side of the great lakes and I shall take care to express 
to him my belief in your sincerity. But I must candidly in- 
form you that it is his positive determination in any case of 
the Tribes who became his children at The Treaty of Green- 
ville should lift up the Tomahawk against him that he will 
never again make peace as long as there is one of that Tribe 
on this side of the Lakes. He gives them their free choice 
either to live by his side in peace and happiness and receive 
from him every necessary aid for providing a comfortable 
and certain subsistance for their women and children or all 
the calamities which the number and strength of his warriors 
would enable him to inflict I do not say this with an inten- 
tion to insult you. I know that the Shawnees and other Tribes 
which have joined you are brave warriors but the long knives 
are not less brave and you know their numbers are as the 
blades of grass or the grains of sand on the river shore. Be 
wise then and show the people who are endeavouring to seduce 
you that you have sense enough to distinguish the path that 
leads to happiness from that which would conduct you to 
certain misery and ruin. 

With respect to your religious opinions they shall never be 
the cause of dissention and difference between us. The mild 
religion which we possess will not permit us to use any other 
means than argument and reason to induce others to adopt 
our opinions and it is an inviolable rule with the 17 fires to 
permit every man to worship the great spirit in the manner 
he may think best. I shall say nothing upon the subject of 
your settlement on the Wabash, as that country is the prop- 
erty of the Miamies, we do not wish to interfere with you. 

The bearer of the prophet's speech then addressing Gov- 
ernor Harrison said : 

Father. When I return to my village vdth your answer 
every woman and child will rejoice to find that you are still 
their friend. 

(Upon being questioned by the Governor as to the religious 
opinions and pretentions of the chief or Prophet he said) 



 

"I have now listened to that man upwards of three years and 
have never heard him give any but good advice. He tells us 
that we must pray to the great spirit who made the world 
and everything in it for our use. He tells us that no man 
could make the Trees and the plants and the animals but that 
they must be made by the great spirit to whom we ought to 
pray and obey in all things. He tells us not to lie to steal or 
to drink whiskey not to go to war but to live in peace with 
all mankind. He tells us also to work and make corn. (The 
Governor having offered him some hoes and a plough he 
said) Father you can give us nothing that will be acceptable 
to us, we are now not ashamed to work and make corn for 
our women and children. 

Proclamation : Election 

July 6, 1808 

Executive Journal, 19 

The President of the United States having appointed George 
Fisher of Randolph County, and Shadrach Bond Jr. of St. 
Glair County, Esquires, Members of the Legislative Council, 
and they having signified to the Governor their intention of 
resigning their seats in the House of Representatives of this 
Territory: The Governor, Pursuant to a Law of the Ter- 
ritory, Issued a writ of election directed to the Sheriffs of 
the said County, Commanding and Authorizing them to hold 
an Election in their respective Counties, on Monday the 
twenty-fifth instant, for the Purpose of Electing a member 
in each of said Counties to serve in the House of Representa- 
tives for the residue of the time for which the said George 
Fisher and Shadrach Bond Jr. were elected to serve.^ 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES July 12th 1808 

Har. Pa. 226, 227 

Sir: 

I have lately received a deputation from the Shawnese 
prophet with a very pacific and concilitary speech [June 24, 
above] a copy of which with my answer [June 24, above] is 

1. This election was held July 25. Rice Jones, son of John Rice Jones, was elected 
from Randolph county and John Messinger, a son-in-law of the famous Nathaniel Lyons, 
from St. aalr. 



 

herewith enclosed. The bearer of this message complained 
most bitterly of the misrepresentations which have been cir- 
culated relative to the prophet's views and his disposition 
towards us. He is shortly to visit me and I shall take the 
opportunity to endeavour to develop his character and inten- 
tions nor do I think it at all impossible to make him an use- 
ful instrument in effecting a radical and salutary change in 
the manners and habits of the Indians. He has already 
gained two very important points towards the accomplish- 
ment of this desirable object. His followers drink no whiskey 
and are no longer ashamed to cultivate the earth. [See 
August 1, below] 

Altho I have not received any instructions from the presi- 
dent directly or from your Department I have in consequence 
of an application from Governor [Meriwether] Lewis [Mis- 
souri] (and under the belief that he had been instructed on 
the subject) informed the several tribes in this territory who 
have heretofore been inimical to the Osages that the United 
States would no longer protect that tribe and would oppose 
no obstacle to any hostile enterprises which might be under- 
taken against them. This intimation has been joyfully re- 
ceived and I have reason to believe that the Osages will be 
attacked in the Fall by a force that they will not be able to 
resist. 

I have the honor to be very respectly Sir, your humble 

^^^ ■ WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. H. Dearborn Esq. Secretary of War 

Harrison to Jefferson 

ViNCENNES 16th July 1808 

^ „ Jefferson Papers, 2d series, vol. U2, no. 93 

Dear Sir 

The petitions herewith enclosed were put into my hands 
a few days ago with a request that I would forward them to 
you. The person [John Rice Jones] ^ who is the subject of 

1. John Rice Jones was born in Wales, Feb. 10. 1759. He was a college graduate in 
England ; came to Philadelphia 1780 and opened a law office : came to Vincennes in 
1787; to Kaskaskia in 1790; spoke French fluently; returned to Vincennes in 1802; 
revised territorial laws in 1807 ; to St. Louis in 1810 ; in lead business with Moses 
Petosi ; in Con. convention of Mo. 1819 and became a supreme court justice of Mo. ; 
died in ofiBce in 1824. He and Harrison were warm friends but parted when Jones 
became interested in land speculation. 

Reynolds, Pioneer Illinois 170 



 

them is really one of the most abandoned men I ever knew. 
You will no doubt be surprised at this declaration when you 
recollect that he holds his appointment as a member of the 
Legislative Council by my recommendation. This is indeed 
a circumstance of Infinite Mortification to me & I can only 
comfort myself with the reflection that I was imposed on, 
in common with many others who ought to have known him 
better. The truth is, that he conducted himself with so much 
art that nineteen twentieths of the people of this County had 
designated him for the Council. His talents are unquestion- 
able — And he had taken so decided a part in favor of the 
second Government altho one of the largest landholders in 
the Territory, & altho a professed Federalist had manifested 
so much Moderation that it appeared to me that he could not 
with Justice be neglected in the arrangement of officers con- 
sequent upon the change of System. He has lately been In- 
dicted by the Grand Jury of this County for receiving Bribes 
in two instances when he acted as Attorney General to dis- 
miss prosecutions which he had commenced on the part of 
the Territory. I have enclosed a statement of the case made 
by the present Atty. Genl. Mr [Thomas] Randolph. = 

I trust my dear Sir that you entertain such an opinion of 
my Candor & attachment to you as to believe that I would 
not willingly be the means of inducing you to commit am im- 
proper act. But I do most sincerely think that the removal 
of Jones from his seat in the Council would be attended with 
highly salutary consequences to the United States as well as 
to the Territory. 

We shall have a number of Candidates for the appointment 
of Delegate to Congress. The devisions which the parties will 
take are, those for & those who are opposed to the Devision 
of the Territory & those who favor the admission of Negroes 
& those who are against it. I have some expectation that 
Mr Thos. Randolph from Virga whom I have appointed to 
succeed Mr [Benjamin] Parke as Atty. General will also suc- 
ceed him as Deligate & I am certain that nothing will prevent 
it but the short time he has been in the Territory. 

Until a few months ago I have believed that Davis Floyd 

2. Thomas Randolph became attorney general June 2, 1808 ; was horn in Va. 
1771 : graduated from William and Mary, a member of the famous Randolph family. 
He and Harrison were wai-m friends. He served as attorney general till his death 
on the battle field of Tippecanoe, Nov. 7, 1811. He, Col White and Jo. Daviess were 
great masonic friends and all were buried together. Esarey, Courts and Lawiier$, index 



 

was no farther engaged in Burrs Conspiracy than he acknowl- 
edged to have been in the Statement he made after his return 
& which was forwarded by me to the Secretary of State in 
the Spring of 1807. I have lately however discovered that 
besides the circumstances mentioned by Mr [George] Poin- 
dexter [of Mississippi Ter.] in his Testimony on Burrs 
Trial- — He knew that there was a Connection between the 
latter & the British Government. He now acknowledges that 
Burr told him that he was to receive a large sum of money 
from the British Minister — 

I am Dear Sir with the sincerest Respect and Attachment 
your Hume Sei-vt. 
July 17th WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

P. S. I have enclosed a copy of a letter [not found] from 
John R. Jones to a citizen of this Towti written to day but 
by mistake dated the 17 June it needs no comment — His 
infamous offer to induce me to suppress the petitions which 
to his own knowledge contain the sentiments of nine tenths 
of the people of the county was treated with the contempt it 
meritted. YV. H. H. 

[Addressed:] Thomas Jefferson President of the United 
States 

[Indorsed:] 

Harrison Wm. Henry Vincennes July 10, 08; reed Aug. 18 

[Enclosed in preceding letter] 

We whose names are hereunto aflixed most respectfully rep- 
resent to the President of the United States, that in our opin- 
ions, it would be highly proper to remove John Rice Jones 
from his appointment as a member of the Legislative Coun- 
cil of the Indiana Territory. His whole conduct since his 
appointment to that office, having manifested a total absence 
of moral & Political virtue & a most rancorous enmity, both 
to the administration of the General Government & that of 
the Territory. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 

Jno Gibson 

George Wallace Jr [son-in-law of Gibson] 

Waller Taylors 

n Lunenberff Co. Va., about 1785 and died there August 
in 1804: territorial judge 1806; chancellor 1808; major 



 

Having seen a statement made by Henry Hunt, [Hurst] 
under date of the 17th Inst, relative to the conduct of John 
R. Jones, and reposing implicit confidence in it, I believe 
Jones unworthy of holding a seat in the Legislature of the 
Territory— Vincennes 19th July 1808.* 

R. [B.] Pakke 

Prophet to Harrison 

August (1) 1808 

^ Dawson, Harrison, 108 

Father : 

It is three years since I first began with that system of 
religion which I now practise. The white people and some 
of the Indians were against me; but I had no other inten- 
tion but to introduce among the Indians, those good princi- 
ples of religion which the white people profess. I was spoken 
badly of by the white people, who reproached me with mis- 
leading the Indians ; but I defy them to say that I did any- 
thing amiss. 

Father, I was told that you intended to hang me. When I 
heard this, I intended to remember it, and tell my father, 
when I went to see him and relate to him the truth. I heard, 
when I settled on the Wabash, that my father, the Governor 
had declared that all the land between Vincennes and Fort 
Wayne was the property of the Seventeen Fires. I also 
heard that you wanted to know, my father, whether I was 
God or man ; and that you said, if I was the former, I should 
not steal horses. I heard this from Mr. Wells, but I believe 
it originated with himself. The Great Spirit told me to tell 
the Indians, that he had made them and the world — that he 
had placed them on it to do good, and not evil. I told all the 
red skins that the way they were in was not good, and that 
they ought to abandon it. That we ought to consider our- 
selves as one man, but we ought to live agreeable to our 
several customs, the red people after their mode and the 
white people after theirs; particularly, that they should not 
drink whiskey, that it was not made for them, but the white 
people, who alone know how to use it; and that it is the 

1807; aid to Harrison at Tippecanoe and durinK the War of 1812. In 1816 he became 
U. S. senator serving till 1825. 

Ind. Mag. of Hiet. Ix. 9t 
4. As a resiilt of this breeze Harrison revoked Floyd's license as a Falls pilot and 
in the militia. Jones was not dismissed but he soon left the territory. 



 

cause of all the mischiefs which the Indians suffer ; and that 
they must always follow the directions of the Great Spirit 
and we must listen to him, as it was he that has made us. 

Determine to listen to nothing that is bad. Do not take 
up the tomahawk, should it be offered by the British, or by 
the long knives. Do not meddle with anything that does not 
belong to you, but mind your own business, and cultivate the 
ground, that your women and your children may have enough 
to live on. I now inform you that it is our intention to live 
in peace with our father and his people for ever. 

My father, I have informed you what we mean to do, and 
I call the Great Spirit to witness the truth of my declara- 
tion. The religion which I have established for the last three 
years, has been attended to by the different tribes of Indians 
in this part of the world. Those Indians were once different 
people; they are now but one; they are all determined to 
practice what I have communicated to them, that has come 
immediately from the Great Spirit through me. 

Brother, I speak to you as a warrior. You are one. But 
let us lay aside this character, and attend to the care of our 
children, that they may live in comfort and peace. We desire 
that you will join us for the preservation of both red and 
white people. Formerly, when we lived in ignorance, we were 
foolish; but now, since we listen to the voice of the Great 
Spirit, we are happy. 

I have listened to what you have said to us. You have 
promised to assist us. I now request you, in behalf of all 
the red people, to use your exertions to prevent the sale of 
liquor to us. We are all well pleased to hear you say that 
you will endeavor to promote our happiness. We give you 
every assurance that we will follow the dictates of the Great 
Spirit. 

We are all well pleased with the attention that you have 
showed us; also \vith the good intentions of our father, the 
president. If you give us a few articles, such as needles, 
flints, hoes, powder, etc. etc. we vdll take the animals that 
afford us meat with powder and ball.^ 

1. The former deputation visited Harrison at Vincennes in July. In Augrust the 
Prophet with his congregation came to Vincennes and spent over two weelis in the 
vicinity. It seems he held services daily and preached vigorously to his proselytes. 
Harrison had many conversations with him and their diplomacy seems to have been 
well-matched. See Harrison to Sec. of War Sept. 1, below. 

Dawson, Harrison, 107 



 

Hoffman and Abbott to Harrison 

Michilimackiiiac August 15, 1808 

Har. Pa. 2.11-233 

Sir: 

Painful necessity obliges us to announce to you that John 
Campbell, Esq. late Indian agent at La Prairie du Chiene is 
no more. On Friday last he and a Mr. Redford Crawford, 
one of the Macinac Company met on an island near British 
St. Joseph's to settle an affair of honor which unhappily 
eventuated in the death of Mr. Campbell. 

This information is communicated as much from an eye to 
the interest of our government as in compliance with his wish 
expressed before he left this island and reiterated on his 
death bed. He also requested us in case the affair alluded to 
should terminate unfortunately for him that we would solicit 
a Mr. [Julien] Du Bugne' at the Lead mines twenty leagues 
below the Wisconsin on the Mississippi to discharge the duties 
of Indian Agent in his stead until the Government shall ap- 
point another. And likewise observed that he knew no man 
better qualified for this office of Indian agent for that coun- 
try than Mr. DuB. and that it was his fervent wish for the 
interest of the United States Mr. DuBugne should receive that 
appointment. 

We shall immediately write to Mr. DuBugne on the subject. 

Mr. Campbell expired on the night of the 13th inst. 

With great esteem. Sir your obt. servt. 

G. Hoffman (Col. D. Mc) = 
Saml. Abbott Asst. Judge Dell (7.^ 
His Excellency Gov. Harrison, Vincennes 

P. S. It is believed proper to inform you also that the In- 
dian traders from this country have none of them obtained 
licenses. Mr. Campbell notified the Macinac Company of his 
authority on that subject and offered licences free of expence. 
The Company refused and neglected applying, alledging that 
they deemed it unnecessary to have licenses when they held 
a clearance from the Collector of their district altho' informed 

1. For an account of Julien Dubuque see Cole, History of Iowa. 66; Gue, History 
of Iowa index 

2. George Hoffman, collector of customs at Macinac was born in Va. 1783 : post- 
master at Detroit 180.') ; sent to Macinac 1806; son in law of Peter Audrain. Died 
Mar. 2, 1810. Burton, Hist. Collections, IHO 

3. Samuel Abbott, his assistant, was a member of the Abbott family of Detroit. 



 

that his Clearance evidenced the payment of duties only and 
authorized merely the transportation of their merchandise to 
the spot therein mentioned. 

They had no particular objection to taking licenses but 
were entirely averse to entering the requisite Bonds. The 
article explanatory of Jay's of the treaty of Greenville is re- 
lied on by them for a justification of their neglect of conduct. 

G. Hoffman 

Saml. Abbott (Asst. Judge D. M. C.) 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

VINCENNES 1st Sept. 1808 
Har. Pa. 228, 229 

Sir: 

The celebrated Shawnese Prophet has just left me after a 
visit of more than two weeks. He is rather possessed of con- 
siderable talents and the art and address with which he man- 
ages the Indians is really astonishing. I was not able to 
ascertain whether he is, as I at first supposed, a tool of the 
British or not. His denial of being under any such influence 
was strong and apparently candid. He says that his sole pur- 
pose is to reclaim the Indians from the bad habits they have 
contracted and to cause them to live in Peace and friendship 
with all mankind and declares that he is particularly in- 
structed to that eft'ect by the great spirit. He frequently 
harangued his followers in my presence and the evils attend- 
ant upon war and the use of ardent spirit was his constant 
theme. I cannot say how successful he may be in persuading 
them to lay aside their passion for war but the experiment 
made to determine whether their refusal to drink whiskey pro- 
ceeded from principle or was only empty profession, estab- 
lished the former beyond all doubt 

Upon the whole Sir I am inclined to think that the influence 
which the Prophet has acquired will prove rather advan- 
tageous than otherwise to the United States. [See the 
Prophet's talk, Aug. 1, above] 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Sir your 
Humble Servant. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. Henry Dearborn Esq. Secy, of War 



 

DELA WARES TO HARRISON 

White River, Sept. 9, 1808 

Dawson, Harrison, 110, 111 

Father — 

Attend to the' advice of your children, the head warriors of 
the Delaware nation, who reside along this river. We think 
it our duty to inform you (of) the business which we lately 
undertake (undertook) with regard of (to) the tomahawk. 
We have consult (consulted) with the head warriors of the 
Miamis, who seem afraid to take (up) the tomahawk, and 
would rather act as little children, only looking on their grand- 
fathers. They are waiting till all the other nations take it 
up, then they must of course take it up too. The head war- 
riros of (the) Potawatamies have sent word to us that they 
are preparing for (to) march against (the) Osages. 

We have been carry (carrying) the tomahawk to the 
Shawanese and Wyandots, who (are) fond of war. They 
both took it up and would sharpened, (sharpen it) but could 
not started (start) this fall, and finally agreed to put it off 
till next spring; at which time the whole confederate nations 
will be ready to march, that we may cut off our enemy with 
one stroke. 

The Wyandots undertake to send runners to notify (the) 
Chippewa, Ottawa, and the rest of the nations. 

Father, our friend, the bearer, from beyond (the) Missis- 
sippi, will deliver this letter to you. We wish you to furnish 
him with provisions, powder and lead, and some clothing. 

Father, one word yet. All our allies in this part of the 
country have jointly request (requested of) you this one 
thing — that is, we wish you to prohibit all your traders along 
the Mississippi from selling arms and ammunition to our com- 
mon enemy, (the) Osages; for we have been inform (in- 
formed) that they have frequently come to those French trad- 
ers, and beg for such articles, whereby they have been enabled 
to do more mischief ; and if your traders should furnish them 
with such articles since we proclaim (proclaimed) war against 
that nation, it will, of course, as it were, strengthen our enemy, 
while we profess to be friends of the United States, ; there- 



 

fore we entreat you to listen, and consider what we have to 

say.^ 

Tom M AQUA Beaver 
Wenavakhenon Killbuck 
woquickguckhomman 
Phkoakhug 

In heJudf of the rest 

Annual Message, Second Session, Second Assembly 

September 27, 1808 

Vincennes Western Sun, October 1, 1808 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and Gentlemen of the 
Hotise of Representatives: 

The appointment of our delegate to Congress [Benjamin 
Parke] , to a seat on the supreme Judiciary bench of the Terri- 
tory ; has occasioned my calling you together at an earlier pe- 
riod than that which was assigned at the close of the last 
session. To accommodate the gentlemen who manage their 
own farms, I have barely allowed time for a deliberate choice 
of a person to represent you, and for his arrival at the seat 
of the national government by the time fixed for the meeting 
of Congress. 

In my address at the opening of the last session, I requested 
your attention to certain subjects which appear to me to re- 
quire legislative provision ; and to such of them as have not 
been acted upon I reiterate my recommendation for an early 
notice. Amongst these the revenue and militia laws (from 
their superior importance) deserve a very particular and criti- 
cal examination. 

That the former is inadequate to its object is evident from 
the emptiness of the treasury. Nor is there the least reason 
to doubt that this proceeds from the mode of collection rather 
than the height of the tax, or inability of the people to pay it. 
It is believed that the adoption of the system which has for 
many years been successfully used in the neighboring states 
would remove every difficulty, and place our revenue beyond 
the reach of those accidents and contingencies which have 
hitherto embarrassed it. 

1. This letter was written for the Indians by some trader, very probably John 
Connor. The words in parenthesis were supplied by Dawson. 



 

The militia, at all times a subject of importance, is pecu- 
liarly so at the present crisis, uncertain as we are at what 
moment its services may be necessary. Constituting as it 
does the principal defence of our rights and sovereignty, no 
labor or expense can be misapplied which has a tendency to 
perfect its organization and dicipline. Amongst the defects 
of the present law, I have particularly noticed its want of 
coercion to produce the returns and reports which it directs to 
be made. The regularity of these constitute the most essen- 
tial feature of a military body; and until they are properly 
understood and attended to, no great progress can be made in 
any other part of the military art. I would recommend a 
certain and severe punishment to such officers, particularly of 
the higher grades, as shall neglect this important duty. 

As far as my own observation and information extends, it 
appears that there exists a very general (and I believe just) 
complaint, against the height of the taxes collected under the 
denomination of county levies. The tax on cattle and work 
horses is peculiarly objectionable, as it subjects the poor to an 
unequal share of the public burdens. The milk of neat cattle 
forming the principal food of the poorer classes of our fellow 
citizens, it appears to me that a tax upon the animal that 
produces it is quite as improper as a tax on any other article 
of general necessity. Two modes of remedying the evil pre- 
sent themselves to your consideration : by abolishing alto- 
gether some of those claims by which the county treasuries 
are exhausted, or by transferring others to the general terri- 
torial fund. It appears to me that both these plans may be 
adopted with propriety. Upon examining the county treas- 
urers' accomts, it will appear that a considerable sum is 
yearly appropriated in each county to compensate the sur- 
veyors of the roads. The opening of roads is certainly a mat- 
ter of considerable consequence ; but as this is always done by 
the labor of each individual citizen, and not by contract, I 
could never learn what public advantage has ever resulted 
from surveying them. The law as it stands, however, makes 
it the duty of courts to have it done. If there were no other 
reason for compensating the judges of the courts of common 
pleas out of the Territorial treasury, the gi-eat inequality of 
the counties in wealth and population would be a sufficient 
one ; but when it is recollected that the proposed change would 
greatly relieve the poor without oppressing the rich, that it 



 

would take the burden from the shoulders of the man who 
has nothing and add a mite only to the contributions of the 
wealthy — in a word that it might render unnecessary the poll 
tax on indigent young men, on work horses, and oxen, and on 
the food which nourishes that part of the rising generation 
which is to constitute the strength and defence of our coun- 
try — the measure would appear to combine justice with pol- 
icy. 

The frequent occurence of horse stealing along the south- 
eastern boundary of the Territory makes an enquiry into the 
competency of the law upon that subject worthy your atten- 
tion. This nefarious practice is said to have produced great 
distress and inconvenience to some of our citizens, by depriv- 
ing them of the means of cultivation at the most critical season 
of the year. Could we command the funds necessary for the 
support of that humane institution [penitentiary] which is in 
use in several of the States, the object of which is by a course 
of moderate labor and solitary confinement to restrain the 
vicious and restore them to habits of industry and usefulness, 
I should be amongst Ihe first to advocate its adoption. As 
this is not, however, within our means, we must postpone the 
accomplishment of our wishes on this subject to the period 
when the increased wealth and population of our Territory 
will justify the measure. In the meantime it is our duty to 
protect the property of our fellow citizens by providing ade- 
quate punishment for the repeated depredations that are com- 
plained of and which it appears our present laws are insuflS- 
cient to restrain. 

If the proceedings of the court of Chancery, gentlemen, have 
until lately been slow and dilatory, it ought to be attributed 
to its true cause — the want of compensation to its officers. 
It cannot be supposed that they will give their time and talents 
to the public, and perform the laborious duties required of 
them, without remuneration. With respect to the usefulness 
of the court, and the propriety of its being continued, my own 
opinion is fixed and decided. If ever there was a country 
where a court of Chancery was necessary, ours is the one; be- 
cause in no other (as I believe) has there ever been so much 
valuable property transferred without the observance of the 
legal forms of conveyance, or where the evasion of the specific 
performance of contracts would produce so much confusion, 
injustice, and ruin. It is not many years since a bare assign- 



 

ment of title to lands upon a bit of paper, without any of those 
peculiar phrases which our laws require in the transfer of 
real property, was deemed both by the buyer and seller a suf- 
ficient conveyance. Indeed, there have been instances where 
the delivery of possession has been considered and accepted 
as sufiicient evidence of purchase. To enforce the observance 
of bona fide contracts made in this manner it is believed a 
court of Chancery is alone competent ; nor is it by any means 
that loose and fluctuating tribunal which some have consid- 
ered it, where will and not law presides, and where the arbi- 
trary opinion of the judge is the only rule of decision. It is, 
on the contrary, bound down by rules and laws as well de- 
fined, and as well understood, as those of any other court ; and 
as it compels the specific performance of contracts, and en- 
ables contending parties reciprocally to avail themselves of 
facts which might otherwise be forever buried in the bosoms 
of their opponents, it is peculiarly calculated to protect the 
simple and ignorant against the artful and designing. 

It gives me great pleasure to inform you, gentlemen, that 
there is every prospect of a continuance of that harmony and 
good understanding with our Indian neighbors which is so 
mutually beneficial and which it has been my constant en- 
deavor to preserve. I pronounce with confidence that at no 
anterior period have our relations with the neighboring tribes 
been placed upon a better footing, or on one which gives such 
just cause of exultation to the friends of that wise, humane, 
and beneficent policy which has been adopted by our govern- 
ment, and which forms so singular an exception to the treat- 
ment of savages by those who are called civilized. We can 
challenge the world to produce a similar instance of a great 
and powerful nation respecting on all occasions the rights of 
its weaker neighbors, and acquiring by fair, equal, and recip- 
rocally advantageous treaties that extension of territory 
which other nations have been accustomed to seize by violence. 
A course of conduct so difi'erent from that which they have 
experienced from other civilized powers has at length pro- 
duced amongst the Indians a thorough conviction that their 
prosperity and happiness can only be secured by presei'ving 
inviolate their connections with the United States. And as 
all the wars which have arisen between ourselves and the 
aborigines are justly attributable to the prevalence of foreign 
influence amongst the latter, we may fairly calculate that our 



 

Indian frontier will be free from those alarms and apprehen- 
sions which have had so much effect in retai-ding its 
settlement. 

The laws of Congress for the disposal of the public lands 
in the Territory having directed a section to be reserved in 
each township for the support of schools, it may be proper, 
Gentlemen, at the present session, to make some provision for 
securing this precious deposit from depredation, and putting 
it in a state of progressive improvement. 

With these observations, gentlemen, which relate to subjects 
connected with your immediate duty, I might leave you to your 
deliberations; but on an occasion of this kind, addressing a 
respectable and organized body of my fellow citizens, it is im- 
possible that I should not recollect, and recollecting that I 
should pass unnoticed, the critical and unprecedented situa- 
tion of our national affairs. 

It is true that in this infant state of our political existence 
we have no voice in the councils of the nation, but we are 
nevertheless Americans; and as such feelingly alive to every- 
thing which can effect the interest of our common country. 
If a uniform course of justice, moderation, and forbearance 
towards the belligerent powers of Europe could have preserved 
to us a continuance of that peace which is so ardently desired 
by all classes of our fellow citizens, America might fairly 
calculate upon an exemption from those evils which are the 
inevitable consequences of war. Such however seems not to 
be our lot. The storm which has been so long lowering at a 
distance, and which has spread such havock and destruction 
over the fairest portion of the creation, has assumed a direc- 
tion which menaces our peaceful and happy shores. If it is 
yet possible to divert this force without a prostration of na- 
tional honor; if it is possible to procrastinate the appeal to 
arms even for a single day ; such is the moderation of our 
government, and such its policy, that we may be certain at 
least of enjoying that day in peace. We shall "drain the cup 
of conciliation to the dregs", and not unsheath the sword until 
every expedient which the wisdom and experience of our rul- 
ers shall suggest shall have been tried in vain. 

If some of these measures are attended with temporary dis- 
tress and inconvenience, let it be remembered that the alter- 
native was war. If by a voluntary act of our own we have 
abandoned the ocean to our rivals and cut off our trade with 



 

every part of the world, in the event of war nearly the same 
result would have been produced by the superior fleets of our 
enemies, if Britain was to be our antagonist, or by the in- 
fluence of France upon the continent of Europe, if it should 
be our fate to contend with her. There is this essential dif- 
ference, however, between the two cases. In the one the im- 
mense property which we had exposed upon the ocean would 
have been captured, and would have afi'orded our enemies 
additional means of annoying us. The embai'go has preserved 
it to our own use, and our gallant seamen, instead of languish- 
ing in European dungeons, are safe, in their native harbors, 
waiting the signal which calls them to avenge their country's 
wi'ongs. Considered as a eommercial regulation to counter- 
vail the iniquitous and arbitrary orders in council and decrees 
of the belligerents, the wisdom of the embargo is equally mani- 
fest. Like every other species of warfare, this commercial 
contest may prove injurious to both parties; but that it will 
injure our antagonist most is evident from the very nature of 
our former intercourse. For our provisions and raw mate- 
rials for their manufactures, hemp and tar for their navies, 
we receive in return either articles of luxury, or such as with 
little exertion we can make for ourselves. Possessing within 
her owTi bosom all the comforts, conveniencies, and many of 
the luxuries of life, America should be as independent of for- 
eign labor as she is of foreign government. Like the coun- 
try of Confucius, she might form a world to herself. From 
Europe we have nothing to learn that is worth the least risk 
to acquire. Her sciences and arts have long been trans- 
planted amongst us, and the vigor of their growth proclaims 
them already naturalized. The adoption of her manners could 
add nothing to our happiness, and being inconsistent with the 
simplicity of republicanism might gradually undermine the 
fair fabrick of our government. And who can tell but that a 
wise and beneflcent Providence might have ordained the pres- 
ent suspension of intercourse to wean us from the contami- 
nating influence of foreign manners and opinions, that we 
might transmit our republican institutions in a pure and un- 
sullied stream to the latest generations? 

Until the present crisis, no circumstance has occured since 
the formation of our constitution which made it necessary 
for the government to adopt any rigorous measure, or to re- 
strain the people in the enjoyment of all those blessings which 



 

a state of peace and prosperity afforded. The embargo law 
is, however, of this description ; and the enemies of our gov- 
ernment have expressed the fondest hopes that the impatience 
of the people, under the deprivations it occasions, would com- 
pel a repeal of it before it could produce the effects its authors 
had intended. An event of this kind would be deplorable in- 
deed, nor would its pernicious consequences be confined to the 
present age and generation. The most specious objection 
which has been urged against republican governments is the 
want of consistency and the necessary energy in times of 
difficulty and danger. If America should abandon the ground 
she has taken on account of any trivial inconveniences which 
a suspension of foreign commerce produces, what exultation 
would it occasion to the advocates of monarchy and aris- 
tocracy, and what endless humiliation to the friends of repub- 
licanism! But I cannot believe it possible that the same 
people who, in a seven-years war, encountered with heroic 
fortitude all the calamities and hardships which an enemy 
superior in everything but valor could inflict, have become so 
fond of the luxuries and gewgaws of Europe as to submit 
to the humiliating conditions which are at present annexed 
to their enjoyment. 

However foreign this subject may be to your official duties, 
gentlemen, you may nevertheless, as influential individuals, 
render essential service to your fellow citizens by inculcating 
amongst them the propriety of adapting their habits and di- 
recting their exertions to suit the present situation of the 
country, and to meet the crisis which seems to be approach- 
ing. Industry and economy, at all times republican virtues, 
are now peculiarly requisite, and every exertion should be 
made to encourage domestic arts and manufactures for the 
supply of those articles of indispensable utility which we have 
been accustomed to receive from abroad. 

It may also be proper to impress upon the minds of your 
constituents that the Embargo is a measure of imperious ne- 
cessity, and produced by circumstances which the government 
could neither controul nor qualify. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 



 

Special Message Acknowledging the Answer of the 
Legislature to His Annual Address 

October 6, 1808 

Vincennes Westei-n Sun, January 21, 1809 
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Legislative Council: 

I receive with great satisfaction the answer which you have 
now presented to my address to both houses at the opening 
of the session and you may rely upon my cordial co-operation 
in every measure which has a tendency to promote the in- 
terests of the territory. 

William H. Harrison 

Special Message: Absent Members of the Council 

October 10, 1808 
Vincennes Western Sun, December 3, 1808 
To the House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory. 

Gentlemen : The Legislative Council having requested me 
by a resolution passed this day to send for their absent mem- 
bers, Benjamin Chambers and Samuel Gwathmey^ Esqs., I 
expect to be able in the course of a few days to give the House 
of Representatives some certain and definite information upon 
the subject of the enquiry made of me yesterday relative to 
the last named gentleman. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes Octr. 11th, 1808 

Qjp. Har. Pa. 230 

I have the honor to enclose herewith a communication 
[August 15, above] lately received from the collector [George 
Hoffman] of Michilamacanac and an associate judge [Samuel 
Abbott] of the Michigan Territory announcing the unfortu- 
nate fate of Mr. [John] Campbell our Indian agent at Prn 
du Chien who fell in a duel with one of the British Macanac 
Company on the 12th of August. 

1. Samuel Gwathmey, a nephew of George Rogers Clark, laid off the town of 
Jeffersonville in 1802 and was for many years one of its most prominent citizens. He 
died there in 1850. 

English, Conquest of the Northwest. 907 
Baird, Clark County 



 

The insolence of these foreigners is really intolerable. They 
have now a great number of traders in the Indian countiy 
who have no licences and who put our laws at defiance and 
it appears from the schedule of their goods entered at Mac- 
anac and transmitted to me by the collector that Ardent 
Spirits forms no small part of the cargoes of some of them. 

There is little doubt but Mr. Campbell fell a sacrifice to his 
zeal in the discharge of his duty. I know nothing of the 
Mr. Dobac [Julien Dubuque] whom he recommends as his 
successor. 

I have the honor to be very respectfully Yr. Humble Servt. 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. HENRY DEARBORN Esq. Secy, of War 



Thomas to Jefferson 

VINCENNES IND. TERRY. 12 Oct. 1808 
Har. Pa. A25-J,27 

Sir: 

I have the honor of transmitting you the enclosed Resolu- 
tions and nominations agreeably to the request of the House 
of Representatives of this Territory. 

I have the honor to be Sir your most obt. 

Jesse B. Thomas 
The President of the United States 

Indiana Territory House of Representatives October 1808 
Whereas by a law of the Territory it is declared that no 
person shall be elegable to a seat in either branch of the 
Legislature who holds a commission during pleasure directly 
under the United States or this Territory, and whereas upon 
examination of Robert A. Nue^ and Jonathan Jenings^ being 
first sworn, it appears to this House that Samuel Guathmey 

1. Robert A. New was an early resident of Jeffersonville. Along with Floyd he 
helped Burr procure supplies and recruits. He had charge of a boat. In 1816 he 
became the first secretary of state serving till 1825. Esarey, Indiana, index 

2. Jonathan Jennings was perhaps a Virginian, born about 1784. His father was 
an itinerant Presbyterian preacher. While a child he was taken to Penn. He spent 
some time in college but his education was meager. He came to Jeffersonville in 1805; 
to Vincennes in 1807 and plunged into politics. From 180S his political activities never 
ceased, as delegate to Cong., governor and congressman almost till his death. His 
ability was mediocre, except as a political politician where he was unsurpassed. 

A. R. Blythe, Mss. Biography of Jenningt 



 

a member of the Legislative Council has accepted and now 
exercises the office of Register of the Land Office for the dis- 
trict of Jeffersonville whereby his seat has become vacated. 

Resolved therefore that this House in pursuance of the or- 
dinance do now proceed to nominate Two persons to be re- 
turned to the President of the United States, in order that 
he may appoint one of them to fill the place of the said Samuel 
Guathmey in the Legislative Council, and that the Speaker 
be and is hereby directed to transmit the same to the Presi- 
dent together with this resolution. 

Whereas Samuel Gwathmey, Srgt. as a Member of the Leg- 
islative Council of this Territory did (as has satisfactorily 
appeared to this House) in the month of August last, resign 
his seat as such member, and did (as was done in the case 
of Shadrach Bond, Senior, a Member of the Legislative Coun- 
cil from the County of St. Clair) transmit by the hand of the 
Honble. Waller Taylor to the Governor of this Territory 
(from whom he had received his Commission as such Coun- 
cillor by directions of the President of the United States) his 
resignation. 

And Whereas, this House, on the ninth day of its present 
session (being the fourth day of October instant) entered 
into the following Resolution 

Resolved that a Committee be appointed on the part of 
this House to wait on the Governor of this Territory and 
request information whether Samuel Gwathmey, Esquire, has 
resigned his seat as a member of the Legislative Council in 
order that this House may proceed to the nomination of fit 
persons to the President of the United States to fill the said 
vacancy — and that Messrs. [G. W.] Johnston and [John] 
Messenger be that Committee. The Committee named there- 
in, in virtue thereof waited upon the Governor, on the day 
of the passage thereof who returned them for answer "That 
he would answer the request of the House of Representa- 
tives in writing" and upon the following day being the fifth 
instant, he, by his Secretary Genl. [John] Gibson made this 
House the following answer "To the House of Representa- 
tives of the Indiana Territory, Gentlemen, the Legislative 
Council having requested me by a Resolution passed this day 
to send for their absent members, B. Chambers and Saml. 
Gwathmey, Esquires, I expect to be able in the course of a 
few days to give the House of Representatives some certain 



 

and definitive information upon the subject of the enquiry 
made of me yesterday relative to the last mentioned gentle- 
man" which answer this House immediately proceeded to con- 
sider of, and not conceiving the same either satisfactory or 
sufficient they entered into the following Resolutions Where- 
as, by a law of the Territory, it is declared that no person 
shall be eligible to a seat in either Branch of the Legislature 
who holds a Commission during pleasure directly under the 
United States or this, Territory ; and whereas upon examina- 
tion of Robert A. New and Jonathan Jennings, being first 
sworn, it appears to this House that Samuel Gwathmey a 
Member of the Legislative Council has accepted and now ex- 
ercises the office of Register of the Land Office for the Dis- 
trict of JefFersonville, whereby his seat has become vacated ; 
resolved therefore, that this House in pursuance of the Ordi- 
nance, do now proceed to nominate two persons to be returned 
to the President of the United States in order that he may 
appoint one of them to fill the place of the said Samuel 
Gwathmey in the Legislative Council, and that the Speaker 
be and he is hereby directed to transmit the same to the 
President by the ensuing mail together with this Resolution 
(which this House conceived itself authorized to do from the 
Revised Laws of the Territory page 241 being "A Law to 
regulate Elections in the 13th section whereof it is thus pro- 
vided "No Sheriff, under Sheriff", Clerk of any Court or per- 
son holding a Commission during pleasure directly under the 
States or this Territory except the Justices of the Peace and 
Militia Officers shall be eligible to a seat in either Branches 
of the Legislature") and the said nomination took place ac- 
cordingly, when Hugh McCalley and Charles Beggs were duly 
nominated as will appear by the nomination accompanying 
this R'^solve: 

And Whereas the Legislative Council, without being offi- 
cially informed of the above nomination have (from what 
cause this House will not express, but which the world easily 
can and the President of the United States may conjecture) 
entered into the following resolution — 

Whereas the Legislative Council have been informed that 
the House of Representatives have proceeded to the nomina- 
tion of two persons to be submitted to the President of the 
United States to fill the seat of Samuel Gwathney Esquire 
a Member of this House and have undertaken to examine 



 

witnesses at their Bar- to shew that the said Samuel Gwath- 
mey has forfeited his right to a seat in the Council in conse- 
quence of his having- accepted another commission under the 
President of the United States, an enquiry which according 
to all the laws usages and customs which prevail throughout 
the United States, properly and exclusively belongs to this 
Council. 

Special Message : Resignation of Samuel Gwathmey 

October 14, 1808 
Vincennes Western Sun, December 10, 1808 

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: 

I have it now in my power to give you decisive information 
on the subject of Mr. Samuel Gwathmey's resignation of his 
seat in the Legislative Council. 

Previous to the meeting of the Legislature I received from 
Mr. Gwathmey a letter requesting me to communicate to the 
President of the United States his resignation of his appoint- 
ment as councillor, but when the session was opened, finding 
that but three members of the Council attended and hearing 
that there was a probability that one of them would vacate 
his seat, either by resignation or by his election to the office 
of delegate to Congress, I returned Mr. Gwathmey his letter 
of resignation and strongly urged the propriety of his taking 
his seat for a week or two, to prevent a dissolution of the 
Legislatui'e for the want of a competent number of members 
in the Council. He has, however, declined doing so, and 
■wishes me to notify you that he considers himself no longer 
a member of the Council. 

William Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Jefferson 

Vincennes, 18th Octr. 1808 

Jefferson Papers, 6th series, vol. XIII, no. 291 

Dear Sir 

The term for which General Gibson was last appointed ex- 
pires in the Course of next month — He is far from being a 
very expert Secretary, but he is a very honest man which is 
much better & I am persuaded that his reappointment would 



 

be acceptable to a great majority of the people, it would be 
entirely so to^ 

Dear Sir Your Sincerely devoted Hume Servt 

WiLLM H Harrison 
The President of the United States 
reed Nov. 10 

Special Message Militia 

October 20, 1808 
Vincennes Western Sun, December 2i, 1808 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and House of Repre- 
sentatives 
At the opening of the present session I recommended to 
the two houses to take the militia law into their serious con- 
sideration for the purpose of amending such parts of it as 
were susceptible of improvement. I now reiterate my re- 
quest on that subject. From the critical examination which 
I have lately given the law, it appears to be more defective 
than I first supposed. It appears that the commander-in- 
chief is only authorized by that law to call the militia into 
actual service when there is an actual or threatened inva- 
sion. There are a thousand exigencies which may require a 
part of the militia to be called out other than that of an in- 
vasion, and in every State of the LTnion the executive is in- 
vested with this power. It may indeed be supposed that the 
right is inherent in the commission of commander-in-chief. 
However this may be, it is evident that without the aid of 
the laws he cannot enforce his orders nor compel the obedi- 
ence of the privates. But the most serious difficulty arises 
fi'om the want of a provision by law for the pay and sub- 
sistence of those who are called into service. Men may serve 
for a short time without pay, but it is impossible that they 
can do duty without provisions. I must therefore recom- 
mend to the two houses to take the subject into their con- 
sideration, and adopt such measures in the premises as may 
appear to them proper and just. And I also recommend to 
them the claim of the companies of militia of this county 

1. Gen. John Gibson was nominated by John Adams May 14. 1800 ; renominated by 
Jefferson Nov. 12, 1804; renominated by Jefferson Nov. 11, 1808: renominated by 
Madison Nov. 9, 1812. 

Executive Journal United States index 



 

which I have lately ordered out for the protection of the 
jail. [Guarding murderers of John Coffman] The justice 
of allowing them subsistence or an equivalent for it must be 
sufficiently manifest.' 

William Henry Harrison 



Special Message, Revenue 

October 20, 1808 

Vincennes Western Sun, December 24, iS08 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and Hotise of Represen- 
tatives: 

Since my report made to the last session of the expenditure 
ordered by me out of the contingent fund, I have drawn for 
the following sums, viz : 

In favor of John Johnston Esq.,' for prosecuting Abigal 
Rough= for murder, 40 dols. 

To Elihu Stout,^ for printing proclamation, etc., 6 dols. 

To Gen. W. Johnston,^ for Postage of letters, etc., from the 
secretary's and auditor's offices, 5 dols., 93 cents. 

To Benjamin Coffman, for going to Kentucky as the agent 
of this Territory to receive [William] Walker, [John] Fisher, 
and [Adam] Barger, fugitives from justice,^ and for his 

1. Harrison had had considerable experience with militia, thoroughly believed in 
them, and never lost an opportunity to urge the country to universal military training. 
In this connection read his letter to Governor Charles Scott of Kentucky. 

1. John Johnson was a Kentuckian, place and time of birth unknown. He was at 
Vincennes as early as 1804. taking an active part in the election of that year. In 
1805 he was in the legislature, in 1806 he helped John Rice Jones revise the laws; 
in 1809 he was a candidate for congress ; in 1816 he represented Knox county in the 
Con. convention. He was appointed to the supreme bench in 1816 but died Sept. 
17. 1817 before doing any important work, 

Esarey. Courts and Lawyers, 18i 

2. Abigail Rough was on trial for the murder of an infant child. 

3. Elihu Stout was born in Newark, N. J. A printer by trade. He came west 
and worked for a number of years with the Brandfords at Frankfort, Ky. on the Gazette. 
From there he went to Nashville where he made the acquaintance of Jackson. July 4, 
1804, he issued the first paper in Indiana the Gazette. From then till his death April 
1860. he was one of the best known citizens of Vincennes. 

Esarey. Newspapers of Ind. Mss. 

4. General Washington Johnson was born in Culpepper Co. Va.. came to Vin- 
cennes in 1783 : said to have been the first lawyer in Indiana. He was twice circuit 
judge and often in the legislature. Died Oct. 26, 1833 at Vincennes. 

Esarey, Courts and Lawyers, 66 

5. "July 6, 1808 the governor having received information that a certain John 
Coffman of the county of Knox was shot and murdered by William Walker, John 
Fisher and Adam Berger (and others unknown) citizens of Ky. and that they had 
returned to that state he wrote to the governor of that state and demanded of him 



 

trouble and expenses [in] endeavoring to apprehend them, 
35 dols. Total, 86 dols., 93 cents. 

William Henry Harrison 

Special Message Concerning Fugitive Criminals 

October 24, 1808 

Vincennes Western Sun, December 31, 1S08 
Gentlemen of the Legislative Council 

I transmit for the information of the two Houses an extract 
of a letter from the late Governor of Kentucky,' upon a sub- 
ject highly interesting to the citizens of this Territory. Hav- 
ing read and considered the same, I must request the Council 
to transmit the extract, together with this message, to the 
House of Representatives. 

William Henry Harrison 

[Extract of a Letter from the Late Governor of 
Kentucky] 

I also take this oportunity to acquaint you that on meeting 
with frequent interruptions (while I was in office) in appre- 
hending fugitives from justice, I submitted a late case re- 
specting [John] Coffman to the Federal Judge, who returned 
for answer that the act of Congress is unconstitutional, the 
powers therein given do not extend to Territorial Govern- 
ments, grounding opinion on Judge Marshall's decision in Col. 
Burr's case. I have submitted this opinion to Governor 
[Charles] Scott for him to forward to Congress, and give you 
the information for your reflection thereon. 

A true extract from the original. 

John Gibson, Secretary. 

3 to Jacob Coffman whom he had appointed for 

Ex. Journal, 19 
October 29, following, Abraham Hiley or Haley was convicted of this murder and 
sentenced to be hanged Nov. 2. The noose was twice placed about his neck but he was 
finally pardoned. 

Knox County (1886) 175 
1. Christopher Greenup, the retiring governor of Kentucky, was a Revolutionary 
soldier, a representative from Ky. in Congress 1792-1797. Governor of Ky. 1804-1808. 
Died at Frankfort Apr. 2'I. 1818. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 319 

Special Message Vetoing a Bill Establishing Judicial 
System 

October 24, 1808 

Vincennes Weste7-n Sun, Febi-uary i, 1809 
Gentlemen of the Legislative Council: 

I have received and duly considered the bill which originated 
in the Council, entitled "An act establishing district courts 
and a high court of errors and appeals." I sincerely lament 
the necessity which compels me to withhold my consent to it 
under its present form, because the general principles and pro- 
visions of the bill are such as I most cordially approve and 
have on several occasions recommended to the two houses. 
My objections are entirely confined to the third and ninth 
sections. 

By the former the clerks of the several courts of common 
pleas are ex officio clerks of the district courts in their re- 
spective counties, where the emoluments of each are not suffi- 
cient to induce a properly qualified person to undertake the 
discharge of them. But in several of the counties it is prob- 
able that either of them [Clerkships] would be an object to a 
man of business; at least the executive should be possessed 
of power to divide them if he thinks proper to do so. This 
section also declares that the executive shall remove the clerk 
of any court upon the application of the court to which he is 
clerk. I cannot consent that a single judge, or any number 
of judges, shall have the right to direct the executive in any 
matter which is purely of an executive nature. 

My objections to the ninth section of the bill is that it is in 
contradiction to a law of Congress which declares that any 
one judge of the Territory shall have authority to hold any 
court in the said Territory, the others being absent; but this 
section disqualifies a judge from holding two courts succes- 
sively in the same county.^ 

William H. Haerison 

1. For a discussion of these early courts see Esarey, Courts and Lawyers, Ch. 2 



 

Special Message Vetoing a Bill Concerning Attorney 
General 

October 25, 1808 
Vincennes Western Sun, Janiuiry H, 1809 

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives 

I cannot give my consent to the bill which originated in 
your house, entitled "An act concerning the Attorney General, 
and for other purposes," because it violates the ordinance 
[of 1787] which declares that the appointment of all officers 
is vested in the Governor of the Territory. Were it indeed 
otherwise, I should consider it highly improper that the officer 
who prosecutes the pleas of the United States should derive 
his appointment from any other source than the United States, 
or their servant and agent, the Governor for the time being.' 
William H. Harrison 



Special Message: Resignation of Gwathmey 

October 25, 1808 
Vincennes Western Sun, February 11, 1809 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council 

I have inadvertently neglected to communicate to the Coun- 
cil that Saml. Gwathmey resigned his seat in their body, that 
I have communicated the same to the House of Representa- 
tives and shall by the next mail communicate it to the Presi- 
dent. As Mr. Gwathmey's resignation was made known to 
me before I had an opportunity of transmitting to the Presi- 
dent the resolutions which I some time since received from 
the Council for that purpose, I did not think it was necessary 
to transmit therh at all. 

William Henry Harrison 

1. There was some party spirit shown in this affair. The anti-slavery party con- 
trolled the Assembly and also favored a division of the Territoi-y- The governor was 
opposed to the latter movement especially. When Benjamin Parke became territorial 
judge Thomas Randolph, a Virjrinian of the famous Randolph family and a warm 
personal friend of Harrison, was appointed, June 2, 1808. attorney general and it 
was his office the Assembly attempted to get control of. Randolph, the brilliant young 
descendant of Pocahontas was killed by the Indians at Tippecanoe. 



 

Special Message Tax on Horses 

October 26, 1808 

Vincennes Wests')!! Sun, Januwry H, 1809 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and House of Repre- 
sentatives 
I have received the bill which you have passed, entitled 
"An act to alter and repeal certain parts of an act entitled 
an act to regulate county levies," and I have approved and 
signed it with pleasure. The abolishing the tax on neat cattle 
and on young men^ will afford some relief to the poor and to 
the farming interest. But I must again most strongly rec- 
ommend to the two houses to take off or at least lessen the 
tax upon work horses. If the other objects of county levy 
are not sufficient to meet the county expenses, some of those 
expenses, the compensation to the judges of the common pleas 
for instance, might with propriety be transfered to the Ter- 
ritorial treasury. The average price of all the horses which 
are to be found in any county will not, I am confident, ex- 
ceed forty dollars, and for that forty dollars of capital fifty 
cents per annum is exacted, whilst a capital of one hundred 
dollars in land pays only twenty cents to the Territory and 
five cents to the counties. The tax on horses in the State of 
Kentucky is fixed, as I am told, at nine cents. Let us imitate 
this wise example of our neighbors, and relieve the poorer 
class of our fellow citizens from the intolerable burden that 
oppresses them. 

William Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 9th Nov. 1808 

Har. Pa. 23U 

Sir: 

The part of the Shawnese Tribe which is attached to the 
Prophet having removed last summer to the Wabash and 
being almost in a starving condition applied to me for relief. 
This I did not think it proper to affoi'd them to the extent 

1. "And every able bodied single man of the age of twenty one years and upwards, 
who shall not have taxable property to the amount of $200. a sum not exceeding one 
dollar, nor less than fifty cents." haws of Indiana Territory, 1807. (John Rice Jones 
Revision) 374 

21—21182 



 

required but as the annuities for their tribe have been gen- 
erally engrossed by the Black Hoof band I offered to advance 
them provisions to the amount of one hundred dollars to be 
deducted out of their next years annuity, this offer was ac- 
cepted and the provisions furnished by Mr. [George] Wal- 
lace to the amount of $102 for which sum I have this day 
drawn on you to be paid as soon as the money for the next 
year's annuities shall be appropriated. 

I have the honor to be with the highest consideration Dear 

Sir 

Your humble sei'vant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. The Secretary of War 

Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington, December 22, 1808 

Dawson, Harrison, 111 

Sir, 

By the treaty of 1803, we obtained, from the Kaskaskias, 
the country as far as the ridge dividing the waters of the 
Kaskaskia from those of the Illinois river. By the treaty 
of 1804, with the Sacks and Foxes, they ceded to us from the 
Illinois to the Ouisconsin. Between these two cessions is a 
gore of country, to wit, between the Illinois river and Kas- 
kaskia line, which I understand to have belonged to the Pe- 
orias, and that that tribe is now extinct. If both these facts 
be true, we succeed to their title by our being proprietors 
paramount of the whole country. 

In this case, it is interesting to settle our boundary with 
our next neighbors, the Kickapoos. Where their western 
boundary is I know not; but they cannot come lower down 

1. Black Hoof was a well known chief of a Shawnee village. His name Cut- 
thewekasaw is signed to the Greenville treaty of 1795: to the treaty of 1803; 1805; and 
to the second treaty of Greenville. 1814. He was born in Florida, and remembered his 
tribe moving from there to Pennsylvania and Ohio. He was prominent in the fight 
against Braddock in 1755. and was in all the Indian wars with the Americans in the 
Northwest to the close of the last century, until the treaty of Greenville in 1795. Up 
to that time he had been the bitter enemy of the white man ; afterward he remained 
faithful to that treaty. Tecumtha tried to seduce him. but failed, and by his influence 
he kept a greater portion of his tribe from joining the British in the War of 1812. 
He became the ally of the United States, but bodily infii-mity kept him from active 
service. In the instance of his friendship just mentioned, he simply brought his 
people to camp, and left, younger chiefs to conduct them in the campaign. 

Lossing, War of 1812, 64i 



 

the Illinois river than the Illinois lake, on which stood the 
old Peoria fort, and perhaps not so low. The Kickapoos are 
bounded to the S. E. I presume, by the ridge between the 
waters of the Illinois and Wabash, to which the Miamis 
claim ; and N. E. by the Potawatamies. Of course it is with 
the Kickapoos alone we have to settle a boundary. I would 
therefore recommend to you to take measures for doing this. 
You will, of course, first endeavor, with all possible caution, 
to furnish yourself with the best evidence to be had of the 
real location of the S. W. boundary of the Kickapoos, and 
then endeavor to bring them to an acknowledgment of it, 
formally, by a treaty of limits, if it be nothing more; the 
ordinary presents are all that will be necessary; but if they 
cede a part of their own country, then a price proportioned 
will be proper. In a letter to you of Feb. 27, 1803, I men- 
tioned that I had heard there was still one Peoria man living, 
and that a compensation, making him easy for life, should be 
given him, and his conveyance of the country by a regular 
deed be obtained. If there be such a man living, I think this 
should still be done. The ascertaining the line between the 
Kickapoos and us is now of importance, because it will close 
our possessions on the hither bank of the Mississippi, from 
the Ohio to the Ouisconsin, and give us a broad margin to 
prevent the British from approaching that river, on which, 
under color of their treaty, they would be glad to hover, that 
they might smuggle themselves and their merchandize into 
Louisiana. — Their treaty can only operate on the country so 
long as it is Indian ; and in proportion as it becomes ours ex- 
clusively, their ground is narrowed. It makes it easier, too, 
for us to adopt, on this side of the Mississippi, a policy we 
are beginning on the other side — that of permitting no trad- 
ers, either ours or theirs, to go to the Indian towns, but 
oblige them all to settle and be stationary at our factories, 
where we can have their conduct under our observation and 
control. However, our first object must be to blockade them 
from the Mississippi ; and to this I ask the favor of your at- 
tention, and salute you with great friendship and respect. 

Thomas Jefferson 
Governor Harrison 



 

House Report Dividing Indiana Territory 

December 31, 1808 

Am. Sta. Pa. Misc. I, 945 

Mr. Jesse B. Thomas,' from the committee to whom was re- 
ferred the resolution to inquire into the expediency of 
dividing the Indiana Territory, made the following report : 

That, by the fifth article of the ordinance of Congress 
[1787] for the government of the Territory of the United 
States northwest of the river Ohio, it is stipulated that there 
shall be formed in the said Territory, not less than three, 
nor more than five States; and the boundaries of the States, 
as soon as Virginia shall alter her act of session and consent 
to the same, shall become fixed and established as follows, 
to wit: 

I. Jesse Burgess Thomas, a descendant of Lord Baltimore, was born in Hagerstown, 
Md., in 1777 ; moved west in 1779 ; studied law with his brother, Richard Symmes 
Thomas, in Bracken county, Ky., where he was married — his wife dying within a year 
after marriage. On the organization of Dearborn Co., Indiana territory, March 7, 1803, 
he located at Lawrenceburgh as a practising attorney, and was elected, Jan. 3, 1805, 
to represent that county in the legislature which convened at Vincennes, Feb. 1, by 
proclamation of Gov. Wm. H. Harrison, to choose members of the legislative council : 
from the ten names thus selected congress appointed five : again, on proclamation of 
the governor, the legislature assembled at Vincennes, July 29, 1805. and at this, its 
first session, he was elected speaker, and Benj. Cha 
of the council : he presided as speaker of the firs 
Assembly at Vincennes, from Sept. 26. 1805 to Oct. 
when he was elected by the Assembly as delegate t< 
Parke, resigned, serving from Dec. 1, 1808, to March 3, 
missioned Aug. 24, 1805, by Gov. Harrison, a captain of militia of Dearborn county: 
during his legislative term, he married the widow of Maj. John Francis Hamtramck, 
and moved to Vincennes, residing there a short time : on the organization of the Illinois 
territory, March 7, 1809, President Madison appointed him one of its judges ; he then 
moved to Kaskaskia, thence to Cahokia, and later to Edwardsville ; in July, 1818, he 
was a delegate from St. Clair Co. to, and president of the convention that formed the 
constitution of Illinois and suggested its name : was elected by the first General Assembly 
of riinois one of its first two United States senators, serving from Dec. 4, 1818 to 
March 3, 1828 ; in 1820, while in the senate he introduced the Missouri Compromise, 
was chairman of the committee of conference on this measure, and as adopted was his 
work, this he regarded as the most important act of his life: in 1824 he was a 
member of the caucus that nominated his friend, William H. Crawford, for president : 
in 1840, he took an active part in effecting the nomination of his old friend. Gen. 
Harrison, for president, and attended the convention held that year at Columbus, Ohio ; 
in 1829, he assisted in the organization of St. Paul's Episcopal church of Mt. Vernon, 
Ohio, of which he was a consistent member, where he had moved at the close of his 
last term in the senate, and owned a large property ; he was also one of the town pro- 
prietors of Brookville, Franklin Co., Ind. In stature, he was full six feet with a florid- 
brown complexion dark-hazel eyes, dark-brown (nearly black) hair, with a well de- 
veloped muscular system, and weighed over two hundred pounds : was very particular 
in his personal appearance, and had the mode of a refined gentleman of the last 
century ; was very considerate of the rights and feelings of others, and would not 
buy at a sheriff's sale. He died childless, at Mt. Vernon. O.. leaving a large estate. 
May 4, 1853, aged 76 years. Reynolds, Pioneer History of III, 1,01-2 



bers of the ss 


une county, president 


and scond ses 


isions of the General 


1, 1808 three ; 


years and one month. 


the 10th cong: 


ress, to succeed Benj. 


3, 1809; was 


i appointed and com- 



 

The Western State shall be bounded by the Mississippi, the 
Ohio, and Wabash rivers; a direct line drawn from the 
Wabash and Post Vincennes, due north to the Territorial line 
between the United States and Canada, and by the said Ter- 
ritorial line to the lake of the woods and Mississippi. 

The middle State shall be bounded by the said direct line, 
the Wabash, from Post Vincennes, to the Ohio by the Ohio by 
a direct line drawn due north from the mouth of the Great 
Miami, to the said Territorial line, and by the said Territorial 
line. 

The Eastern State shall be bounded by the last mentioned 
direct line, the Ohio, Pennsylvania, and the said Territorial 
line: 

Provided, however, and it is further understood and de- 
clared, that the boundaries of these three States shall be sub- 
ject so far to be altered, that if Congress shall hereafter 
find it expedient, they shall have authority to form one or 
two States in that part of the said Territory which lies north 
of an east and west line drawn through the southerly bend 
or extreme of Lake Michigan. And whenever any of the 
said States shall have sixty thousand free inhabitants therein, 
such State shall be admitted by its delegates into the Con- 
gress of the United States on an equal footing with the orig- 
inal States, in all respects whatever; and shall be at Liberty 
to form a permanent constitution and State Government : 

Provided, the constitution and Government so to be formed 
shall be republican, and in conformity to the principles con- 
tained in these articles ; and so far as it can be consistent with 
the general interest of the confederacy, such admission shall 
be allowed at an earlier period, and when there may be a less 
number of free inhabitants in the State than sixty thousand. 

By the aforesaid article, it appears to your committee that 
the line fixed as the boundary of the States to be formed in 
the Indiana Territory, is unalterable, unless by common con- 
sent ; that the line of demarcation which the Wabash affords 
between the eastern and western portions of said Territory, 
added to the wide extent of wilderness country which sep- 
arates the population in each, constitute reasons in favor of 
a division, founded on the soundest policy, and conformable 
with the natural situation of the country. The vast distance 
from the settlements west of the Wabash to the present seat 



 

of Territorial Government, renders the administration of 
justice burdensome and expensive to them in the highest 
degree. The superior courts of the Territory are, by law, 
established at Vincennes, at which place suitors, residing in 
every part of the Territory, are compelled to attend with their 
witnesses, which to those who reside west of the Wabash 
amounts almost to a total denial of justice. The great dif- 
ficulty of travelling through an extensive and loathsome wil- 
derness, the want of food, and other necessary accommoda- 
tions on the road, often presents an insurmountable barrier 
to the attendance of witnesses; and even when their at- 
tendance is obtained, the accumulated expense of prosecuting 
suits where the evidence is at so remote a distance, is a cause 
of much embarrassment to a due and impartial distribution 
of justice, and a proper execution of the laws for the redress 
of private wrongs. 

In addition to the above considerations, your committee con- 
ceive that the scattered situation of the settlements over this 
extensive Territory cannot fail to enervate the powers of the 
Executive, and render it almost impossible to keep that part 
of the Government in order. 

It further appears to your committee, that a division of 
the said Territory will become a matter of right under the 
aforesaid article of the ordinance, whenever the General Gov- 
ernment shall establish therein a State Government; and the 
numerous inconveniences which would be removed by an im- 
mediate separation, would have a direct tendency to encour- 
age and accelerate migration to each district, and thereby 
give additional strength and security to those outposts of the 
United States, exposed to the inroads of a savage neighbor, 
on whose friendly dispositions no permanent reliance can be 
placed. 

Your committee have no certain data, on which to ascer- 
tain the number of inhabitants in each section of the Ter- 
ritory ; but, from the most accurate information they are en- 
abled to collect, it appears that west of the Wabash, there 
are about the number of eleven thousand, and east of said 
river, about the number of seventeen thousand, and that the 
population of each section is in a state of rapid increase. 

Your committee, after maturely considering this subject, 
are of opinion that there exists but one objection to the 



 

establishment of a separate Territorial Goveniment west of 
the river Wabash, and that objection is based on the addi- 
tional expense which would, in consequence thereof, be in- 
curred by the Government of the United States. But it is 
also worthy of observation, that the increased value of the 
public lands in each district, arising from the public insti- 
tutions which would be permanently fixed in each, to com- 
port with the convenience of the inhabitants, and the augmen- 
tation of emigrants all of whom must become immediate pur- 
chasers of these lands, would far exceed the amount of ex- 
penditure produced by the contemplated temporary Govern- 
ment. 

And your committee, being convinced that it is the wish 
of a large majority of the citizens of the said Territory that 
a separation thereof should take place, deem it always just 
and wise policy to grant to every portion of the people of 
the Union that foi-m of Government which is the object of 
their wishes, when not incompatible with the constitution of 
the United States, nor subversive of their allegiance to the 
national sovereignty. 

Your committee, therefore, respectfully submit the follow- 
ing resolution : 

Resolved: That it is expedient to divide the Indiana Ter- 
ritory, and to establish a separate Territorial Government 
west of the river Wabash, agreeably to the ordinance for the 
Government of the Territory of the United States northwest 
of the river Ohio, passed on the 13th day of July, 1787.= 



Jefferson to Harrison 

Washington, December 31, 1808 

Dawson, Harrison, 112 

Sir, 

The general government of the United States has con- 
sidered it their duty and interest to extend their care and 
patronage over the Indian tribes within their limits, and to 

2. This committee was composed of Jesse B. Thomas. John Smilie of Penn.. 
Burwell Bassett of Va., Samuel Tagsart of Mass.. and Thomas Kenan of N. C. Mr. 
Thomas appeared in Concress Nov. 18, 1808 as delegate to finish the term of Benjamin 
Park, resigned. This petition with several others was read that day and had doubtless 
been brought by Thomas, who was under promise to work for a separation. On his 
return he moved to Kaskaskia. Along with the report a bill was presented which 
became a law Feb. 3, 1809. The report is given in the Annals, for Dec. 31, 1808. 



 

endeavor to render them friends, and, in time, perhaps, use- 
ful members of the nation. Perceiving the injurious effects 
produced by their inordinate use of spirituous Hquors, they 
passed laws authorizing measures against the vending or dis- 
tributing such liquors among them. Their introduction by 
traders was accordingly prohibited, and for some time was 
attended with the best effects. I am informed, however, that 
latterly the Indians have got into the practice of purchasing 
such liquors themselves, in the neighboring settlements of 
whites, and of carrying them into their towns, and that, in 
this way, our regulations, so salutary to them, are now de- 
feated. I must, therefore, request your excellency to submit 
this matter to the consideration of your legislature. I per- 
suade myself that, in addition to the moral inducements 
which will readily occur, they will find it not indifferent to 
their own interest to give us their aid in removing, for their 
neighbors, this great obstacle to their acquiring industrious 
habits, and attaching themselves to the regular and useful 
pursuits of life. For this purpose it is much desired that they 
should pass effectual laws to restrain their citizens from 
vending and distributing spirituous liquors to the Indians. I 
pray your excellency to accept the assurances of my great 
esteem and respect. 

Thomas Jefferson 



Jefferson to Miamies' 

December, 1808 

Dawson, Hai-rison, 117 

To My Children, the Miamis, Potawatamies, Delawares, and 
Chippewas : 
Some of you are old enough to remember, and the younger 
have heard from their fathers, that this country was for- 
merly governed by the English. While they governed it, there 
were constant wars between the white and the red people. 
To such a height was the hatred of both parties carried, that 

1. Toward the close of October 1808 the governors of the several states and terri- 
tories were ordered to organize and equip the militia to the number of 100.000. At the 
same time a movement was begun to pacify the Indians. Leading chiefs were sum- 
moned to Washington that the aged Jefferson might address them before he retired 
from the presidency. These addresses were made to the northwestern Indians. 

Dawson, Harrison, lis 



 

they thought it no crime to kill one another in cold blood 
whenever they had an opportunity. This spirit led many of 
the Indians to take side against us in the war; and at the 
close of it, the English made peace for themselves, and left 
the Indians to get out of it as well as they could. It was 
not till twelve years after that we are able, by the treaty of 
Greenville, to close our wars with all our red neighbors. 
From that moment, my children, the policy of this country 
towards you, has been entirely changed. General Washing- 
ton, our first President, began a line of just and friendly 
conduct towards you. Mr. Adams, the second, continued it; 
and from the moment I came into the administration, I have 
looked upon you with the same good will as my own fellow 
citizens, have considered your interests as our interests, and 
peace and friendship as a blessing to us all. Seeing, with 
sincere regret, that your people were wasting away, believing 
that this proceeded from your frequent wars, and the de- 
structive use of spirituous liquors, and the scanty supplies 
of food, I have inculcated peace with all your neighbors, have 
endeavored to prevent the introduction of spiritous liquors 
among you, and have pressed on you to rely for food on the 
culture of the earth more than on hunting. On the contrary, 
my children, the English persuade you to hunt. They supply 
you with spirituous liquors, and are now endeavoring to en- 
gage you to join them in the war against us, should a war 
take place. You possess reason, my children, as we do, and 
you will judge for yourselves which of us advise you as 
friends. The course they advise, has worn you down to your 
present numbers ; but temperance, peace, and agriculture, will 
raise you up to what your forefathers were, will pi-epare you 
to possess property, to wish to live under regular laws, to 
join us in our government, to mix with us in society, and 
your blood and ours united, will spread again over the great 
island. 

My children, this is the last time I shall speak to you as 
your father; it is the last counsel I have to give. I am now 
too old to watch over the extensive concerns of the seventeen 
states and their territories. I have, therefore, requested my 
fellow citizens to permit me to retire to live with my family, 
to choose another chief and another father for you, and in 
a short time I shall retire, and resign into his hands the care 



 

of your and our concerns. Be assured, my children, he will 
have the same friendly disposition towards you which I have 
had, and that you will find in him a true and affectionate 
father. Entertain, therefore, no uneasiness on account of this 
change, for there will be no change as to you. Indeed, my 
children, this is now the disposition towards you of all our 
people. They look upon you as brethren, born in the same 
land, and having the same interests. In your journey to this 
place, you have seen many of them. I am cei'tain they have 
received you as brothers, and been ready to show you every 
kindness. You will see the same on the road by which you 
will return; and were you to pass from north to south, or 
east to west, in any part of the United States, you would find 
yourselves always among friends. Tell this, therefore, to 
your people on your return home. Assure them that no 
change will ever take place in our dispositions towards them. 
Deliver to them my adieus, and my prayers to the Great Spirit 
for their happiness. Tell them, that during my administra- 
tion, I have held their hand fast in mine, that I will put it 
into the hand of their new father, who will hold it as I have 

done. „ 

Thomas Jefferson 

Jefferson to Dela wares 

December, 1808 
Dawson, Harrison, 113-115 

My Son, the Beaver,' the Head Warrior of the Delawares, 

I am glad to see you here, and to take you by the hand. 
I am the friend of your nation, and sincerely wish them well. 
I shall now speak to them as their friend, and advise them 
for their good. I have read your speech to the secretary at 
war, and considered it maturely. You therein say that, after 
the conclusion of the treaty at Greenville, the Wapanahies, 
and other tribes of Indians, mutually agreed to maintain 
peace among themselves and with the United States. This, 
my son, was wise, and I entirely approve of it. And I equally 
commend you for what you further say, that yours and the 
other tribes have constantly maintained the articles of peace 

1. Signed Tomafcuee to the treaty of 1804 and Punchlmck to that of 1S17, if it is 



 

with us, and have ceased to listen to bad advice. I hope, my 
son, you will continue in this good line of conduct, and I 
assure you that the United States will forever religiously 
observe the treaty on their part; not only because they have 
agreed to it, but because they esteem you. They wish you 
well, and would endeavor to promote your welfare, even if 
there were no treaty ; and, rejoicing that you have ceased to 
listen to bad advice, they hope you will listen to that which 
is good. 

My Son, you say that the Osage nation has refused to be 
at peace with your nation or any others. That they have 
refused the offers of peace and extended their aggressions to 
all people. This is all new to me. I never heard of an Osage 
coming to war on this side of the Mississippi. Have they 
attacked your towTis, killed your people, or destroyed your 
game? Tell me in what year they did this, or what is the 
agression they have committed on yours and the other tribes 
on this side the Mississippi. But if they have defended them- 
selves and their country, when your tribes have gone over to 
destroy them, they have only done what brave men ought to 
do, and what just men ought never to have forced them to 
do. Your having committed one wrong on them gives you 
no right to commit a second; and be assured, my son, that 
the Almighty Spirit which is above, will not look down with 
indifference on your going to war against his children on the 
other side of the Mississippi, who have never come to attack 
you. He is their father as well as your father, and he did 
not make the Osages to be destroyed by you. I tell you that 
if you make war unjustly on the Osages. he will punish your 
nation for it. He will send upon your nation famine, sick- 
ness, or the tomahawk of a stronger nation, who will cut 
you off from the land. Consider this thing, then, well, be- 
fore you strike ; his hand is uplifted over your heads and his 
stroke will follow yours. 

My son, I tell you these things because I wish your nation 
well. I wish them to become a peaceable, happy, and pros- 
perous nation. And if this war against the Osages concerned 
yourselves alone, I would confine myself to giving you advice, 
and leave it to yourselves to profit by it. — But this war deeply 
concerns the United States. Between you and the Osages is 
a country of many hundred miles extent belonging to the 



 

United States. Between you, also, is the Mississippi, the 
river of peace. On this river are floating the boats, the peo- 
ple, and all the produce of the western states of the union. 
This commerce must not be exposed to the alarm of war 
parties crossing the river, nor must a path of blood be made 
across our country. What we say to you, my son, we say 
also to the Osages. We tell them that armed bands of war- 
riors, entering on the lands or waters of the United States, 
without our consent, are the enemies of the United States. 
If, therefore, considerations of your own welfare are not suf- 
ficient to restrain you from this unauthorized war, let me 
warn you on the part of the United States to respect their 
rights, not to violate their territory. 

You request, my son, to be informed of our warfares, that 
you may be enabled to inform your nation on your return. 
We are yet at peace, and shall continue so, if the injustice 
of other nations will permit us. The war beyond the water 
is universal ; we wish to keep it out of our island ; but should 
we go to war, we wish our red children to take no part in it. 
We are able to fight our own battles; and we know that our 
red children cannot aff'ord to spill their blood in our quarrels. 
Therefore, we do not ask it, but wish them to remain at 
home in quiet, taking care of themselves and their families. 
You complain that the white people in your neighborhood, 
have stolen a number of your horses. My son, the secretary 
at war will take measures for enquiring into the truth of 
this; and if it so appears, justice shall be done you. 

The two swords you ask shall be given to you ; and we shall 
be happy to give you every other proof that we esteem you 
personally, my son ; and shall always be ready to do anything 
which may advance your comfort and happiness. I hope you 
will deliver to your nation the words I have spoken to you, 
and assure them that, in everything which can promote their 
welfare and prosperity, they shall ever find me their true and 
faithful friend and father — that I hold them fast by the hand 
of friendship, which I hope they will not force me to let go. 

Thomas Jefferson 



 

Jefferson to Dela wares 

December 1808 

Dawson, Harrison, 115-117 

My Son, Captain Hendrick, and my Children, the Delawares, 
Mohiccons, and Munsies 

I am glad to see you here, to receive your salutations, and 
to return them, by taking you by the hand, and renewing to 
you the assurances of my friendship. I learn, with pleasure, 
that the Miamis and Potawatamies have given you some of 
their lands on the White River to live on, and that you pro- 
pose to gather there your scattered tribes and to dwell on it 
all your days. 

The picture which you have drawn, my son, of the increase 
of our numbers, and the decrease of yours, is just; the causes 
are very plain, and the remedy depends on yourselves alone. 
You have lived by hunting the deer and buffalo ; as these have 
been driven westward, you have sold out on the sea board, 
and moved westwardly in pursuit of them. As they became 
scarce there, your food has failed you; you have been a part 
of every year without food, except the roots and other un- 
wholesome things you could find in the forests. Scanty and 
unwholesome food produce diseases and death among your 
children, and hence you have raised fur, and your numbers 
have decreased. Frequent wars, too, and the abuse of spirit- 
uous liquors have assisted in lessening your numbers. The 
whites, on the other hand, are in the habit of cultivating the 
earth, of raising stocks of cattle, hogs, and other domestic ani- 
mals in much greater numbers than they could kill of deer and 
buffalo; having always a plenty of food and clothing, they 
raise abundance of children ; they double their numbers every 
twenty years. The new swarm are continually advancing 
upon the country like flocks of pigeons, and so they will con- 
tinue to do. Now, my children, if we wanted to diminish our 
numbers, we could give up the culture of the earth, pursue the 
deer and buffalo, and be always at war. This would soon 
reduce us to be as few as your are ; and if you wish to increase 
your numbers, you must give up the deer and buffalo, live in 
peace, and cultivate the earth. You see, then, my children, 
that it depends on yourselves alone, to become a numerous 
and great people. Let me entreat you, therefore, on the lands 



 

now given you, to begin to give every man a farm; let him 
enclose it, cultivate it, build a warm house on it, and when he 
dies let it belong to his wife and children after him. Nothing 
is so easy as to learn to cultivate the earth; all your women 
understand it; and to make it easier, we are always ready to 
teach you how to make ploughs, hoes, and other necessary 
utensils. If the men will take the labor of the earth from 
the women, they will learn to spin and weave, and to clothe 
their families. In this way you will also raise many children. 
You will double your numbers every twenty years, and soon 
fill the land your friends have given you; and your children 
will never be tempted to sell the spot on which they have been 
born, raised, have labored, and called their own. When once 
you have property, you will want laws and magistrates to pro- 
tect your property and persons, and to punish those among 
you who commit crimes. You will find that our laws are good 
for this purpose. You will wish to live under them ; you will 
unite yourselves with us, join in our great councils, and form 
one people with us, and we shall all be Americans. You will 
mix with us by marriage. Your blood will run in our veins, 
and will spread with us over this great island. 

Instead then, my children, of the gloomy prospect you have 
drawn of your total disappearance from the face of the earth, 
which is true if you continue to hunt the deer and buffalo and 
go to war, you see what a brilliant aspect is offered to your 
future history. If you give up war and hunting, adopt the 
culture of the earth, and raise domestic animals. You see how, 
from a small family you may become a great nation, by adopt- 
ing the course, which from the small beginning you have de- 
scribed, has made us a great nation. 

My Children, I will give you a paper declaring your right to 
hold against all persons the lands given you by the Miamis and 
Potawatamies, and that you never can sell them without their 
consent. But I must tell you that if ever they and you agree 
to sell, no paper which I can give you can prevent your doing 
what you please with your own land. The only way to pre- 
vent this, is to give to every one of your people a farm, which 
shall belong to him and his family, and which the nation shall 
have no right to take from them and sell. In this way alone, 
can you ensure the lands to your descendants, through all gen- 
erations, and that it shall never be sold from under their feet. 



 

It is not the keeping your lands which will keep your people 
alive on them, after the deer and buffalo shall have left them. 
It is the cultivating them alone which can do that. The hun- 
dredth part in corn and cattle, will support you better than the 
whole in deer and buffalo. 

My son Hendrick, deliver these words to your people. I 
have spoken to them plainly, that they may see what is before 
them, and that it is in their own power to go on dwindling to 
nothing, or to become again a great people. It is for this rea- 
son I wish them to live in peace with all people ; to teach their 
young men to love agriculture, rather than war and hunting. 
Let these words sink deep in their hearts, and let them often 
repeat them and consider them. Tell them that I hold them 
fast by the hand, and that I will ever be their friend, to ad- 
vise and assist them in following the true path to their future 
happiness. 

Thomas Jefferson 



Proclamation : Apportionment of Representatives 

April 4, 1809 
Vincennes Western Sun, April 15, 1809 

Whereas, from the late division of the territory [into Indi- 
ana and Illinois] it has become necessary to make a new ap- 
portionment of the representatives to the General Assembly, 
I have thought proper to issue this my proclamation, hereby 
directing and declaring that the house of representatives shall, 
at the next General Assembly, be composed of eight members, 
of which the county of Knox shall furnish three ; the" county 
of Clark, two; the county of Dearborn, two; and the county 
of Harrison, one. And I do further direct that the election 
for the additional representative from the counties of Knox, 
Clark, and Dearborn, and for the member hereby assigned to 
the county of Harrison, shall be held on Monday the twenty- 
second day of May next ensuing, at the places in the several 
tov/nships of the said counties respectively which have or may 
be assigned by the courts of common pleas of said counties for 
that purpose. 

Done at Vincennes, in the said Territory, on the fourth of 
April, one thousand eight hundred and nine. In testimony 



 

whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and have caused the 
seal of the Territory to be affixed.^ 

William Henry Harrison 
John Gibson, Secretary. 

Clark to Secretary op War 

St Louis, April 5th, 1809 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 798 

The Indian prophets have been industriously employed, the 
latter part of the winter and spring, privately counselling 
with, and attempting to seduce the Kickapoos, Saukies [Sacs], 
and other bands of Indians residing on the Mississippi and 
Illinois rivers, to war against the frontiers of this country. 

Wm. Clark 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 5th April 1809 

Hwr. Pa. 237, 238 

Sir: 

I had the honor some weeks ago [Dec. 31] to receive a letter 
from the late President of the United States directing me to 
commence a negotiation with the Kickapoo Indians and with 
the remnant of the Peorias for the settlement of our boundary 
and eventually for a further extinguishment of the title south 
of the Illinois river. But before I could take any effectual 
steps to carry this order into effect the law for erecting that 
part of the Territory into a separate government came to my 
hands. Altho the authority with which this business would 
have been transacted (being that of a commission constituting 
me Commissioner Plenipotentiary for Treating with the In- 
dians northwest of the Ohio) is quite distinct and independent 
of my appointment as governor of the Indiana Territory, I 
have thought it best to postpone the execution of the Presi- 

1. The act organizing Indiana territory, approved May 7. 1800, provided that the 
house of representatives of the territory should consist of not less than seven members 
until the total number of electors of the territoi-y should equal 5000. The governor does 
not seem to have been advised of the recent law of congress, approved February 27, 
1809, which made the minimum nimiber of representatives nine and took the power 
of apportionment out of his hands and vested it in the assembly. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 337 

dent's instructions until I should receive some further com- 
munication on the subject from the Present President or from 
your Department. 

I shall with equal pleasure unite my exertions to those of 
the Governor of the Illinois Territory [Ninian Edwards] or 
resign the whole negotiation to him as the President shall 
please to direct. 

I have the Honor to be very respectfully 
Sir your humble servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble The Secretary of War 

Wells to Harrison 

Fort Wayne 8th April 1809 

gjjj . Har. Pa. 2i0 

As the Indians in this agency appears to be agitated respect- 
ing the conduct and as they say the intentions of the Shawnees 
Prophet I deem it my duty to communicate some of the most 
material information that has come to my knowledge on this 
subject to you. The Chippeways, Ottaways, and Pottawat- 
omys are hurrying away from him and say that their reason 
for doing so is because he has told them to receive the Toma- 
hawk from him and destroy all the white people at Vincennes 
and all those that live on the Wabash and Ohio as low down 
as the mouth of Ohio and as high up as Cincinnati ; that the 
great spirit had directed that they should do so at the same 
time threatening them with destruction if they refused to 
comply with what he proposed. 

I am convinced that something is intended among them 
from the manner in which the Indians are leaving the 
Prophet, but I do not believe that any harm is intended, or 
will be attempted by the Prophet or any other Indians against 
the White people. It appears to me that the Lake Indians in- 
tend falling on the Prophet in consequence of so many of them 
dying at his place of residence last fall. All the Traders be- 
lieve that the Prophet intends to strike a blow at the white 
people, among them that are of this opinion are [Peter] La- 
Fontaine^ and [Touissant] Dubois. The Little Turtle, 5 

1. Peter Lafontaine came from Detroit down to Fort Wayne about 1776 and 
established a trade among the Miamies. He married an Indian girl and their chidren 
became Miami chiefs. Griswold, Fort Waijne, index 



 

Medals, and other influential Indian Chiefs agree with me that 
no harm is intended towards the whites. Mr. Dubois who 
passed the Prophet's Village a few days ago, told me that fifty 
of the Winebagoes had just joined him, and that he under- 
stood that more were on their way, and appeared to be 
alarmed for the safety of the people in that quarter. The 
force the Prophet has at this time is not more than eighty or 
an hundred men and I don't believe he will ever be able to 
double his number; with this handful of men I am sure he 
will attempt nothing. At the same time I must say that it 
is and always has been my opinion that he only wanted power 
to make him dangerous. They cannot continue embodied long 
as they have no provision and no means to get any. Should 
you be of the opinion that it would be proper for me to do 
anything respecting this business more than keeping a watch- 
ful eye over the Prophet I shall be glad to receive your direc- 
tion. The Indians that are leaving him and daily passing this 
place are in a starved situation and humanity compells me to 
give them some provision which I hope will meet with your 
approbation, I shall give them as little as possible. 

Inclosed you will receive the amount of provision issued to 
the Indians in this agency by Capt. [Nathan] Heald- during 
my absence. The amount is more than is usually issued in 
the Winter, but I am convinced that the starved situation of 
the Indians in this agency fully justifies the quantity that has 
been issued. As I have received no particular instructions 
from the war office respecting the issue of provisions to In- 
dians and as the Indians are starving in this quarter I hope 
you will send me instructions by the Bearer in what manner 
to act in this respect. The Mianiies complain and say that 
one of their men has been killed in the neighborhood of that 
place lately, as it is a circumstance that I am not acquainted 
with I hope you will give me a statement how it happened in 
order that I may remove all wrong impressions that have been 
made on their minds on that subject. I hope you will en- 
deavour to purchase the land up the Wabash as high up as the 

2. Nathan Heald became commandant at Fort Wayne in 1807. He was born in 
Ipswich N. H. Sept. 24, 1775; arrived at Fort Wayne, January 1807; married a 
daughter of Samuel Wells, who fought at Tippecanoe, and the niece of William Wells, 
agent at Fort Wayne. Heald was the unfortunate commander at the massacre of 
Fort Dearborn. 1812. 

Griswold. Fort Waime, index 

Quaife, Chicago, index; a journal of Capt. Heald is in the appendix of the latter 



 

Vermillion from the Miami and Wabash Indians. I think the 
time favourable. I shall be ready at any time to give you my 
aid to accomplish it. Let me hear from you on this subject. 
I am Sir Respectfully your most obt. 

Signed William Wells 

Proclamation : Apportionment 

April 10, 1809 

Vincennes Western Sun, April 15, 1809 

Whereas, by an act of Congress passed at their last session, 
the Governor of the Indiana Territory was empowered and di- 
rected to divide the said Territory into five districts, each of 
which to be entitled to send one member to the Legislative 
Council of the Territory: Now therefore be it known, that 
the five districts as aforesaid shall be formed as follows, viz. — 
The county of Dearborn shall form one district; the county 
of Clark, one district; the county of Harrison, one district; 
the tovmships of Busseron, Palmyra, and Vincennes, in the 
county of Knox, one district; and the townships of Harrison, 
White River, Wabash, and Ohio, in the said county of Knox, 
another district. And I do further direct and order that the 
election for the said members of the Legislative Council, shall 
be held at the same time, and at the same places, as are fixed 
by my proclamation of the fourth of this instant for the elec- 
tion of an additional representative; and the proceedings in 
the said election shall be the same as prescribed by law for the 
election of representatives'. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Vin- 
cennes, this tenth day of- April, one thousand eight hundred 
and nine, and of the Independence of the United States the 
thirty third. 

William Henry Harrison 



1. The law of February 27, 1809 had sra 


nted the voters of the tenitoiy the right 


to elect the members of the territorial council. 


This same act gave the voters the right 


to elect their delesate to cotiKress. 




United States Statutes i 


If Large, II. 5S5 (Tenth Cong. ch. XIX) 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 18th April 1809 

Har. Pa. 2il-2i3 

Sir: 

Since my last of the 12th inst. I have received by a special 
express a letter from Mr. [William] Wells [April 8, above] 
the Agent at Fort Wayne, a copy of Which I have now the 
honor to inclose. This letter is so strongly coroborative of 
the information received from Govr. [Meriwether] Lewis that 
I can no longer doubt of the hostile disposition of the Tribes 
of the Mississippi and Illinois River and those on the Wabash 
who adhere to the Shawnese Prophet. Messrs. [Peter] La- 
fontaine and [Touissant] Dubois the persons mentioned by 
Wells are two of the most respectable Indian Traders in this 
country, the former has more extensive intercourse with them 
than any other trader, speaks most of the Indian languages 
and has resided amongst them for thirty years. They are 
also men of honor and integrity and their opinions are more to 
be relied on in the present instance than that of Capt. Wells 
who has been absent from Fort Wayne during the whole 
Winter, and only reached it a few days before the date of his 
letter. Wells opinion and that of the chiefs whom he men- 
tions is entirely founded upon an erroneous estimate of the 
strength of the Prophets party. His disposition to do mis- 
chief he does not doubt. Wells had no information of the 
combination amongst the Tribes of the Mississippi and the 
Illinois and he is extremely incorrect as to the number of men 
now with the Prophet. He has probably not more than 80 or 
100 immediately at his place of residence, but I am well in- 
formed that he has within the distance of 40 or 50 miles of his 
village four or five times that number. I also fear that the 
story which has been circulated for some time of the de- 
termination of the Chippewas and Ottawas of Lake Michigan 
to fall upon the Prophet is a mere pretense suggested by the 
British to cover the real design of the former, and that when 
they reach the Wabash they will join the Prophet and the 
Winebagoes to fall upon our settlements. Under all these cir- 
cumstances and considering the unprotected situation of this 
town and the neighboring settlements I have determined to 
organize arm and equip and call into actual service two com- 
panies of volunteer militia agreeably to the instructions of the 



 

Secretary of War in his letter of the 17th of September 1807. 
Considerable progress has already been made in drawing out 
those men and in the course of two or three days I hope to 
have it completed. They will be placed upon the Wabash a 
few hundred yards below the Garrison called Fort Knox as 
well to protect it as to cover this place. Fort Knox is the 
depository of the arms and ammunition which have been sent 
here for the use of the militia. It consists of a range of open 
barracks and a block house not connected by pickets or any 
other defence. It is garrisoned by Lieut. [Ambrose] Whit- 
lock' with 14 or 1.5 men and the greater part of these are 
frequently absent with the Lieut, who is the paymaster of the 
District. Standing immediately upon the frontier both it and 
the Town of Vincennes could be surprised plundered and 
burned by an hundred Indians at any time without the least 
risk to themselves, as there is not a single family settled to the 
north and northwest to give notice of their approach. A de- 
tachment of 12 or 15 men of the two companies called out 
will be placed in the settlement of Bosseron 20 miles northeast 
of this place, from which as well as from the main body scouts 
will constantly be kept out for a distance around the settle- 
ments. I have directed Mr. Wells to call upon the Delawares, 
Miami and Potawatomi tribes to fulfil that article of the 
Treaty of Greenville by which they are bound to prevent any 
party with hostile intentions against our settlements to pass 
through their country. This is essentially necessary for their 
own safety. For as our people will generally pursue the at- 
tacking party and it will be impossible to distinguish the 
different tribes the innocent will frequently suffer for the 
guilty, at any rate, it will be often in the power of the hostile 
tribes so to manage their attack as to make it appear to be 
the act of our friends, and the war commenced by a few of 
the most feeble and insignificant tribes will gradually extend 
to all the rest. 

The violence and indiscretion of our own people will also 
greatly contribute to this result. 

I shall do myself the Honor to communicate to you any- 

1. Ambrose WhitlocU, born in Va. ; sergt. 1st Inf. 1796-1800 : Sec. Lieut. 1801-1807 ; 
Lieut. 1807-1812; Capt. 1812-14; paymaster-general 1815-16. An old companion of 
Harrison. Later settled at Crawfordsville, died June 26, 1863. 

Heitman. Register, 1030 



 

thing interesting which may come to my knowledge before the 
next post day and am with great respect sir, 
your humble servant. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. The Secretary of War. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 26th April 1809 
Har. Pa. 2i5, 2i6 

Sir: 

Since my last of the 18th Instant I have received informa- 
tion which has in a great measure dissipated all my anxiety 
on the score of a rupture with the Indians at least so far as 
relates to the Tribes on the Wabash and its Waters. It is 
principally derived from two subordinate Indian traders, who 
have spent the winter at the towns of the Potawatomies a few 
leagues below the station of the Prophet. Those men most 
positively assert that the Prophet is feared and hated by all the 
neighbouring tribes, the Kickapoos excepted and that it was 
only a dread of his supernatural powers which prevented them 
from falling on him but that this is in a great measure de- 
stroyed by an incident which occured a few days ago. The 
Prophet had always declared that the least violence which 
would be offered to him or his followers would be punished by 
the immediate interposition of the Great Spirit who would not 
fail instantly to destroy the perpetrators of so great a sin. 
Three young men of the Ottawa and Chippawa Tribes were 
determined however to make the experiment and by the direc- 
tion of their own chiefs entered the Prophet's camp murdered 
a squaw within ten steps of his tent and effected their escape 
to the camp of their friends about 40 miles distant. 

The traders are of opinion that they will not fail to attack 
the Prophet as soon as they can be prepared for it. 

This information together with a number of other circum- 
stances which go to show the fidelity of the Miamis, Dela- 
wares, Weas, and Potawatomies of the Wabash, would have 
induced me to countermand the order for turning out the two 
companies mentioned in my last if it had reached me a few 
days sooner, but as we had got through all the trouble of call- 
ing them from their homes and organizing them I thought it 



 

best not to disband them until I heard some thing decisive 
from Governor [Meriwether] Lewis. Besides altho I believe 
sincerely that there is not the least danger from the Tribes 
above mentioned, yet I know that when an attack is medi- 
tated they are capable of practising almost any artifice to 
take the object of it by surprise. 

As the two companies of militia are placed in a situation 
convenient to me I shall exert myself to improve the time 
that they may remain in service in teaching them such of the 
military evolutions as suits the service that they are likely to 
be employed in. Having spent seven years of my life in the 
army and very much attached to the profession this employ- 
ment will be by no means unpleasant to me. 

I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir your humble 
servant 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 

The Honble. The SECRETARY of War 



Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department 29 April 09 

Har. Pa. 1 

Wm. Hy. Harrison Sir: 

I have had the honor to consult the President of the U. S. 
on the subject of your Excellencies Letter of the 5th instant, 
[April 5, above] and am to inform you that it is considered 
to be inexpedient to proceed at this time in the Negociation 
with the Kickapoo and other tribe of Indians, for the ex- 
tinguishment of their title to the Lands south of the Illinois 
river. 

I am etc. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 29th April 1809 
Har. Pa. 2UU 

Sir: 

I have this day drawai upon you in favor of Peter Jones 
& Co. for one Hundred and fifty one dollars sixty & % cents 



 

for various articles furnished in the usual presents etc. to 
Indian chiefs and others. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect sir your 
Humble sei-vant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
To the Honble. The Secretary of War 



Clark to Secretary of War 

St. Louis, April 30th, 1809 

Anu Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 799 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter, which 
confirms my suspicions of the British interference with our 
Indian affairs in this country. (Extract from the enclosed 
letter) : "I am at present in the fire, receiving Indian news 
every day. A chief of the Puant [the Winnebagoes] nation 
appears to be employed by the British to get all the nations 
of Indians to Detroit, to see their fathers, the British, who 
tell them that they pity them in their situation with the 
Americans, because the Americans had taken their lands and 
their game ; that they must join and send them ofi" from their 
lands ; they told the savages that the Americans could not give 
them a blanket, nor any thing good for their families. 

They said they had but one father that had helped them 
in their misfortunes, and that they would assemble, defend 
their father, and keep their lands." It appears that four Eng- 
lish subjects have been at Riviere la Roche [Red] this winter, 
in disguise ; they have been there to get the nations together, 
and send them on the American frontiers. Other Indians are 
pushed on, by our enemies, to take the fort of Belle Vue 
[Iowa] . 

Wm. Clark 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 3d May 1809 

Har. Pa. 2J,S 

Sir: 

The information which I have received since my letter of 
the 26 ult. was written is entirely contradictory to that which 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 345 

I then detailed — the Mr. [Touissant] Dubois who [WilHam] 
Wells speaks of in the letter of which I had the honor to 
inclose you a copy arrived here a few days ago from Detroit 
via Fort Wayne. He is decidedly of opinion the the Prophet 
will attack our settlements. His opinion is formed from a 
variety of circumstances but principally from a communi- 
cation made to Mr. [Peter] Lafontain by two chiefs his 
friends, the substance of which was that the Prophet and his 
followers had determined to commence hostilities as soon as 
they could be prepared and to "sweep all the white people 
from the Wabash and White River" after which they in- 
tended to attack the Miamies. Dubois thinks there is no real 
misunderstanding between the Prophet and the Ottawas and 
Chippewas and that the Squaw who was said to have been 
killed by the latter died in reality a natural death and was 
then tomahawked and skalped by some of the Prophet's party 
to carry on the deception and to prevent us from taking the 
alarm at the force he is collecting and which he pretends is 
to protect him against the Chippewas and Ottawas — (about 
eight days ago he had with him three hundred and fifty war- 
riors well armed with Rifles and tolerably supplied with ana- 
munition, they have also bows and arrows War Clubs and a 
Kind of Spear). I still think he will not dare to attack us 
but I am preparing the Militia as well as circumstances per- 
mit and the two companies which I have ordered out are 
rapidly improving in discipline being daily exercised either 
by the Major who commands them or myself in the evolutions 
practised by General Wayne's army. The Prophet cannot 
keep the number of men which he now has embodied any 
length of time as soon as they disperse I shall dismiss the 
two companies which I have had mustered agreeably to the 
instructions of Genl. Dearborn by a careful person selected 
for that purpose. 

I have the honor to inclose herewith an extract [not found] 
of my letter of instructions to the agent at Fort Wayne. 

I am with great respect Sir Your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. The Secretary at War. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 16th May 1809 

Har. Pa. 250 

Sir: 

I have great pleasure in being enabled to inform you that 
there no longer exists the least probability of a rupture with 
any of the Indian tribes of this frontier. The party which 
the Prophet had assembled have dispersed with manifest in- 
dications of terror and alarm. Whether this is to be at- 
tributed to the military pi-eparations which were made here, 
To the want of provisions, disappointment upon the part of 
the Prophet as to the force he expected to raise, or to the 
combination of all these causes, or whether indeed he had 
ever any design of attacking us I cannot at present deter- 
mine. Whatever I shall be able to discover on this subject 
shall form the matter of another communication. I have 
engaged a confidential Frenchman who speaks the Indian lan- 
guages to reside at the Prophet's Town for a few weeks to 
watch his movements and discover his politics. 

I have for several years considered a further extinguish- 
ment of Indian title to the North East of this and extending 
from the Wabash to the purchase made at the Treaty of 
Grouseland as a most desirable object. And it appears to me 
that the time has arrived when the purchase may be at- 
tempted with a considerable prospect of success. Our settle- 
ments here are much cramped by the vicinity of the Indian 
lands, which in the direction above mentioned is not more 
than twenty-one miles. The country oh the Wabash below 
this is sunken and wet, that to the north and west almost 
entirely Prairie and not of such a quality to be settled for 
many years. These circumstances must necessarily render 
the settlements here feeble for a considerable time unless a 
further extinguishment of title is effected in the direction I 
have mentioned. 

The effecting of this purchase will come within the scope 
of the Instructions hitherto received, but I shall conclude no 
bargain until I am honored with the President's further 
direction. 

The two companies of militia were dismissed on the 12th 
Instant. They have been regularly mustered and the pay- 



 

rolls are now preparing, as soon as they are finished they 
shall be forwarded. 

I have the honor to be most respectfully 
Yours, 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honblo. The SECRETARY OF War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

. War Department 5 June 09 

Har. Pa. 2, 3 

Wm. Hy. Harrison, Sir 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the several 
letters of your Excellency, dated the 11th 18th & 26th of 
April and of the 3rd & 16th of May, the latter containing 
the agreeable information of the dispersion of the hostile 
Combination of the Savages in your vicinity. It was appre- 
hended from the first accounts that more serious consequences 
might ensue but a reliance on your opinion & judgment en- 
couraged a belief, in the favorable termination which has 
taken place. It is with great satisfaction that I now request 
that you will be pleased to accept an assurance of my own, 
as I perceived you already possess the entire confidence of 
the executive in your Communications, together with their 
approbation of the measures adopted by your Excellency 
which have undoubtedly had their influence in producing the 
result. 

The proposal to extinguish the Indian Title to certain 
Lands East of the Wabash will be attended to — Your Ex- 
cellency will be satisfied that a proposal of this kind, will 
excite no disagreeable apprehension and produce no undesir- 
able efi'ects before It shall be made. 

On reinforcing the old or establishing new posts on the 
western Frontiers, there has been some difference of opinion. 
A permanent reinforcement of St. Louis & Detroit appears 
desirable. May I avail the public of your military experience 
& genei-al knowledge of the country by asking your opinion 
generally on the subject 

With great respect &c. 



 

TuppER TO Secretary of War 

Sandusky, 7th June, 1809 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 799 

The conduct of British traders, in introducing spirituous 
Hquors among the Indians in this part of the country, and 
their determined hostility to the measures of our Govern- 
ment, have long been subjects of complaint, and their in- 
famous stories have much embarrassed our operations. (Ex- 
tract) 

S. TUPPER 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 8th June 1809 
Har. Pa. 251 

Sir: 

I have this day drawn upon you in favor of Peter Jones 
Esq. for six hundred dollars being part of the Kaskaskias 
annuity and the compansation to the Roman Catholic Priest 
for the present year agreeably to your letter of the 1st ultimo. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your humble 
servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble William Eustis Secy, of War 



Hull to Secretary of War 

Detroit, June 16th, 1809 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 799 

The influence of the Prophet has been great, and his advice 
to the Indians injurious to them and the United States. We 
have the fullest evidence, that his object has been to form 
a combination of them in hostility to the United States. The 
powerful influence of the British has been exerted in a way 
alluring to the savage character. (Extract) 

Wm. Hull 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War- 

VlNCENNES, July 5th 1809 

Har. Pa. 252-263 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor 
of the 5th ultimo. The President's and your approbation of 
my conduct is highly gratifying to me, and permit me to as- 
sure you Sir, that no exertions on my part shall be wanting 
to merit a continuance of the confidence of the Administra- 
tion. 

The Shawnee Prophet and about forty followers arrived 
here a week ago. He denies most strenuously any participa- 
tion in the late combination to attack our settlements which 
he says was entirely confined to the Tribes on the Mississippi 
and Illinois river and he claims the merit of having pre- 
vailed upon them to relinquish their intentions. I must con- 
fess that my suspicions of his guilt have been rather strength- 
ened than diminished in every interview I have had with 
him since his arrival. He acknowledges that he received an 
invitation to go to war against us from the British last fall, 
that he was apprised of the intentions of the Lake Indians 
early in the spring and warmly solicited to join their league. 
But he could give no satisfactory explanation of his neglect- 
ing to communicate to me, circumstances as intensely inter- 
esting to us, towards which I had a few months before di- 
rected his attention, and received a solemn assurance of his 
cheei'ful compliance with the instructions I had imposed on 
him. The result of all my inquiries on the subject is that 
the late combination was produced by British intrigue and 
influence in anticipation of war between them and the United 
States. It was however premature and ill-judged and the 
event sufliciently manifests either a great decline in their 
influence, or in the talents and address with which they have 
been accustomed to manage their Indian relations. The war- 
like and well armed Tribes of the Potawatamies, Ottawas, 
Chippewas, Delawares and Miamies, I believe neither had 
nor would have joined in the combination and altho the Kick- 
apoos whose warriors are better than those of any other 
Tribe, the remnant of the Wyandots excepted, are much under 
the influence of the Prophet, I am persuaded they never were 



 

made acquainted with his intentions, if they were really hos- 
tile to the United States. 

As you have done me the honor to request my opinion with 
respect to the position of the Troops destined to protect the 
Western frontiers. I will communicate the result of my re- 
flections on the subject with great pleasure. Such is the 
nature of Indian warfare, that I am persuaded one hundred 
thousand men would not be able to fomi a cordon along the 
frontiers of this Territory, Michigan and the State of Ohio 
sufficiently compact to preserve our settlements from their 
desultory attacks, in case of a general combination of the 
North Western Tribes against us. And any fort that is built 
with a view to form part of such a line of defence would in 
my opinion be useless. The chain of Forts begun by Genl. 
St. Clair and completed by Genl. [Anthony] Wayne extend- 
ing into the Indian countiy from the Ohio, and which were 
so situated as to cover the settlements from any attack but 
that of Indians, alforded not the least security to the in- 
habitants and were no further useful than as resting places 
for the small convoys which were employed to throw in 
provisions for the campaign at the head of the line. As we 
have no elevation in the whole extent of what was formerly 
the North Western Territory that can be dignified with the 
name of mountain, we have consequently no difficult passes 
such as the ancient world and some of the Atlantic states 
afford the securing of which would necessarily command the 
country for a considerable extent. 

There are, however, military positions to be found, which 
if properly improved would not only prevent the ingress of 
any regular force but effectually keep the Indians in check. 
Those are to be sought for along the greate water courses 
which bound the country on either side and on those ele- 
gant channels of communication, which nature has provided 
at Intervals to unite them. Without the aid of these the 
Bulky articles which make up the returns of the Indian Mer- 
chant, could never be taken out. The country being remark- 
ably flat, the roads are necessarily bad in winter and in the 
summer the immense prairies to the west and north of this 
produce such a multitude of flies as to render it impossible 
to make use of pack horses. Hence it follows that a few well 
selected positions on the straits which unite the Lakes, on 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 351 

the Mississippi and on the communications which connect 
them would completely control the Indian trade and conse- 
quently the Indians. I suppose the force to be stationed at 
Detroit, ought in some measure to be regulated by that kept 
by the British in the neighbouring fortress of Maiden. This 
has not I believe, for several years exceeded two weak com- 
panies and is at present reduced to one. The fort at Detroit 
can have little or no influence in controling the Indian Trade 
because it does not command the strait and if it did much 
the greater part of the trade is now and the whole could be 
carried on by the canoe route of the grand river. The proper 
position for our object is therefore to be sought for higher 
up. In case of a war with the U. S. and Great Britain the 
latter could never think of defending upper Canada, and no 
valuable purpose to them could be answered by a temporary 
possession of Detroit and the neighbouring settlements. I 
can therefore see no good reason for an accumulation of 
force at this point. A strong regular work to be garrisoned 
by two companies but capable of accommodating a Battalion, 
would I should imagine be amply sufficient. It would be 
highly desirable to have the Fort so situated as to command 
the ship channel of the Strait. When I was at Detroit in the 
year 1803 the British had and I believe still have 6 or 7 
armed vessels carrying from 8 to 22 guns on Lake Erie. 
With a part of this force and with the assistance of the 
Indians Macinac would be easily reduced as from its insular 
situation no reinforcement or supplies could reach it if the 
enemy possessed the superiority of naval force in the upper 
lakes. To prevent this, it will be necessary either to build 
a number of vessels equal to theirs or by fortifying the river 
of Detroit confine them to Lake Erie. A situation proper 
for this purpose was the object of my enquiry and Hog Island 
two miles above the Towai of Detroit was pointed out as the 
most eligible. There is also another favorable situation for 
commanding the navigation in the strait between Lake St. 
Clair and Lake Huron. 

As the canoe route at the grand river and Lake Nipissing 
to its entrance into Lake Huron is entirely within the British 
Territory the port of Michilimacinac is of considerable im- 
portance. It is here and at the neighbouring British port of 
St. Joseph's that the valuable trade which is borne along the 
route above mentioned and that which comes by the way of 



 

Detroit is parcelled out for the various directions which it 
afterwards assumes. In the event of a war with the British, 
it will be their first object to furnish the Tribes who espouse 
their cause with a sufficiency of arms and ammunition to ren- 
der them independent of a supply from us for several years. 
The port of Macinac with the aid of one or two small armed 
vessels would be a great check to the throwing in these sup- 
plies, but it could only be stoped entirely by erecting a work 
at the rapids of St. Mary, the pass leading into Lake Su- 
perior. This route into the Mississippi is not so good a one 
as that of the Fox River of Wisconsing but the one being 
secured and the other open would expose us to the same mis- 
chiefs as if neither were guarded. For the peace establish- 
ment of Macanac one well disciplined complete company, un- 
der a vigilant officer, would be sufficient. Of all the com- 
munications between the Lakes and the Mississippi that from 
Lake Michigan by the Fox and Wisconsing rivers is the most 
used and the most interesting and important. It is through 
this channel that nine tenths of the goods for the supply of 
the Indians above the Illinois river and in Louisiana is con- 
veyed and until we have a military force upon it, we can 
never control either the Traders or the Indians. I was so 
sensible of this, that at a Treaty which I made at St. Louis 
in the year 1804 with the Sacs and Foxes, I inserted a clause 
authorising the United States to build a Fort on either side 
the mouth of the Ouisconsing or on the opposite bank of 
Mississippi as the one or the other would afford the best site. 
I am convinced that great advantage would arise from a com- 
pany being stationed there. The village of Prairie du Chien 
consisting of about thirty French Families is three miles 
above. The Fort lately erected on the Mississippi near the 
mouth of the Demoins will serve as an intermediate post and 
support to that on the Ouisconsing. The site of the latter is, 
I am informed extremely bad, being commanded by higher 
ground within musket shot. The Post of Chicago is an im- 
portant one. It occupies the usual communications between 
Lake Michigan and the Mississippi by means of a short creek 
on which the Fort stands, and which actually takes its rise 
in the same lake or swamp with a branch of the Illinois River, 
so that in the spring boats with their loading pass freely 
from one to the other. The site of Fort Wayne was selected 
by General Washington ; to erect a fort there was the object 



 

of Genl. St. Clair's campaign. Its accomplishment by Genl. 
Wayne and a further knowledge of the country sufficiently 
evinced the wisdom of the choice. Proceeding from Fort 
Wayne to the Wabash and down that river at the distance 
of 150 miles from fort Wayne and 150 from this place, is the 
site of the old Wea Towns, where there is a considerable 
reservation of lands made by the Treaty of Greenville, for 
a Fort. The situation is beautiful and besides commanding 
the Wabash is near the mouth of the Tippecanoe which dis- 
charging itself into the former has its course in the neigh- 
bourhood of the Illinois and St. Joseph's of Lake Michigan 
to each of which there is a portage of nine and fourteen 
miles, much used by the Indians and sometimes by Traders. 
Notwithstanding these advantages I would not recommend 
the building of a Fort there. I think, however, that one 
other is necessary on the Wabash, but I should prefer it 
lower down, as near our boundary line as possible. The In- 
dians would be greatly dissatisfied at our occupancy of the 
Wea Towns and the giving up the reservation at that place 
would be a great inducement with the Weas to cede the coun- 
try they now live on between this place and the Vermillion 
River. There is no part of the Western country so much 
exposed as this. The Tribes in our neighbourhood (those 
which were confederated in the war terminated by General 
Wayne) are numerous, warlike and well armed and are more 
than a match for all the others, with whom we have inter- 
course, united. I believe, however, they have no idea of 
again measuring their strength with ours. No other in- 
fluence than that of the French could induce them to do it. 
But in the event of a French war (it) they could be led to 
believe that there was even a possibility that their efforts 
united to those of the French would again put the latter in 
possession of this country, the remembrance of all the calami- 
ties which and their frequent wars with us have brought upon 
them, and the justice and benevolence with which they have 
been treated since the peace would be insufficient to prevent 
their taking part against us. The happiness they enjoyed 
from their intercourse with the French is their perpetual 
theme — it is their golden age. Those who are old enough to 
remember it, speak of it with rapture, and the young ones 
are taught to venerate it as the Ancients did the reign of 
Saturn "you call us" said an old Indian chief to me "your 



 

Children why do you not make us happy as our Fathers the 
French did? They never took from us our lands, indeed 
they were in common with us — they planted where they 
pleased and they cut wood where they pleased and so did 
we — but now if a poor Indian attempts to take a little bark 
from a tree, to cover him from the rain, up comes a white 
man and threatens to shoot him, claiming the tree as his 
own." When the first information of the cession of Louisi- 
ana to France reached them they could not conceal their joy 
and I sincerely believe that the appearance of the first French 
uniform at St. Louis would have been a signal for a general 
revolt of all the tribes in this quarter, the Delawares ex- 
cepted. The present Garrison at Fort Knox is too near this 
town to be of as much advantage as if placed some distance 
above. A good situation could be found near our present 
boundary line, but if the fui-ther extinguishment of title, 
which I had the honor to propose to you, is accomplished, 
it might with propriety be placed still higher up. It appears 
to me, however, highly proper to have a company stationed 
some where in this neighbourhood. I can see no advantage 
in keeping up the garrison at Fort Massac, excepting as a 
depository for the stores destined for St. Louis. This pur- 
pose would, however be as well answered by a careful non 
commissioned officer and six men as with the present garrison. 
A show of force in the neighbourhood of St. Louis would cer- 
tainly contribute toward the neighbouring Tribes and if a 
whole regiment of infantry and one or two companies of 
artillery could be spared for the protection of Upper Louisiana 
and for garrisoning the post in this and the Illinois Terri- 
tories the Field and Staff of the Regiment with the balance 
of the Companies might with propriety be placed there — an 
arrangement of this kind would have a great tendency to 
preserve discipline and subordination. Pemiit me to recom- 
mend that in the forts that are far advanced in the Indian 
country, besides the deposit of six months provisions by the 
contractor, that there should constantly be kept two or three 
hundred bushels kiln dried corn to be annually renewed. No 
loss would arise from this measure, as the old deposit could 
be always sold to the Traders or Indians when the new should 
arrive. Contractors are so often negligent, and convoys of 
provisions passing for a considerable distance through a 
wilderness are subject to so many accidents that I have my- 



 

self known more than one instance where a Garrison was 
upon the point of being forced to abandon its charge for the 
want of food. 

Should my recommendations to place a company on the 
Wabash near this place be adopted I should be much grati- 
fied to have Lieut. [Ambrose} Whitlock who at present com- 
mands Fort Knox and is paymaster of the District continued. 
He served under my immediate command for several years 
and I will venture to pronounce that there is not a more 
zealous and attentive officer or one possessed of better prin- 
ciples in the service. He is now the oldest Lieutenant in his 
regiment, if there is not already a vacancy for him. There 
is also a surgeon's mate here, to whom it would be very con- 
venient to remain as his connections reside in this neighbour- 
hood. 

I have the honor to be with perfect respect Sir, your 
Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esqre. Secry. of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 14th July 1809 

Hen: Pa. 235, 236 

Sir: 

Your letter of the 20th of December last requesting me to 
account for the unusual quantity of provisions issued to the 
Indians at this place in the months of June July and Aug. 
last I had not the honor to receive until this day week. I did 
myself the honor to inform you in my letter of the 1st of 
Sept. that I had been visited by the celebrated Shawnese 
Prophet. This person having announced to me his approach 
and understanding that he was accompanied by some hundreds 
of famished Indians of both sexes and being ever anxious to 
avoid every unnecessary expense I sent him a preremptory 
message requiring him to dismiss all his retinue 40 or 50 ex- 
cepted. This order he affected to obey but in 24 hours after 
his arrival the mass presented themselves exhibiting the most 
miserable set of starved wretches my eyes ever beheld. I had 
no alternative but to feed them, drive them out of the settle- 
ments with force or turn them loose upon the inhabitants. 



 

They possessed neither arms nor ammunition and if they had 
the wilderness at that season affords Httle or nothing. I gave 
them as Uttle as possible and got rid of them as soon as pos- 
sible. Mr. Wells was for having me starve all those which 
appertained to the prophet I did not believe however that 
that was the pilosophy of the President. I fed them and gave 
them a small supply of food and ammunition to take with them 
(partly in anticipation of the Shawene annuity). Whether 
this disbursement may prove to have been a politic one or not 
time will determine. I think it not impossible but it may — for 
I never knew an Indian that was not more grateful for having 
his belly filled than for any other service that could be ren- 
dered him. But at any rate I am certain of one thing that I 
have done for the best. Besides the Prophet and his party 
the whole of the Kickapoo, Piankeshaw and Wea Tribes were 
here in June and July to receive their annuities and being un- 
usually scarce of corn at their villages I was not able to get 
rid of them in as short a time as usual and many of the chiefs 
returned in August to assist at the Council with the Prophet. 

In managing the affairs of the Indian Department Sir, I act 
as I think the President would direct were he present and 
acquainted with all the circumstances. I am confident how- 
ever that I frequently err and I have no wish to have any- 
thing left to my discretion but what is absolutely unavoidable. 
And permit me to assure you that all your directions whether 
in unison with my own opinions or not shall be faithfully and 
punctually executed. 

I have the honor to be with the highest respect sir your 
humble servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. Henry Dearbourn Esq. Secy of War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department 15th July 1809 

Har. Pa. i 
His Excelly. Wm. H. HARRISON 
Sir: 

The President of the United States authorizes and instructs 
you to take advantage of the most favorable moment for ex- 
tinguishing the Indian title to the Lands lying east of the 



HARRISON: MESSACxES AND LETTERS 357 

Wabash and adjoining south on the Unes of the Treaties of 
Fort Wayne and Grouseland. The compensation to be paid 
for this extinguishment should not exceed the rate heretofore 
given for the Indiaji title to Lands in that quarter ; to prevent 
any future dissatisfaction, Chiefs of all the Nations who have 
or pretend right to these lands, should be present at the 
Treaty; and, if practicable, the cession should be obtained 
without leaving any reservations. It is discretionary with 
you to stipulate in what manner the consideration shall be 
paid ; whether in a gross sum payable after the ratification of 
the Treaty by instalments or in annuity for years or per- 
petuity, or partly in both these modes, as you may deem most 
expedient. The payment by instalments is preferred. For 
the expences attending the Treaty or Treaties, you will draw 
on this Department, except for the Provisions, which you will 
require of the Contractor, unless some other Person will agree 
to furnish them below Contract price. 

Besides reasonable expences, you will be allowed, six dol- 
lars per day and the Secretary to the Commission, should one 
be necessary, three dollars per day, while actually employed. 

A Diary of the proceedings should be kept by the Commis- 
sion or the Secretary, and a certified copy thereof, forwarded 
with the Treaty to this Department. 

I am, Sir, respectfully &c. 

Proclamation, Sale of Liquor 

August 23, 1809 
Executive Journal 

A conference being about to be held at this place with 
sundry tribes of Indians the Governor agreeably to the Laws 
of the Territory issued his Proclamation prohibiting the sale 
of spirits or any other intoxicating Liquors to any Indian or 
Indians at Vincennes or within thirty miles of the same during 
the said conference. [Abstract] 

Proclamation : Convening the General Assembly 

August 31, 1809 

Vincennes Western Sun, September 2, 1809 

Whereas, the circumstances of the Territory require that 
the Legislature should be convened ; I have therefore thought 



 

proper to appoint, and do by these presents appoint, Monday 
the sixteenth day of October next for the meeting of the same ; 
and the members of the Legislative Council and of the House 
of Representatives, and each and every of them, are required 
to give their attendance on that day, in the Town of Vin- 
cennes, accordingly. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Vin- 
cennes, this thirty-first day of August, one thousand eight 
hundred and nine, and of the Independence of the United 
States the thirty fourth.^ 

William Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Fort Wayne 1st October 1809 

Hwr. Pa. 265 
Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 761 
Dept. of Interior, Indian Office Mss. 

Stri 

I have the honor to inform you that a Treaty was yesterday 
concluded with the Delaware, Potawatomie, Miami and Eel 
River Tribes by which they have ceded to the United States 
a Tract of land twelve miles wide along the boundary from 
fort Recovery, southwardly, to the boundary established by 
the Treaty of Grouseland, also a Tract between the boundary 
established at this place in 1803 and a line to be drawn from 
the mouth of Racoon Creek on the Wabash to the Grouseland 
extinguishment. This tract is believed to be about sixty miles 
in a direct line from our former boundary to the mouth of 
Racoon Creek and is to be thirty miles wide opposite to the 
north east corner of the Vincennes Tract, The Consent of the 
Wea Tribe is necessary to complete the title to the latter and 
that of the Kickapoos to a Tract of fifteen miles in width on 
the northwest side of the Wabash from our former boundary 
line up the River to a continuation of the line to be run from 
the Grouseland extinguishment to the mouth of Racoon Creek. 
These three Tracts will contain upwards of two millions and 
a half of acres and will cost less than two cents per acre, a 
complete History of our procedings will be forwarded from 
Vincennes for which, at present, time will not permit. I shall 
collect the Weas immediately on my return to Vincennes to 

1. The Executive Journal gives this under date of August 8. 



 

procure their consent of which there is httle doubt to the 
Treaty. That of the Kickapoos being not quite so certain 
nothing been announced for the Tract in which they are inter- 
ested. The assemblage of Indians has been greater at this 
Treaty than at any other since that of Greenville; the inci- 
dental expenses have of course has been considerable but the 
value of the land which has been purchased is much greater 
than any that has been heretofore procured. 

I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect Sir your 
Humble Servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honorable WILLIAM EUSTIS, Esq. Secretary of War 



Sept. 30, 1809 

" American State Papers, Indian Affairs I, 761 

A Treaty betw^een the United States of America and the 
TRIBES OF Indians called the Dela wares, Pattaw^ata- 
MiES, Miamies, and Eel River Miamies 
James Madison, President of the United States, by William 
Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in Chief of the 
Indiana territory. Superintendent of Indian Affairs, and Com- 
missioner Plenipotentiary of the United States, for treating 
with the said Indian tribes, and the sachems, head-men, and 
warriors, of the Delaware, Pottawatamy, Miami, and Eel river 
tribes of Indians, have agreed and concluded upon the follow- 
ing treaty, which, when ratified by the said President, vdth 
the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, 
shall be binding on said parties : 

Article 1. The Miami and Eel river tribes, and the Dela- 
wares and Pattawatamies, as their allies, agree to cede to the 
United States, all that tract of country which shall be included 
between the boundary line, established by the treaty of fort 
Wayne, the Wabash, and a line [the Ten-o-Clock line] to be 
drawn from the mouth of a creek called Racoon creek, empty- 
ing into the Wabash, on the southeast side, about twelve miles 
below the mouth of the Vermillion river, so as to strike the 
boundary line established by the treaty of Grouseland, at such 
a distance from its commencement, at the northeast corner of 
the Vincennes tract, as will leave the tract now ceded, thirty 
miles wide at the narrowest place; and also, all that tract 



 

which shall be included between the following boundaries, viz : 
Beginning at fort Recovery; thence, southwardly along the 
general boundary line, established by the treaty of Greenville, 
to its intersection \vith the boundary line established by the 
treaty of Grouseland ; thence, along said line, to a point from 
which a line drawn parallel to the first mentioned line will 
be twelve miles distant from the same, and along the said 
parallel line to its intersection with a line to be drawn from 
fort Recovery, parallel to the line established by the said 
treaty of Grouseland. 

Art. 2. The Miamies explicitly acknowledge the equal right 
of the Delawares, with themselves, to the country watered by 
the White river; but it is also to be clearly understood that 
neither party shall have the right of disposing of the same, 
without the consent of the other; and any improvements 
which shall be made on the said land by the Delawares, or 
their friends the Mohicans, shall be theirs forever. 

Ari. 3. The compensation to be given for the cession made 
in the first article, shall be as follows, viz. To the Delawares, 
a permanent annuity of five hundred dollars ; to the Miamies, 
a like annuity of five hundred dollars ; to the Eel river tribe, a 
like annuity of two hundred and fifty dollars; and to the 
Pattawatamies, a like annuity of five hundred dollars. 

Art. U- All the stipulations made in the treaty of Green- 
ville, relatively to the manner of paying the annuities, and the 
right of the Indians to hunt upon the land, shall apply to the 
annuities granted and the land ceded by the present treaty. 

Art. 5. The consent of the Wea tribe shall be necessary to 
complete the title to the first tract of land here ceded. A sepa- 
rate convention shall be entered into between them and the 
United States, and a reasonable allowance of goods given them 
in hand, and a permanent annuity, which shall not be less than 
three hundred dollars, settled upon them. 

Art. 6. The annuities promised by the third article, and 
the goods now delivered, to the amount of five thousand two 
hundred dollars, shall be considered as a full compensation 
for the cession made in the first article. 

Art. 7. The tribes who are parties to this treaty, being de- 
sirous of putting an end to the depredations which are com- 
mitted by abandoned individuals of their own color, upon the 
cattle, horses, &c. of the more industrious and careful, agree to 
adopt the following regulations viz: When any theft or other 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 361 

depredation shall be committed by any individual or indi- 
viduals of one of the tribes, above mentioned, upon the prop- 
erty of any individual or individuals of another tribe, the 
chiefs of the party injured shall make application to the agent 
of the United States, who is charged with the delivery of the 
annuities of the tribe to which the offending party belongs, 
whose duty it shall be to hear the proofs and allegations on 
either side, and determine between them; and the amount of 
his award shall be immediately deducted from the annuity of 
the tribe to which the offending party belongs, and given to 
the person injured, or the chief of his village, for his use. 

Art. 8. The United States agree to relinquish their right 
to the reserve at the old Ouiatanon towns, made by the treaty 
of Greenville, so far, at least, as to make no further use of it 
than for the establishment of a military post. 

Ai't. 9. The tribes who are parties to this treaty, being 
desirous to shew their attachment to their brothers, the Kicka- 
poos, agree to cede to the United States, the lands on the 
northwest side of the Wabash, from the Vincennes tract, to a 
northwardly extension of the line running from the mouth of 
the aforesaid Racoon creek, and fifteen miles in width from 
the Wabash, on condition that the United States, shall allow 
them an annuity of four hundred dollars; but this article is 
to have no effect, unless the Kickapoos will agree to it. 

In testimony whereof, the said William Henry Harrison, 
and the sachems and war chiefs of the before mentioned tribes, 
have hereunto set their hands, and affixed their seals, at Fort 
Wayne, this thirtieth of September, one thousand eight hun- 
dred and nine. 

William Henry Harrison. (L. S.) 

(Signed also by certain chiefs and warriors of the nations 
enumerated in the title.) 

Sept. 30, 1809 

A separate Article, entered into at Fort Wayne, on the 30th 
day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight 
hundred and nine, between William Henry Harrison, Com- 
missioner Plenipotentary of the United States for treating 
with the Indian tribes, and the sachems and chief warriors of 
the Miami and Eel river tribes of Indians, which is to be con- 
sidered as forming part of the treaty this day concluded, be- 



 

tween the United States and the said tribes, and their allies, 
the Delawares and the Pattawatamies. 

As the greater part of the lands ceded to the United States 
by the treaty, this day concluded, was the exclusive property 
of the Miami nation, and guarantied to them by the treaty 
of Grouseland, it is considered by the said commissioner, just 
and reasonable that their request to be allowed some further 
and additional compensation should be complied with : It is, 
therefore, agreed, that the United States shall deliver, for 
their use, in the course of the next spring, at fort Wayne, 
domestic animals to the amount of five hundred dollars, and 
the like number for the two following years; and that an 
armorer shall be also maintained at fort Wayne, for the use 
of the Indians, as heretofore: It is also agreed that, if the 
Kickapoos confirm the ninth article of the treaty to which this 
is a supplement, the United States will allow to the Miamies a 
further permanent annuity of two hundred dollars, and to the 
Wea and Eel river tribes, a further annuity of one hundred 
dollars each. 

In testimony ivhereof, the said William Henry Harrison, 
and the sachems and war chiefs of the said tribes, have here- 
unto set their hands, and affixed their seals, the day and place 
above mentioned. 

William Henry Harrison. (L. S.) 

(Signed also by certain chiefs and warriors of said tribes of 
Indians.) 

Journal of the Proceedings at the Indian Treaty at Fort 
Wayne and Vincennes September 1 to October 27, 1809 
On Friday the 1st of September Governor Harrison as Com- 
missioner for Treating with the Indian Tribes set out from 
Vincennes for Fort Wayne accompanied by his secretary Peter 
Jones one Interpreter [Joseph Barron] a French Man as a 
guide a Servant of the Governor & two Indians. After leaving 
the Settlement of Knox County our route was along the road 
newly cut out by the orders of the Government in the direction 
of the North Bend to its termination, & then along the frontier 
of the County of Dearborn to Fort Wayne, at which place we 
arrived on the fifteenth [September]. Directions had been 
given to Mr. John Johnston the Indian Agent to assemble the 
Indians, against that time. The deliware Tribe (vdth their 



 

Interpreter) Mr. John Conner reached Fort Wayne at the very 
moment of our arrival. Two principal Chiefs Hocking- 
pomscon and the Beaver were however absent on a visit to 
Detroit. 

16th. Part of the Putawatimies arrived under their Chief 
Winnemack. 

The Governor learned with regret that the head Chief 
Tipinipe [Topenebe] of the Putawatimies & Five Medals 
[Onoxa] were not returned from Detroit but authorized their 
son & nephew to act for them. In the evening the Eel River 
Tribe arrived & more of the Putawatimies. 17th. The 
Miami Chief Peccan, Owl, Osage and some inferior ones 
arrived. A messenger was sent for the little Turtle who re- 
turned for answer that he would come in on the 19th Inst. 
A mischievous report was circulated amongst the Indians that 
a Detachment of American Troops were marching against 
them. Some of the young men were much frightened but the 
Chiefs treated it with the ridicule it deserved. The Puta- 
watimies waited on the Governor & requested a little liquor 
which was refused. The Governor observed that he was de- 
termined to shut up the liquor casks until all the business was 
finished. 18th. An express was dispatched to Detroit to hasten 
the arrival of the Deliware & Putawatimie Chiefs who had 
gone to that place & whose presence was very much desired by 
the Governor. Mr. [Joseph] Barron the Interpreter was also 
sent to the Miami Towns sixty miles distant to bring Richai'd- 
ville the Principal Chief of that Tribe who had excused himself 
under pretence of real or pretended sickness from comeing in 
with the other Chiefs. 

The Governor had a conference with a Deputation from the 
Deliwares who reside west of the Mississippi who came for the 
purpose of prevailing on those of that Tribe who reside in this 
Territory to join their brethren in Louisiana. A reciprocal 
promise was made by the Governor to promote the above ob- 
ject as much as possible and by the Chiefs to aid his views in 
respect to the proposed Treaty. Measures were taken also 
to explain the wishes of the Government to the Putawatamies 
& to engage their cooperation. More of the Putawatamies & 
Miamies arived the whole number on the ground this day was 
eight hundred and ninety-two. 

19th. The Turtle arrived this day with a number of 
Miamies & Putawatamies. The Governor visited the Puta- 



 

watimies in their Camp as he had previously done the Deli- 
wares. Measures were also taken to sound several of the 
most influential Chiefs on the subject of the proposed Treaty. 
Captain Hendricks the Mohecan Chief informed the Governor 
that the British Agent of Indian Affairs had advised all the 
Indian Tribes never to listen to any proposition to sell their 
lands to the United States. Pinnewa a Putawatimie Chief 
arrived with one hundred Indians of his Tribe. 

20th. The Governor had a conference with all the Miami 
& Eel River Chiefs & explained to them at great length the 
object of his visit to this place and the great advantage which 
they would derive from causeing the Weas to move from the 
neighborhood of our Settlements and join their brethren the 
Miamies & Eel River Tribes (these three tribes are all prop- 
erly speaking Miamies — see the Treaty of Grouseland) Their 
Nation would then become much more respectable and they 
would be enabled greatly to increase their annuity by selling 
a tract of land which was exhausted of game and which was 
no longer useful to them. They were desired to take the Gov- 
ernor's proposal into consideration & Coolly & deliberately to 
weigh all the arguments he had used to adopt his advice. Mr. 
[William] Wells remained with them at their conference and 
in the evening reported to the Governor that they had deter- 
mined on no account ever to part from another foot of their 
lands. There is some reason to believe however that this was 
a mere finesse to enhance the price of their land. This even- 
ing Mr. Barron returned from the Mississinway & reported 
that the Chief Richardville was confined to his Bed & observed 
that it was impossible for him to attend at present but he re- 
quested the Governor to be informed that he would come up 
in a few days if he should find himself able & that he had ad- 
vised the other Chiefs by all means to comply with Governor's 
wishes. 21st. The Governor had determined not to assemble 
the Chiefs in a General Council until the arrival of the Five 
Medals, the Putawatimie Chief, but finding that his object had 
been very much misrepresented to them, he commenced on this 
day both to the Deliwares & Putawatimies the wishes of the 
Government in relation to a further cession of Lands. 

In the eveening the Putawatamie Chiefs sent a message to 
the Governor to inform him that they had determined that the 
other Tribes should agree to make the proposed cession. 

227id. In Council present, Governor Harrison as Commis- 



 

sioner plenipotentiary on the part of the United States and a 
full representation of the Deliware, Miami, Eel River & Puta- 
watamie Tribes of Indians by their Chiefs & Head Men. 

William Wells, Joseph Barron, John Conner, and Abraham 
Ash were sworn Interpreters. The Governor addressed the 
Chiefs in a speech of considerable length showing the propri- 
ety of their agreeing to his proposition to sell a tract of 
Country binding on the Wabash the Vincennes tract and the 
boundary established by the Treaty of Grouseland and another 
bounded by the latter on the South & the old boundary line 
running from Mouth of Kentucky River on the East. He 
urged the vast benefit which they derived from their annuities 
without which they would not be able to cloathe their woman 
& children. The great advance in the price of Goods and the 
depression of the value of their peltries from the troubles in 
Europe to which their was no probability of a speedy termma- 
tion. The little game which remained in their country par- 
ticularly in that part of it which he proposed to purchase. 
The usurpation of it by a Banditti of Muscoes [Muscogees] & 
other Tribes that the sale of it would not prevent them from 
hunting upon it as long as any game remained. But that it 
was absolutely necessary that they should adopt some other 
plan for their support. That the raising of Cattle & Hogs 
required little labor and would be the surest resourse as a 
substitute for the wild animals which they had so unfortu- 
nately destroyed for the sake of their skins. Their fondness 
for hunting might still be gratified if they would prevent their 
young men from hunting at improper season of the year. 
But to do this effectually it will be necessary that they should 
find a certain support in their Villages in the summer season. 
That the proposed addition to their annuities would enable 
them to procure the Domestic Animals necessary to commence 
raising them on a large scale. He observed also that they 
were too apt to impute their poverty and the scarcity of Game 
to the encroachments of the White Settlers. But this is not 
the true cause. It is owing to their own improvidence & the 
advice of the British Traders by whom they were stimulated 
to kill the wild animals for the skins alone when the flesh was 
not wanted. That this was the cause of their scarcity is evi- 
dent from their being found in much greater quantity on the 
south than on the north side of the Wabash where no white 
man but traders were ever seen. 



 

The remnant of the Weas who inhabit the Tract of Country 
which was wanted were from the vicinity to the Whites poor 
& miserable all the proceeds of their hunts & the part of their 
annuities expended in Whiskey. The Miami Nation would be 
much more respectfible & formidable if its scattered members 
were all assembled in the center of their Country. 

A rough sketch of the Country in which the two tracts 
which were wanted were particularly delineated was shewn to 
them, after which the Owl a Miami Chief addressed the 
Governor. 

Father we are very happy to hear your address. We shall 
take what you have said into consideration & will return you 
an answer. 

23rd. The Chiefs met in Council at the Deliware Camp to 
consider the Governor's proposition it was understood that 
the Putawatimies declared unequivocally in favour of the sale 
and were seconded by the Deliwares. The miamies remained 
silent. The Governor had a private interview with the Turtle 
who expressed some solicitude to know whether the dismission 
of Mr. Wells from his employment as Agent would effect his 
standing with the Government. The Governor assured him 
that he should be treated in all respect as he had heretofore so 
long as he conducted himself with propriety. He then assured 
the Governor unequivocally that he would exert himself to the 
utmost of his power to effect the proposed Treaty, but that 
many difficulties were to be encountered before it could be ac- 
complished. That great complaints were made by the Indians 
on account of the compensation formerly allowed. That those 
who were in favour of the Treaty were decidedly of opinion 
that they aught to be allowed for the larger tribes at least a 
further annuity of $1000 & for the smaller ones $500 besides 
a considerable sum in hand. In the evening the Miami chiefs 
waited on the Governor at his lodgings and spent the evening 
with him. They requested to have a little liquor for their 
young men. Two Gallons were given to each Tribe. A 
Potawatomie Chief Winemack waited on the Governor late 
in the evening and told him that he came to make him sleep 
well by communicating the agreeable information that his 
proposition would be acceeded to by the Indians. 

2ith. The Indians met in Council to determine upon the 
answer to be given to the Governor. When the Miamies de- 
clared their determination not to sell a foot of Land. Observ- 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 367 

ing that it was time to put a stop to the encroachments of the 
whites who were eternally purchasing their lands for less than 
the real value of them. That they had also heard that the 
Governor had no instructions from the President to make the 
purchase but that he was making it upon his own authority 
to please the White people whom he governed. The Puta- 
watimies vehemently urged the sale & reproached the Miamies 
in the most bitter terms. That the Putawatimies had taken 
the Miamies under their protection when they were in danger 
of being exterminated & saved them. That they had always 
agreed to the sale of lands for the benefit of the Miamies and 
they were now determined that the Miamies should sell for 
their benefit. 

The Delawares would take no active part on either side. 

25th. All the Tribes were assembled in Council and the 
Governor addressed them as follows 
My Children 

My Heart is oppressed. If I could have believed that I 
should have experienced half of the mortification and disap- 
pointment which I now feel, I would have entreated your 
Father the President to have chosen some other Representa- 
tive to have made kno\vn his wishes to you. The proposi- 
tion which I have made you, I fondly hoped would have been 
acceptable to all, because I knew it would be beneficial to all. 
When then this disagreement amongst you. Is there some 
evil spirit amongst us? That has set Brothers against Broth- 
ers & the Children against the Father? The Wind I hear 
has blown from the North, no good has every yet come from 
that quarter. If we who inhabit this great Island, who were 
born here, are not friends to each other, who will be our 
Friends. 

Believe my Children the people upon the other side of the 
big water would desire nothing better than to set us once 
more to cut each others throats. Glad enough would they be 
to see us contending against each other in battle provided 
they were secured behind the Walls of a strong fort. Miamies 
be not offended with your brothers the Putawatimies. If they 
have discovered too much eagerness to comply with the wishes 
of their Father, look at their Woman & Children see them 
exposed to the winds & the rain as they will be in a short 
time to the snows of the Winter. Putawatimies do not suflFer 
your love for your Father and your own distresses to make 



 

you angry with your brothers the Miamies. I know that they 
are attached to you. I am sure that everything will yet be 
fixed to your satisfaction. 

Chiefs & Warriors of the Deliware. I have put confidence 
in you and you have not deceived me, you have united with 
your Children the Puttawatimies to accomplish the wishes of 
your Father, he will remember you for it. The proceedings 
of this Council written by the Secretary will be sent to him, 
his eyes will see it & whenever you take him by the hand you 
will know that his heart is yours. Your brothers on the Mis- 
sissippi shall also feel the good effects of your fathers affec- 
tion for you. 

I promise you that the Osages shall not molest you in your 
hunting grounds. 

My Children the Miamies, what disconcerts You? Have 
you not always received justice from the hands of your 
father? What is it he asks of you? Nothin but what you 
can spare. Will not your situation be made better by agree- 
ing to his proposal? I know that you have long desired to 
have your brothers the Weas alongside of you. It will add 
to your strength — at present they are of no use to you — 
bring your scattered members together & you will be strong, 
besides there is danger that this distant member may fall off 
it is already weakened by the excessive use of liquor. My 
Children your father will never be the cause of breaking the 
chain of friendship that connects you with each other. 

Puttawatimies & Miamies look upon each other as brothers 
and at the same time look upon your grand fathers the Del- 
wares. I love to see you all united. I wish a strong chain 
to bind you all together in the bonds of friendship. I wish 
to hear you speak with one voice the dictates of your Heart. 
All must go together. The consent of all is necessary. 

Deliwares and Putawatimies, I told you that I would do 
nothing with the Miamies without your consent. Miamies I 
now tell you that nothing can be done without your consent. 
The consent of the whole is necessary. This is the first re- 
guest your new Father (President Madison) has ever made 
you it will be the last, he wants no more of your land agree 
to the proposition which I now make you & send on some of 
your wise men to take him by the hand. He will set your 
Heart at ease. He will tell you that he will never make an- 
other proposition to you to sell your lands. 



 

My Children the Miamies will not listen to the recommenda- 
tion of your grand fathers the Deliwares & your brothers the 
Puttawatimies. Consult together once more if any ill will 
remain in your breasts against each other banish it, throw 
it away, and return a favorable answer to this last request of 
your Father. 

The Turtle a Miami Chief then spoke as follows 

We have listened to what our Father has said. Putawati- 
mies and Deliwares we have hard him say that you were united 
for the purpose of complying with his wishes I am sorry 
that he has met with so much difficulty. It is true that we 
the Miamies are not united with the Deliwares and Puta- 
watimies in opinion. Father it appears that the thing is now 
left with the Miamies, they will withdraw and consult to- 
gether and after they have made up their minds you shall 
hear our answer. 

In the evening the Miami Chiefs from two Villages met 
with the Eel River Chiefs under the auspices of the Turtle 
& agreed to meet the Governor's wishes. 

26th. A meeting of the several Tribes took place. The 
Putawatimies ui'ged an immediate compliance to the pro- 
posal of the United States. The Miamies from Mississinway 
took the lead in the debate & declared that they would no 
longer consider them as Brothers but that they would loose 
the chain which had united them with the Tomahawk & 
setting up a shout of Defiance which was echoed by all the 
warriors proceeded immediately to the Council House to in- 
form the Governor of what they had done, the Governor 
blamed them for their rashness & made them promise not 
to offer the Miamies any further insult to put their cause in 
his hands. 

It appeard that such of the Miamies as had determined in 
favour of the Treaty were intimidated by the vehemence of 
the Chiefs of the Mississinway Village & remained silent. 
During the whole of this day and the preceding one, parties 
of young men of the Miami Tribe were constantly ariving 
loaded with goods from the British Agents at Maiden and 
charged also with strong remonstrances against the proposed 
Treaty. 

In the evening the Governor had the greater part of the 
Miami Chiefs at his lodgings and in a conversation of some 



 

hours exposed profidious conduct of the British towards 
them from the commencement of the Revolutionary War until 
the present moment. "To them all their misfortunes were 
to be attributed & their present kindness to them proceeded 
from no other cause but a wish to embroil them with the 
United States. In case of a War with the latter, the English 
know that they are unable to defend Canada with their own 
force, they are therefore desirous of interposing the Indians 
between them and danger." A complimentary answer was 
returned by the Head Chief Paccon & they returned about 
ten o'clock a little melowed with Wine. 

27th. The Miami Chiefs were this day debating on the 
proposed Treaty, the Chief Silver heels particularly distin- 
guished himself in favour of the Treaty. They came how- 
ever to no decision. In the evening the Governor recom- 
mended to the Putawatimies to accommodate their difference 
with the Miamies they immediately assented & a proper belt 
of Wampon was prepared for the purpose. 

28th. The Putawatimies & Miamies met & the bad words 
spoken by the former on the 26th being recalled they shook 
hands and became again friends. The proposed Treaty was 
again taken under consideration and various objections were 
started by the Miamies amongst other things it was insisted 
that they ought to sell their lands by the acre & that they 
should receive two Dollars for it. In the evening the Gov- 
ernor was informed that they had agreed to sell the small 
tract near Fort Recovery only, and none on the Wabash. 

29th. In Council present the Governor and the Deliware, 
Putawatimies, Miamies & Eel River Miamies. 
The Owl a Miami Chief 

Said That it had pleased the great Spirit to unite again 
all who were present in the bands of friendship. Yesterday 
the friendship was all afloat today it is made firm. You the 
people of the United States have assembled us all here, our 
Chiefs, &c. You remember the time when we first took each 
other by the hand at Greenville. You there told us where 
the line would be between us. You told us to love our woman 
& children and take care of our lands, you told us that the 
Spanish had a great deal of money the English & some of 
your people likewise, but that we should not sell our lands 
to any of them. In consequence of which last fall we all put 
our hands upon our lands & determined not to sell our lands. 



 

We all love our lands. After this determination you sent for 
us at the end of one year but we did not expect to hear from 
you what we have heard, but we yesterday determined to 
give you an answer. You have told us not to let any person 
have our lands but consider well before we sell them. This 
was good advice, you know when things are scarce they are 
dear, you know the price of lands. We are willing to sell 
you some for the price that it sells for amongst yourselves. 
The land you want on the Wabash we have nothing to say 
to at present as the Weas are not here. If people have any- 
thing that they do not want they will part from it easily. We 
yet find game on this land. When there is none. We will 
let you know it. Father you know the Miamies, you know 
that when they do business with any other Indians no re- 
spect is paid to what they say. Father at this Council you 
have told the Miamies to speak. We therefore expect that 
you will be governed by what they say. When you spoke to 
us you wished that we should comply. We now wish that you 
would comply with what we \vish. The land we propose sell- 
ing to you will be measured and when it is we wish to be 
present. Father the land you mentioned to us on the Wabash 
we have nothing to say about. We do not wish you to go 
home unsuccessful. We will let you have some land near 
Fort Recovery, the land on the Wabash our younger Brothers 
occupy. Dont be dissatisfied. This is our determination. We 
have disputed about your proposal but our disputes were for- 
tunately settled yesterday. Father you know everything, you 
will immediately understand what I now say — we wish to 
keep our people and yours as far as possible from the White 
people, we know that when your Horses are lost you blame 
the Indians, we wish to keep our people and yours as separate 
as possible. This is the sentiments of your Children here 
present. We have nothing more to say. Our Chiefs, War- 
riors, Woman & Children salute you, the former annuity due 
to us by the United States we have come to receive and wish 
them delivered as soon as possible. 

The Governor then addressed them in a speech of two hou;-s 
in which he gave a History of the Conduct of the United 
States towards the red people contrasted with that of Great 
Britain. "The loss of the country from Pittsburgh to the 
Miami was entirely to be attributed to the latter who urged 
the Indians to commence all those Wars, which had terminated 



 

so fatally to them. If all the lands which had been taken 
from them in those Wars which they had engaged in by the 
advice of the British had been sold on the same terms as 
those ceded since the Treaty of Greenville their Annuity would 
now have been equal to all their wantes nor would they have 
to lament the numerous warriors who had fallen in fighting 
the battles of the English. How different was the conduct 
of the United States? Consious of their ability to punish 
their enemies they had never asked the assistance of their 
red children but have always advised them to remain at peace 
in their Cabbins & suffer the white people to fight their own 
battles." The Governor explained to them the nature of a 
Treaty "No other power but the United States had ever 
Treated with them. Other Civilized Nations considered the 
lands of the Indians as their o\\m and appropriated them to 
their own use whenever they pleased. A Treaty was con- 
sidered by white people as a most solemn thing and those 
which were made by the United States with the Indian Tribes 
were considered as binding as those which were made with 
the most powerful Kings on the other side of the Big Water. 
They were all concluded with the same forms and printed in 
the same Book so that all the world might see them and 
brand with infamy the party which violated them. The 
United States would always adhere to their engagements. To 
do otherwise would be offensive to the great spirit and all 
the world would look upon them as a faithless people. With 
respect to your selling the land by the acre it is entirely out 
of the question. But if the United States were to agree to 
it, you have no one that could survey it for you or who could 
tell whether it was accurately done or not. If it was sold by 
the acre we would only take what was good and leave the 
rest upon your hands. When it is bought in the large quan- 
tity you are paid for good and bad together and you all 
know that in every tract that is purchased that there is a 
great portion of bad land not fit for our purpose. This idea 
must have been suggested to you by some person who is as 
much your enemy as the enemy of the United States." The 
Governor then told them that he was tired of waiting and 
that on the next day he would submit to them the form of a 
Treaty which he wished them to sign and if they would not 
agree to it he would extinguish the council fire. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 373 

WiNEMACK a Putawatimie Chief then addressed the Gov- 
ernor as follows 

Father 

All the Putawatimies address you, listen to what they say, 
which come from them all. Father the Putawatimies are of 
the same opinion that they have ever been, that your proposi- 
tion is right and just. We all know that our Father never 
deceived us., We therefore agree to his proposal. All the 
Chiefs & Warriors have heard you say that they may go and 
see their great Father the President and that he would tell 
them as you have done. 

You have now heard the sentiments of all the Putawati- 
mies. Father after we conclude the Treaty some of our young 
men would be glad to go and see their Father. Father your 
Children have listened to you with attention all that you have 
said is good, you have asked for land, we will give it to you. 
We have heard you say that the piece of land at Wea Towns 
which we had formerly given, you were willing to restore 
this has made us happy we have always heard from you and 
our Father JetTerson nothing but good. We wish to concur 
with all the nations who are present. We your children con- 
sider the land as belonging to us all not to one nation alone, 
we know that everything you have said to us is true. You 
have also recommended to us to be moderate & friendly to 
each other. 

A Deliware Chief then arose and observed that the Deli- 
wares had always kept fast hold of the chain of friendship 
which united them to the seventeen fires at the Treaty of 
Greenville. That they had always listened to the voice of 
their Father and were now willing to agree to his proposals. 

As soon as the Putawatimie Chief began to speak all the 
Mississinway Miamies left the Council House. 

30th. It was now the opinion of all the Gentlemen about 
the Fort that the Missisinway Miamies could never be brought 
to sign the Treaty and all the attempts which the Governor 
had made through the Interpreters and some confidential 
Chiefs to find out the real cause of their obstinacy had hith- 
erto failed. He therefore determined to make them a visit 
to their camp in person for the purpose of ascertaining 
whether their opposition proceeded from a fixed determina- 
tion (as they had asserted) not to sell any more lands unless 
they could get two Dollars pr. Acre, or some other cause which 



 

he might be enabled to remove. He accordingly went to their 
camp about sun rise attended only by his Interpreter Mr. 
Barron in whose integrity he had the utmost confidence. He 
was received by all the Chiefs with the utmost complacency 
and having collected them all in the Tent of the principal he 
told them "that he had paid them that visit not as the Repre- 
sentative of the President but as an old friend with whom 
they had been many years acquainted and who always en- 
deavored to promote their happiness by every means in their 
power. That he plainly saw that there was something in 
their hearts which was not consistent with the attachment 
which they ought to bear to their great Father and he was 
afraid that they had listened to bad birds. That he had come 
there for the purpose of hearing every cause of complaint 
against the United States and he would not leave them untill 
they laid open everything that oppressed their Hearts. He 
knew that they could have no solid objection to the proposed 
Treaty for they were all men of sense and reflection and well 
knew that they would be much benefited by it." The Gov- 
ernor requested all the Chiefs present would speak in their 
turn, and calling upon the principal Chief of the Eel River 
Tribe who was an old friend of his that had served with him 
in General Waynes Army he demanded what his objections 
were to the Treaty. He drev.^ out the Treaty of Grouseland. 
"Father — Here are your own words, in this paper you prom- 
ised that you would consider the Miamies as the owners of 
the land on the Wabash why then are you about to purchase 
it from others? The Governor assured them that it never 
was his intention to purchase the land from the other Tribes 
that he had always said and was ready now to confess that 
the land belonged to the Miamies and to no other Tribe that 
if the other Tribes had been invited to the Treaty it was at 
their particular request (The Miamies). The Putawatimies 
had indeed taken higher ground than either the Governor or 
the Miamies expected they claimed an equal right to the lands 
in question with the Miamies, but what of this their claiming 
it gave them no right and it was not the intention of the 
Governor to put an>i;hing in the Treaty which would in the 
least alter their claim to their lands on the Wabash, as es- 
tablished by the Treaty of Grouseland unless they chose to 
satisfy the Deliwares with respect to their claim to the Coun- 
try Watered by the White River. That even the whole com- 



 

pensation proposed to be given for the land would be given 
to the Miamies if they insisted upon it but that they knew 
the offence which this would give to the other Tribes and that 
it was always Governor's intention so to draw up the Treaty 
that the Putawatiniies & Deliwares would be considered as 
participating in the advantages of the Treaty as allies of the 
Miamies not as having any right to the land." Every coun- 
tenance brightened at this declaration, the other Chiefs spoke 
in their turn, each had some grievance to complain of. They 
had been told that justice should be done to them in their 
disputes with the White People, the Principal War Chief com- 
plained that he had been cheated by a Mr. [Peter] Audrain 
in connection of Mr. Wells out of seventy Dollars that he had 
in vain applied to Wells for redress, the old story of the 
Spirits seized by Wells was again brought forward and a 
very strong antipathy both to Wells and the Turtle was mani- 
fested by all. The Governor had no alternative but to prom- 
ise immediate satisfaction for these claims and to assure 
them that he perfectly understood and admitted that they the 
(Mississinway Chiefs) were the real Representatives of the 
Miami Nation and that he should always consider them as 
such. Some attempts were then made to induce the Governor 
to alter his determination with respect to the quantum of 
compensation to be given for the land but finding that the 
Governor was immovable as to this point they gave it up and 
after dissultory conversation upon the Governor's demanding 
whether they were entirely satisfied Paean the principal Chief 
told the Governor he might go to the Fort and they would 
shortly wait upon him with good news. The Treaty was im- 
mediately prepared and in full council at which all the War- 
riors attended, the Treaty was signed without a single ob- 
jection excepting on the part of the Turtle who objected to 
the article which gives the Mohecans the right to settle on 
the White River. The Other Miami Chiefs however declared 
in favour of it and the Turtle gave it up. 

The separate article with the Miamies had been agreed on 
before upon their consenting to the Article in the original 
Treaty which embraces the Kickappos. 

October the first, second and third the Governor was em- 
ployed in delivering the annuities for the present year. The 
Goods promised by the late Treaty and arranging the claims 



 

of certain Citizens against the Indians & those of the In- 
dians against the Citizens for Horses stolen and other depre- 
dations all which were amicably adjusted. When the Goods 
for the Putawatamies were laid out Viz: fifteen hundred 
Dollars from the public store & five hundred Dollars of their 
annuity which had been sent to Fort Wayne seeing that their 
pile was so much less than the Miamies they refused to take 
them alledging that their numbers were greater than all the 
other Tribes present put together & that the"y had less goods 
than any. As soon as the Governor was informed of this he 
assembled all the Chiefs & Warriors in the Council House 
and explained to them the reason of their having but five 
hundred Dollars of their present years annuity part having 
been sent to Detroit & part to Chicago. After some con- 
sultation they agreed to take the Goods but as the Governor 
discovered that they were not satisfied he agreed to advance 
them five hundred Dollars in anticipation of their next years 
annuity. 

Uh. We set out on our return to Vincennes through the 
Indian Country on the morning of the 5th passed the Camp 
of Paean the principal Miami Chief & found one of his men 
mortally wounded in a drunken frolick the preceding night. 
The Chiefs informed the Governor that they had not dis- 
covered the murderer. The Governor recommended to them 
by all means to punish him when discovered if it should ap- 
pear to have proceeded from previous malice, but if it should 
appear to be altogether accident to let him know it and he 
would assist to make up the matter with the friends of the 
deceased. 

Passing through the Indian Villages at the Forks of the 
Wabash we arrived at Mississinway on the 6th where we 
were hospitably received by Richardville the Grand Sachem 
of the Miamies who expressed his entire satisfaction at the 
conclusion of the Treaty. At the Eel River Village on the 
Raviere [Petit] we met with some of the Wea Tribe whom 
the Governor sent to collect the Wea Chiefs & conduct them 
to Vincennes at which place we arrived on the 12th October. 

The whole number of Indians present the day the Treaty 
was sig-ned was thirteen hundred and ninety. 

On the fifteenth of October Lapoussier the principal Chief 
of the Weas arrived [at Vincennes] with fifteen of his Tribe. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 377 

The Little Eyes & some others on the 18th, Shawnee and 
others on the 19th & the Negro legs on the 22d. In all on 
that day there were sixty-one. 

2Uth- The Governor assembled in the evening at his own 
house all the Indians and informed them "that he wished to 
see them to discover whether they were in a situation to 
understand the important business which He had to lay be- 
fore them. He had shut up the liquor casks, but he was sory 
to see that some bad white men had disregarded his Procla- 
mation & secretly furnished them with the means of intoxi- 
cation. He was glad however to find that they were then all 
sober & he hoped that they would not drink any more until 
the business on which he assembled them was finished. On 
the morrow he would explain to them the proceedings of the 
Council at Fort Wayne." 

25th. The Wea Chiefs being all assembled the Governor 
produced the Treaty lately made at Fort Wayne and ex- 
plained it to them. He then represented to them "the ad- 
vantages they would derive from removeing from the neigh- 
borhood of Vincennes and settling higher up the Count 
with their older brothers the Miamies and the great assist- 
ance that they would derive from the proposed addition to 
their annuity & the Goods which they were to receive in hand 
and which would be the same as larger Tribes received in 
consequence of the inconvenience they would suflfer by re- 
moving from their present habitations. 

26th. The Chiefs of the Weas all assembled & after some 
explanations with respect to the Treaty & a most urgent 
appeal from the Negro legs to the Governor's feelings on the 
subject of the injury done to the Indians by the sale of 
Whisky by the Wliite people for which they received in pay- 
ment Articles indispencible to the subsistance of the former 
& those which would cover their nakedness. The Treaty 
was chearfully signed by every Chief & head Warrior present. 

27th. The Goods were delivered and on the 29th the chiefs 
again met the Governor & expressed their satisfaction at 
what had been done & most earnestly entreated "that some 
means might be fallen on to put a stop to the sale of Ardent 
Spirits to the Indians — Which prevented the Annuity granted 
them by the United States from affording them that benefit 
which their father wished & caused the young men to be so 



 

disobedient to their Chiefs that it is impossible to restrain 

them." 

The above is a true statement of the proceedings at the 

Treaties concluded with the several Indian Tribes at Fort 

Wayne on the 30th September last and with the Weas at 

Vincennes on the 26th Ultimo/ 

Peter Jones, Secretary to Governor 
Haerison Commissioner of the United States 

Annual Message Third General Assembly 

October 17, 1809 

Vincennes Western Sun, October 21, 1809 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and Gentlemen of the 
House of Representatives :^ 
The happy change which has been effected in our constitu- 
tion by the act of Congress, which gives to the people the 
choice of the members of the Legislative Council and the Dele- 
gate to Congress, is a subject of felicitation to every friend 
to the happiness and prosperity of the Territory. This act is 
alone sufficient to prove the parental care of our National Gov- 
ernment, and shews also, if other proofs were wanting, that 
the unfortunate division of our late Territory could only have 
been effected by a total misrepresentation of the interests and 
wishes of four fifths of our citizens. 

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives : 

The proclamation which convened you at this time was not 
issued without some doubts of its propriety, arising from the 
different constructions which might be given to a clause in the 
act of Congress for extending the right of sufrage in this 
Territory and for other purposes. By the act creating the In- 
diana Territory, the apportionment of the representatives 
amongst the several counties (which was not to exceed nine, 
nor be less than seven) was committed to the Governor. Be- 

1. The Journal was published in 1910 by J. L. Heineman of Connei sville. Ind. to 
whom full credit is hereby given. 

1. The members of the Council were, Solomon Manwaring, Thomas Downs, Harvy 
Heath, William Prince and Luke Decker ; of the House were Richard Rue and Ephraim 
Overman of Dearborn, James Beggs and John Work of Clark, Moses Hoggatt of 
Harrison, General W. Johnston. John Johnson and John Hadden of Knox. The 
territory had been divided Feb. 8, 1809 ; a new election was held May 22. The election 
was irregular and the legislature was dissolved at its own request Oct. 21, 1809. 



 

fore the act of division took effect the House of Representa- 
tives was composed of seven members, but four of whom by 
the hne of demarcation were left in this Territory. I thought 
it proper, therefore, to issue a proclamation on the 4th of 
April, giving to each of the old counties an additional mem- 
ber, and to the new county of Harrison one also. After the 
proclamation had been signed, but before it had left the office 
of the secretary, I received the first intimation that a law was 
about to be passed by Congress, which amongst other provi- 
sions transferred the apportionment of the Representatives 
from the Governor to the Legislature, and increased the num- 
ber of members necessary to form a house from seven to nine. 
The proclamation being in all respects completed, and con- 
sidering the allowance of additional members in the nature of 
a grant, and the law under which I acted giving me no power 
to abrogate an act of this kind when once done, I did not think 
myself authorized to countermand the elections which had 
been ordered. Nor indeed did there appear to be any neces- 
sity for doing so upon an accurate examination of the law 
itself, which soon after reached me. The fourth section of 
the act does indeed give to the General Assembly the appor- 
tionment of the Representatives, and declares also that there 
shall not be less than nine; but how was this to be done by 
the General Assembly unless they were convened, and how 
could a General Assembly be formed, even under the old law, 
without an increase of the House of Representatives, which by 
the division was reduced to four members? By the old law, 
nine was to be the greatest number allowed to the House of 
Representatives, and seven only had actually been appor- 
tioned. Now, it is impossible to believe that Congress had 
acted under the impression that, after having lopped olT what 
was considered one-third part of the Territory, there would 
I'emain seven members in Indiana. Documents sufficient to 
shew the number of members which would remain were also 
at hand, as the proceedings of the Governor in his executive 
capacity are bi-annually transmitted to the President. From 
all this it appears to have been the intention of Congress that 
a General Assembly should be convened under the old law, 
previously to the organization directed by the new. No other 
construction can be given to the section without rendering it 
altogether a nullity. The power given to the Governor in the 
third section, to apportion the members of the Council, is also 



 

a strong circumstance in favor of this construction. Under 
the authority of the old law he could not organize a House of 
Representatives; but as Congress determined to destroy the 
former Council, and as there could be no General Assembly 
without a Council, it was necessary to invest him with this 
power, or their intentions with regard to the subsequent or- 
ganization of the House of Representatives could not have 
been effected, and the Territory left without a Legislature. 
These are my views of the subject, gentlemen ; but should you 
differ from me in opinion, I would recommend that the laws 
you may pass should not be permitted to go into operation 
until application can be made to Congress to confirm them. 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and Gentlemen of the 
House of Representatives: 
The division of the Territory has devolved on you the un- 
pleasant task of providing for a considerable defalcation of 
the revenue. But before any additional burthens are laid upon 
your constituents, every possible retrenchment should be made 
in the expenditures of the public money. If your labours to 
this effect should be insufficient to reduce the demands upon 
the Treasury to a level with the receipts, we have no other re- 
source than that of increasing the tax on lands. A fui'ther 
tax upon any species of improvement would be highly im- 
politic, and the odious capitation tax (that appropriate em- 
blem of an aristocratical government) ought on no account to 
be again resorted to. As the wealth of our citizens consists 
almost exclusively of lands, no tax can be more equal and just 
than that which is levied on this species of property. It ought 
indeed, in my opinion, to be the source from which, with some 
trifling exceptions, we should draw the whole of our revenue. 
It is impossible to make the tax upon horses an equal one, be- 
cause the expenses of valuation would nearly absorb the whole 
amount, and reason and justice revolt at the idea of taxing 
the low priced animal, whose labour provides the food for the 
family of the indigent citizen, as high as the pampered steed of 
the man of pleasure, or the costly courser of the sportsman. 
Notwithstanding the present embarrassment of our treasury, 
gentlemen, the prospect before us is far from being discourag- 
ing. The sales of the lands of the United States are daily add- 
ing to the mass from which we derive our revenue ; and a late 
extinguishment of Indian title [See Oct. 1, above] to a large 



 

and fertile body of land has laid the foundation for a great in- 
crease of wealth and population. - 

The organization and discipline of our militia has, for a 
considerable time, engaged my unremitted attention; but the 
progress, altho' considerable, has fallen far short of my wishes 
and that state which promises effectual security to our exposed 
settlements. The law upon this subject is indeed extremely 
deficient ; and although my recommendations for amendments 
have been as urgent and frequent as my respect for the two 
houses would allow, every attempt to procure them has 
hitherto failed. I cannot suppose that those unfounded jeal- 
ousies of the accumulation of power in the hands of the Ex- 
ecutive, which have been propagated amongst the people with 
so much industry and so little success, have ever found ad- 
mittance within these walls. Although not well informed of 
their source, it is not impossible to believe that they have a 
common origin [British] with those unremitted exertions to 
excite our Indian neighbors to hostilities against us. 
That infamous policy which would kindle the fury of 
the blood-thirsty savages, and direct it against an unoffending 
people, would not be too delicate to attempt by any means to 
paralyze the force which would defeat their machinations. It 
is the duty of every republican to keep a watchful eye upon 
those who are entrusted with the reins of government ; but it 
is no less his duty to give to them that confidence and support 
which is so essentially necessary to the prompt discharge of 
their duties. No trouble or expense should be spared to pro- 
cure the removal of a bad officer, but every citizen should be 
prepared to support the constituted authorities of his country 
in every legal exercise of his functions. The Territorial form 
of government possesses some traits which are not altogether 
reconcilable with republican principles, and the commission 
with which I am honored is independent of the people. I am, 
however, so perfectly convinced that their confidence and sup- 
port are essentially necessary to the proper discharge of many 
important duties, as to be unalterably determined that the mo- 
ment which brings a conviction that their confidence has been 
withdrawn shall terminate my commission by a voluntary res- 
ignation. Such is the nature, gentlemen, of military affairs, 
that a great sacrifice of that liberty which is the boast of every 

2. This purchase at Fort Wayne, Sept. 30, 1809 extended the boundary to the 
ten-o-elock line running approximately from Brownstown to Montezuma in Parl<e county. 



 

American becomes necessary even in the temporary assump- 
tion of the mihtary habit which our laws require of every able- 
bodied citizen. The powers given to the commander-in-chief, 
and other superior officers, should be commensurate to the 
great object of the militia institutions — that of forming, by 
discipline and frequent trainings, a body of citizen soldiers 
which shall be equal to the defence of our country against 
every invader. By urging this subject upon you, gentlemen, 
I wish it not to be understood that I have the least reason to 
complain of the want of military ardor amongst our citizens. 
The very reverse is the case. Spurning at the base sugges- 
tions of faction or treachery, which would divide them from 
their government, I have ever found the sons of Indiana ready 
to rally 'round their chief, and obey the voice of their coun- 
try, conveyed to them by his orders, at the expense of every 
personal consideration. I could, indeed, relate instances of 
sacrifices in this way which would gladden the heart of every 
patriot. But in a country of laws everything which is sus- 
ceptible of it should be regulated by law, and as little as pos- 
sible left to construction and implication. The codes of the 
several States will furnish you, gentlemen, with well digested 
militia systems. Let these be your guides. Do not subject 
your constituents to more rigid rules than these prescribe. 
But the powers given to the commanders-in-chief in the States 
are necessary to be given here, or I cannot be answerable that 
the discipline of the militia shall be such as the general gov- 
ernment looks for, and our exposed situation requires. 

I have frequently called the attention of your predecessors, 
gentlemen, to the situation of the Court of Chancery. My 
sentiments upon the subject will be found in my communica- 
tion to the last General Assembly.- The recent termination 
[October 4] of a long and fatiguing journey into the Indian 
country [to Fort Wayne] has put it out of my power to notice 
some other matters of importance; they shall form the sub- 
jects of special communications. I am particularly charged 
by the President of the United States to recommend to you the 
passage of a law to prohibit the sale of ardent spirits to the 
Indians. The forcible and affecting language of the late Presi- 
dent Jefferson will best explain to you the wishes of the gov- 
ernment upon this subject. I will cause his letter to be laid 
before you. But it may be proper in me to observe, that the 

3. See Esarey, Courts and Lawyers, I, ch. 2. 



 

experience of nine years has left a perfect conviction upon my 
mind that the humane and benevolent intentions of the gov- 
ernment in relation to the aborigines can never be accom- 
plished as long as the means of indulgence in this fatal liquor 
is so easily obtained. By it is our progress arrested at every 
step, whether our exertions are directed to teach them such 
of the arts of civilized life as are adapted to their situation, or 
to introduce amongst them the light of the gospel and human- 
ize their fierce souls by the mild precepts of Christianity. To 
use a figure of one of their orators, it "resembles a mighty 
conflagration, which spreads death and destruction through 
their villages, which none but the power that kindled is able 
to extinguish." It depends in a great measure on you, gentle- 
men, whether the future historian shall exempt republican 
America from the just odium of having contributed her full 
share towards that destruction of the human species, which 
has hitherto marked the settlements of all the civilized nations 
amongst those whom they call savages. Whether the Indian 
villages in our neighborhood shall exhibit to the traveller a 
scene of savage fury, of misery and superstition, or the de- 
lightful spectacle of man in a state of progressive improve- 
ment in morals, the arts of civilized life, and, above all, wor- 
shiping his Creator in the manner which he has himself pre- 
scribed. The State of Ohio, gentlemen, has on this subject 
set you an example of obedience to the national government 
which, I am persuaded, you will not hesitate to follow. 

Permit me to recommend to you, gentlemen, the' cultivation 
of harmony and a spirit of conciliation towards each other. 
Avoid local politicks and local prejudices. Let it be the object 
of all to promote the interest of all. We have all the same 
interests and are, I trust, in pursuit of the same object — that 
of taking upon ourselves as soon as possible the habit of man- 
hood, and assuming our station in the national councils. Per- 
mit me to assure you of my hearty co-operation in any 
measure which may have this tendency, or which may other- 
wise promote the interest and happiness of your constituents. 
William Henry Harrison 



 

Special Message: Legality of the General Assembly 

October 19, 1809 

Vincennes Western Swi, December 16, 1809 

Mr. Speaker, and Gentlemen of the House of Representatives 
If there still exists doubts in your minds upon the propriety 
of proceeding to legislate, it will certainly meet my entire ap- 
probation that such a course should be pursued as would 
remove them in the mode the most easy, the most appropriate, 
and the best calculated to secure the rights of your con- 
stituents. 

I think it, however, proper to observe that, as the repre- 
sentative of the United States, I am free to declare that your 
powers to legislate are as complete as they can make them.^ 
William Henry Harrison 

1. The following petition had been presented to Congress November 28, 1809. The 
difficulty was solved by an act of Congress, December 15, 1809 (Statutes at Large, 
Eleventh Congress, Second Session, Ch ii) giving the governor full power to constitute 
a new Assembly after which the power of apportionment should be assumed by it. 
•'Your petitioners state that, in the year 1805, there was a legislature organized under" 
a "law, dividing the territoi-y northwest of the river Ohio; that, on the 26th day of 
October, 1808, the governor dissolved the said legislature. On the 3d of February, 1809, 
the law of congress passed, dividing the Indiana territoi-y ; and that on the 4th day of 
April, 1809, the governor of the territory issued his proclamation for the election of 
the additional members of the house of representatives. Also, on the 27th of February, 
1809, the law passed, extending the right of suffrage to the citizens of Indiana, and 
declaring how the legislature shall be formed after the passage of the said law : that 
is, the General Assembly should apportion the members of the House of Representatives, 
to consist of not less than nine nor more than twelve. This law was evidently 
predicated upon the principle that a legislature was in existence at the time of its 
passage, or that a legislature might be convened under the authority of the governor's 
proclamation : but the fact was different, for the old legislature was doubly dissolved, 
(if this expression may be allowed:) first, by the governor, as above stated: secondly, 
by the division of the territory, which sti-uck off three members of the House of 
Representatives, and two of the Legislative Council. Thus, there was no legislature in 
being to make the apportionment agreeably to the said act of Congress. Now, the 
principal doubt that exists in the minds of your petitioners is, how the 
old legislature (is) to be brought into being, so as to organize the new legislature 
under the act of congress, as above stated. On the first Monday of April, 1809, the 
governor, by his proclamation, directed an election to he held for members of the 
House of Representatives, at which election there were four members elected — to-wit: 
two in the county of Knox : one in the county of Dearborn : and one in the county of 
Clark. On the 4th of April. 1809, (six days before the above law of congress arrived 
here,) the governor issued his writs of election, for an election to be held on the 
22d of May, for five councilors and four more representatives, having himself made 
the apportionment. He gave an additional member to the county of Knox : one to 
the county of Dearborn : one to the county of Clark ; and one to the new county of 
Harrison — making, in the whole, only eight members in the House of Representatives. 
Under these dubious circiunstances, the governor issued his proclamation, convening, 
on the 16th of the present month, the members of the Legislative Council, elected as 
above stated : and the members elected as aforesaid, to serve in the House of Repre- 
sentatives. Agreeably to the aforesaid proclamation, the Legislative Council and the 
members elected to the House of Representatives convened : and the minority of the 



 

Special Message Dissolving Legislature 

October 21, 1809 

Dillon, Indiana, i.37 

I have considered your request for a dissolution of the pres- 
ent Legislature with all the attention the importance of the 
subject demands and the shortness of the time allowed to 
form an opinion would permit. It has ever been my wish to 
assimilate, as far as possible, the government of the Territory 
to those which prevail in the States ; to conceal those rougher 
features of our constitution which are so justly offensive to 
republican delicacy, and which nothing but the infancy of our 
political state renders tolerable. Of this description is the 
power given to the Governor to prorogue and dissolve the Leg- 
islature at pleasure. An application of the people themselves, 
or their representatives, forms one of the few occasions on 
which I would consent to use this power; and, although the 
propriety of the measure at this time is not altogether appar- 
ent to my mind, yet in compliance with your wishes I have 
thought proper to determine, and do now declare, that this 
present Legislature is, from this moment, dissolved, and the 
powers delegated to it by the people again revert to them. 



Resolutions Reappointment of Haerison 

October 28, 1809 

Western Sun, Novembe,r U, 1809 

At a meeting of the officers of the militia for the county of 
Knox, held at Vincennes, in the Indiana territory, on the 28th 
day of October 1809. Colonel [Francis] Vigo was appointed 
president, and captain David Robb, secretary. 

House of Representatives, not conceiving themselves authorized to go on to legis- 
lative business, the legislature agreed to postpone doing any business, in a legislative 
capacity, except apportioning an additional member to make up the number nine, 
agreeably to the said act of congress, extending the right of suffrage to the citizens 
of this territory. From this view of the subject, your petitioners humbly pray, that 
a law may be passed legalizing the above apportionment : so that a legislature may 
be organized under the present law of congress, extending the right of suffrage to 
Indiana, so soon as the governor of this territory may be officially informed of the 
same. Or, if congress doubt of their authority to legalize the above proceedings, upon 
the ground of the laws having an ex post facto operation, then to pass a law authorizing, 
expressly, the governor to organize a legislature upon any plan which, to them, may 
seem proper." Dillon, History of Indiana, 436 seg. 



 

On motion of major [Ephraim] Jordan' — ordered, that a 
committee be appointed to draft a resolution, expressive of the 
confidence this meeting have in the conduct of Governor Har- 
rison, and praying that he may be re-appointed to the govern- 
ment of this territory. Whereupon, major Jordan captains 
[Walter] Wilson,= Purcell,' [Peter] Jones, and [William] 
Bruce,* vi^ere appointed that committee, vs^ho returned after a 
short time, and reported the following which were unani- 
mously concurred in. 

Resolved, That from the exposed situation of the territory, 
surrounded by numerous and warlike tribes of Indians, it is 
of the utmost importance to the safety and prosperity of the 
country, that the governor thereof, who is ex-officio com- 
mander in chief of the militia, should be a man of military 
talents, and information. 

Resolved, That the attention paid to, and the unremitted 
exertions used by William Henry Harrison, to organize and 
discipline, by frequent trainings, the militia of the territory, 
and the masterly skill and great military talents displayed in 
such, his exertions, together with the anxious solicitude with 
which he has ever watched over the peace and happiness of 
the territory, to which may be added, the confidence reposed 
in him, the ease with which he manages their affairs, induced 
this meeting to have the utmost confidence in him, as evi- 
dently qualified to govern the territory, not only because of 
his superior military talents, but also his integrity, patriotism, 
and firm attachment to the general government. 

Resolved, That it is the opinion of this meeting, that they 

1. Ephraim Jordan was a member of the Vincennes militia in 1790 to whom the 
government gave 100 acres of land. For many years after 1800 he was a justice of 
the peace. Feb. 3, 1801 he was made justice of the common pleas; July 20, 1802 he 
was appointed a captain; May 5, 1810 he became Lieut. Col.; June 1. 1812 a colonel. 
During the Tippecanoe campaign he sei-ved under Dubois as a scout. 

2. Walter Wilson was appointed a Lieut, in the Knox Co. militia Oct. 3, 1806 ; 
a captain, Sept. 4, 1807. He was also a justice for many years. In June 1811 he 
carried a message from Harrison to the Prophet. He served as a captain in Luke 
Decker's battalion at Tippecanoe. 

3. The Purcell family was among the earliest American settlers in Knox Co. 
Jonathan Purcell. the pioneer, came to Knox Co. from Va. and about 1800 located 
near Bi-uceville. Noah and .\ndrew Purcell were both captains in the Knox county 
militia at this time. Noah was a major at Tippecanoe, Andrew, James, Jonathan and 
William served as privates. 

4. William Bruce was born in Penn. 1776. Came to Louisville while a young man. 
married sister of Judge Wm. Polke. Came to Vincennes in 1805. Located at Bruce- 
ville 1806; he had 33 children. Died 1858. Commanded a company of rangers during 
Indian wars. Was a scout with Dubois at Tippecanoe. 



 

have herein expressed the sentiments of the regiment they 
command. Therefore, 

Resolved, That the President be requested to re-appoint, 
WiUiam Henry Harrison, to the Government of the Territory. 
Resolved, That the proceedings be signed by the president 
of this meeting, and countersigned by the secretary, and trans- 
mitted to the President of the United States. 

F. Vigo Colonel Knox County Militia 

David Robb, Captain, Secretary to the Board 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

November, 1809 
Dawson, Harrison, 173 

It has indeed occurred to me that the surest means of secur- 
ing good behaviour from this conspicuous personage and his 
brother, would be to make them prisoners, but at this time 
more particularly, it is desirable, that peace with all the Indian 
tribes should be preserved, and I am instructed by the Presi- 
dent to express to your excellency his expectations and confi- 
dence that in all your arrangements, this may be considered 
(as I am confident it ever has been) a primary object with 
you.^ (extract) 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 3d Novr. 1809 

Har. Pa. 266-273 

Sir: 

I have now the honor to enclose herewith the treaty con- 
cluded at Fort Wayne in the 30th September, [see supra] with 
the Miami, Eel River, Delaware, and Potawatomie Tribes. 
The additional article entered into with the Miamis and Eel 
River tribe on the same day, and the treaty concluded with 
the Weas at this place on the twenty-sixth ultimo, conform- 
ably to the fifth article of the first mentioned treaty. The 
Potawatomies and Delawares were admitted as parties to the 

1. In the month of November the governor received instructions to defer making 
the military establishment up the Wabash which he had proposed in his letter to the 
government Oct. 10. It was expected to accomplish this in the spring. Two companies 
—Captains Posey and Cross— were to winter at Vincenncs. 

Dawson, Harrison, ns 



 

Treaty in conformity with your instructions "that the chiefs 
of all those tribes who have or pretend a right to these lands 
should be present", and the Potawatomies and Delawares 
being present there was no alternative but to make them par- 
ties in some shape or other. Indeed I am convinced that had 
the treaty been made with the Miamis alone the consequences 
to them would have been extremely unpleasant, if not fatal. 
The refusal of the Miamis to acknowledge the right of the 
Delawares to the country watered by the White River, at the 
Treaty of Grouseland, has from that time continued to rankle 
in the minds of the latter and to produce a disposition which 
bordered on actual hostility. The poverty and wretchedness 
of the Potawatomies made them extremely desirous of a treaty 
at which they expected to have their most pressing wants re- 
lieved. To have excluded either would have been extremely 
unpolitic on our part, as it would have entirely alienated the 
minds of those Tribes from us — nor do I believe that the 
Miamis would have dared to conclude the Treaty without them 
— as it is the arrangement which has been made is just to all 
and is therefore I believe, satisfactory to all. The Delawares, 
besides a considerable addition to their annuity, have had their 
equal right with the Miamis to the lands on White river con- 
firmed. The Potawatomies have been gratified with consid- 
erable present in goods which they much wanted, and a fur- 
ther addition to their annuity. This will create another 
tie to bind this numerous and warlike Tribe to the United 
States. They were not however as perfectly satisfied with the 
Miamis when they left Fort Wayne as could have been wished 
— there wei'e so great a number present that the goods, when 
divided amongst them, were found greatly below their neces- 
sities, and indeed some of them went off without a single 
article. Every opportunity which the shortness of my stay, 
after the signing of the Treaty, would allow, was employed to 
convince them of the justice and generosity with which they 
had been treated. If any ill blood yet remains, a little atten- 
tion to the influential cheifs will soon remove it. The Treaty 
as it now stands is nearly what the Miamis wished — the other 
Tribes have been admitted to it only as their allies, and their 
title to the lands on the Wabash left in statu quo. Their 
argument to the article in favour of the Delaware claim to the 
lands on White River was prompt candid and unequivocal. 
This arrangement will facilitate the acquirement of this valu- 



 

able "country by the United States, as the Delawares have had 
for a long time a desire to remove to the west of the Missis- 
sipi. The compensation given for this cession of lands, altho' 
somewhat higher than what has been heretofore given in any 
Treaty I have made with the Indians, is as low as it could pos- 
sibly be made. Great pains have been taken by the British 
Indian Department of Upper Canada by their agents in this 
country and by some of our owai citizens to dissuade them 
from selling any more of their land or to demand a price for 
it which they know would not be given. The manner in which 
the United States sell their lands has been particularly ex- 
plained to them; and hence their demand to have what they 
should sell, surveyed on their account, and two dollars per 
acre allowed for it. There tenaciousness in adhering to this 
idea was astonishing, and it required no little pains to get 
them to abandon it. 

I think however upon the whole that the bargain is a bet- 
ter one for the United States than any that has been made by 
me for lands south of the Wabash. The Tract along the Boun- 
dary line south from Fort Recovery, is almost altogether of 
the very first rate. The County of Dearborn in this territory 
adjoining it is settled up to the very line; and the farms are 
thicker than in any part of the western country that I have 
seen, the neighbourhood of Lexington excepted. I am in- 
formed by the Register of the Land Office at Cincinnati and 
other respectable persons that it is their opinion, that there 
will be several hundred families upon this Tract as soon as 
the Treaty is ratified and an office opened for the sale of it. 
The Tract adjoining on the Vincennes Tract is not so uni- 
formly good, but it contains much more good land than either 
the Tract ceded by the Treaty of Grouseland or that of Vin- 
cennes with the Delawares and Piankeshaws. 

I sounded the Chiefs on the subject of taking a sum in 
gross or by instalments in lieu of annuities as compensation 
for the land ceded; but I soon found that there was no possi- 
bility of succeeding. It is indeed the nature of savages to 
provide for the wants of today at every sacrifice of future 
prospects, to cut down the tree to obtain the fruit, and to de- 
stroy the teeming animal for a present meal whose progeny 
would increase their riches and add to their enjoyments. But 
our Indians have taken one decisive step towards civilization, 
they begin to look to futurity; and to those comfortable re- 



 

freshments which they yearly receive in the shape of annuities 
has taught them to set a proper vakie on this kind of payment. 
Our Government too have greatly contributed to their acquire- 
ment of this knowledge and Mr. Jefferson has personally told 
them that he considered it the duty of the U. States to pur- 
chase their lands in this manner, when they wished to sell 
even if they (the U. States) had no immediate use for them. 
I am fully persuaded that no sum in hand would have induced 
the Miamis and Delawares to part from their lands. The 
Potawatomies are not so far advanced in putting off the sav- 
age notions, and it is probable that they. could be induced to 
give up their permanent annuity for a larger one for a term 
of years; but then, a proposition of this kind would contradict 
the principles which we have been for years endeavouring to 
teach them. 

I expect the Kickapoo Chiefs here about the tenth Inst. They 
are very much under the influence of the Prophet, and it is 
possible that they may refuse to give up their claim to the 
lands northwest of the Wabash, but I will pledge myself to 
obtain it in the course of eight or ten months, as the Miamis 
who are the real owners of the land have surrendered their 
claim, we can wait a favourable opportunity to obtain the re- 
liquishment of their (the Kickpaoo) title derived only from 
present occupancy. 

I have employed a gentleman to make a sketch of the two 
Tracts lately purchased, from the best information we can 
obtain, which will be transmitted herewith if it is finished in 
time, if not it will be sent on by the succeeding mail. 

A mischievous story had been circulated amongst the In- 
dians at Fort Wayne, that the President did not want the 
lands I proposed to purchase, and that I wished to procure 
them for my own use and that of the people of Vincennes. To 
obviate this I told them that I should have no objection to per- 
mit some of their chiefs to go on to the seat of Government 
this fall, and that they would hear from the President's own 
lips the pleasure he derived from their compliance with his 
wishes respecting the late cession of lands. When I came 
from Fort Wayne they had not determined whether they would 
go or not. Knowing the inconvenience of expense to which 
these visits subject the Government I endeavoured to get them 
to relinquish the idea. I have lately however received a mes- 
senger from the Delawares requesting that three of their 



 

Chiefs may be allowed to go on to take their new father by 
the hand. I could not refuse their request without violating 
my promise ; but have consented to it only upon condition that 
the Miami and Potawatomi chiefs are also willing to go on 
at this time. The former told me that they could not make 
it convenient to go this winter ; and I have also instructed Mr. 
[John] Conner and Mr. Shaw' to endeavour to dissuade them 
from going, so that I believe there is little danger of your 
being plagued with them this winter. But lest they should, 
contrary to my expectations and wishes, insist on going on, I 
have appointed Mr. John Conner, the Delaware interpreter to 
accompany them, and have this day drawn upon you in favour 
of Mr. Shaw, the Assistant Indian Agent at Fort Wayne for 
$1000 in ten separate drafts to provide horses and bear the 
expenses of the journey to Washington. If this trip should 
be abandoned I have directed the drafts to be returned to me. 
With great respect and consideration I have the honor to be 
Sir Your obt. Servt. ^^^^^^_ ^^^^^ HARRISON 

The Honble William Eustis Secy, at War 

Reappointment of Harrison 

November 4, 1809 

Western Sun, November 4, 1809 

The following resolution has been sent on the general gov- 
ernment by our legislature, on the subject of Governor HAR- 
RISON'S reappointment. It passed the house of representa- 
tives unanimously, and the council, three to one. 

Whereas, from the collision of laws, and other circum- 
stances, doubts are entertained by the minority of the legis- 
lature on the constitutionality of its organization, and the 
majority from a spirit of conciliation, having thought it most 
prudent, not to proceed to any other act of legislation than 
the apportionment of their members under the last act of 
congress — but from a knowledge of the wishes of their con- 
stituents by petitions, as well as from other sources of infor- 
mation, and from a wish to express their own sentiments on 
the crisis in their government, which is now approaching, 
viz: the appointment of governor of our territory, whilst they 

1. Shaw was sub-Indian agent at Fort Wayne and in special charge of the Pottawat- 
tomies. He seems to have acted as a scout for Harrison at least from 1809 to 1812. 



 

are anxious to avoid the appearance of inconsistency, by do- 
ing any act which might bear the shadow of a legislative act, 
they cannot forbear from recommending to, and requesting 
of the President and senate, most earnestly, in their names 
and in the names of their constituents, the re-appointment of 
their present Governor, William Henry Harrison; 

because, they are sensible he possesses the good vdshes and 
affection of a great majority of his fellow citizens ; 

because they believe him sincerely attached to the union, 
the prosperity of the United States, and the administration 
of its government; 

because they believe him in a superior degree capable of 
promoting the interest of our territory, from long experi- 
ence, and laborious attention to our general concerns — from 
his influence over the Indians, and his wise and disinterested 
management of that department — and 

because they have confidence in his virtues, talents, and 
republicanism. Therefore, they earnestly request the con- 
currence of the members of the council to this recommenda- 
tion. 

Resolved, That three copies of the above recommendation 
be made out by the clerk, which shall be signed by the speaker 
of this house, and by the president of the legislative council, 
one whereof, shall be by the speaker, forwarded to the Presi- 
dent of the United States, another to the president of the 
senate of the United States, and the other to our delegate in 
gress. General W. Johnston 

Speaker of the House of Representatives 
Signed, Thomas Downs' 
President of the Council, Pro Tern. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 15th Nov. 1809 
Heineman, Journal of the Proceedings Indian Treaty, 1809, p. 9 

Sir 

I have now the honor to enclose the sketch of the lands 
lately ceded by the Indians to the United States and the 

2. Those who are in the habit of magnifying political differences into great contests 
will note that scarcely a man in this legislature was a special friend of the governor. 

1. Thomas Downs was appointed a judge in Clark Co. Feb. 4, 1801. and treasurer 
of the county. He was a judge for 10 years. 



 

Journal kept by Captain [Peter] Jones the Secretary. There 
appears to be much more land in these tracts than I expected 
being upwards of 2,900,000 acres. I believe there are two or 
three excellent salt springs on the tract near this. General 
William Clarke' who is now at Washington can give you 
some information on this subject. The one marked in the 
sketch has been visited since the Treaty by some of our citi- 
zens who say that it promises well. [See Oct. 1, above] 

The sketch is principally intended to show the advantages 
which would arise from opening a Road to Dayton in the 
State of Ohio. It would bring us 120 miles nearer the seat 
of Government. I believe that the Indians would consent to 
have the road opened through that part of their country 
which it must necessarily pass through. 

I have Honor to be with great Respect Sir your Humble 
Servant 

William Henry Harrison 

The Honorable William Eustis, Esq. Sec. of War 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 3d Deer. 1809 
Har. Pa. 274-27? 

Sir: 

I did myself the honor to write to you from Fort Wayne 
in favour of William Wells the late Indian Agent at that 
place and upon reflection' I have thought it proper to give 
you a concise history of his past and present conduct, that 
his merits and demerits may be fairly before you. Wells 
sei-ved in the army of General Wayne as a Captain of Spies 
or Scouts and in that capacity he rendered the most impor- 
tant services. His activity, enterprise and bravery were mani- 
fested throughout the campaign, and his knowledge of the 
country, of the Indian habits and mode of warfare were in- 
dispensable to the success of our operations. After the Treaty 
of Greenville he was retained as an Interpreter and in a year 
or two promoted to the post of Indian Agent. In this situ- 

1. William Clark was commissioned a captain of the militia at Clarksville Ind. 
Jan. 8, 1790 by Winthrop Sargent. He was a lieutenant under Wayne and intimately 
acquainted with Harrison. He had doubtless hunted over a large part of the land of 
this purchase. He was a brother of George R. Clark and the companion of Colonel 
Lewis on the trip to the Pacific. 

Elliott Coues. Lewis and Clark, I, Intro. 



 

ation also his sei-vices were highly useful uniting to his knowl- 
edge of the Indian languages and character great zeal and 
industry in the discharge of his duties. With them, however, 
were unfortunately blended a disposition for intrigue and for 
the accumulation of property which perhaps was not always 
under the government of the most rigid rules of justice. In 
the year 1805 in conjunction of the Little Turtle he con- 
cluded an intrigue against me which was discovei-ed and ex- 
posed by General Dearborn and his dismission would have 
been the consequence if I had not solicited his pardon. This 
I did from a belief that his promises of future good conduct 
would be observed and from a persuasion also that the quali- 
fications he possessed for the appointment of Indian Agent 
could not be found in any other Individual. I have had no 
reason to complain of him from that time. But I have 
heard that the late Secy, of War [Henry Dearborn] became 
convinced that his expenditure of the public money was not 
always made for the public benefit and that this was the 
cause of his dismission. I was not however officially in- 
formed of this, nor was I consulted on the subject of his 
dismission. I received the first intimation of it from Wells 
himself who solicited my interferance in his behalf and ten- 
dered me his aid in accomplishing the treaty which was con- 
templated. This was accepted because I knew that if he was 
not employed both himself and the Turtle would do every- 
thing in their power to defeat it. As it was, they both ex- 
erted themselves in favour of the treaty, but their subsequent 
conduct has been so highly improper as to do away with all 
the favourable impressions which their zeal for the Treaty 
had created. I refer you to Mr. [John] Johnston for par- 
ticulars. It remains to be considered whether it would be 
proper to employ Wells again in any situation and I really 
know not what to advise. He is certainly capable of ren- 
dering veiy important service and if he is not employed and 
remains where he is every measure of the Government will 
be opposed and thwarted by himself and the Turtle. As it 
is their influence is very limitted, but they possess such tal- 
ents for intrigue and are so well acquainted with the Indian 
character as to be able to do a great deal of mischief by 
working on the suspicious prejudices and superstitious dis- 
position of those even who dislike them most. A subordinate 
situation where he would not have the disposal of money is 



 

the only one for which I would recommend him. There is no 
danger of his refusing the appointment even of an interpreter. 
Whilst I am on this subject permit me to call your attention 
to the situation of Mr. [Joseph] Barron' my Interpreter at 
this place. He is the only one I have ever had here as he 
speaks the languages of all the Tribes residing within this 
territory, a qualification that is possessed by no other indi- 
vidual that I know of. He is besides the only interpreter I 
ever knew who was solely devoted to the interests of the 
United. States, to the exclusion of every sympathy for the 
Indians which would interfere with his duty. Nine tenths of 
them preferring the interests of the Indians to that of their 
employers. His compensation was fixed by me when I first 
came to the Territory and is no higher than what is allowed 
to the most ignorant and useless of his class. I think his 
long and faithful services merit some attention from the Gov- 
ernment and I should be much gratified to be allowed to 
raise his pay from 30 to 40 dollars per month. This can be 
done with more propriety at present as I shall dismiss Mr. 
[Michael] Brouillett on his arrival here unless there should 
appear to be a greater necessity for his continuance than I 
at present apprehend. 

I have the honor to be with the most perfect respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. W. EUSTIS Esq. Secy, of War 



Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Dec. 7th 1809 

Har. Pa. 6 

Your Excellency's letters of the 29th Augt. and of the 3d 
& 15th ult. with the Treaties, Plat and Journal have been duly 
received. The explanations relative to the Treaties, are satis- 

1. Joseph Barron was the most trusted scout Harrison ever employed. His name is 
attached to evei-y treaty of importance negotiated by Harrison. In the delicate affair 
with the prophet Barron was always in evidence. He accompanied Harrison to Tippe- 
canoe and, all told, spent 18 years in the service. He was a native of Detroit but 
spent nearly all his life on the Wabash, where he died, in Lo.^ansport, at the home of 
his son, July 31, 1843. The painter Geo, Winter, painted his portrait. The Indians 
lost confidence in him after Tippecanoe, Lossing, War of 1812, 101 



 

factory. As soon as they are ratified and the appropriations 
made your Excellency will be advised. 
I am, very respectfully, &c. &c. &c. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 10th Deer. 1809 

Har. Pa. 278-280 

Sir: 

The Kickapoo Chiefs having arrived at this place a few days 
ago and the late Treaty at fort Wayne having been carefully 
explained to them their consent has been obtained to the ces- 
sion north west of the Wabash and also a further extinguish- 
ment of Title as high up as the Vermilion River. I was 
extremely anxious that the cession should have been extended 
to the river by the Treaty of Fort Wayne, but it was objected 
to because it would include a Kickapoo Village. This small 
tract (of about 20 miles square) is one of the most beautiful 
that can be conceived, is moreover believed to contain a very 
rich copper mine. I have myself frequently seen specimens 
of the copper one of which I sent to Mr. Jefferson in 1802. 
The Indians were extremely jealous of any search being made 
for this mine that the Traders were always cautioned not to 
approach the hills which are supposed to contain the mine. I 
observe that copper mines are not reserved by the law of Con- 
gress regulating the sales of the land of the United States but 
it ought to be done at this cession if it is supposed to be an 
object worth attending to. As I know that there are indi- 
viduals who have turned their attention towards this mine 
and will probably prevail upon the Indians to show them the 
mine and for a large reward conceal it from the knowledge of 
the Government or those whom they might employ to search for 
it. The Treaty [Dec. 9, 1809] is herewith inclosed and I hope 
it will prove satisfactory. I shall immediately dispatch a 
speech to the Miamies to communicate the new cession to them. 
I am greatly obliged by the payment of my draft of the 18th 
February last in favour of George Wallace Jur. for $189.55. 
I have this day drawn upon in favour of Peter Jones and Com- 
pany for fifty dollars on account of my last services in 
negotiating the late Treaties but I shall take care to leave a 
sufficiency due me on that account to cover the aforesaid ad- 



 

vance of $189.55. But in the mean time I must beg you to 
defer your final decision against that article of the General 
account rendered last Winter which charged for furnishing 
a room for Conference Treaty and with the Indians. As I 
am persuaded I have it in my power to convince you of the 
reasonableness and justice of the charge. 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect 
Sir, your humble Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Esq. Secretary of Wat- 
Dec. 9. 1809 

A Treaty bettveen the United States of America and the Kicka- 
poo tribe of Indians. 

William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana territory, 
and commissioner plenipotentiary of the United States for 
treating with the Indian tribes northwest of the Ohio, and the 
sachems and war chiefs of the Kickapoo tribe, on the part of 
the said tribe, have agreed to the following articles, which, 
when ratified by the President, by and with the advice of the 
Senate, shall be binding on said parties. 

Article 1. The ninth article of the treaty concluded at fort 
Wayne, on the thirtieth of September last, and the cession it 
contains, is, hereby, agreed to by the Kickapoos, and a perma- 
nent additional annuity of four hundred dollars, and goods to 
the amount of eight hundred dollars, now delivered, is to be 
considered as a full compensation for the said cession. 

Art. 2. The said tribe further agrees to cede to the United 
States, all that tract of land which lies between the tract above 
ceded, the Wabash, the Vermillion river, and a line to be drawn 
from the north corner of the said ceded tract, so as to strike 
the Vermillion river at the distance of twenty miles, in a di- 
rect line from its mouth. For this cession, a further annuity 
of one hundred dollars, and the sum of seven hundred dollars, 
in goods, now delivered, is considered as a full compensation. 
But, if the Miamies should not be willing to sanction the latter 
cession, and the United States should not think proper to take 
possession of the land without their consent, they shall be 
released from the obligation to pay the additional annuity of 
one hundred dollars. 



 

Art. 3. The stipulations contained in the treaty of Green- 
ville, relatively to the manner of paying the annuity, and of 
the right of the Indians to hunt upon the land, shall apply 
to the annuity granted and the land ceded by the present 
treaty. 

In testimony whereof, the said WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON 
and the sachems and head-war chiefs of the said tribe, have 
hereunto set their hands and affixed their seals, this ninth day 
of December, one thousand eight hundred and nine. 

William Henry Harrison (L. S.) 

(Signed also by a number of Indians.) 

Secretary of State to Harrison 

Dept. of State, Deer. 21, 1809 

Har. Pa. 11 J 
Governor Harrison, Indiana Territory 
Sir: 

I am sorry to inform you, that there being no appropria- 
tion at the disposition of this Department out of which your 
Draft on me for 17 dollars could be regularly paid, it was, 
on being recently presented necessarily protested. As some 
of the Governors of other Territories have fallen into the like 
errors, and their drafts have met the same fate, it is proper 
that I should inform you, in order to prevent similar occur- 
rences, that the appropriation which is annually made for the 
contingent expenses of that and all other Territories, being 
alone applicable to such expences no allowance therefor can 
be made from any appropriation committed to this Depart- 
ment. 

I have the Honor etc. 



R. Smith 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes Febry. 20th 1810 

Har. Pa. 284., 285 

Sm: 

A circumstance occurred here some time since, which has 
been the occasion of great alarm to the Wea Tribe. For some 
years past a band of the Muscoe Tribe of Creeks have resided 



 

in this Territory, generally in the neighbourhood of the Ohio 
and Mississippi. Their numbers have fluctuated from 20 to 
40 or 50. These fellows have occasionally greatly annoyed 
the white settlers and have formed the subject of several com- 
munications to the late Secretary. ^ About Christmass last a 
party of them being in this town to trade, two of them were 
killed in a drunken frolic, by two young men of the Wea Tribe. 
The rest went off" vowing vengeance against the Weas. The 
latter were so much frightened that they employed my inter- 
ference. I accordingly brought about a meeting between the 
head men on each side and procured a suspension of hostilities 
until a general meeting shall take place in the spring. In the 
mean time the Weas have requested me to advance to the 
Muscoes fifty dollars to be charged to their annuity for this 
year, as an earnest of their disposition to cover up the blood 
which has been spilt. 

Which I have accordingly done and have this day drawn 
on you for that amount in favor of George Wallace, Jun. I 
have the honor be with great respect Sir, 
Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esq. Secy, of War 

Proclamation: Apportionment and Election 

February 21, 1810 

Vincennes Western Sun, March J, ISIO 

BY William Henry Harrison, 

Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Indiana Territory 

A PROCLAMATION: 

Whereas, by a law of Congress passed on the 15th of De- 
cember, 1809, the Governor of the Indiana Territory was em- 
powered to apportion the members to the House of 
Representatives of the said Territory, and to cause an election 
to be held for the same — also to cause an election for members 
of the Legislative Council, in case of vacancy; And whereas, 
the late Legislature of the Territory was at the request of the 
two houses dissolved by the Governor on the 21st day of Oc- 

1. April 29. 1811 the governor called a special session ol the territorial court to 
try Lawrent Bazadone for killing a Muscoe Indian. 



 

tober last : Now therefore, I, William Henry Harrison, Gov- 
ernor of said Territory, do declare and make known that the 
House of Representatives of the said Territory shall consist of 
nine members — of which the county of Dearborn, shall fur- 
nish three ; the county of Clark, two ; the county of Harrison, 
one; and the county of Knox, three. And I do moreover ap- 
point Monday, the second day of April next, for an election 
to be held in each of the counties aforesaid for the Repre- 
sentatives herein assigned, and also for five members to the 
Legislative Council, agreeably to the apportionment made by 
my proclamation of the 4th of April last, viz : one from each 
of the counties of Dearborn, Clark, and Harrison, and one 
from each of the districts of the county of Knox. And the 
sheriffs of the said counties respectively are hereby directed 
to cause the said election to be held on the said second day of 
April next, at such places in each township as may have been 
assigned by the courts of common pleas respectively. And 
the proceedings at said election, and the mode of making the 
returns, to be such as the laws in force direct. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Vin- 
cennes, this twenty-first day of February, one thousand eight 
hundred and ten, and of the Independence of the United States 
the thirty fourth. 

William Henry Harrison 



Harrison to Scott 

March 10, 1810 

Western Stin, Augiist 11, 1810 

Thoughts on the subject of the Discipline of the Militia of 
the United States in a letter from Governor Harrison of 
the Indiana Territory, to Governor Scott of Kentucky. 
Dear Sm : Since it appears probable that our government 
will not be able much longer to pursue that system of for- 
bearance and accomodation towards the belligerents of Eu- 
rope from which it has derived so much honor, and the peo- 
ple so much prosperity, it is not surprising that more than 
common solicitude should be manifested to effect a more per- 
fect organization and discipline of the militia. I have ac- 
cordingly obsem-ed that in all the communications which 
have been lately made by the executives of the States and 



 

Territories to their respective Legislatures, the subject has 
been pi'essed with more than usual earnestness. 

The manner in which you noticed it in your address to the 
General Assembly of Kentucky particularly engaged my at- 
tention ; because I always calculated that the weight of your 
character and influence, added to the authority of chief magis- 
trate, would do much towards the removal of those errors 
which unfortunately pervade all our militia systems ; and that 
under your auspices and guidance the hardy sons of Ken- 
tucky would afi'ord an example of military discipline (as they 
frequently have of military ardour) which would produce the 
most beneficial eff'ects to our country. I knew, indeed, that 
ig-norance, obstinacy, and deep-rooted prejudice were to be 
overcome; but I flattered myself that your fellow citizens 
would listen to the advice of an old and faithful friend, whose 
military experience had been gained in many a bloody field, 
and whose patriotism and disinterestedness had been mani- 
fested through a long life devoted to their service. In the 
list of acts passed at the last session of your Legislature, I 
obsei-ve one "to amend the militia laws." I am not informed 
in what these amendments consist, but to answer any valu- 
able purpose they must be such as to leave few features of 
your former system. 

I have never seen any of the militia laws of the eastern 
States. But those of the Southern, Middle, and Western 
states, so nearly resemble each other that the objections I 
shall make will apply equally to all. And that these are rad- 
ically defective, one melancholy fact sufficiently demonstrates. 
With the exception of the large to-\\ms (where there are volun- 
tary military associations entirely independent of the militia 
laws), is there a single brigade from the St. Marys to the 
Hudson, and from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, so well 
disciplined as to perform the commonest evolutions which the 
laws direct them to be taught, with sufficient precision to 
satisfy a military man ? If such a one there is, it has escaped 
my observations and enquiry. And what, my dear sir, is the 
fact with regard to our own section of the Union ? Our able- 
bodied men have been enrolled and formed into companies, 
battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, and the proper 
number and grades of officers appointed to command them. 
But after making allowance for the great increase of num- 
bers, do they form a better defence for the country than they 



 

possessed fifteen or twenty years ago, when there was scarcely 
any organization at all? From a knowledge of the ardent 
patriotism which pervades the Western country, I am per- 
suaded that an army of volunteers might be raised whenever 
the government may call for one; but would it be composed 
of men better disciplined, or better calculated for immediate 
service, than those who composed the various expeditions un- 
dertaken in the course of the Indian war, when no attempt 
to train them to regular discipline had been made? No one 
who is in the least acquainted with what the militia were, 
and what they are now, can answer this question affirmatively. 
It follows, then, that our militia laws have been of no use, 
and that the time that has been spent by our citizens in at- 
tending the days of muster is just so much lost to themselves 
and the community, — or rather worse than lost, for it is too 
well knowm that they are generally devoted to riot and in- 
temperance. I have never met with a single individual who 
would affirm that he derived any benefit from attending the 
militia musters. The industrious man and the good citizen 
attend them because the laws direct him to do so, and to save 
his fine; but he makes his escape as soon as possible, with 
the conviction that he has lost a day which might have been 
usefully employed at home, without having benefitted his 
country. It is the lazy and intemperate alone who rejoice at 
the approach of a muster day, because it affords an oppor- 
tunity of gratifying their vicious propensities. These obser- 
vations apply more particularly to the company musters, 
where I believe, in nineteen out of twenty instances, little 
else is done that relates to military duty than barely calling 
the rolls. At the battalion and regimental musters there are 
generally, indeed, some awkard attempts made to perform the 
manual exercise, and some few of the evolutions, directed by 
the Baron de Steuben. In the few instances v/here these 
happen to be commanded by old Revolutionary officers, or 
others who have in some degree attended to their duty, the 
progress that they might make in discipline is entirely pre- 
vented by the great length of time which intervenes between 
the days of training. Our laws generally prescribe a battalion 
muster in the spring and one of the regiments in the fall. It 
rarely happens that more than one of these takes place. But 
in the few instances where more punctuality is observed, and 
where the commanding officer is capable and really attempts 



 

to instruct his men, it must be evident that the lesson given 
in the spring will be totally obliterated by the fall, and of 
that which is given in the latter season not a trace will re- 
main at the expiration of the seven months which brings 
about the vernal meeting. How it could be supposed that 
the science of war could be learnt in this manner is most 
surprising. 

And yet, bad as it is, this is the best side of the picture. 
For it is very certain that, throughout the Western country, 
of those who command the various militia corps, and on whom 
the task of instruction is devolved, there are very few who 
are better informed than the men whom they attempt to teach. 
Our legislatures appear to be well apprised of the importance 
of a well disciplined militia — the preamble to many of the 
laws express this conviction. But they seem to have sup- 
posed that nothing [more] was necessary to effect their 
wishes than to cause the men to be enrolled and fomied into 
companies, regiments, etc., and occasionally to meet together. 
They did not recollect that, to make men soldiers instructors 
were necessary; and that to procure these, sufficient encour- 
agement should be offered to induce persons to qualify them- 
selves for the task. This is not so easily attained as is gen- 
erally supposed. To form a complete disciplinarian upon the 
system of modern tactics, requires as much preparation and 
as much knowledge and science, as for either of those pro- 
fessions to which the appellation of "learned" has been gen- 
erally applied. Nor is the skill necessary for manoeuvring 
a regiment or brigade to be acquired without considerable 
attention and practical instruction ; it is impossible to acquire 
it by reading alone. A man may, indeed, make himself ac- 
quainted with the manner of performing certain manoeuvres 
in this way; but the grace, the harmony, and precision of 
movement, which is so necessary in all military evolutions, 
can only be acquired by practice. 

If our legislatures are really desirous to have the militia 
so well disciplined as to form an effectual defence to our coun- 
try against every invader, if they wish to bring it to that 
state of perfection as entirely to supersede the necessity of 
a standing ai-my, the system heretofore in use must be en- 
tirely changed. Instead of the few days now appropriated 
to the purposes of training, and the very few hours of those 
days actually employed, some weeks at least must be devoted 



 

to the purpose, and the men must be taught in camps of dis- 
cipline those duties which, representing a faithful image of 
actual war, forms the best school in which it can be taught. 
For the accomplishment of an object so desirable and neces- 
sary, no pains or expense should be spared. Able officers 
should be sought after and employed, and every stimulus 
should be used to engage our youth to enter with ardor on a 
course of discipline which is to qualify them to defend their 
country. Occasional military orations should teach them the 
necessity of subordination and obedience, and by placing be- 
fore them the illustrious examples of military virtue with 
which the history of the Grecian and Roman republics abound, 
impress on their minds that the temporary sacrifice of per- 
sonal liberty which the military life imposes have been cheer- 
fully submitted to by the purest patriots and the most zealous 
republicans. At the frequent reviews which should take 
place, particularly that by the commander-in-chief, every- 
thing that is facinating in military array — the "whole pomp 
of war" — should be introduced, to keep up the ardor of the 
youth, and excite the emulation of the several corps; nor 
aught rewards and distinctions to be withheld from those 
which excel, the latter to be such only as accords with re- 
publican institutions, and however trifling might be the in- 
trinsic value of the former, opinion would soon render them 
as precious to the receiver, as the oak or laurel crowns which 
were formerly the reward of successful skill or valor. By 
steady pursuit of this plan for a few years, our militia would 
become formidable to any European army which should land 
on our shores; for it is very certain that it is discipline alone, 
or the facility of performing evolutions with rapidity and pre- 
cision, which makes one body of troops superior to another. 

Of this, innumerable instances might be adduced, from 
modern as well as ancient history. The Thebans were in- 
debted for their victories over the (till then) unconquered 
Spartans, as much to some new manoeuvres which had been 
introduced into their tactics, and which they had practiced 
with unwearied assiduity, as to the great abilities of their 
generals Epaminondas and Pelopidas. That unexpected and 
rapid movement which decided the battle of Leuctra 
could never have been executed in the face of such an enemy, 
if it had not been familiar to them from long previous prac- 
tice. And at that of Mantinea, although their operations 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 405 

were directed by a perfect master of the art of war, who 
did everything that depended on him by putting the left wing 
of the enemy composed of Athenians in the air, and bring- 
ing his Thebans to act hand to hand with the Spartans, the 
event must still have depended upon superior valor or su- 
perior discipline. Valor was nowhere more predominant 
than in the Spartan infantry, and their evolutions were as 
well understood by the soldiers as the general. But the su- 
perior compactness of the military wedge, composed of the 
proverbially stupid Boeotians, the scorn of Greece, which prac- 
tice had enabled them to preserve, triumphed over the de- 
scendants of Leonidas and the pupils of Agesilaus. The 
troops with which the great Frederick commenced the Silesian 
war had never heard the report of a hostile gun, but in the 
battles of Mollwitz, of Prague, of Rossbach and Leuthen, 
they practiced those lessons which they had been taught in 
the peaceful fields of Berlin and Potsdam. When he was pre- 
paring for his first campaign, the Austrian minister wished 
to dissuade him from the enterprise, by inspiring with fears 
for a contest where his parade battalions would have to en- 
counter the veteran troops of his mistress, whose valor and 
discipline had been proved in fields of actual danger. "Your 
majesty's troops are very fine," said he, "but you must recol- 
lect that ours have seen the wolf." "You think my troops 
are fine," said Frederick; "1 will convince you that they are 
good." The succeeding battle of Mollwitz shewed that troops 
that can manoeuvre well, though they may never have seen 
an enemy, are able to cope with veterans, and to conquer in 
spite of the blunder of their generals: the king had com- 
mitted a mistake in his dispositions, which could not have 
been rectified by marshal Schwerin if the discipline of the 
troops had not been perfect. 

I have recommended camps of discipline to instruct those 
who are already capable of bearing arms; but the career of 
military instruction for our youth should commence as soon 
as their mental and bodily powers have acquired sufficient 
strength. Professorships of tactics should be established in 
all our seminaries, and even the amusements of the children 
should resemble those of the ancient gj'mnasia, that they may 
grow up in the practice of those exercises which will enable 
them to bear with ease the duty of the camp and labors of 
the field. 



 

It will no doubt be urged as a reason for continuing the 
old plan that the poorer class of our citizens cannot spare 
five or six weeks in a year from their farms to leam mili- 
tary duty. I know that they cannot, without being paid ; but 
is not our government able to pay them? If it is not, they 
ought to make themselves so by laying additional taxes. But 
I am persuaded that the money that is devoted to other ob- 
jects may be more usefully, and certainly more consistently, 
appropriated to this purpose. Under our present circum- 
stances the 6,000 regular troops we have are very proper; 
but I think that 100,000 disciplined militia would be better, 
and that the money which is spent on the former would soon 
effect the discipline of the latter. 

I am far from thinking a fleet unnecessary, and there is 
no man who attaches more importance to the improvement 
of our country by canals and roads. I do not think, however, 
that these should be the first objects on which our i^evenue 
should be expended; and I recollect that every man in Rome 
was a soldier before they had a fleet or an Appian or Fla- 
minian way. The defence of every despotic government is 
a standing army. Despots, therefore, very properly make it 
the first object of their care and expense. The safety of a 
republic entirely depends on the discipline of its militia, and 
we very inconsistently make it the last object of our atten- 
tion. The general government have lately turned their 
thoughts to the militia, and have resolved to arm the whole 
of them. You, my dear sir, need not be told that a system 
of instruction should be commenced as soon as the arms are 
delivered; and that even with this system, the arms should 
only be occasionally put into the hands of the men, until 
they had learnt to value them and to take care of them. Un- 
less this precaution is used, the millions of dollars which the 
arms will cost had much better be expended upon the gun- 
boats, on which the eloquent author [John Randolph] of the 
attempt to "arm the whole of the militia" has lavished so 
much bitter invective and sarcasm. It would certainly be 
better to apply the money that is intended to "arm the whole" 
to discipline and arm a part of the militia. And it ought to 
have occured to Mr. Randolph, than whom no man is better 
acquainted with history, that Carthage possessed arms as 
well as Rome, but not, like the latter, a disciplined militia. 
Rome therefore survived the slaughter of Trebia, of Thres- 



 

samene, and Cannae, whilst the fate of Carthage was deter- 
mined by the single defeat of Zama. The loss of men com- 
pared with her population was nothing, men in abundance 
were left, but no soldiers. Let her militia be disciplined, and 
the independence of America would be presei-ved against a 
world united. The loss of her capital, and a succession of 
defeats, might distress but would not ruin her. As long as 
she had men enough to form an army, liberty would have 
a temple. Li Greece (as long as Greece was free) every man 
was a soldier. Hence it happened that those small republics 
could be conquered only by extirpation. In the disastrous 
Sicilian expedition, a third of the citizens of Athens per- 
ished; and yet she survived to reap new laurels, whilst the 
proud empire of Carthage was humbled in the dust by a 
single defeat. The immortal victories of Marathon. Salamis, 
and Platea were achieved by a disciplined militia; and the 
Roman legions which conquered the world were nothing more. 
Amongst these hardy republicans, nothing would be thought 
more disgraceful than to be igniorant of the tactics then in 
practice, or to be unable to manage with dexterity the sword, 
the spear, and the shield. Our youth practice with no other 
arms but the pistol, and learn no other warfare but such as 
is to serve them in a contest with their fellow citizens. With 
these principles, and this sort of education, they will possess 
only the courage of ostentation, and will brave death in what 
is called the field of honor, "but fly at the sight of the enemy". 

Being called to a distant part of the Territory, I must con- 
clude this long letter \vithout having finished all the observa- 
tions which I intended to make. The subject shall be resumed 
on my return, and the particular motive communicated which 
induced me to address myself particularly to you. 

I have the honor to be, dear sir, 

Your friend and humble servant, 

William Henry Harrison 
His Excellency, Charles Scott, Governor of Kentucky 

Harrison to Scott 

Vincennes, 17th April, 1810 

Dear Sir: Western Sun, August 18, ISIO 

Circumstances of a domestic nature have prevented my 
completeing until now the observations on the discipline of 



408 INDIANA HISTOPwICAL COLLECTIONS 

the militia of the United States, which I promised in my let- 
ter of March 10. There is no political axiom more generally 
diffused amongst the people of the United States than that 
which declares militia to be the only proper defence of a re- 
public. Standing armies are universally reprobated ; and yet, 
with this just view of the kind of force which they aught to 
cherish, and that which they aught to avoid, it is astonishing 
that they should so neglect the former as to make the em- 
ployment of the latter a matter of absolute necessity upon 
every appearance of danger. We have, indeed, no militia. 
That term is properly applied only to citizens who are dis- 
ciplined, or trained for war. The placing a man's name on 
a muster-roll, or including him in a return, will no more con- 
stitute him a militia man than the enregistering his name 
on a list of attorneys or physicians would authorize him to 
assume either of those appellations without the previous 
study and preparation by which a knowledge of law and 
physic is only to be acquired. It is to this mistake of the 
materials to form a force for that force itself which is, I 
apprehend, the cause of our supineness and confidence. We 
look at the returns from the Department of War, and find 
that 680,000 men are enrolled ; but we forget that not a fiftieth 
part of them are soldiers. We might, with nearly the same 
propriety, exult in our ability to cope with the fleet of Britain 
upon the ocean because we possess the materials for forming 
one equal to hers, as to rest our defence upon an army which 
possessed no other claims to the appellation than what it 
would derive from the law which called it into service. 

Another cause of the neglect of discipline is, our great dis- 
tance from any formidable power and the peculiar circum- 
stances of the two great rival potentates of Europe — the one 
commanding the ocean, but with a land force scarcely equal 
to the defence of their own territories; and the other pos- 
sessing an immense anny, without a fleet. Our security is 
supposed to lie in the inability of either to attack us, and 
the rivalship and national hatred which exists between them 
preventing a coalition for that purpose. If there were not 
so many instances of despots suspending their rage against 
each other and uniting their efforts whenever by such union 
an extension of their dominions could be accomplished, I 
should nevertheless distrust them; because the history of all 
such governments sufficiently proves that force is their only 



 

law, and that republics particularly have nothing to expect 
from their justice or moderation. At any rate I had much 
rather owe our safety to our own strength than to their jeal- 
ousy of each other ; for however strong and deep-rooted this 
may be, it may be overcome by the temptation of great ag- 
grandizement, and the desire of overturning a government 
which is founded upon principles so opposite to theirs and 
from which their subjects may receive lessons that may once 
more cause the thrones of the earth to totter to their founda- 
tion. I have no idea, however, that England and France 
united could conquer America. But in our present situation, 
if 50,000 of their best disciplined troops were landed in one 
of the Southern States, we should find it a work of time and 
difficulty to get rid of them; and the loss we should sustain 
from their depredations, added to the expenses of our own 
army, would amount to a larger sum than would be sufficient 
to put our militia in such a state of discipline as would deter 
every enemy from our shores. 

One of the greatest modern discoveries in the military art 
consists in the foi'mation and application of light troops. The 
various denominations of these form nearly a moiety of an 
army organized upon the plan of the French tactics, and 
one of the effects of this improvement is to destroy every 
hope of an undisciplined army acting against one of a con- 
trary description. If our Western militia should ever en- 
counter an European army, they would be astonished to find 
themselves opposed by a body of men using the same arms 
with equal dexterity to themselves ; making their attacks with 
the same unexpected velocity, and eluding their enemy with 
all the celerity and address, which distinguishes our back- 
woods riflemen. They would find, however, this essential dif- 
ference in favor of their opponents : whilst their own opera- 
tions would be directed by no fixed plan, but such as might 
be formed on the moment by their leader, their attacks des- 
ultory, uncombined, ill supported, and their retreats dis- 
orderly, — their enemy would manoeuver with all the dexterity 
which discipline alone can give, uniting the consistency and 
combined movements of troops of the line with the alertness 
of partisan corps: such is the effect of "science in war." 
America and France, in their -respective revolutions, found 
themselves attacked by well disciplined armies to which they 
had nothing to oppose but new levies, possessing indeed na- 



 

tive bravery and all the ardor and zeal which are charac- 
teristic of freemen fighting for their liberties, but without 
any knowledge of those evolutions which gave such a decided 
superiority to their enemies in every close encounter. An- 
other mode of warfare was therefore to be pursued ; not new, 
indeed, for the same plan had set bounds to the Roman con- 
quests on the side of Persia; had baffled the legions in the 
zenith of their discipline under Crassus and Mark Anthony, 
and at a later period a most formidable army conducted by 
the great abilities of Julian! The outlines of this plan are: 
to avoid pitched battles and regular engagements, to act by 
detachments on the flanks and rear of the enemy, and by 
cutting ofl: his convoys and incessantly harrassing him to pre- 
vent his advance in front. A system so sage and so well 
adapted to the nature and character of the troops employed 
was crowned with complete success ; America was saved, and 
France was snatched from the grasp of the kings who had 
combined against her. Results so different from those which 
had been calculated on naturally led to the investigation of 
the causes which had produced them. Veteran armies had 
been overthrown by irregular and undisciplined troops. But 
their success could not be imputed to the want of discipline; 
it could be accounted for upon no principles but to the celerity 
of their movements and the manner of their attack. These 
qualities could be as well communicated to regular troops, 
and were possessed indeed by the light corps which, in greater 
or less numbers, were attached to every army. The secret, 
then, consisted in the great multiplication of these, and, from 
the subordinate duties of scouts and convoys, to bring them 
to enact a more distinguished part on the military theatre. 
A great revolution was thus pi'oduced in tactics ; celerity of 
movement was the great desideratum, and light infantry, 
light or horse artillery, and tirailleurs, or rifle men, became 
the order of the day, and at present form no inconsiderable 
portion of the armies of Europe. An improvement in tac- 
tics which gives a greater superiority to the professed soldier 
who fights for conquest over the citizen who bears arms only 
in the defence of his country, is perhaps to be regretted; 
and no alternative is left to the latter but to perfect them- 
selves in the same arts and discipline. 

But the defence of our country against a foreign enemy 
does not constitute the only motive for our citizens to per- 



 

feet themselves in the military art. The safety of a republic 
depends as much upon the equality of arms and discipline 
amongst its citizens as upon the equality of rights. We must 
become a nation of warriors, or a nation of Quakers; we 
must proscribe every attempt at military improvement, or 
its study must become universal. Whenever a knowledge of 
that art is confined to a minority of the people, that minority 
will govern. So true is this maxim that no instance can be 
produced of a free people preserving their liberties who suf- 
fered the military spirit to decline amongst them, nor of any 
losing them as long as this spirit pervaded the body of the 
nation. It was not until the amusements of the theatre, the 
baths, and the public gardens had superseded the exercises 
of the Campus Martins, that a Roman army dared to revolt 
against its country. In the ages of Papirius, of Fabricius, 
of Fabius, and Scipio, the information of the revolt of one 
of their armies would have given rise to no other sentiment 
than indignation in the Roman Senate. What had the re- 
public to fear from 40 or 50,000 of its misguided sons, when 
she possessed within her bosom six times the number, equally 
brave, equally skilled in the use of arms, and inured by early 
habit to all the duties of war? Such however was not the 
case when the daring ambition of Caesar had raised the 
standard of rebellion, and at the head of the army of Gaul 
approached the capitol. The successors of that Senate which 
after a series of terrible defeats had derided the efforts of 
the great Pyrrhus, and the still greater Hannibal, — who with 
all the deliberation which conscious security inspires, had dis- 
patched a reinforcement to their army in Spain, when their 
most formidable enemy was encamped under their walls, — 
trembled at the approach of Caesar, abandoned their country 
to an usurper, and condescended to seek in the distant prov- 
inces that succor for Rome which Rome itself no longer af- 
forded. Still had she to boast of a large list of patriots, and 
at no former period was the art of war so well understood. 
But it had become a distinct profession; martial exercises 
were neglected by the body of the people. No longer in every 
Roman citizen was to be found a Roman soldier. That dis- 
tinguished appellation was not, indeed, as at a later period, 
exclusively enjoyed by mercenaries, alike strangers to the 
laws, the manners, and the language of Rome. The army 
was chiefly composed of citizens, but of citizens who in the 



 

habits of wai-fare and pillage had forgotten the sacred duties 
which that character imposes, and were as willing to turn 
their arms against their country, upon the command of their 
chief, ap the enemy whom they were raised to oppose. Such 
will ever be the case with men who make war a profession; 
and the fate of Rome will be the fate of America, and of 
every other republic, which does not take effectual means to 
inspire its citizens with a military spirit, and train them to 
the use of arms. 

It is much to be regretted that a disposition adverse to 
improvement in the military art should exist amongst the 
people of the Western country ; and it is the more surprising 
as it does not arise from the want of military spirit, but 
from a belief that discipline is unnecessary, and that the 
untutored rifleman is the most formidable of all warriors. 
Certain events in the history of the Western country have 
given strength to this opinion. "The regular and disciplined 
armies," say its advocates, "of Braddock and St. Clair, were 
defeated by the savages, as these have frequently been by 
undisciplined militia; therefore undisciplined militia armed 
with rifles, are superior to regular troops, armed with the 
musket and bayonet." There is so much plausibility in this 
reasoning, and so much mischief in the opinion it supports, 
that too much pains cannot be taken to shew the fallacy of 
the one, and entirely to eradicate the other. It is not diffi- 
cult to conceive that an army in the highest state of discipline 
may be placed in such a situation by the unskilfulness of its 
leader as to make it an easy prey to the rudest savages. The 
destruction of the Roman legions in Germany under Varus, 
and the army of Braddock in America, are two out of many 
instances of this kind with which history will furnish us. 
But this same history will also inform us that, notwithstand- 
ing a battle may be gained, or even a campaign successfully 
terminated, by undisciplined valor acting against veteran 
troops, it has never happened that a nation which cultivated 
the military art has been subdued by one which set no value 
on its attainment. The subversion of the Roman empire by 
barbarians forms no exception to this opinion; for those 
barbarians were superior to the then Romans, in every mar- 
tial, and almost in every civil, virtue. Of those legions which 
had conquered the world, feeble skeletons only remained ; dis- 
tinguished indeed by the ensigns which had once directed the 



 

skillful evolutions of a brave and free people, but which had 
become disgraced by the protection of effeminate slaves, who 
were as much unable to bear the arms and perform the exer- 
cise of Roman soldiers as to comprehend the fire of patriotism 
and liberty which animated the armies of Marcellus and 
Scipio. But although discipline and valor were no longer 
the characteristics of a Roman army, the tactics of the earlier 
ages were not entirely forgotten, a few individuals still read 
the immortal works of Caesar and Polybius, and the small 
remains of military science were suflicient to sustain for 
many ages the tottering fabrick of the empire, assailed on 
all sides by immense swarms of warlike barbarians. Never 
were the effects of generalship more conspicuous than in the 
achievements of Aetius and Boniface, of Belisarius and 
Narses. These great men, placed at the head of armies which 
were little better than bands of undisciplined plunderers, were 
enabled by a series of artful manoeuvres to render useless 
the great superiority of their enemies in numbers and valor. 
But hundreds of instances are to be found in the Roman 
and Grecian histories to shew the great inferiority of mere 
courage, with the advantage of numbers and even of skill in 
the soldier in the management of his arms, when opposed to 
troops who can manoeuvre well, and are commanded by gen- 
erals possessing genius and science. What has been said 
above of the success of raw troops in the American and French 
revolutions is not incompatible with this opinion, but rather 
tends to confirm it. The advantage of talents in the generals 
was certainly on the side of America and France, and they 
very wisely adapted their operations to the kind of troops they 
commanded. The alertness and activity of these troops en- 
abled them to perform great marches with facility. They 
were therefore employed in a desultory warfare — to harrass 
the enemy and cut off his convoys ; and by this means time was 
gained to form an army capable of meeting him in an equal 
field. It was in this kind of warfare that the great eflScacy 
of the rifle was first discovered ; and altho' scarcely known in 
the European armies at the commencement of the American 
revolution, it has now become a favorite weapon, to be em- 
ployed as a corps avance, or upon the wings and rear of an 
enemy ; but no general has ever thought of making it a sub- 
stitute for the musket and bayonet. No species of troops are 
more to be dreaded than a good rifle corps, when acting under 



 

the cover of fences, hedges, or forests. But in an open coun- 
try, when opposed either to cavalry or infantry, the rifle is the 
most contemptible of all arms. The musket and bayonet are 
adapted to all situations. 

The volunteers who served under you, my dear General, in 
the campaign of 1794, acknoAvledged, I think, that no number 
of riflemen could have resisted the charge of General Wayne's 
army on the 20th of August of that year. Nothing can shew 
more clearly than the result of this action does that the defeat 
of Braddock is not to be attributed to the kind of arms which 
were in the hands of his men, nor to their want of valor, but 
to the deficiency of the general in the talents to adapt his 
manoeuvres to the nature of the country and the enemy he had 
to encounter. Close order and platoon firing will not answer 
in a forest. Philip of Macedon conquered Greece, and his son 
Alexander the empire of Persia, by the strength of the 
phalanx. But this formidable body could not operate in 
broken or uneven ground ; and whenever it was opposed by a 
general who had the talents to take advantage of this circum- 
stance, and commanded by one who would suffer himself to 
be drawn into a situation unfavorable to its operations, its de- 
struction was certain. If General Wayne had marched his 
army in close columns instead of those long flexible columns in 
files which enabled him to penetrate the woods with facility 
and to present a very extended front to the enemy on every 
point of attack, if he had neglected to reconnoiter the country 
in every direction as he advanced to prevent an attack from 
the enemy before he completed his disposition to receive them, 
or if, instead of putting them up with the bayonet and keeping 
up the charge until they were entirely broken and dispersed, 
he had permitted them to exercise their skill in distant shoot- 
ing from behind trees, — the 20th of August, 1794, would now 
have produced as melancholy recollections as the 4th of No- 
vember, 1791. 

But I am persuaded that, from a particular examination 
of the campaigns and battles which took place in the course 
of the war between the people of the Western country and 
the Indians, it would appear that whenever the former have 
been successful, a considerable poi'tion of that success is to 
be attributed to the military knowledge of their leaders ; and 
that when this was wanting, their valor and great accuracy 
in shooting the rifle did not always secure them from defeat. 



 

Your own, and the campaigns of Clark and Wilkinson, are in- 
stances of the former; as the defeats of Crawford, Loughery, 
and the Blue Licks, are of the latter. I have examined the 
ground which was the scene of the defeat at the Blue Licks ; 
and if I was correctly informed as to the disposition of the 
two armies, it appears to me that nothing could have been 
more easy than to entrap the Indians in the very toils which 
they had prepared for their adversaries. The ambuscade was 
well arranged to ensnare a rash and imprudent enemy, but 
the smallest degree of military skill upon the part of the Ken- 
tucky commander would have been sufficient to put the Indians 
in the very cid dn sac which proved so fatal to himself and his 
men. I am far from thinking so unfavorably of the rifle as 
our valued friend the late General Wayne. The convert fight- 
ing which that arm requires was so contrary to the ardor of 
his disposition, which was for deciding everything with the 
bayonet, that he always declared that the use of the rifle would 
make cowards of the bravest troops. Instead of wishing to 
see the rifle banished from our armies, considering the nature 
of our country and the great predilection of the people of the 
Western States in its favor, I would recommend that at least 
two-thirds of the militia of this section of the Union should 
be armed with it. The prejudices which have been nourished 
by long habit are very difficult to remove. Our backwoods- 
men could not easily be induced to give up their favorite arm, 
nor indeed does there appear any necessity for it. If the 
Western States were to form a separate nation, it would be 
proper so to organize its force so as to have all the various 
descriptions of troops which compose a modern army ; but as 
the tie which unites us to the Atlantic states is, I hope, indis- 
soluble, the whole militia of the Union should be considered as 
one great army; and in the distribution of the several corps 
particular regard should be had to the manners, the habits, 
and even the prejudices of the people. This circumstance has 
been attended to with great advantage by every military na- 
tion, and in every age. 

A Roman army was thought to be most formidable when the 
strength of the legions was supported by the velites or light 
troops of the neighboring allies — the Numidian horse (the 
hussars of the ancients), the cavalry of Thessaly, and the 
slingers of the Ballearean isles. Even in the formation of the 
present European armies, the habits of the people are par- 



 

ticularly regarded in their military destinations. Neither the 
emperors of Germany or France, or the king of England, 
would think of recruiting their cavalry in the mountains of 
the Tyrol, the cantons of Switzerland, or the highlands of 
Scotland. Nor would the former of these princes find his ac- 
count in reducing to infantry battalions those fine bodies of 
hussars with which his Hungarian and Polish provinces sup- 
ply him. The people of the latter countries have been ac- 
customed for ages to make war on horseback. They make 
the finest light cavalry in the world, but contemptible infantry. 
In the formation of a grand army of the Union, the militia of 
the Western country might compose the corps avarice, consist- 
ing of mounted and dismounted riflemen, and all the various 
descriptions of light cavalry. The Eastern and Middle States 
would furnish the artillery and infantry of the line, and those 
of the South the cavalry of the line and light infantry. No cav- 
alry in the world would excel those, my dear General, which our 
native State could produce. For fleetness and fire the horses 
are equal to those of the ancient Capadocia or Thessaly ; and 
for grace and dexterity in the management of them, the 
natives are unrivalled. Possessing as we do, then, the mate- 
rials for forming a national militia which shall unite all the 
desirable qualities of the best appointed European army, why 
do we not give them that polish of which they are so eminently 
susceptible? It is admitted by all that the times are por- 
tentous. The storm which has so long desolated the old world, 
has never presented to us an aspect more threatning. Its 
violence has yet reached that only [our commerce], which to 
lose is not death. Shall we bewail the loss of our commerce, 
when competency and liberty remain? But the latter can be 
preserved only by the arms and discipline which obtained it. 
Why then is there so much indifference manifested upon this 
all-important subject? Why is year after year suffered to 
roll away without the adoption of some efficient plan? If 
there is difficulty in the thing, is not that difficulty constantly 
increasing as the devouring hand of time constantly deprives 
us of those from whom we could derive instruction? The 
heroes of the Revolution are fast sinking in the grave. Shall 
we not seize the moment when enough are left to animate us, 
by their precept and example, to the attainment of those mili- 
tary accomplishments which are so necessary for the defence 
of our country? Will a nation of freemen suflfer themselves 



 

to be outdone in any honorable pursuit by the vile instruments 
of ambition and tyranny, which compose the armies of Europe 
— "a band of mercenaries whose only hope is that of pay, 
whose only fear is that of punishment"? 

It is to obtain your protest, my dear sir, against the ineflfi- 
cient and ridiculous systems of discipline with which the peo- 
ple have been so long and so uselessly harrassed which has in- 
duced me to trouble you with the forgoing observations. 

Your State possesses an advantage which is scarcely left to 
any other in the Union, — of three distinguished revolutionary 
officers to direct the efforts of its citizens in the attainment 
of military information. The exertions of a Scott, a Hopkins, 
and a Posey, might be sufficient to put into operation a system 
that would soon pervade the continent, which would vindicate 
the American character for having neglected that to which 
Rome and Athens were indebted for their glory, and without 
which no republic can long exist — a disciplined militia. 

That you may be amongst the last of those who may be 
called to enjoy in another world the happiness you have de- 
served for contributing to emancipate a nation in this, is the 
sincere prayer of, dear sir. 

Your friend 

William Henry Harrison 
His Excellency, Charles Scott, Governor of Kentuckxj 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes April 25th 1810 

Har. Pa. 286-288 

Sir: 

I have lately received information from sources which leave 
no room to doubt its correctness, that the Shawnee Prophet is 
again exciting the Indians to Hostilities against the United 
States. A Trader [Michael Brouillette] who is entirely to be 
depended on, and who has lately returned from the residence 
of the Prophet, assures me that he has at least 1000 Souls 
under his immediate control (perhaps 3.50 or 400 men) prin- 
cipally composed of Kickapoos and Winebagos, but with a con- 
siderable number of Potawatimies and Shawanees and a few 
Chippewas and Ottowas. 

The friends of the Fr«nch Traders amongst the Indians 



 

have advised them to separate themselves from the Amer- 
icans in this town lest they should suffer in the attack, which 
they meditate against the latter. 

I have no doubt that the present hostile disposition of the 
Prophet and his Votaries has been produced by British inter- 
ference. It is certain that they have received a considerable 
supply of ammunition from that source.' They refused to buy 
that which was offered them by the Traders alleging that they 
had as much as they wanted, and when it was expended they 
could get more without paying for it and the former appeared 
to the traders to be the fact, from the abundance the Indians 
seemed to possess. 

I have before done myself the honor to describe to you the 
exposed situation of this Town [Vincennes] and how sus- 
ceptible it is of surprise by a very small force. The Militia 
in the country are so scattered that they could not be collected 
in time enough to be of any service in repelling an attack. 
There are not more than a full company of American Militia 
in the town, and the French for any military purpose are 
worth nothing. 

I think it probable that the British agents in Canada have 
anticipated the orders of their government in their endeavours 
to set the Indians upon us, and that the first account of a fa- 
vorable change of disposition towards America in that Gov- 
ernment will induce them to countermand the orders, which 
have been given to their Indian allies. 

But in the mean time, the report of the Indians having 
meditated hostilities will do us great injury by retarding the 
settlement of the country. We lost several hundred families 
last spring in consequence of the hostile appearances they ex- 
hibited and I am persuaded that similar consequences will flow 
from those which are now manifested. And it will probably 

1. As an example see Mich. Pioneer and Hist. Soc. Pub. XXIII, 70 for a "Requisi- 
tion for an extra quantity of goods to supply his Majesty's Indian stores witii presents 
in case of a war with the U. S. for 1809." Among the items are 

Gunpowder 180,000 lbs. 

Flints 24.000 

Lead bars 1.000 lbs. 

The total distribution at this time amounted to over SI 50.000. In an official dispatch 
of Lord CastlericKh to Sir James Ciaie. of Canada is this paragraph : 

"Under an undefined relation with the U. S. I entirely concur in your position, 
that attention must be kept up to conciliate the Indian tribes upon the following prin- 
ciple that if in a contest they are not to be employed to act with us. they will be 
engaged to act against us, and that we are not to consider so much their use as 
allies as their destructiveness as enemies." 



 

be normally the case unless the rascally prophet is driven from 
his present position or a fort built somewhere on the Wabash, 
about the upper boundary of the late purchase. I beg leave 
to recommend this measure most earnestly to the President. 
It is one from which the greatest advantages would arise both 
to the Territory and to the United States. 

Under cover of this Fort the new purchase and this will 
settle rapidly and a Militia force be collected on the Wabash, 
that would be able to cope with all the Indians in the neigh- 
borhood. 

The public arms in my possession are much in want of 
cleaning. Shall I be authorized to employ a person to do it? 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
Yr. Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble WiLLM. EUSTIS, Esq. Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, 2nd May 1810 

g Har. Pa. 289 

Since my letter was written which I sent by the last mail 
I have heard nothing new on the subject of Indian hostilities. 
The French Traders are however more alarmed than I have 
ever seen them In consequence of which I have deemed it ex- 
pedient to send up Mr. [IMichael] Brouillette (the person pre- 
viously employed) to the Prophets Town to watch his move- 
ments and to assure the fidelity of the neighbouring bands of 
Potawatomies. He set out this day and as there is a consid- 
erable degree of danger in the undertaking (from private as- 
sassination) I have employed another Frenchman [Touissant 
Dubois] at 12 dollars per month to go with him. This was 
the more necessary as all the French traders have left the 
Prophet's village. 

I have taken the liberty of enclosing you a letter to Genl. 
[James] Wilkinson containing a document he wrote to me for 
and which he thinks necessary to the vindication of his char- 
acter. [This letter has not been found] 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect 
Sir your humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Esq. Secretary of War 



 

Harrison to Secretary op War 

ViNCENNES 15th May 1810 

Hwr. Pa. 290-29J, 

Sir: 

A Potawatimie squaw, who is the wife of Mr. Johnson's 
Interpreter at Fort Wayne arrived at this place a few days 
ago. On her way she stayed several days at the Prophets 
Town. The information she brings, entirely corroborates 
that which I had received of the hostile intentions of the 
Prophet and his followers. Several of her relations told her, 
that the Indians of that quarter had determined to go to war 
with the white people and from the conversations which she 
overheard she is convinced that such is the fact. She par- 
ticularly states, that having retired to rest in a cabin, but not 
being asleep, she heard their warriors conversing on the sub- 
ject as a matter absolutely determined on. One of them ob- 
served that he was apprehensive of the want of ammunition ; 
but was answered by another that the chiefs would certainly 
take care of that matter and they could no doubt obtain more 
from the same source that had already furnished them with 
a supply. She thinks (and of that opinion also is an intel- 
ligent trader here) that the ammunition alluded to had been 
furnished by a British subject now there who pretends to be 
a Clerk for the Macanac Company. 

I cannot think the plans of the Prophet are so well matured 
as they are supposed to be, and I rather suppose that the thing 
is to be finally settled at a great council now about to be holden 
some where between the Wabash and Lake Michigan, most 
probably at the St. Joseph of the latter. I have confidence in 
Winemac, a Potawatomi chief who is now with the Prophet, 
and I am certain that his utmost exertions will be used, in 
the first place, to prevent hostilities or if he should be unsuc- 
cessful in this to give me information of their designs. 

He sent me word by the woman above-mentioned that he 
would come to me as soon as the council was over; but she 
added that his attachment to the U. States was so well known, 
that he was closely watched. It was more than possible that 
he was not admitted to their secret councils and that it was 
also more than probable that he would be assassinated. The 
Prophets force at present consists in the part of his own Tribe 
which has always been attached to him ; nearly all the Kicka- 
poos, a number of winebagoes, some Hurons from Detrot who 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 421 

have lately joined him, a number of Potawatomies, 20 or 30 
Muskoes or Creeks and some straglers from the Ottawas, 
Chippeways and other tribes in all perhaps from 6 to 800. 
If the disaffection extends to all the Tribes between the Illi- 
nois River and Lake Michigan, the number will be doubled, 
and however contemptable this force may seem, it is capable, 
from the nature of our frontier settlements of spreading 
slaughter and devastation to an immense extent. I am still 
of opinion however that the Indians will not dare to commence 
hostilities, unless the U. States should go to war with England, 
or appearances be so strong in favour of its being the case, 
that the emisaries of that power may think themselves justi- 
fiable in urging the Indians to immediate action. Under the 
influence of this opinion I have taken no extraordinary means 
for preparing the Militia for action, because at this season of 
the year, any interruption to the farmers is productive of 
great loss and any such steps taken by me would spread an 
alarm, that would greatly retard the emigration to this coun- 
try and perhaps induce many to move off that are already 
settled. I have however taken every step, which I thought 
likely to counteract the Prophet's designs and to obtain early 
information of the proceedings of the meeting which is about 
to take place. Mr. [John] Conner, the Delaware Interpreter, 
arrived a few days ago with a young Chief from the Delaware 
Towns. He informs me that a deputation from that tribe had 
been sent to the Indian Council, and that they were instructed 
to dissuade the other Tribes from listening to the Prophet. 
Conners will take up a speech from me to the Delawares, in 
which I have pointed out the enevitable destruction that awaits 
all these tribes which shall dare to take up the hatchet against 
their fathers, and the great danger that the friendly tribes 
would incur if war should be kindled, from the difficulty of 
discriminating friends from foes. I have desired the chiefs 
to send some faithful man after their deputies with fresh 
instructions which I have dictated and have promised to com- 
pensate the former for his trouble. I have also sent for the 
leading member of the Shaker Society (a religious sect of very 
extraordinary principles which you may have heard of) who 
resides about 20 miles from this place, with the intention of 
prevailing on him to take a speech to the Prophet. This 
scoundrel (the Prophet) affects to follow the Shaker prin- 
ciples in everything but the vow of celebacy and the above 



 

mentioned leader has assured me that he believes the Prophet 
to be under the same divine inspiration that he himself is (a 
circumstance by no means improbable) but that for reasons 
growing out of his situation as a savage he was still permitted, 
with his immediate followers, to cohabit with women.' 
I am respectfully, Sirs, your obt. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 23d May 1810 

Har. Pa. 295 

Sir: 

Since my letter of last week a gentleman arrived here di- 
rectly from Chicago. He informs me that the Indians were 
all quiet in that quarter and he supposes that the Prophet was 
rather losing ground than otherwise amongst the Indians of 
the Illinois River. This information will not cause me to 
relax my vigilance in watching the motions of the Prophet. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 
Sir your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble William Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 14 June 1810 

Har. Pa. 300-303 

Sir: 

Upon my return from an excursion to a distant part of the 
Territory on the 9th Instant I found the two letters which 
you did me the honor to write on the 10th ultimo.' Since my 

1. Shakertown, sixteen miles north of Vincennes was founded by religious en- 
thusiasts from Kentucky in 1805. It was a co-operative society, holding property in 
J forbidding marriage. 



Esarey. Indiana, II, 973 
1. These letters have not been found but Dawson, Harrismi, 139 gives the following 

quotation and substance from them : 

"In conformity with the recommendation of the Governor respecting a detachment 

of men, as well as the establishment of a post on the Wabash, he received a letter 

from the secretary at war, of which the following is the extract which relates to the 

subject : 

"If it shall be, in your judgment, necessary to establish a post on the Wabash, 



 

arrival I have received information fi'om various sources 
which has produced an entire conviction on my mind that 
the prophet is organizing a most extensive combination 
against the United States and that his schemes are rapidly- 
advancing to maturity. The particulars that have reached 
me I shall now proceed to detail. 

The circumstance in this affair which has surprised me 
most is the defection of the Hurons or Wyandots. This Tribe 
although inferior in number to most of the others have always 
had great influence on the Indian Councils. 

The other Tribes call them their Uncles and venerate them 
for their superior wisdom, valor and intelligence, to them the 
custody of the Great Belt which was the Symbol of Union 
between the Tribes in their late war with the United States 
was committed — as it was the original duplicate of the Treaty 
of Greenville. The Prophet knowing the great advantage he 
would derive from gaining over this Tribe to his interests 
attempted it and has succeeded. It appears that some short 
time since he sent to them a deputation expressing his sur- 
prise that the Wyandotts who had directed the councils of 
the other Tribes in the War and to whom was committed the 
care of the Belt which had united all the Tribes as well as 
the Treaty with the White people should sit still and see the 
property of all the Indians usurped by a pact. That he was 
desirous of seeing those Treaties to know what they contained. 
The Wyandots answered that they had preserved vdth care 
the belt which had formerly united all the Tribes as one na- 
tion that it has remained so long in their hands without an 
inquiry being made after it that they had supposed it was 
forgotten. They were glad however that it was at length 

and within the late purchase. I shall confide in the knowledge of the country, of the 
objects to be embraced, and of service, peculiar to Governor Harrison, to give such 
instructions to the commandinK officer as ay be necessary.' In another letter, of the 
same date, he informs him that "Captain Posey had been directed to move with a 
company, as full as the detachment at Newport, Ky. would admit, and. on his arrival 
at Vincennes, to report himself to the Governor.* And in a subsequent letter, July 5, 
he was infoi-med that 120 men, under the command of Captain Cross, were also descend- 
ing the Ohio from Pittsburgh. Their destination had been Bellefontaine, near St. 
Louis : but they had orders to halt at Newport, and were put at the disposal of the 
Governor, provided he might think their presence necessary at Vincennes. It was 
also stated, that a part of the Sixth regiment would be ordered to Pittsburgh, to be 
reinforced as circumstances might require : and that it was expected an accommodation 
would be effected between the government of the United States and that of Great 
Britain, as far as that hostilities were not to be apprehended. Captain Floyd was 
ordered to Vincennes, to take command of the troops on their arrival : he being repre- 
sented, by the secretary at war, as 'a brave and capable officer'." [See July 7, below] 

Dawson, Harriaon, 1S9 



 

called for, for their own parts they were tired of their situ- 
ation that they had nothing nearer their hearts than to see 
all the various tribes united again as one man. They looked 
upon everything that had been done since the Treaty of 
Greenville between the white people and Indians as good for 
nothing and that they would unite their exertions to the 
Prophet's to bring together all the Tribes and to get them to 
unite to put a stop to the encroachments of the white people 
and endeavour to recover what had been unjustly taken from 
them. That they had been driven back until they could go 
no further and that they had as well die where they were as 
to be driven upon other Indians who would probably attack 
them. This appears to have been the substance of the an- 
swer sent to the Prophet and which was immediately circu- 
lated through all the Tribes. The effect has been that those 
who were before indifferent or inimical to the view of the 
Prophet are now hastening to him from every direction. The 
Wyandots passed through the Miami village of Mississine- 
way 10 or 12 days ago on their way to the Prophet. At a 
conference with the Miami chiefs they produced the great 
Belt before spoken of and reproached the Miamis with having 
deserted their Indian Friends and united themselves with 
the White people. The Miamis were so intimidated that they 
consented to attend the meeting at the Prophets Town and 
have sent for the Weas to join them at Mississineway from 
whence they vdll proceed together to the Tippecanoe. A chief 
of the Weas has been just sent to me for the purpose of com- 
municating to me the object of their intended journey. It is 
from this chief who is entirely to be depended upon and two 
other persons of the Wea Tribe that the principal part of the 
above information is derived. 

A few nights ago an Indian [Grosble] of the Piankeshaw 
Tribe came to the House of Mr. [Touissant] Dubois (a French 
Gentleman who lives about a mile above the Town) after the 
family had retired to bed and told him that he had something 
of importance to communicate to him which was by all means 
to remove from his present residence and retire over the Mis- 
sissippi as he might soon expect troublesome times if he re- 
mained where he was. 

The old Piankeshaw chief Grosbles who is particularly at- 
tached to the United States and personally to myself came to me 
yesterday and asked my permission to remove over the Missis- 



 

sippi alledging that he heard amongst the Indians nothing 
but the news of War and as he intended to take no part in 
it he wished to be out of danger. Today he has informed me 
that the Prophet had actually formed a plan to surprise this 
Town. He intends in the guise of friendship to come here 
with a large body of men that 4 or 5 would be assigned to 
each house and himself with 12 or 15 would enter mine and 
having destroyed one a signal would be given by a person 
posted for that purpose to commence the Massacre in the 
town. This fellow has boasted that he would follow the foot- 
steps of the Great Pontiac. 

Brouillette is still at the Prophets Town the information 
that he has given me is that there are as far as he can ascer- 
tain about 3,000 men within 30 miles of the Prophets Town, 
that they are constantly councilling but that they are very 
secret in their proceedings. He has however been informed 
by his friends that it is determined at least to prevent the 
surveyors from surveying lines west of the Wabash. 

I am still of opinion that the British are the real authors 
of these movements on the part of the Indians and I think 
it probable that if our differences are speedily arranged with 
that power (an event which appears from the last papers 
received here as remote as ever) that we shall have no In- 
dian War. But I think it not impossible for the purpose of 
increasing our difficulties and embarrassments that corrupt 
Government may have urged the Indians to commence hos- 
tilities altho they have no intention of going to War them- 
selves. It is very certain that a large party amongst the 
Indians are ripe for it and many others only restrained by 
fear. I anticipate here a question from you Sir, "As the 
United States have upon all occasions manifested the strictest 
justice in their transactions with the Indians how then does 
it happen that they are not sensible of this and that they 
should be governed by a power which has so often deceived 
them and from whose intrigues, and bad ait'ice they have 
formerly suffered as much?" My answer is that there is 
nothing about which nations are more divided than the causes 
of their misfortunes. We frequently find them attributed to 
causes the most opposite. The Indians of this country are 
in fact miserable. The game which was formerly so abundant 
is now so scarce as barely to afford subsistance to the most 



 

active hunters. The greater part of each tribe are half the 
year in a state of starvation and astonishing as it may seem 
these remote savages have felt their full share of the mis- 
fortunes which the trouble in Europe have brought upon 
■^he greater part of the world. The exclusion of the English 
from the continent of Europe where they were accustomed 
to dispose of the greater part of the peltries imported from 
Canada has reduced the price of those articles almost to 
nothing. The Indian can scarcely procure for them the nec- 
essary ammunition and they are often induced to forego the 
purchase of this necessary article to gratify their passion for 
whisky. Finding themselves thus destitute and miserable is 
it surprising that their misfortunes were produced by the ex- 
tension of the American settlements? A portion of the en- 
lightened American people have been taught to believe by the 
emisaries of the same government that the embarrassments 
we labour under have grown out of the measures of our own 
Government rather than the unjust and inequitous decrees of 
their master. Is it wonderful then that ignorant half starved 
savages have been seduced by men who so well understand 
the arts of deception? 

Har. Pa. 296-299 incl. 

June 15th. A boat which I sent up the Wabash with the 
annuity salt for the Indians returned this day. The person 
who had charge of her reports to me that the Prophet and 
the Kickapoos who are with him refused to receive that which 
he was directed to deliver to them. On his way up he was 
directed by the Prophet to leave the salt on the bank of the 
River as he could not determine whether he would receive it 
or not until his Brother the War Chief whom he had sent to 
Detroit and whom he daily expected should arrive. Upon the 
return of the boat the master was directed to take the salt 
on board as they had determined to have nothing to do with 
it. Whilst the hands were rolling in the barrels the brother 
of the Prophet seized the master and several others by the 
hair and shook them violently asking whether they were 
Americans. They were all young Frenchmen. They insulted 
Mr. Brouillette at the same time calling him an American 
Dog and a Young Putawatomie Chief directed some of his 
men to plunder his house which they immediately did of all 
his provisions, tobacco etc. Brouillette is not known as an 



 

agent of mine by the Indians. He keeps a few articles of 
trade to disguise his real character.- The boatmen inform 
me that the conduct of the above mentioned Potawatomi was 
highly displeasing to the greater part of his Tribe and that 
the chief Winamac^ is an open and avowed friend of the 
United States. He is now on his way to this place. I have 
an entire confidence in his integrity and attachment and will 
take care to encourage it. 

This day a party of lowas twenty in number arrived here — 
they parted between this and the Illinois River with a large 
number of Sac's, Foxes and Winebagos amounting they say 
to eleven hundred- — all going to the Prophet and to the British, 
they say also that the Marpack [or Main Poc] the Pota- 
watomie chief of the Illinois River has taken the same direc- 
tion with his people. 

Notwithstanding the above strong symptoms of hostile dis- 
position upon the part of the Indians I think it yet possible 
to bring the council about to be held at the Prophet's town 
to a favorable result and you may rely upon it Sir that I 
shall leave no means untried which my knowledge of the 
Indian Character and of the Individual Chiefs shall suggests 
as having that tendency. I know that all the chiefs of the 
Miamis, Delawares, Weas and a majority of the Potawatomies 
are as inimical to the Prophet and his projects as they are 
friendly to the United States. But as it is much easier to 
persuade a savage to do mischief than to dissuade him from 
it, I fear that the bold and popular eloquence of that artful 
scoundi-el promising them a rich harvest of blood and plunder 
from our defenceless frontiers may seduce the young men 
from their duty to their chiefs and that the latter seeing 
opposition fruitless may be induced to swim vdth the cur- 
rent. Knowing that in a case of this kind savages are only 
operated upon by their fears I shall use with them a very 
decisive language pointing out the advantages of peace and 

2. The Prophet contended to Dubois that he was not unfriendly to the Americans 
but that he was continually misrepresented by drunken Indians at Vincennes. In 
further conversation he declared the Indians had been robbed of all their lands, and 
that no land cession was valid unless approved by all the tribe ; that he had been 
directed by the great spirit to settle at the mouth of the Tippecanoe, and there collect 
all the Indians. 

Dillon. Indiana, HO 

3. Winamac wap a Potawattomie chief. There seems to have been two of the 
same name, one friendly to and the other hostile to the United States. The one 
hostile, was killed by Logan. Nov. 22. 18T2 ; the other died in 1821. It is from the 
latter the town of Winamac take.s its name. 



 

the inevitable destruction which war with the United States 
will bring upon them. 

Col. [Francis] Vigo a French Gentleman who has resided 
in this country upwards of thirty years and whom I have be- 
fore advantageously employed in missions of this kind will 
set out immediately for the Miami Village of Mississineawy 
where there will be a meeting of the three Tribes which bear 
the General appelation of Miamis previously to their going 
to the Prophet. The object is to ascertain what impression 
has been made upon them by the Wyandots in favor of the 
Prophet's schemes and to strengthen their fidelity towards 
the United States. As soon as I hear that the Indians have 
generally collected at the Prophets I shall send them a speech 
such as I think calculated to reassure our friends and intimi- 
date those that are hostile. In the mean time I shall spare 
no pains or reasonable expense to gain correct information. 

June 19th. The greater part of the information contained 
above has hitherto been communicated to two or three con- 
fidential persons only as I was extremely averse to create any 
alarm until the necessity for it should appear unequivocal, 
but since the return of the salt boat the report of the crew 
of the number of Indians collected around the Prophet and 
the insolence of their conduct has created so much appre- 
hension upon the part of the citizens that I deemed it ad- 
visable to assemble the public officers the merchants and other 
respectable citizens to take their advice upon the subject of 
putting the country in a state of defence. To these gentle- 
men the danger appeared so imminent that they unanimously 
urged and advised me to call two companies into actual serv- 
ice and to put all the rest of the Militia upon the alert — this 
has accordingly been done and alarm posts established and 
such other measures adopted as the occasion called for and 
my means would allow. The inconvenience to the men of 
calling them out at the season of approaching harvest ^vill 
be considered and the consideration and the expense which 
will attend the measure would have prevented me from adopt- 
ing it if I had the least room to doubt the correctness of the 
information I have received of the hostile designs of the 
Prophet and particularly his having marked out the place as 
the first object of his attack. And it is by no means im- 
probable that some display of Military preparation here would 
have no inconsiderable effect upon the proceedings of the 



 

council at Tepaconoe. Altho no people are more brave than 
the Indians when in actual danger like all undisciplined war- 
riors collected together in large bodies they are subject to 
unaccountable paroxysms of terror the effect of which no rea- 
son or argument can control whilst increasing their deter- 
mination to receive or reject the propositions of the Prophet 
a sensation of this sort ought to be easily executed by a sim- 
ultaneous feint of the militia from some points on the Ohio 
and the Great Miami and from this place which would very 
probably break up the meeting. I have it not in my power 
to make those movements but I will contrive to have a report 
circulated at a proper moment that troops are actually as- 
sembling at those points and it may perhaps produce as much 
effect as if it were actually the case. 

Perhaps Sir from the station I occupy it may be expected 
from me that I should give some opinion of the steps proper 
to be taken if war with the Indians should actually take place. 
It appears to me all important then to act with the utmost 
vigor in the commencement of such war when the first act 
of hostility takes place. I am persuaded that several of the 
Tribes and a number of individuals of those who are actually 
engaged in it will be opposed to it and many more will be 
politic enough to keep in the back ground for a while to ob- 
serve its progress. Any extraordinary success on the part 
of the hostile Indians would have the certain effect of 
strengthening their party and discouraging our friends and 
a confederacy which in the commencement would be feeble 
and discordant would become cemented and extended to a 
degree that would make it a work of time and difficulty for 
us to crush. The Militia of the Western country acting on 
Horseback might in the course of a very few weeks sweep the 
whole hostile district from the Wabash to the Illinois River 
and Lake Michigan of every enemy. I say on horseback, for 
celerity of movement is essentially necessary to their success. 
The Militia of this section of the Union are entirely without 
discipline and vastly inferior to what they were at the close 
of the late Indian war. In an encounter with the Indians 
they would inevitably be beaten unless greatly superior in 
numbers but from our vicinity to the Indian towns and our 
intimate knowledge of the country the former might be easily 
surprised by mounted infantry. 



 

Capt. Posey^ has not yet arrived nor have I indeed heard 
of his leaving Cincinnati. An Eastern mail arrives at Louis- 
ville Kentucky twice a week to this place but once a week. 
Should anything very interesting occur in two or three days 
I will send a special express to Louisville to deposit a letter 
which shall contain it, in the office at that place. 

I have the honor to be with greatest respect 
Sir your Humbl Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esq. Secy, of War 

Johnson to Harrison 

Fort Wayne, June 24, 1810 

Dawson, Harrison, H-1 

Dear Sir, 

A person just arrived who, it appears, has lost himself on 
his route to Vincennes, affords me an opportunity of an- 
nouncing to you my return to this post. I was delayed on 
my journey, in attendting to the transportation of the public 
goods; and on my arrival in the state of Ohio, I had learned 
that the prophet's brother had lately been at work among the 
Shawanese on the Au-glaize, and, among other things, had 
burned your letter delivered to the chiefs at this place last 
fall. I accordingly took Wapaghkonetta [Ohio] in my route 
home, assembled the chiefs, and demanded the reason why 
they had suffered such an improper act to be committed at 
their door. They disavowed all agency in the transaction; 
and their entire disapprobation of the prophet's conduct, and 
concurring circumstances, satisfied me that they were sincere. 
The white persons at the town, informed me that not one of 
the chiefs would go into council with the prophet's brother, 
and that it was a preacher, named Riddle, who took the let- 
ter, to have it interpreted, and that the brother of the prophet 
took it from his hand, and threw it into the fire; declaring, 
that if Governor Harrison was there, he would serve him so. 
He told the Indians that the white people and the Govern- 
ment were deceiving them, and that, for his part, he never 

4. Major Thornton Posey was a membei 
in the regular army from Ky.. in May 1S08 i 
He arrived at Vincennes, July 5. 1810. 



 

would believe them, or put any confidence in them— that he 
never would be quiet until he effected his purpose, and that, 
if he was dead, the cause would not die with him. He urged 
the Indians to move off to the Mississippi with him, and that 
there he would assemble his forces. All his arguments seemed 
to be bottomed on the prospect of hostilities against our peo- 
ple. He made no impression on the Shawanese, and went 
away much dissatisfied at their not coming into his views. I 
consider them among our best friends. I indirectly encour- 
aged their emigration westward, and told them that their 
annuity should follow them. They appear determined to re- 
main, and are much attached to the town and the improve- 
ments, which are considerable. 

I am very sorry that I was not here when Mr. O'Neille 
passed. I agree, from all the information I can collect, that 
the prophet is endeavoring to form a combination among the 
Indians hostile to us. I shall be on the alert, and will take 
special care to apprise you of everything that may be mate- 
rial, until the crisis passes away. The Indians, in any num- 
bers, you know, cannot subsist long in one place. We may, 
therefore, calculate on hearing of their dispersing soon, or 
doing something worse. Hendricks [a Delaware chief] writes 
that a deputation from White river is gone to the prophet, 
and he thinks it will have the desired effect. I hope to hear 
the result soon. If this incendiary is not silenced in an 
amicable manner, I think forbearance on our part is no longer 
prudent. It is not for me to say what steps ought to be taken ; 
but one thing is certain ; if he is not put down soon, some 
district of our country will receive a blow. The information 
contained in the enclosed paper, procured from my inter- 
preter's wife [Mrs. Abraham Ash], although it is in some 
respects improbable, taken in connection with the prophet's 
conduct, deserves some consideration. It is sent to you as 
we received it. There is no possible inducement with the 
woman to contrive a falsehood. 

I have read your communication on the subject of the In- 
dians going to the seat of government, and shall pay particu- 
lar attention to it. I have seen none of the chiefs since my 
return, but I learn that many of them intend coming in when 
they understand I am here. I have sent for the Turtle, but 
he is unwell. I believe no difficulties exist with the Miamis, 
on the subject of the treaty with the Kickapoos, except with 



 

the Turtle; and that originated, like all other mischiefs of 

the kind, with [Wells]. I will converse with the Turtle 

on the subject, and ascertain his objections. I do not ap- 
prehend much difficulty with him ; I have money to pay him 
[his annuity]. I will be answerable, that not another soul 

of the Miamis makes a single objection, if [Wells] lets 

them alone. I shall, in future, cherish the Mississinaway 
chiefs; for there is our strong hold. The Turtle is con- 
temptible, beyond description, in the eyes of the Indians. I 
shall not suffer him to go to the President, nor the Five 
Medals either. They have been there too often already. If 
the deputation goes at all, it must late in the season, as the 
President during the warm weather, will be at his seat in 
Virginia, and the secretary of war probably in Massachu- 
setts. I will have time enough to write you again on this 
subject. 

I think you will have to give up all idea of taking up 

[Wells] again. . He is too unprincipled to be employed any 
where, except as an interpreter, and under your own eye, 
where you might watch him. I could detail to you a thou- 
sand instances of his total disregard of every thing that is 
held sacred by honest and honorable men. Admitting he was 
restored here again (which in my opinion never can take 
place) he would be useless to you and the government; for 
the latter never would put any confidence in his representa- 
tions, and the public interest would thereby suffer. He has 
so long travelled in the crooked, miiy paths of intrigue and 
deception, that he never could be made to retrace his steps, 
and pursue a straight, fair, and honorable course, such as 
might be creditable to himself and useful to his country. My 
opinion of him is made up from a long residence at this post, 
and an intimate knowledge of his character, both public and 
private. I think I know him as well as any man can know 
him, and it is my decided opinion, that he will never suit 
your purposes here; and the sooner all hope of his re-estab- 
lishment is at an end, it will be the better; for he is becoming 
a pest here, and will move off if he finds he cannot be rein- 
stated. 

I have the honor to remain, with very great respect, your 
excellency's most obedient servant. 

John Johnson 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 26th June 1810 

Har. Pa. SOi-310 

Sir: 

Since my letter by the last mail was written a deputation 
of Potawatomies headed by the chief Winamac arrived here, 
being sent to inform me of the decision of a council lately held 
[at Parc-au-Vache] near St. Joseph of Lake Michigan which 
was attended by all the Lidians of that quarter and by the 
deputies of the Delaware Tribe; the object of whose mission I 
mentioned to you in my letter of the 15th ultimo. It appears 
that the last mentioned tribe have faithfully performed their 
duty to the United States and their promises to me. At the 
council above mentioned they made the most forcible repre- 
sentations against the schemes of the Prophet and succeeded 
entii-ely in detaching them from his interest. They do not 
deny their hostile intentions and acknowledge that they had 
received the Tomahawk but that they had bury'd it on the 
28th ultimo never more to be taken up. Winamac was also 
directed to inform me of all they knew of the Prophets plan. 
Detroit, Fort Wayne Chicago, St. Louis and this place were 
to have been surprised and every exertion made to engage all 
the Tribes upon the Mississippi to join in the confederacy. I 
cannot hear that any principal chiefs of the Fotawatomies 
(sachems or village chiefs) have given any countenance to the 
Prophet — his supporters are generally confined (amongst all 
the Tribes) to the war chiefs, or those who are heads of small 
bands. I cannot Sir give you a better idea of the character 
of this man (the Prophet) than the following anecdote will 
convey, and which I am assured by Winamac is strictly true. 
He proposed not long since to the young men to murder the 
principal chiefs of all the Tribes, observing that their hands 
would never be united, until this was effected ; that these were 
the men who sold their lands, and who would prevent them 
from opposing the encroachments of the white people. I am 
at a loss which most to admire the consummate villany of the 
scheme or its extreme artfulness. If a few of the old chiefs 
such as the Pi'ophet could select were taken from each Tribe, 
the rest could easily be persuaded to undertake any enterprise 
which that consummate scoundrel could suggest. An Iowa 
Indian (now here) informs me that two years ago this sum- 



 

mer, an agent from the British, arrived at the Prophets Town 
and in his presence delivered the message, with which he was 
charged — the substance of it was to urge the Prophet to unite 
as many Tribes as he could, against the United States, but not 
to commence hostilities, until they gave the signal — from this 
man and others of his nation, I learn that the Prophet has been 
constantly soliciting their own and others Tribes of the Mis- 
sissippi to join him against the United States. He repre- 
sented to them, that the white peoples had been constantly 
encroaching upon the Indians, continually driving them back 
that those who had suffered most were determined to make 
a stand and go no farther, and that the distant tribes who 
had not yet lost their lands, ought to assist those who had, or 
they would shortly experience a similar fate — that he was 
commissioned by the Great Spirit of the Indians (who was 
himself an Indian and different from the Great Spirit of the 
Whites) to tell them this and to tell them, that he would de- 
stroy them unless they listened to him. Winamac passed 
through the Prophets Town, on his way hither ; the latter was 
very much enraged at the decision of the council near St. 
Josephs and made an attempt to get Winamac assassinated — 
he declared too that altho' he was abandoned by so many of 
his followers, he had still enough left to carry his designs into 
execution, but that it would take a longer time to effect them. 
I have dispatch'd Col. [Francis] Vigo to the Miamis and a 
Mr. [Touissant] Dubois another french gentleman to the 
Prophet — the latter will I expect with his usual address deny 
all hostile intentions. His declaration to Winamac I take to 
be one of those ebullitions of passion in which I know he fre- 
quently indulges himself. Winamac says that he will now 
endeavour to raise the southern Indians, the Choctaws and 
Creeks, particularly (the Prophet's mother was a Creek) , and 
so strong does he suppose his grounds for this opinion to be, 
that he has declared that if the Prophet does not go to south- 
ward sometime this summer, that I may then consider him 
(Winamac) as a man of no truth. I was Sir for a long time 
unable to persuade myself that there was any probability of a 
war between the United States and the Indian Tribes on this 
frontier. I supposed that the latter had suffer'd too severely 
in their former attempts, to be again willing to measure their 
strength with a people, whose numbers were so immensely su- 



 

perior to their own and who had it in their power to deprive 
them of the supply of arms and ammunition, and of many 
other articles, which habit had render'd in a great measure 
necessary. I am now however perfectly convinced that war 
was not only thought of, but that it would have been actually 
commenced, but for the active interposition of the Delaware 
Tribe, which having suffer'd more than any other in the for- 
mer wars, were better able to appreciate the evils that a re- 
commencement of hostilities will bring upon them. (I have as 
little doubt that the scheme originated with the British and 
that the Prophet is inspired by the superintendent of Indian 
affairs for upper Canada, rather than the Great Spirit, from 
whom he pretends to derive his authority.) I do not however 
believe that it was their intention that the Indians should com- 
mence hostilities, but in the event of war between their nation 
and the United States. But it is probable that having given 
the impulse, they have found it difficult to regulate the after 
movements of their tawny allies. However desperate might 
be the circumstances under which the Indians would com- 
mence a war with the United States, history abounds with in- 
stances of its being undertaken under auspices even more sin- 
ister and untoward. I have before had the honour to inform 
you that the Indians of this country were certainly more 
miserable than they have ever been from the difficulty of pro- 
curing provisions, that they are in fact half starved. Is it 
surprising that they should view their own situation with dis- 
content, and ours with envy and jealousy, and that this should 
ripen into hatred. The Prophet has told them that the Great 
Spirit did not mean that the white and red people should live 
near each other, that the former poison'd the land and pre- 
vented it from producing the things necessary for their sub- 
sistance. Under that circumstance and by such artifices, sav- 
ages may be induced to adopt any measures however desperate 
which promises to better their conditions. The situation of 
the Delawares and Miamis is rather better than that of other 
tribes. 

Capt. [Thornton] Posey has not arrived but every moment 
expected, as he was near the mouth of the Wabash, more than 
a week ago, I shall for the present recommend his taking 
possession of the old Garrison and rendering it defensible by 
the erection of a blockhouse of rough timber and three lines of 
pickets, with the most convenient timber. These improve- 



 

ments will cost little, besides the labour of the men, there 
being now at the Garrison a waggon and two oxen. 

The two companies of Militia, which I have order'd out were 
muster'd on the 25th Inst and are now in this place. An En- 
sign of 16 men will march today for Busseron, the upper 
settlement of this country. I do not calculate on keeping these 
men in service longer than the return of Mr. Dubois unless the 
accounts brought by him should be very different from what I 
expect them to be. The report of this favourable change in 
the disposition of some the tribes being entirely derived from 
Indians I do not think it proper to release any military prepa- 
ration until it is confirmed by other evidence. 

I have the Honour to be with the greatest respect Sir yr. 
Humble St. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. WiLLM. EUSTIS Esquire Secrty of War 

Brouillette to Harrison 

June 30, 1810 
Indiana Territory ^"''- ^"- ■^"' ■^^'' 

Knox County. Set. 

Before the undersigned a Justice of the Peace in and for 
said County personally came Captain Michal Brouillette who 
being first duly sworn on the Holy Evangelist of Almighty 
God deposeth and saith that agreeably to the instructions of 
the Governor he has remained at the Prophets Town since 
about the 12th May last [1809] until the 26th of this instant 
[June 26, 1810] that in that time there were almost daily coun- 
cils held, the proceedings of which' were kept as secret as pos- 
sible. That his friends amongst the Indians frequently in- 
formed him that the Prophet was not friendly to the United 
States and particularly that he was very much exasperated 
at the cession of Lands made last winter. That they had 
agreed that the Tract on the N. west side of the Wabash 
should not be surveyed. That a Potawatomie Chief [Wina- 
mac] who was very friendly to the United States told him 
that the Prophet certainly intended to make a stroke on the 
white people and when asked where he intended to strike he 
pointed towards Vincennes. That several of the Indians have 
expressed a wish that the French people should separate from 



 

the Americans at Vincennes and settle on the opposite bank of 
the Wabash. That the affairs of the Prophet received a great 
shock at the decision of the council held the latter end of last 
month at Park a Vach' near St. Josephs of Lake Michigan 
where the tribes that were assembled unanimously agreed not 
to go to war with the United States. That another deputa- 
tion arrived from the Delaware Tribe on the 23d of this in- 
stant with a long speech to the Prophet calculated to deter 
him from going to war, That the Prophet was much exasper- 
ated at it and told him (Brouillette) that the speech was made 
by that bad man at Vincennes meaning Gov. Harrison, That 
he is satisfied the Prophet has constant intercourse with some 
person or persons in or at or about Vincennes as he knows 
everything almost that transpires. He knew what informa- 
tion the Governor had received from the wife of [Abraham] 
Ash the Interpreter at Fort Wayne since the defection of so 
many of his followers he now denies that his hostility was 
against the United States but attributes his being charged 
with it to the Governor. He threatened to challenge him to 
fight him in single combat and that he will go on to the seat 
of government to get him removed. This deponant thinks 
that those Ideas must have been put into his head by some 
white man ; He further says that the account of the Prophets 
having 3000 men under his controul which he sent to the Gov- 
ernor was received from the Prophet himself and probably 
exaggerated, that he does not suppose that he now has more 
than 650 warriors. That he sincerely believes that the hostile 
disposition of the Prophet is to the United States has not been 
abandoned but that he does not think he will go to war unless 
he can prevail on the tribes which have fallen off from him 
again to unite. That the principal obsticle to this is the Pota- 
watomie chief Winimac and the Delaware Tribe that the for- 
mer is in great danger of being assassinated for his attach- 
ment to the United States. That he is incessantly travelling 
round amongst the Indians to keep them quiet. That the 
Prophets people are all well armed but he thinks they were 
deficient in ammunition. / jx 

Michel Brouillet 

1. Pare aux Vaches or Parkovash was the Indian name for the open vales or "OaK 
openings" near the south bend of the St. Joseph. It was a favorite resort of the 
buffaloes, especially during the hot summer time. It was also famous for the number 
of deer and elk that resorted there from the prairies to the west. 



 

Sworn to and subscribed before me a justice of the peace in and 
for the county of Knox this 30th day of June, 1810. 

(Sd) Wm. Prince. 
A True Copy. 

William H. Harrison. 



Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department July 3d, 1810 

Hm: Pa. 7 
His Excelcy. Gov. Harrison. Sir 

The enclosed Letter to Doctor [Jacob Kuy] KendalP is 
transmitted to your Excellency on the presumption that he 
will enter immediately on duty by attending the Garrison at 
Vincennes, or such other Post as may be occupied on the Wa- 
bash. Should there exist in your opinion any proper objection 
to its delivery, the Letter of Appointment may be returned; 
and on the Recommendation of your Excellency, another Gen- 
tleman will be nominated. 

I am, &c. &c. &c. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 4th July 1810 

Har. Pa. S11-3H 

Sir: 

Mr. [Michael] Brouillette arrived here from the Prophets 
town on the 1st Instant and Mr. [Touissant] Dubois yester- 
day. I have the honor to enclose you a copy of the dsposition 
of the former. [See June 30, 1810, supra] Mr. Dubois was 
received by the Prophet with much apparent satisfaction. He 
told him that he had been sent by me to know what was the 
reason of his hostile preparations and enmity to the United 
States, that his conduct had excited so much alarm that the 
warriors both here and in Kentucky were preparing them- 
selves for service and that a detachment of Regular Troops 
were actually on their way to Vincennes, but that he was di- 
rected to tell him that these preparations were only intended 
for defence and that no attempt whatever would be made 

1. Dr. Jacob Kuy Kendall was of a Dutch family widely represented in the early 
history of the Ohio valley. Jacob Kuykendall was recommended by Harrison for the 
Leffislative council in 1805, and later held various appointive offices. The name soon 
came to be written Kuykendall. 



 

against him until his disposition to commit hostilities could 
no longer be doubted. The Prophet denies most strenuously 
that he intended to go to war with the white people and inti- 
mated that the Delawares and other Indians had been bribed 
with whisky by me to accuse him. That it was by the ex- 
press order of the Great Spirit that he had fixed himself there 
and that he was likewise ordered to assemble as many Indians 
as he could collect at that spot. When pressed by Mr. Dubois 
to state the grounds of his complaint if he had any against the 
United States he said that the Indians had been cheated of 
their lands and that no sale was good unless made by all the 
Tribes. He was told that the Government would listen to any 
statement he would make that it would be as well for him per- 
haps to go to Vincennes and see the Governor. This, how- 
ever, was declined alledging that he had been ill treated when 
there before.' 

Mr. Dubois found at the Prophets Town some old friends of 
his of the late Kickapoo Tribe with whom he had much con- 
versation. They appeared to him to be alarmed and to regret 
their having joined the Prophet. He asked them whether the 
Prophet really had a disposition to go to War with the United 
States. They said that they had long known that War was 
his intention but they were never informed whether he de- 
signed to attack the United States or the Osage nation. Mr. 
Dubois passed through the Wea and part of the Eel river 
Tribes. They were all under the impression that there would 
be a war and were apprehensive that they might be involved 
in it. Mr. Dubois however agrees with me in opinion that at 
present there is no danger, the defection of the Chippeawas 
and Ottawas and Potawatomies at the Council held at the 
Parke a Vache has for the present entirely frustrated the 
Prophet's designs. He fliinks too as Mr. Brouillette that the 
Chief Winemac will be assassinated by the Prophet partly for 
the active part he has taken against them. However painful 
it may be to entertain such an opinion I am nevertheless con- 
vinced of the fact that there is a constant communication be- 
tween some persons in this place and the Prophet and altho 
they may not have urged him to make war upon the United 
States they foment his discontent and encourage him to set 



The Prophet was 


in Vincen 


nes in August 


1808 r 


emainins a week, and again 


sunmer of 1809. 








Dillon. Indiana. 1,28. iSO 



 

up pretentions which the policy of our Government has al- 
ways opposed and which never can be admitted without shut- 
ting the door to every future extinguishment of Title upon 
any terms that would be beneficial to our Treasury. The sub- 
ject of allowing the Indians of this country to consider all 
their lands as common property has been frequently and 
largely discussed in my communications with your predecessor 
and in a personal correspondence with the late President. The 
Treaties made by me last fall were concluded upon principles 
as liberal towards the Indians as my knowledge of the views 
and opinions of the Government would allow. For altho great 
latitude of discretion has always been given me I knew that 
the opinion of Mr. Jefferson on the subject went so far as to 
assert a claim of the United States lands paramount to all 
extinguished or decayed Tribes to the exclusion of all recent 
settlers. Upon this principle the Miami nation are the only 
rightful claimants of all the unpurchased lands from the Ohio 
to the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers. But Sir the President 
may rest assured that the complaints of injury with regard to 
the sale of lands is a mere pretence suggested to the Prophet 
by British partisans and emisaries. The parties to the late 
Treaty were never better satisfied than they are at this mo- 
ment, with the exception of the Kickapoos. Mr. Dubois thinks 
that they really repent of having made sale of the small tract 
above the mouth of Raccoon Creek and that a relinquishment 
of it would tend to alienate them from the Prophet. This is 
a step which I have informed him will never be taken by the 
Government — but there may be great propriety in suffering 
them to occupy it for some years. On this subject and some 
others which I deem important, I shall do myself the honor 
to make you a further communication by the next mail. 

Captain [Thornton] Posey has not yet arrived; as soon as 
he comes I shall dismiss the two companies of Militia. 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect Sir 
Your Humble Servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. WILLIAM EUSTES, Esq. Secretary of War 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, July 7th, 1810 

Ha,: Pa. 8-9 

Gen. W. H. Harrison, Sir, 

On the 5th instant, I had the honor to inform your Excel- 
lency that [Capt. Thornton] Posey's Company was at Louis- 
ville on the 16th of June, and that Capt. [Joseph] Crosse with 
a Detachment of one hundred and twenty men, descending the 
Ohio for Belle Fontaine near St. Louis, had been ordered to 
halt at Newport, Kentucky, and await your orders in case you 
should deem it necessary to employ them. Captain [George 
Rogers Clark] Floyd- who is represented to be a brave & 
capable Officer, has likewise been ordered to repair to Vin- 
cennes (from Louisville) & Report himself for Duty. From 
his character it is presumed he will be useful in the command 
of the Troops to which his Rank will entitle him. 

A part of the 6th Regt. at Carlisle is also ordered to Pitts- 
burg, from whence they will move as circumstances may re- 
quire. 

I am, &c. &c. &c. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 10th July 1810 

Har. Pa. 278-283 

Sir: 

The Invoice of Wea Annuities herewith enclosed for the 
year 1799 with the certificate of William Wells and Captn. 
[John] Whistler^ then commandant at Fort Wayne were put 
into my hands a short time since by a young Wea Chief with 
a letter from Wells stating that the deficiency mentioned in 
the certificate had never been made up to the Tribe. As the 
circumstance occurred before the conunencement of my ad- 

1. Joseph Cross was born in Mass., enlisted in the artillery Feb. 16, 1801 ; captain 
Nov. 7, 1808 ; dropped from ai-my May 20, 1813. 

2. George Rogers Clark Floyd was a native of Ky. Capt. Seventh Inf. May 3, 
1808 : major Fourth Inf. Nov. 30, 1810 ; Lieut. Col. Seventh Inf., Aug. 26, 1812 : re- 
signed Apr. 30, 1813. 

1. Major John Whistler was a British soldier under Burgoyne when he " sur- 
rendered at Saratoga. After returning to England he eloped with a neighbor's daughter 
and came to Md. in 1790; served with St. Clair and Wayne; helped build Fort Wayne. 
In 1803 he established Fort Dearborn (Chicago) ; commanded at Fort Wayne 1814-1816; 
transferred to St. Charles, 1817. 

Grlswold, Fort Wayne, i3S 



 

ministration I could only promise the Indians to transmit the 
papers to you for your decision. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your Humble 
Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 

To the Honble. William Eustis Esq. Secy of War 

Fort Wayne June 17th 1800. We certify that the Weas 
is deficient in eight pairs of Roos Blankets, one piece of 
Striped Coating, of their annuities for the year 1799. thus 
left by the said nation, nine pairs of Roos Blankets dammiged 
also one two and half point Blanket (in charge of Capt. Wells 
Indian Agent) not fit to receive for the aforesaid year. 

J. Whistler Capt. 

W. Wells agent of Indian Affairs 

Invoice sundry Merchandise forwarded per John Harris 
Keeper of Military Supplies per Randall Wilson Waggoner, 
and addressed To Major Isaac Craig, Pittsburgh, to be held by 
him subject to the Orders of the Secretary of War, named and 
numbered as per margin, viz. — 

Philadelphia 24th April 1799 

U. S. WEA annuity FOR 1799 
Bale No. 1 — 10 pieces Blue Strands, viz. — 
No. 474, 20% yd. 
No. 475, 21% yd. 

No. 476, 21 yd. 63 yd.@3/- £9 9 

No. 477, 211/2 yd. 
No. 478, 20% yd. 
No. 479, 20 yd. 
No. 480, 20% yd. 

.No. 481, 20 yd. IO2V2 yd.@?4 17 1 8 

No. 482, 22 yd. 

No. 483, 20% yd. 42%yd.@3/l 7 9 7 

£34 3 
Advance 125 42 10 3 % 

£76 10 6% $204.08 
Bale No. 2—1 piece, 21/2 pr. Blankets— 

17 Bkt.@9s/5% £. . 14 5% 

Advance 115 5 8 7y2 10 3 1 $27.88 

1 piece, 14 Blkts 1 21.46 



 

Postage .06 

17 pairs Rose Blankets@36/ casing 81.60 

51/2 yd. Wrapping@18CH, 2V2th Rope@25c 1.61 



$131.81 
Bale No. 3 — 4 pieces Grey Coating, viz. — 
No. 705, 26% yd. 
No. 250, 25 yd. 
No. 109, 27 yd. 

No...., 27 yd. 105% yd.@3/6 £18 8 41/2 

2 pieces stripe Do., No. 1021 and 1022, 

481^ yd.@3/6 8 9 9 

26 18 11/2 
Deduct 5 P. C 1 6 10% 

25 11 2% 
Advance Cent 25 11 2% 

£51 2 5% $136.33 
9V2 pieces Indian Chintz, 111/2 yd. ea.@20 ds. 24.27 

1 piece Mack pulicat Hdfs., 10 Hof 2.621/^ 

3% yd. Wrapping@18th, 1% Hs. Rope@25c 1.05 



$164.27% 

Amount Dollars $500.16 V2 

Errors Excepted, JNO C. HARRIS Keeper Military Stores 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, July 11th, 1810 

Har. Pa. 10 

His Excellcy. Govr. HARRISON. Sir ; 

I have the honor to acknowledge the Receipt of your Excel- 
lency's Letter of the 26th June by which it appears that the 
celebrated Personage, "the Prophet", will not be able to excite 
the Indians to acts of Hostility against the United States. 

Captain [Joseph] Cross, who had orders to halt at Newport, 
Kentucky & to await your orders in case of emergency, will 
now be directed to proceed on his route to St. Louis as orig- 
inally instructed. The Company under Capt. [Thornton] 
Posey, will remain at Vincennes until further orders. 

I am, &c. &c. &c. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 11th July 1810 

Har. Pa. 317-321 

Sm: 

Since I had the honor to write you on the 4th Inst. I have 
received a letter from Mr. [John] Johnston the Indian agent 
at Fort Wayne containing infoi'mation on the subject of the 
hostile combination of Indians against the United States 
which agrees almost in every particular with that which I 
had received at this place. Confonnably to his instructions 
I presume that Mr. Johnston has transmitted to you a dupli- 
cate of his communication to me. 

I fear however that I shall soon have to announce to you 
proofs of the hostility of the Prophet and his followers which 
will be more convincing than all that has been hitherto for- 
warded, even if that which I am now about to relate should 
not be so considered. 

On this day week four canoes passed the Wea village of 
Terre Haute, with four or five men in each, of the Prophets 
followers were supposed to be coming here. A Wea chief 
who came down by land gave me this information. Satur- 
day hearing nothing of them in the course of that day I dis- 
patched a Lieut, of Militia and eight men to see what had 
become of them. At a settlement about sixteen miles above 
this [Shakertown] they learned that one canoe only had come 
down as low as that with four Kickapoos. That they had 
left their canoe there and had gone to the meeting of the 
Shakers on Sunday. They returned late in the evening of 
that day and proceeded up the Wabash about one half mile 
where they left their canoe cut a hole in her and in the night 
stole five horses. Those fellows were all completely armed 
had no skins to trade with nor did they profess to have any 
other business than to visit the Shakers. That they were 
spies from the larger party I have not the least doubt and 
the manner in which the horses were stolen is the strongest 
indication of a hostile disposition that they have yet discov- 
ered — far from wishing to disguise it their canoe paddles and 
a small fish gig were left on the shoi-e within a short distance 
of the place from whence the horses were taken ; four or five 
days before three other horses were taken from the same 
place. 



 

The people in the neighborhood from whence the horses 
were taken are so much alarmed that they have collected to- 
gether for their defence. I have forbad their pursuit of the 
thieves because I know that it will produce bloodshed. In- 
deed from the little pains which was taken to conceal the 
tracks of the horses I am convinced that pursuit was de- 
sired by the Indians and that a larger party was lying in 
ambush at some distance. I was informed some considerable 
time ago that this was one of the methods they intended to 
take to bring on the War. ice. to send parties to steal horses 
and if they were pursued to kill the persons. As long how- 
ever as no blood is spilt I shall have hopes of bringing the 
Prophet to reason. But our people will not suffer their property 
to be taken and I daily expect to hear of some Indians being 
killed in an attempt to take off horses nor will this be the 
most disagreeable circumstance attending those depredations. 
I fear that some of the friendly Indians will suffer from the 
crimes of others. Indeed so difficult would it be to distinguish 
the tribes and so little pains will be taken by our people to 
do it that I have no other expectation than that of seeing all 
the Tribes united against us in six months after hostilities 
shall have commenced. I fear too that the Prophet or his 
friends may have discovered this mode of accomplishing his 
object. I expect the return of Col. [Francis] Vigo in a few 
days and by him some important information. Captain 
[Thornton] Posey arrived here on the 5th and he is now 
commencing the block house and lines of pickets which I have 
recommended him to erect. On Monday the two companies 
of Militia were dismissed. I am far from thinking that their 
services were no longer necessary but a great proportion of 
them being farmers and this the season of harvest they could 
not remain longer from home without loosing great part of 
their grain. 

I have the Honor to be most respectfully Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
To the Honbe. William Eustis Secretary of War 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES July 18th 1810 
Har. Pa. S22-S2Jt 

Sirs: 

Col. [Francis] Vigo returned from his mission to the Mi- 
amies on the 14th Inst. He was charged with a double object 
of ascertaining the fidelity of that Tribe and to procure their 
consent to the conditional cession made by the Kickapoos to 
the land between the northwesterly extension of the line pass- 
ing through the mouth of Raccoon creek and the Vermilion 
river. They didn't give a final and positive answer to the 
proposition on the latter subject, but both the Col. and Mr. 
[John] Johnson are of opinion that the council which they 
are about to hold upon it will result in a decision such as 
we could wish. I observe that Congress have appropriated 
absolutely the annuity for this additional tract, when the 
cession was contingent only, depending upon the consent of 
the Miamis. 

The Miami Cheifs are supposed by Mr. Johnson and Col. 
Vigo to have preserved their fidelity to the United States — 
one only excepted — a very artful and sensible fellow, who 
(as a principal chief told Col. Vigo) had entered into all the 
views of the Prophet and even that of murdering all those 
who should stand in opposition to his measures — I shall dis- 
patch my Interpreter tomorrow [see next infrci] with a 
speech to the Prophet in which I shall propose to him to make 
a visit to the President with tw^o or three of his principal 
men. If he agrees to this, it is probable that the knowledge 
which he will acquire of the strength and resources of the 
United States will prevent him in future from attempting 
hostilities against us — and at any rate it will afl'ord an op- 
portunity for the government to become better acquainted 
with his character than it could derive from any description 
from others. 

From the lowas, who are still here, notwithstanding my 
endeavours to get rid of them, I have by some management 
drawn the information that the Sacs and Foxes have actually 
received the Tomahawk and were ready to strike whenever 
the prophet should give the signal. A considerable number 
of Sacs went some time since to see the British superin- 
tendent and on the 1st inst. 50 more passed Chicago for the 



 

same destination. A Miami chief who has just returned from 
his annual visit to Maiden, after having received the accus- 
tomed donation of goods, was thus addressed by [Matthew] 
Elliot' the British agent — "My son keep your eyes fixed on 
me — my tomhawk is now up — be you ready — but do not strike 
untill I give the signal." No horses have been stolen, that 
I hear of since my last but a man crossing the Wabash about 
20 miles above this was shot at twice by a party of Creeks 
and Shawanees he does not believe they had any idea of 
killing him but that it was only intended as an insult. 
I have the honor to be with great consideration : Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. I have reason to believe that the desertion of the 
Wyandots mentioned by me some time since is only partial 
at any rate that it is confined to those of Sandusky the chief 
and party now with the Prophet are from the latter place. 
The Honble. William Eustis Secretary of War 



Harrison to the Prophet 

July 19, 1810 

Har. Pa. 342-3A3 

Notwithstanding the improper language you have used 
towards me I will again endeavour to open your eyes to your 
true interests. Notwithstanding what bad white men have 
told you I am not your personal enemy you ought to know 
this from the manner I received and treated you on your first 
visit to this place. 

Altho I must say that I believe you are an enemy to the 17 
fires and that you have used the greatest exertions with other 
Tribes to lead them astray and in this you have in some 
measure succeeded as I hear they are ready to raise the Toma- 
hawk against their Father. 

Their father, notwithstanding his anger at their folly, is 
full of goodness and is ready to receive into his arms those 
of his Children who are willing to repent and acknowledge 
their fault and ask for his forgiveness. 

1. Matthew Elliott was born in Ireland but was an Indian trader out of Pitts- 
burg when the Revolution broke out. With his companions the Girty's McKee and 
others became British partisans and as such hated more than Indians by the Americans. 



 

There is yet but very little harm done but what may easily 
be repaired. The chain of friendship which unites the whites 
with the Indians may be received and be as strong as ever — 
a great deal of that work depends upon you — the destiny of 
those who are under your direction depends upon the choice 
which you will make of the two roads which are before you. 
One is lai-ge, open and pleasant, and leads to peace security and 
happiness — the other on the contrary is narrow and crooked, 
and leads to misery, to ruin. Do not deceive yourself, do not 
believe that all the Indians united are able to resist the force 
of the 17 fires even for a Moon. 

I know your Warriors are brave, ours are not less so, but 
what can a few brave Warriors do against the innumerable 
Warriors of the 17 fires. Our blue coats are more numerous 
than you can count, and our hunting shirts are like the leaves 
of the forests or the grains of sands on the Wabash. Do not 
think that the red coats can protect you, they are not able to 
protect themselves, they do not think of going to war with 
us, if they did in a few moons you would see our flags wave 
on all the Forts of Canada. 

What reason have you to complain of the 17 fires, have thoy 
taken anything from you, have they ever violated the Treaties 
made with the red men, you say they purchased land from 
those who had no right to sell. Show the truth of this and 
the lands will instantly be restored. Show us the rightful 
owners of these lands which have been purchased. Let them 
present themselves. The Ears of your father will be open to 
their complaints and if lands have been purchased of those, 
who did not own them they will be restored to the rightful 
owners. I have full power to arrange this business. But if 
you would rather carry your complaints before your great 
Father you shall be indulged. I vdll instantly take the means 
to send you to the city where your father lives with three 
chiefs which you will choose — everything necessary shall be 
prepared for j^our journey and means taken to ensure your 
safe return.^ 

(Signed) William Henry Harrison 
Translated from the French Copy 

1. "When Mr. Barron, who was the bearer of this letter, arrived at the Prophet's 
Town, his reception was somewhat remarkable. He was conducted, in a ceremonious 
manner, to the place where the Prophet, surrounded by a number of Indians of 
tribes, was sitting. Here the attendants of Mr. Barron left him standing 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 449 

Clark to Secretary of War 

St. Louis, July 20th, 1810 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 799 

A few weeks ago the post-rider, on his way from Vin- 
cennes to this place, was killed, and the mail lost; since that 
time we have had no communication with Vincennes. A part 
of the Sacs, and the greatest part of the Kickapoos, who re- 
side east of the Mississippi, have been absent some time on 
a visit to the Indian Prophet. One hundred and fifty Sacs are 
on a visit to the British agent, by invitation, and a smaller 
party on a visit to the island of St. Joseph, in Lake Huron. 
(Extract) 

Wm. Clark 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes July 25th 1810 

Sir: Har. Pa. ,25-^,1 

I had the honor last evening to receive your favors of the 
3d 5th and 7th instant. 

From the last advices from the Indian country I learn that 
the chiefs of the Potawatimies who are friendly to us, are 
actively employed in forming a combination to disperse the 
banditti, which the Prophet has collected at Tippecanoe. They 
inform me that the Delawares, Miamis, and part of the Otta- 
was, Chippewas, and Potawatimis will unite for this purpose. 
Indeed I am told, by some young Potawatimis, who arrived 
here since my last that the Winebagos (who form the 
Prophet's principal strength) have been already warned to 
depart and that they had agreed to go, as soon as their corn is 
ripe. I received a few days ago a speech from the Delawares, 

before the Prophet, at the distance of ten or twelve feet from him. "He loolced at me", 
said Barron, "for several minutes, without speal<ing or malting any sign of recognition, 
although he knew me well. At last he spoke, apparently in anger, 'For what purpose 
do you come here?' said he. 'Brouillette was here: he was a spy, Dubois was here: 
he was a spy. Now you have come. You, too, are a spy. There is you grave ! — look 
on it.* The Prophet then painted to the ground near the spot where I stood," Tecumseh, 
at this moment, came out from one of the Indian loflges. He spoke to Mr, Barron 
in a cold, formal manner : told him that his life was in no danger, and requested him 
to state the object of his visit to the Prophet's Town. The contents of the letter of 
Governor Harrison weie then communicated to the Prophet. Mr, Barron received no 
definite answer to this letter, but he was told that Tecumseh would, in the course of a 
few days, visit Vincennes for the purpose of holding an interview with the governor." 

Dillon, Indiana, iit-S 
29—21182 



 

in which they inform me "that they were determined to put 
out the Prophet's fire this fall". This scoundrel does not ap- 
pear however to be intimidated but is as actively employed 
in poisoning the minds of the Indians as ever. On Saturday 
last two of his people arrived here, one of them his principal 
counseller. In the conference which I had with them, they 
attributed a disposition to go to war with the United States 
to the wai-riors alone. The Chiefs they said had never as- 
sented to it. But they insisted upon their right to collect as 
many Indians as they could get together upon the Wabash it 
being in obedience to the express orders of the Great Spirit. 
A young Iowa Chief has remained here after the departure of 
those of his nation mentioned in my former letters, with him, 
these Shawnees have had frequent conversations in which they 
discovered the most implacable enmity to the United States. 
The encroachment of the Whites upon their lands was still 
the burden of their song. Governor [Ninian] Edwards 
writes me that the Kaskaskias Indians were invited to the 
Prophet's congress and were informed that the object was to 
consult upon the subject of recovering their lands. 

I am confident that all the Prophet's schemes for forming 
a general confederacy against the United States are for the 
present blasted, and I do not apprehend any further injury to 
the settlements during the present summer, but that of steal- 
ing horses. If the Winebagos return to their own country, 
I think it probable that they will attempt to indemnify them- 
selves for their disappointment by taking all the horses within 
their reach. 

I shall write by this Mail to Capt. [Joseph] Cross to remain 
at Newport until he receives your further instructions. This 
is done not from any belief that his detachment could not be 
more usefully employed upon the Wabash, than at Bellefon- 
taine, but from an unwillingness to draw them so far from the 
route of their original destination, until you should have an 
opportunity of determining, upon that which I have the honor 
of now, submitting to you. Admitting that the designs of the 
Prophet are for the present rendered abortive there can be 
no doubt but that his disposition and that of the British agent 
of Indian affairs [Matthew Elliott] to do us injury remains 
the same. The latter is a tory refugee from the neighbour- 
hood of Pittsburgh whose implacable enmity to his native 
country prompted him to take part with the Indians in the 



 

battle between them and General Wayne's army. He has ever 
since his appointment to the principal agency, used his utmost 
endeavours to encourage amongst the Indians a spirit of hos- 
tility to all our views, and the lavish hand with which he is 
allowed to scatter his presents amongst them, shows that his 
government participates in his enmity and authorizes his 
measures. The principal part of these presents are given to 
the Miamis, Delaware, Shawnees, Potawatimies, Kickapoos, 
Chippewas, Ottawas, and Wyandots, and I calculate that they 
exceed in value all the Peltries collected by the British Trad- 
ers from the country inhabited by those Tribes. It cannot 
be then for commercial views, that these goods are given. 
But from a desire to retain in their influence the most warlike 
of the Tribes, as a kind of barrier to Canada. So true is this, 
that the movements of the British agents amongst the Indians, 
is to me a kind of political Thermometer, by which I can ascer- 
tain to a great degree of certainty the existence of any new 
cause of apprehension from a visitation against us in the 
cabinet of St. James. 

As the best and cheapest mode of controling the Tribes who 
were most exposed to the intrigues of the British, the late 
President adopted the plan of forming a strong settlement on 
this side of the Ohio. It was for this purpose, that the ex- 
tinguishment of the Indian Tribe was pushed to the extent it 
has been, having it also in view, so to curtail their hunting 
grounds as to force them to change their mode of life and 
thereby to render them less warlike and entirely dependent 
upon us, or to remove to the West side of the Mississippi. 
This contemplated page of their future history has nof how- 
ever, been so secretly kept as to escape their own or the 
sagacity of their British friends. And hence the opposition 
which has been made by the latter to every treaty and the bold 
stroke of collecting the remote tribes upon the Wabash for 
the purpose of forming a conferacy strong enough either to 
make open war upon us or by frequent alarms to prevent the 
progress of our settlements. If the first part of the plan has 
been defeat the latter has been more successful nor is there 
any certainty that the former will not be renewed as soon as 
a favorable opportunity presents itself. In stability and 
fickleness are the characteristics of the Indians, and the inat- 
tention which the great bulk of them pay to remote conse- 
quences, is truly surprising. The convenience or safety of the 



 

passing moment is all they regard. If they were certain that 
by undertaking a war they would at first be successful that 
they would take a great many scalps a great deal of plunder 
it would be in vain to predict future defeat and misfortune. 
With such dispositions it is impossible to count upon the 
friendships of those who are not bound to us by the tie of in- 
terest in any other way than by holding the rod of correction 
constantly over them. You may rely upon it, Sir, that it was 
the fear of being involved in the correction which they saw 
preparing for the Prophet that has given life to the zeal which 
some of the tribes now manifest against him. The bustle 
amongst the Militia here, the Reviews and frequent musters 
which I caused to be made, the arival of Capt. [Thornton] 
Posey's company and the report which I had circulated that 
the Militia of Ohio and Kentucky were also preparing them- 
selves produced a most beneficial eff'ect and supported my rep- 
resentations with the best of all possible arguments which can 
be used to a savage. The alarm however, has done us mate- 
rial injury. A few of the frontier settlers have fled and the 
emigration to this part of the country almost entirely sus- 
pended. It is for the purpose of reassuring those who de- 
signed to purchase the public lands in this Territory and pai'- 
ticularly for forming an extensive settlement upon the newly 
acquired purchase that I take the liberty of recommending the 
establishment of one or two strong posts upon the Wabash 
within the limits of that purchase. I do not think it would be 
prudent to expose a single company immediately in the vicin- 
ity of so large a body of Indians, and it is for this service that 
I suppose Captain [Joseph] Cross could be more usefully em- 
ployed than at Belle-fontaine. The occupancy of some point 
or points upon the Wabash above this by our troops would I 
am persuaded sensibly affect the sales of the public lands in 
all the three districts of Cincinnati, Jeffersonville and Vin- 
cennes and would be a cause of bringing into the Treasury 
more money than would pay the expences of the establish- 
ments. As a military position for restraining the Indians it 
also, in my opinion, would be of considerable importance. As 
far as a post can controul Indians it would have that effect 
upon a majority of those warlike Tribes enumerated above 
and these will always govern those on the Mississippi who are 
more ignorant less warlike and worse armed. 

If this measure should be adopted by the President and 



 

Capt. Corss's detachment ordered on this service I would rec- 
ommend that they be also accompanied by one or two com- 
panies of mounted infantry. The mail being about to close, 
I can only add that I am with great respect Sir, 
Yr. Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esqre. 

Hull to Secretary of War 

Detroit, July 27th, 1810 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 799 

Large bodies of Indians from the westward and southward 
continue to visit the British post at Amherstburgh, and are 
supplied with provisions, arms, ammunition, etc. Much more 
attention is paid to them than usual. 

Wm. Hull 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 1st August 1810 
Har. Pa. JS2-33A 

Sir: 

[Joseph] Barron the Interpreter has not yet returned from his 
mission to the Prophet nor have I heard anything from that 
quarter since my last. I have however received information 
from another direction of a very unpleasant nature. A num- 
ber of the inhabitants of the northern frontier of the Jeffer- 
sonville district have been driven off by the Indians and much 
of their property destroyed. They commenced their depreda- 
tions on the cattle and hogs of the settlers upon the Embarras 
fork of white river and threatened to kill the people unless 
they instantly moved off. This information was first com- 
municated to me on Thursday last, it has since been reiterated 
by letters and travellers from that quarter. The accounts 
were however so vague that I determined to dispatch a person 
upon whom I could rely to know the truth of the matter and 
find out to what tribes the Indians belong that have done 
the injury. For this purpose a militia officer of rank [Col. 
Ephraim Jourdan] and information set out yesterday accom- 



 

panied by [Michael] Brouillette the Interpreter. One of the 
letters I have received informs me that the hostile party con- 
sists of about 150 Potawatomies Miamis and Shaw^nees. Some 
Delawares were in the neighbourhood who behaved in a 
friendly manner to the settlers and advised them to be upon 
their guard. I do not believe that there are any Miamis with 
this band of depredators. I think it most probable that they 
are Kickapoos, Potawatomies and Shawanees and that they 
are sent to that quarter by the Prophet for the purpose of in- 
volving the Delawares in the quarrel with us. That country 
is the usual hunting ground of the latter tribe, and it is quite 
probable that our people may be so enraged at the loss of their 
property as to fall upon any Indians they may meet with. A 
Delaware Indian told a gentleman between this and Louisville 
a few days ago that he was convinced that this was the object 
of the Prophet. Capt. [G. R. C] Floyd arrived last night. 
I have not seen him, but he informed a gentleman of my fam- 
ily that the alarm extended as far south as Blue River, and 
that the people were flying towards the Ohio from every di- 
rection. In this quarter several horses have been stolen within 
the last ten days, and I am told that the Indians manifest 
much more insolence than usual to the citizens in the coun- 
try. Your letter of the 14th ultimo, I had the honor to re- 
ceive last evening. I shall notwithstanding write immedi- 
ately to Capt. [Joseph] Cross, to request him to remain at 
NewPort untill your determination upon the proposition made 
in my last letter, and the information conveyed in this, shall 
be knovv-n, and should he have left New Port before the arrival 
of my letter I will request him to halt at Massac for your 
further orders. I am persuaded that a display of force in 
this quarter is at this time, more necessary than anywhere 
else and may perhaps prevent a war. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Secretary of War 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War — Petition 

Randolph, Illinois, Aug. 6, 1810 

Har. Pa. JJ8-JU 

Sir: 

The people inhabiting in the Prairie and adjoining thereto 
between the Big and Little Wabash have been very much fluc- 
tuated of late concerning- a talk of an Indian War, the accation 
of this disturbance was owing to the discourse of an old Muscoga 
Indian Named Peter who told a man living here (one Jesse 
Bowman) that the Shawonese Indians intended to go to war 
with the whites this Moon and advised Bowman to provide for 
the safety of his Family, and requested him to tell the same 
to some more people whom the old Indian had a friendship 
for. This Indian has lived about two years with the Whites 
and has got the confidence of most of the people ; he also said 
that Eleven Indian Tribes had or were going to join the 
Shawonese, the names we are unable to inform your Excel- 
lency; this discourse has so opperated on the Minds of the 
people that out of forty-two Families or more only Fifteen 
Families have determined to stay. Some of the remainder 
have moved, others making preparation to stay have proceeded 
to the erection of a Fort, what we request of your Excellency 
is to inform us by Mr. Wim. McHenry whether you think there 
is any such danger and should your Excellency have reason 
to fear there is, we shall feel grateful to be informed of the 
same, that we may be upon our Guard. We hope the Urgency 
of the case needs no Apollogy with your Excellency for the 
trouble we give you and beg leave to subscribe ourselves 

Your Excellency's Friends and Fellow Citizens, 

Henry Jones P. TB. 

James Garrison Wm. McHenry 

Thomas Upton Danl. McHenry 

Nathan Young Reuben Blackford 

Ephraim Blackford Peter KuyKendall 

Alex Hamilton Robt. Land 

Vincennes August 7th, 1810 

The enclosed letter which I have this moment received 
shows that the knowledge of an attack upon our settlements 
about this time was pretty generally defined amongst the 
Indians. 



 

If the Prophet has really abandoned the scheme for the 
present he has not had time to communicate it to his distant 
allies for the Sacs have actually killed four of our citizens 
above the Missouri about 10 days ago. Mr. [Charles] Jouet 
[Indian agent at Chicago] informs me that the Sacs have been 
soliciting the Lake Indians to join them against the United 
States. 

Your Respectfully 

William H. Harrison 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNEs 6th August 1810 

Har. Pa. 335-337 

Sir: 

Mr. [Joseph] Barron returned on Thursday last. The 
speech (see July 19, 1810, supra) taken by him to the Prophet 
was intended to convince him of the folly of his attempt to 
make war upon the United States, to assure him if he had 
any just cause of complaint against us, that we were open 
to conviction, and as soon as we were sensible of it, redress 
would immediately follow, that we held it to be a correct 
principle, that a purchase of lands made from a party who 
were not themselves the owners conveyed no title to it, and 
that consequently it remained for him only to prove that we 
had made purchases of this sort, and the land so purchased 
would either be immediately given up or a proper equivalent 
made for it. That I had authority to adjust these matters 
but as he seemed to think that I was prejudiced against him, 
he might if he pleased make a visit to the President, and 
lay all his complaints before him. 

No particular answer was returned by Mr. Barron. It is 
to be brought by the brother of the Prophet who will be here 
in a few days. This brother is really the efficient man — the 
Moses of the family. I have not seen him since the treaty 
of Greenville and should not know him. He is however de- 
scribed by all as a bold, active, sensible man daring in the 
extreme and capable of any undertaking. Barron lodged 
with him and their con\orsation was protracted through the 
night, he denying having intended to make war; but de- 
clared most solemnly that it was not possible to remain 



 

friends with the United States, unless they would abandon 
the idea of extending their settlements further to the north 
and westward; and explicitly acknowledge the principle that 
all the lands in the western country was the common prop- 
erty of all the tribes. "The great spirit said he gave this 
great island to his red children. He placed the whites on 
the other side of the big water, they were not contented with 
their own, but came to take ours from us. They have driven 
us from the sea to the lakes, we can go no farther. They 
have taken upon themselves to say this tract belongs to the 
Miamis, this to the Delawares & so on. but the Great Spirit 
intended it as the common property of all the Tribes, nor 
can it be sold without the consent of all. Our father tells 
us that we have no business on the Wabash, the land belongs 
to other Tribes, but the great spirit order'd us to come here 
and we shall stay." He was however pleased with my speech. 
He had never been to see me. He only recollected me a very 
young man setting by the side of Genl. Wayne. He had not 
troubled the white people much but he would go now to Vin- 
cennes and convince me that I had listen'd to bad men, when 
I was told that they meditated war against the United States. 
From the conversation which [Joseph] Barron had with 
the Kickapoos and other Indians at the Prophet's town, he 
thinks that they are greatly displeased with him. They were 
really apprehensive of an attack and were greatly alarmed 
at the appearance of Barron, whom they supposed had been 
sent in advance of an approaching army, to see what situ- 
ation they were in. A Potawatomie chief [Winamac] told 
Barron in the presence of the Prophet, that he (the Prophet) 
had promised them that no man should die at his town; but 
that three Kickapoos had been buried in as many days. The 
Prophet imperfectly understanding his language, asked Bar- 
ron what he had said, upon his repeating it, the Prophet ob- 
served that the Potawatomies had lied, none had died ; I will 
not say (answered the chief with great indignation) that any 
have died but I know you promised that none should die and 
I have seen their bodies buried within three days, but they 
may be dogs, or persons who have long since died and been 
taken up to be buried over again. The Prophets brother [Te- 
cumseh] told Mr. Barron that he would bring with him about 
thirty of the principal men and as he knew that the young 
men were fond of attending on such occasions, that there 



 

would probably be one hundred in all ; but the prophet said 
that he might expect to see a great many more. Besides the 
expense which will be incurr'd by supporting such a number 
for 10 or 15 days it will not be very pleasant to have them 
here, from other considerations ; I therefore immediately dis- 
patch'd an Indian with a message to request that the chiefs 
only would come down, attended by a few of their young men. 
This day I have dispatched [Michael] Brouillet by water to 
inforce the necessity of their compliance. 

Col. [Ephraim] Jourdan whom I sent with Brouillet to 
know the cause of the alarm which I mentioned to have ex- 
isted amongst the settlers, upon the Embarras [Driftwood] 
fork of White river, returned last evening. The party which 
had insulted the white people were principally Creeks and 
straglers from other Tribes, the injury consisted in killing 
some hogs and cattle, taking some provisions by force out 
of some of the houses and threatening to scalp the men if 
they did not move off. Before Col. Jourdan arrived, the com- 
manding officer of the militia of Clark county had been over 
with fifty mounted riflemen for the purpose of protecting the 
settlements, or if necessary bringing off the inhabitants; he 
found that the marauding party had dispersed ; a few hunters 
of the Delawares remain'd in the neighborhood and these 
were so frighten'd by the appearance of the Militia and so 
completely spread the alarm, that Col. Jourdan was unable 
to discover an Indian, or the recent trace of one, for many 
miles round. Ten or twelve families had moved off but the 
rest had gotten over their fears and had sent to recall such 
of the runaways, as had not entirely left the Territory. 

A person who has been employ'd by the Surveyor General 
to run the boundary line of the new purchase informs me 
that he has been directed to proceed on that work immedi- 
ately and finish it by the first of September, by which time 
the surveyors who are to subdivide the tract, will be on the 
ground. 

This gentleman came to ask my opinion upon the pro- 
priety of commencing the survey, and I have advised him to 
make his preparations and wait the arrival of the Wea Chiefs 
whom I expect in a few days, and to whom, it will be proper 
to propose to send some of their Tribe to see that the survey 
is made agreeably to the treaty. This has been usual, as well 
as to pay the Indians who are so employ'd. 



 

I hope to be able to give you a compete view of Indian 
politics after the conference is terminated with the deputies 
from the Prophet and that it will be the last with which I 
shall trouble you for some time. In the mean time I beg 
leave to reiterate my recommendation of the posts upon the 
Wabash. Depend upon it Sir, the Treasury of the United 
States will be much benefited by that measure. The new pur- 
chase has been recently explored by persons from the two 
Carolinas who have given it a high character, and I am as- 
sured that a very large emigration from those states, may 
be expected immediately, if the dread of the Indians does not 
prevent them. 

I have the honor to be very respectfully your Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. Wm. Eustis, Sec'y. of War 

Johnson to Secretary of War 

Fort Wayne, August 7th, 1810 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 799 

Since writing you on the 25th ultimo, about one hundred 
Sawkeys [Sacs] have returned from the British agent, who 
supplied them liberally with everything they stood in want 
of. The party received forty-seven rifles and a number of 
fusils, with plenty of powder and lead. This is sending fire- 
brands into the Mississippi country, inasmuch as it will draw 
numbers of our Indians to the British side, in the hope of 
being treated with the same liberality. 

John Johnson 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(Enclosing- Tecumseh's .speeches Aug. 20, 21) 

Vincennes 22nd August 1810 

Har. Pa. 350-359 

Sir: 

If the information which I have heretofore given you on 
the subject of the designs of the Prophet and his followers 
has been vague and in some respects contradictory the con- 
sequence of my having derived it from various sources, not 



 

always the most intelligent, that which I have now the honor 
to communicate has at least the advantage of authenticity, 
coming from the brother of the Prophet who as I have before 
informed you is the great man of the party. This person- 
age, who is called Tecumseh, arrived here on the 12th Inst, 
and excepting the intervening Sunday and one bad day I 
have been constantly engaged with him untill the last even- 
ing. His speeches the two first days were sufficiently inso- 
lent and his pretensions arrogant, but that of Monday I en- 
close to you entire, as it was taken down by a Gentleman 
whom I employed for that purpose, and is as correct as could 
be expected, considering that the Interpreter speaks bad Eng- 
lish and is not very remarkable for clearness of intilect, al- 
though faithfull in the highest degree and for knowledge of 
the Indian languages unrivalled. The facts avowed by Te- 
cumseh in the broadest manner are: That it was the object 
of his brother and himself from the commencement to form 
a combination of all the Indian Tribes in this quarter to put 
a stop to the encroachments of the white people and to estab- 
lish a principle that the lands should be considered common 
property and none sold without the consent of all. that it 
was their intention to put to death all the chiefs who were 
parties to the late Treaty, and never more to suffer any vil- 
lage chiefs to manage the affairs of the Indians, but that 
everything should be put into the hands of the warriors. 
That the Americans had driven them from the sea coast, and 
would shortly if not stopped, push them into the Lakes, that 
they were determined to make a stand, where they were. He 
still however with strange inconsistency, asserted that it was 
not his intention to go to war, and that the persons who had 
given me that information were liars. On Winemac, who was 
present, he poured a torrent of abuse and threatened him in 
such a manner that he (Winemac) expecting personal vio- 
lence recharged his pistol and was prepared to stop the 
Shawonese insolence forever. Every instance of injustice and 
injury which have been committed by our citizens upon the 
Indians from the commencement of the revolutionary war 
(There are unfortunately too many of them) were brought 
forward and exagerated, and every thing said which was 
likely to inflame the minds of the Indians against us. When 
he finished his harangue, I began to answer him and was con- 
trasting the conduct of the United States towards the Indians 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 461 

with that of the other civilized powers, showing their uni- 
form regard to justice in their transactions with the most 
significant tribe, when he interrupted me before the inter- 
preter could explain what I had said to the Potawatomies 
and Miamis and with the most violent jesticulations and in- 
dications of anger began to contradict what I had said in the 
most indecent manner. When he first rose, a number of his 
party, also sprung up, arm'd with war clubs, tomhawks, and 
spears and stood in a threatening attitude. Not understand- 
ing his language I did not know what he had said, until the 
Interpreter explained it to me, but the Secretary of the Ter- 
ritory General Gibson, who speaks the Shawonese language, 
and was sitting near me, apprehending some violence, re- 
quested Lieut. [Jesse] Jennings^ to make a guard of 12 men, 
who were at a little distance to stand to their arms. The 
guard was brought up; and as soon as his speech was in- 
terpreted to me, I reproached him for his conduct and re- 
quired him instantly to depart to his camp, declaring that I 
was determined to extinguish the council fire, and no longer 
to have any communication with him, that my answer to that 
part of his speech which related to the lands lately pur- 
chased would be communicated to the Tribes, which he said 
he represented, in a written message, and if he had anything 
further to say to me, he must send the Huron or some other 
chief to me when the Interpreter visited him in the morning, 
he earnestly requested me to give him another interview and 
protested that he meant no harm by his conduct the day be- 
fore, and that he wished everything to be amicably settled. 
He also told Mr. [Joseph] Barron, that it was probable he 
had been deceived by white people, that he had been informed 
that the citizens here were equally divided, one half on my 
side, and the other on his ; one half opposed to the purchase 
of lands from the Indians, and the other, with me, determined 
to drive the Indians to extremities ; that he had been told that 
I purchased the lands against the consent of the Government 
and one half of the people, who in fact did not want the 
lands, as they already had more than they could occupy. This 
he knew to be true as he had sent some of hh men to recon- 
noitre the settlements and he found that the lands towards 
the Ohio were not settled at all. The information which was 



 

given him came I am convinced from a small factious party 
here headed by a scotch tory [William Mcintosh] who would 
not hesitate to adopt any measure that would be likely to do 
me an injury. Independent of his hatred to the American 
government and individually to myself he is very much in- 
terested to prevent the settling of the new purchase, as he 
is the owner of a large quantity of land, purchased for a 
song from the ignorant French. The person alluded to by 
Tecumseh as giving him the information from the Treaty of 
Fort Wayne is beyond all doubt Wells!! I have the honor 
to enclose a copy of the speech which I sent to the Prophet, 
to answer which his brother came here. In this I told him 
that if any Tribe could prove a better claim to the lands 
ceded by the late treaties than those who sold them had, that 
they would be immediately surrendered. No proof whatever 
has been adduced to show that any other Tribe but those 
who were parties to the Treaties have or ever had any right 
to the lands in question. The Tribes, which, he said, he rep- 
resents have never given their consent, but I cannot get him 
to attempt to show that their consent was necessary. He 
says however, that they are determined to fall upon the 
Tribes who sold the land if it is not given up — and at the 
conclusion of yesterday's council I asked him to tell me 
whether the person who was appointed to run the boundary 
line would receive any injury if he should proceed, his an- 
swer as you will observe was, that the old line must be the 
boundary. If I had Capt. [Joseph] Cross's detachment I 
would direct the surveyor to proceed in his work and send 
a subaltern's command to guard him. If he attempts it with- 
out I am satisfied he will be compelled to return and perhaps 
murdered. 

I have promised Tecumseh to send on the President his 
speech and to procure the President's answer and I should 
be glad to receive a speech signed by the President or your- 
self informing him that the land would not be given up. This 
will convince the Indians of the falsehood of the information 
they have received, that the government is willing to acknowl- 
edge the principles which the Shawonee wishes to establish 
and that I only am opposed to it. I have, by this mail writ- 
ten to Captain Cross to proceed immediately to this place with 
his detachment and in the mean time I have written to the 
surveyor General that his deputies cannot at present proceed 



S 

with their work without danger. I am far from believing 
that an Indian war is inevitable but I believe the avoiding 
it will depend upon our showing an ability to punish the first 
aggression. Pardon me for repeating what my long knowl- 
edge of the Indians, I am induced to believe is with them, 
almost a general rule, viz. never to let an opportunity pass 
of revenging the injuries they think they have received from 
the whites when it can be done with impunity. I receive so 
many different accounts, it is impossible to tell what is the 
strength of the Prophet's party — whether it is increasing or 
decreasing, notwithstanding the strong language of Tecum- 
seh, I believe in the latter. I believe also that the Delawares, 
Miamis and part of the Potawatomies will join to put him 
down and I rather suppose they will succeed. It will assist 
the cause greatly to let them see that we are ready to sup- 
port our rights with the sword. How shall the Regulars here 
and those that are to come be employed? Shall one or more 
forts be established as formerly proposed? Shall the sur- 
veyors be guarded? Shall militia mounted or dismounted be 
employed as auxiliaries and in what numbers? 

Your directions on these subjects as soon as convenient 
will oblige me. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

P. S. Seventy-five fellows of this neighborhood, well 
mounted, have formed themselves into a Dragoon Troop, but 
they have no arms and can get none. If the Government 
would furnish them they would be returned when called for. 
The proper equipment of this Troop would be to us of the 
greatest possible advantage. In the Prairie country seventy 
Dragoons would be equal to thrice this number of any other 
species of Troops. 
The Honble William Eustis, Secretary of War 

Tecumseh's Speech to Governor Harrison 20th August 
1810 

Brother I wish you to listen to me well — I wish to reply to 
you more explicity, as I think you do not clearly understand 
what I before said to you I shall explain it again. 



 

When we were first discover'd it was by the French who 
told us that they would adopt us as their children and gave 
us presents without asking anything in return but our con- 
sidering them as our fathers. Since we have changed our 
fathers we find it difi'erent. 

Brother. This is the manner that the treaty was made by 
us with the French. They gave us many presents and treated 
us well. They asked us for a small piece of country to live on 
which they were not to leave and continue to treat us as their 
children after some time the British and French came to 
quarrel the British were victorious yet the French promised 
to think of us as their child and if they ever could serve us to 
do it. Now my red children I know I was obliged to abandon 
you in disagreeable circumstances, but we have never ceased 
to look upon you and if we could now be of service to you we 
would still be your friends. 

The next father we found was the British who told us that 
they would now be our fathers and treat us in the same man- 
ner as our former fathers the French — they would occupy the 
same land they did and not trouble us on ours; but would look 
on us as their children. 

Brother. We were very glad to hear the British promise 
to treat us our fathers the French had done they began to 
treat us in the same way but at last they changed their good 
treatment by raising the Tomahawk against the Americans 
and put it into our hands, by which we have suffered the loss 
of a great many of our young men etc. 

Brother. Now we began to discover the treachery of the 
British they never troubled us for our lands but they have 
done worse by inducing us to go to war. The Hurons have 
particularly suffered during the war and have at length be- 
come certain of it. They have told us that we must bury the 
British Tomhawk entirely that if we did not they (the B.) 
would ere long ask us to take it up. 

You ought to know that after we agreed to bury the Tom- 
hawk at Greenvile we then found their new fathers in the 
Americans who told us they would treat us well, not like the 
British who gave us but a small piece of pork every day. I 
want now to remind you of the promises of the white people. 
You recollect that the time the Delawares lived near the white 
people (Americans) and satisfied with the promises of friend- 



 

ship and remained in security yet one of their town was sur- 
prised and the men women and children murdered. 

The same promises were given to the Shawonese flags, were 
given to them and were told by the Americans that they were 
now the children of the Americans. Their flags will be as 
security for you if the white people intend to do you harm 
Hold up your flags and no harm will be done you. This was 
at length practised and the consequence was that the person 
bearing the flag was murdered with others in their village. 
Know my Bro. after this conduct can you blame me for plac- 
ing little confidence in the promises of our fathers the 
Americans. 

Brother. Since the peace was made you have kill'd some 
of the Shawanese, Winebagoes Delawares and Miamies and 
you have taken our lands from us and I do not see how we 
can remain at peace with you if you continue to do so. You 
have given goods to the Kickapoos for the sale of their lands 
to you which has been the cause of many deaths amongst them. 
You have promised us assistance but I do not see that you 
have given us any. 

You try to force the red people to do some injury. It is 
you that is pushing them on to do mischief. You endeavour 
to make destructions, you wish to prevent the Indians to do 
as we wish them to unite and let them consider their land 
as the common property of the whole you take tribes aside 
and advise them not to come into this measure and untill our 
design is accomplished we do not wish to accept of your invi- 
tation to go and visit the President. 

The reason I tell you this is — You want by your distinctions 
of Indian tribes in allotting to each a particular track of land 
to make them to war with each other. You never see an In- 
dian come and endeavour to make the white people do so. 
You are continually driving the red people when at last you 
will drive them into the great lake where they can't either 
stand or work. 

Brother. You ought to know what you are doing with the 
Indians. Perhaps it is by direction of the President to make 
those distinctions. It is a very bad thing and we do not like 
it. Since my residence at Tippecanoe we have endeavoured 
to level all distinctions to destroy village chiefs by whom all 
mischief is done ; it is they who sell our land to the Americans 
our object is to let all our affairs be transacted by Warriors. 



 

Brother. This land that was sold and the goods that was 
given for it was only done by a few. The treaty was after- 
wards brought here and the Weas were induced to give their 
consent because of their small numbers. The treaty at Fort 
Wayne was made through the threats of Winamac but in 
future we are prepared to punish those chiefs who may come 
forward to propose to sell their land. If you continue to pur- 
chase of them it will produce war among the different tribes 
and at last I do not know what will be the consequence to the 
white people. 

Brother. I was glad to hear your speech you said if we 
could show that the land was sold by persons that had no right 
to sell you would restore it, that that did sell did not own it 
it was me. These tribes set up a claim but the tribes with 
me will not agree to their claim, if the land is not restored to 
us you will soon see when we return to our homes how it will 
be settled. We shall have a great council at which all the 
tribes shall be present when we will show to those who sold 
that they had no right to sell the claim they set up and we will 
know what will be done with those Chiefs that did sell the land 
to you. I am not alone in this determination it is the deter- 
mination of all the warriors and red people that listen to me. 

I now wish you to listen to me. If you do not it will appear 
as if you wished me to kill all the chiefs that sold you this 
land. I tell you so because I am authorised by all the tribes 
to do so. I am at the head of them all. I am a Warrior and 
all the Warriors will meet together in two or three moons from 
this. Then I will call for those chiefs that sold you the land 
and shall know what to do with them. If you do not restore 
the land you will have a hand in killing them. 

Brother. Do not believe that I came here to get presents 
from you if you offer us anything we will not take it. By 
taking goods from you you will hereafter say that with them 
you purchased another piece of land from us. If we want 
anything we are able to buy it, from your traders. Since the 
land was sold to you no traders come among us. I now wish 
you would clear all the roads and let the traders come among 
us. Then perhaps some of our young men will occasionally 
call upon you to get their guns repaired. This is all the as- 
sistance we ask of you. 

Brother. I should now be very glad to know immediately, 



 

what is your determination about the land also of the traders 
I have mentioned. 

Brother. It has been the object of both myself and brother 
from the beginning to prevent the lands being sold should you 
not return the land, it will occaion us to call a great council 
that will meet at the Huron Village where the council fire has 
already been lighted At which those who sold the land shall 
be call's and shall sufi'er for their conduct. 

Brother. I wish you would take pity on all the red people 
and do what I have requested. If you will not give up the land 
and do cross the boundary of your present settlement it will 
be very hard and produce great troubles among us. How can 
we have confidence in the white people when Jesus Christ came 
upon the earth you kill'd and nail'd him on a cross, you thought 
he was dead but you were mistaken. You have shaken among 
you and you laugh and make light of their worship. 

Everything I have said to you is the truth the great spirit 
has inspired me and I speak nothing but the truth to you. In 
two moons we shall assemble at the Huron Village (addressing 
himself to the Weas and Pottawatomies) where the great 
belts of all the tribes are kept and there settle our differences. 

Brother. I hope you will confess that you ought not to have 
listened to those bad birds who bring you bad news. I have 
declared myself freely to you and if you want any explanation 
from our Town send a man who can speak to us. 

If you think proper to give us any presents and we can be 
convinced that they are given through friendship alone we will 
accept them. As we intend to hold our council at the Huron 
village that is near the British we may probably make them 
a visit. Should they offer us any presents of goods we will 
not take them but should they offer us powder and the tom- 
hawk we will take the powder and refuse the Tomhawk. 

I wish you Brother to consider everything I have said is 
true and that it is the sentiment of all the red people who 
listen to me. 

By your giving goods to the Kickapoos you kill'd many they 
were seized with the small pox by which many died. 

The Governor began to answer Tecumseh and had proceeded 
for 15 or 20 minutes. He was explaining the justice used by 
the U. States towards the Indians and what he said the In- 
terpreter explained to the Shawonese but before it was ex- 
plained to the Potawatomies and Miamies Tecumseh rose up 



 

and a number of his young men with their war ckibs tom- 
hawks and spears. He spoke for some time with great 
vehemence and anger, which when interpreted appeared to be 
a contradiction of what the Govr. had said and that he had 
lied. The Governor told him that since he had behaved so 
illy he would put out the council fire and not set with him 
again. 

August 21. 

After some explanation offer'd as an apology by Tecumseh, 
the council this day met again, when Tecumseh address'd the 
Governor as follows : 

Brother: There are many white people among you who are 
not true Americans, they are endeavouring to fill the minds 
of the Indians with evil towards the United States of which 
I shall now inform you. The person that informed me was a 
man of sense. 

Brother: He said to us. That when you first began to 
bring about the last treaty you observed the greatest secrecy, 
after which you went to Fort Wayne and there made the 
treaty equally secret, declaring that you did not think it nec- 
essary to call upon us, but that you were determin'd to con- 
fine us to a small piece of land, and that you would bring all 
the tribes who listen to me, to abandon myself and the 
Prophet, and then you would know what to do with us. 

Brother. This person came to our village shortly after the 
Treaty at Fort Wayne and said to us — Lallowachika (the 
Prophet) and you Tecumseh you may believe what I say to 
you, it is not me alone who speaks to you. I am the agent 
of a large party of white people who are your friends and will 
support you, they send me here to inform you everything that, 
that man the Governor at Vincennes is doing against you ; 
but you must observe great secrecy and by no means inform 
him of us, or we shall be hung. I was (continues the person) 
at the Treaty at Fort Wayne and heard the Governor say that 
the Prophet was a bad man and that he would prevent traders 
from trading at his village (the Prophet's) ; or if any did go, 
they should sell their goods so high that the Indians could not 
purchase them, and consequently must suffer. 

Brother. This man further represented to us that you were 
yet to remain in office two years and would be succeeded by a 
good man who was a true friend to the Indians, that you would 



 

offer us goods (annuities) but by no means to accept of them, 
that in order to induce us to take them you would offer us 
horses with saddles and bridles plated with silver, that all the 
goods and even the provisions that you give to the Indians is 
with the intention to cheat them out of their lands. That it 
was the intention of the United States to oppress the Shaw- 
anese before long the white people would push their settle- 
ments so near to them and oblige them to use the ax instead of 
the rifle — therefore recommended to us to take nothing from 
you. 

Brother. Another American told us lately at our village, 
that you were about to assemble the Indians at Vincennes, 
for the purpose of making proposals, for more land — that you 
was placed here by Government to buy land when it was 
offer'd to you, but not to use persuasions and threats to ob- 
tain it. 

Brother. This man told me that I must go to Vincennes 
and make my objections to the purchase of land from the In- 
dians, and not be afraid to speak very loud to you — that when 
you wanted land you was very smooth with the Indians, but 
at length became very boistrous. 

Brother. After my hearing this so often, I could not help 
thinking otherwise than you wished to sow discord amongst 
the Indians. I wish you my Bro. to let alone those distrac- 
tions you have always been endeavouring to establish among 
the Indians. It is doing them a great injury by exciting jeal- 
ousies between them. I am alone the acknowledged head of 
all the Indians. 

Here the Governor requested Tecumseh to state explicitly 
whether surveyors who might be sent to survey the land would 
be interrupted by the Indians and if the Kickapoos would re- 
ceive their annuities that were now here — upon which 
Tecumseh replied. 

Brother. When you speak to me of annuities I look at the 
land, and pity the women and children. I am authorized to 
say that they will not receive them. 

Brother, they want to save that piece of land, we do not 
wish you to take it. It is small enough for our purposes. If 
you do take it you must blame yourself as the cause of trouble 
between us and the Tribes who sold it to you. I want the 
present boundary line to continue, should you cross it. I as- 
sure you it will be productive of bad consequences. 



 

Harrison to Secretary op War 

ViNCENNES 28th August 1810 

Hcur. Pa. 360-362 

Sir: 

In my letter of last week, I did not mention to you that the 
Wea Tribe was present at all my conferences with the 
prophet's brother [Tecumseh]. The principal chief had sev- 
eral times informed me that it was his intention to tell the 
Shawnese in my presence that neither himself nor any of those 
tribes which are united with him had any right to interfere 
with the sales of land which the native Tribes of the Wabash 
might make to the United States. When the day arrived how- 
ever on which he was to speak he declined saying anything. 
This alteration in his determination was produced either by 
the fear of the Shawnese or the intrigues of the infamous fac- 
tion mentioned in my last. The latter is the more probable as 
the Wea chief informed me that since his arrival here he had 
received a message from the Miami Chiefs, requiring him to 
attend a council at Mississineway for the purpose of consid- 
ering a speech which had lately been sent from the President 
through Mr. [John] Johnston of Fort. Wayne. The purpose 
of which was a request from the President to be informed 
whether the Treaties made the last fall were entered into by 
them voluntarily or not and a declaration that they were made 
without his knowledge or consent. 

I mention this circumstance to show how easily the Indians 
are imposed upon and what villainous artifices are practised 
upon them by unprincipled and designing white men. I be- 
lieve that Wells is in close correspondence with the faction 
here, and that the above story will be traced to him. The 
Weas have given me the names of four persons here, who 
have advised them to unite with the Prophet and insist upon 
the late cession of land being relinquished to them. Indian 
testimony is not however sufficient to punish them if indeed 
our laws provided any punishment for a crime of this nature. 

A young laowa chief, whom I employed to go to the 
Prophets town for the purpose of gaining information, has 
just returned. He is related to an old Winebago Chief, now 
with the Prophet. By him he was informed, that the great 
belt which had been sent round to all the Tribes for the pur- 
pose of uniting them had been returned, and he mentions a 



 

great numbei* that had acceded to the confederacy, the object 
of which was "to confine the great water and prevent it from 
overflowing them". That the Belt, since its return, had been 
sent to [Matthew] Elliot, the British agent, who danced for 
joy upon seeing that so many tribes had united against the 
United States — that the prophet had lately sent a speech to 
his confederates not to be discouraged at the apparent defec- 
tion of some of the Tribes near him — that it was all a sham, 
intended to deceive the white people that these Tribes hated 
the 17 fires and that altho "they gave them sweet words, they 
were like grass plucked up by the roots, they would soon 
wither and come to nothing". The laowa thinks that there 
is no danger of immediate hostilities, it will take them some 
time to get ready against us. The old Winebago chief told 
him, with many tears, that himself and all the village chiefs 
had been divested of their authority and that everything was 
managed by the warriors, who breathed nothing but war 
against the United States. 

There is no man, who has a greater respect than I have for 
the Political talents of Mr. Jeff'erson or a deeper sense of the 
eminent services he has rendered his country. I should be 
guilty of the blackest ingratitude if I did not feel for him all 
the respect and veneration which a recollection of the impor- 
tant benefits I have received at his hands and the friendship 
and confidence with which he honored me are capable of in- 
spiring in the heart of an honest man. But I think it my duty 
to oserve that the integrity of his principles seduced him to 
commit a political error when he caused his agents to effect a 
peace and enjoined them to preserve concord and friendship 
between the various tribes of Indians which inhabit the 
frontier. The mind of a savage is so constructed that he can- 
not be at rest, he cannot be happy unless it is acted upon by 
some strong stimulus that which is produced by war is the only 
one that is sufficiently powerful to fill up the intervals of the 
chase if he hunts in the winter he must go to war in the sum- 
mer, and you may rest assured Sir, that the establishment of 
tranquility between the neighbouring tribes will always be a 
sure indication of war against us. 
• I have the honor to be with great consideration Sir 
Your humble servt. 

William Henry Harrison 



 

P. S. I have this moment signed the abstract of provisions 
issued to the Indians for the last three months, the amount 
is much greater than I had calculated upon but I beg you to 
believe that it was not well to be avoided. I have had nearly 
the whole Wea and Piankeshaw Tribes with me since the 12th 
Instant besides the Prophets party a number of Straglers and 
the Well affected Potawatomies under Winimac and I was un- 
able to get rid of them until today, when their annuities were 
delivered. 
The Honble William Eustis, Secy, of War 



Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, Sept. 5th, 1810 

Hai: Pa. 11, 12 

His Excellcy. Wm. Hy. Harrison. Sir: 

Your Excellency's Letters of the 4th, 11th, 18th, 25th of 
July & of the 1st, 6th, & 8th ult. have been duly received and 
communicated to the Secretary of War who is now absent at 
the Eastward. I am instructed by him to inform your Excel- 
lency that Captain [Joseph] Cross's Detachment, or such part 
thereof as you may judge necessary, remains at Newport sub- 
ject to your orders; and that the Detachment at Pittsburg 
under Lt. Col. [Joseph] Constant' will have orders to move 
dowTi the Ohio whenever their service may be required by 
your Excellency. 

I have the honor to be &c. &c. &c. 

(signed) Jno. Smith, C. C. 

Clark to Secretary of War 

St. Louis, September 12th, 1810 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, SOO 

On the night of the 20th of July, four white men, who re- 
side near the Missouri, about one hundred miles from this 
place, who had been in pursuit of horses which had been stolen 
from them, were killed in their camp, and one wounded, by the 
Indians. * 

1. Joseph Constant was born in N. Y. : became Lt. Col. in 6th Inf. Oct. 7. 1808; 
Col. 5 Inf. Sept. 3. 1810; Col of 3il Inf. Apr. 24. 1812. Resigned Aug. 15. 181.i. 

Heitman Register, Si2 



 

Gomo, the principal chief of the Pattawatamies/ assured 
me, that the portion of the Pottawatamies under his authority 
did not commit the murder. He blames the Prophet, with 
whom he disclaims any connection. 

Wm Clark 



Harrison Proclamation Convening Legislature 

Sept. 20 1810 

Western Sun, September 29, 1810 

By William Henry Harrison Governor and Commander in 
Chief of the Indiana Territory 

A ProcUtniation 

Whereas the circumstances of the Territory require that the 
Legislature should be convened, I have therefore thought 
proper to appoint and do by these presents appoint Monday 
the 12th day of November next, for the Meeting of the same, 
and the Members of the Legislative Council and of the house 
of Representatives and Each and Every of them are hereby 
Required to give their attendance on that day in the Tovm of 
Vincennes accordingly.^ 

Given under my hand and the Seal of the Territory at Vin- 

1. Gomo's village was on Peoria lake. "The most daring of these was committed 
at Portage du Sioux, on July 19th. and created excitement at the time. It appears, 
from the correspondence which it occasioned, that on the night in question a party of 
Sacs stole from William T. Cole. Cornelius Gooch and James Moredough a number of horses 
and other articles. They were immediately pursued by Stephen Cole. James Moredough, 
W. T. Cole and Sarshal Brown, who came up with the band on the next day. They 
were first seen across a prairie, four or five miles ahead. Finding themselves dis- 
covered the Indians kept changing their course, which prevented their pursuers from 
overtaking them. In their rapid march, however, the Indians left behind them a 
quantity of their plunder, consisting of a valuable pack-saddle, seven or eight deer-skins, 
two sides of leather, and some dried venison, the property of Mr. Brown, which was 
recovered. Night coming on. and their horses becoming very fatigued, the pursuers 
concluded to follow no further, and pitched their camp near a small branch, arranging 
that the next day they should continue on to the house of Victor Lagotiere. where 
they would leave the recovered propeity. and get him (who was known to have great 
influence with the Indian tiibes) to inteicede for the recovery of the horses. But about 
two o'clock in the morning, while sleeping around their watch fire they were fired 
upon by the Indians and four of the party, consisting of C. Gooch. Abraham Patten, 
W. T. Cole and Sarshal Brown, iiislanlly lill.d. Stephen Cole was wounded in two 

places and also tomahawked, but h ..,^,.1 l),,in his wounds. It was not, however, 

till the 22d that he and James W,.m.I.,u.I, ,iI,, ,,tl,er survivor, who escaped by hiding 
in the thicket) were al.lo lo get b:iik i,. ihr s, 1 1 l.niinl and give the news of the massacre." 

Edwards, Historii of Illinois, 37 

1. This is given in the Executive Journal under September 28. There is evidence 
in many places that the Journal was frequently written from memory. 



 

cennes this 20th day of September 1810, and of the Independ- 
ance of the United States of America, the Thirty fifth year. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
By the Governor JNO. GIBSON Secrety 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 5 October 1810 

Heir. Pa. JliJ-Jlio 

Sir: 

Since the visit of the Prophet's brother [Tecumseh] to this 
place, all the information that I have received from the In- 
dian country (until yesterday) corroborates the opinion I had 
formed of the declining influence of the Prophets party. The 
Winebagoes have murdered some of the Kickapoos and Sacs 
and these Tribes, it is said, are determined to revenge them- 
selves. There are also other causes of jealousy between the 
Prophets followers which I will hope completely dissolve the 
confederacy he had formed. Yesterday, however, the son of 
a Wea chief arrived here, being sent by his father to inform 
me that he had heard from an Indian just from the Prophets 
Town that he (the Prophet) absolutely meditated an imme- 
diate attack upon us. I am convinced that not the least credit 
is due to this tale. If the Prophet really has such an inten- 
tion, he has adopted it as a desperate last resort to keep to- 
gether his force which he sees upon the point of being dis- 
solved by the causes I 'have mentioned. The plunging them 
into a war with us might perhaps have that effect, but I 
think it a stroke of policy rather too deep for his talents. 

Captain [Joseph] Cross' detachment will reach this place 
today or tomorrow. The letter of Mr. [John] Smith, your 
chief clerk, of the 5th ultimo did not reach me untill this 
morning, from some irregularity in the mail. I hope and 
believe that the force under Col. [Joseph] Constant will not 
be necessary here, unless it should be deemed inexpedient to 
employ any militia to accompany the regular force that is 
now here to the upper part of a new purchase. 

My plan was if I had received authority from you by this 
mail for so doing, to have called out 150 or 200 militia and 
with these and the regular troops to have immediately pro- 
ceeded up the Wabash and upon some convenient site (as 



 

near the upper line of the purchase as such a one could be 
found) to have erected a strong picketed work and as soon 
as it was put beyond the reach of an assault from the Indians 
or sufficiently supplied with provisions to return with the rest 
of the regulars to this place. The conviction which I formerly 
expressed of the great advantages which would flow from the 
establishment of such a post remains as strong as ever. In- 
deed I think it all important that it should be immediately 
executed. 

With respect to the Militia I should prefer to have them 
mounted, apart at least should be so. The additional ex- 
pense for the short time they would be employed would not 
I suppose be an object. 

I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

VINCENNES 10th Oct. 1810 
Hwr. Pa. 366, 367 

Sir: 

The letter of Mr. [John] Smith the chief Clerk of your 
Department reached me last Eve. Cap. [Joseph] Cross's de- 
tachment arrived on the 3rd Instant and are now encamped 
near the Fort. The barracks not being sufficient to receive 
them. No preparation has been made to enlarge the bar- 
racks as it will be altogether unnecessary if the contemplated 
Fort is erected higher up the Wabash. I have four com- 
panies of militia in readiness to attend the Regular Troops 
upon this Expedition and intended to have commenced the 
march in a few days. I shall however wait the arrival of 
further instructions, conformably to Mr. Smith's letter altho 
the season being so far advanced and [Thornton] Posey's 
detachment and the militia being altogether unprovided with 
tents I am almost tempted to take upon myself to do that 
which I am convinced the President would order to be done 
if he were on the spot. 

The tale mentioned in my last respecting the immediate 
hostile designs of the Prophet appears (as I supposed) to be 



 

entirely a fabrication. I should not apprehend the least dan- 
ger in sending up the Regular Troops alone to build the fort, 
but I think that the appearance of a tolerably respectable 
force in their neighbourhood would much accellerate the dis- 
persion of the prophets party and the breaking up of his 
conspiracy. 

One thousand or 1500 men employed in this way for ten 
or twelve days would I am persuaded produce highly bene- 
ficial and lasting effects. But the 4 companies of Militia and 
the regulars (which will not exceed 120 or 130 effectives) will 
be quite sufficient for safety and may answer every other 
purpose. 

1 have sent up [Michael] Buouillette to the Prophets Town 
ostensibly to inform him that the President's absence from 
the seat of Government is the cause of the answer to his 
speech being delayed but in reality to see what is going for- 
ward amongst them. 

I have the honor to be with great consideration Sir 
your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Esq. Sectj. of War 

Johnson to Harrison 

Fort Wayne, Octr. 14th 1810 

Har. Pa. 375-379 

Sir: 

I have at length got rid of the Indians after a very pro- 
tracted meeting occasioned by the conduct of the manners, 
particularly those of the Massasinnay all the Tribes belong- 
ing to this agency were invited in the usual manner, by Run- 
ners, The Delawares, Shawanees, and Potawatamies Minded 
punctually, the Miamies hung back under various frivolous 
pretences. I was anxious that the whole should be present 
as I had much to communicate to them. I therefore sent a 
second time to the Massasinnway people, but not one would 
come until they found the Delawares were on the return home. 
They then made their appearance. I was previously obliged 
to dismiss the Delawares, Potawatamies and Shawanoes 
which I did perfectly I believe to their satisfaction. After 
coming forward there appeared to be great reluctance on the 



 

part of the Miamies to come into Council. I soon found out 
from confidential friends among them that there was mischief 
going on among them, they at length came forward and 1 met 
them with as much good will as 1 could. 1 was not cordially 
disposed to them, but 1 shifted my feelings. I recounted to 
them everything that passed at Vincennes between your Ex- 
cellency and the Brother of the Prophet. 1 also made them 
acquainted with the proceedings of the late council at firown^,- 
town from the beginning to the inclusion, without naming 
Wells. I introduced the subject that had been agitated among 
them of petitioning for your removal, and endeavoured to 
show them the impropriety of their interfering in such a busi- 
ness and the total impracticability of their succeeding in such 
a measure, I told them that whoever advised them to it was 
a wicked bad man and was not their friend. I told them that 
Governor Harrisson enjoyed the confidence of their great 
Father in an eminent degree and that there was no Chief in 
this country but what he would remove sooner than him, that 
it was all a falsehood about your purchasing their land with- 
out the President's consent, that I never had received any 
messages of the kind alluded to from the President or any 
other person, that if any such persons went to speak to them 
without authority from you not to listen to them, for their 
words were false ; in short I said every thing that I conceived 
calculated to remove the existing bad impressions that has 
been made on their minds, after I had done speaking they 
informed that they would speak the ensuing day. Accord- 
ingly the next day they attended, the Paean was their speaker ; 
he began by allusions to the treaty last fall and the subse- 
quent one with the Kickapoos. He said they were informed 
that the Weas were not satisfied at the Treaty and that there 
was not room enough for them on this side of the new line 
that they the Miamies were forced to agree to the sale of 
the Land, that the Tomahawk was hung over their necks, 
that they would not agree to the Treaty, that it must be 
broke that for their part they would not receive any part of 
the annuity due under the Treaty of last Fall, that this was 
the determination of the whole nation. I told them in reply 
that the cause of their now not coming on was now ascer- 
tained, that they dare not speak in the manner they had done 
before the other Indians, that it was fear of the Prophet and 



 

his party that was the cause of their present conduct that in 
the place of meeting our friends the Miamies, I was greatly 
dissapointed at meeting a band of the Prophet's followers, 
in fact every sentiment they uttered was in unison with those 
of the Prophet. I told them that their Father's patience had 
been exhausted with the insolence of the Prophet, that he 
did not wish to use force in defence of his own rights, but 
that this conduct of theirs would be the very cause of his 
sending his warriors up the Wabash, that they never would 
get a foot of the land back again, that the Treaty was a fair 
Treaty and that we should proceed to survey the land and 
settle it as soon as it suited our convenience, the Paean here 
replied and said, if we held the land we must build a bridge 
across it. I told him if it became necessary we would build 
a bridge of warriors with rifles in their hands, that we had 
lost Genl. Wayne but that our country furnished many Genl. 
Waynes. I endeavoured to show the foolishness of their con- 
duct for I had paid part of their money away agreeably to 
the order of their chiefs. I had paid Wells the $350 in cash 
due the Eel Rivers under the Treaty of last fall on an order 
signed by the Chief Charley and the Earth in presence of 
two of the officers of the garrison, however it has appeared 
since that Wells cheated them out of this sum, as they did 
not know it was an order for their money they were signing 
at the time. The next day I found that all the Miamies ex,- 
cept the Massasineway Chiefs and Charley were willing to 
receive their annuity. I accordingly gave out that I would 
deliver them to those who would come forward and receive 
them as I was determined not to yield to the opposition of 
a few, finding that the thing was by no means general as I 
had at first expected when the Massassinway chiefs found 
themselves deserted by all the others Charley excepted, they 
set off to Detroit with about thirty of their men. Immedi- 
ately after their departure I delivered out the annuities to 
the Chiefs and sent them home perfectly satisfied. I sup- 
pose the Massasinnway people has been corrupted by the 
Prophet's council and wished to follow the example of the 
Weas in refusing their goods, if they had been indulged the 
contagion would have spread and would have been followed 
by the other Tribes. I therefore thought it the soundest policy 
to check and oppose the thing the first moment of its appear- 



 

ance in this quarter. I trust my conduct will meet your ap- 
probation, not having- the least doubt but it will have a good 
effect with these rascalls hereafter, for they have been spoiled 
to all intents and purposes heretofore from the immense num- 
ber of Potawatimies that attended I was obliged to give them 
$500 addl. out of the store and $150 to the Shawanees to 
reconcile them to the stoppage made at the War office. The 
following is a correct account of the number of Indians that 
attended this years meeting: 

viz. 

Potawatimies 646 

Delawares & Muncies 400 

Shawanoese 320 

Miamies 387 

Eel Rivers 22 

Ottaways 4 

1779 Total 

You will perceive from this statement that the number of 
Indians that attended this year exceeds by near 400 what 
attended at the Treaty, the expense of course has been con- 
siderable, it has been as small as it could be under existing 
circumstances. In order to check the very improper temper 
which has been discovered with this year past among the 
Indians particularly of the Wabash measures ought to be 
taken to establish a Post somewhere in the vicinity of the 
Prophet and the sooner a step of this kind is taken the better. 

The Prophet had two of his people here during the whole 
conference. I took no notice of them and treat'd them as the 
others they heared all that passed and returned home im- 
mediately after the Miamies. 

I have the honor to enclose for your satisfaction the pro- 
ceedings of the council at Brownstown,' together with Gov- 
ernor Hull's letter to me accompanying the papers. I have 
endeavoured to trace the story of the Message that should 
have went thro' me to the Massasinneway people and all I 
have heared is from the Owl who asserts that it came from 
Wells and who further says that all the mischief that is 
going among them has sprung from Wells and the Turtle. 

1. Brownstown at the mouth of Huron river about 20 miles south of Detroit. The 
proceedings mentioned have not been found- 



 

Wells is undoubtedly gone to Washington to make interest 
and if he fails in getting into office again I am told he in- 
tended to try for the contract he has here in the state of 
Ohio on his way thro' to Kentucky endeavoured to asperse 
all the measures that has been adopted by you relative to the 
objects of the Prophet. 

I have the honor to remain with very great respect 
Your Excellency's Most Obt. Servt. 

(Sign'd) Jno. Johnson 
His Excellency William Henry Harrison Governor of In- 
diana 

The Indians have consented to the road thro' their land to 
start from Dayton in Ohio past where Fort St. Clair for- 
merly stood to Vincennes in the Indiana Territory. I have 
notified the people of Dayton accordingly. 

J. J. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 17th October 1810 

Hnr. Pa. 368, 369 

Sir: 

Mr. [Michael] Brouillette returned last evening from the 
town of the Prophet. The latter expressed himself much 
pleased with my message and treated Brouillette with un- 
usual friendship. He still however expressed his determina- 
tion not to permit the lands lately purchased to be surveyed 
and boasted much of the number of men he had at his com- 
mand. I am however fully persuaded that there is not the 
least probability that he will make any hostile attempt. Gov- 
ernor [William] Hull and Mr. [John] Johnston will no doubt 
have informed you of the result of the late council of Indians 
near Lake Erie [Brownstown] . Neither the Prophet nor his 
brother attended. Anticipating no doubt a determination un- 
favorable to their wishes. 

I still wait your determination on the subject of the pro- 
posed fort. It has been my intention to accompany the de- 
tachment which is employed on this service as well for the 
purpose of debating the site for the fort and presei-ving har- 
mony and union between the regular troop and the militia 



 

as to prevent any sinister result from an accidental collission 
of our parties with those of the Indians. My services on the 
occasion will be voluntary and I neither desire nor expect 
any compensation for them. 

Some of the Regular officers have before served under me 
and they all express the greatest satisfaction at being placed 
under my command. As no part of the corps to which Cap- 
tain [Joseph] Cross belongs is here I have advised Captain 
[Geo. R. C] Floyd to pei-mit him to go with his Lieutenant 
to join his Company at the Cantonement near St. Louis. 

I neglected to mention to you in my last that the Head 
Chief of the Weas had arrived a few days before to receive 
that part of their annuity which was due for the late treaties 
and which he had formerly refused. 

I am with the greatest respect Sir 

Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esq. Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

VINCENNES 24th Oct. 1810 
//cm-. Pa. 370, J71 

Sir: 

As your final instructions upon the subject of the proposed 
garrison in the new purchase have not yet reached me and 
the season being so far advanced as to leave little probability 
of our finding in the woods a sufficiency of provision for the 
horses which it would be necessary to take with us, I have 
given up all idea of the expedition for this winter unless 
your next letter should bring me positive orders to under- 
take it. Another reason for declining it, is the sickly state 
of the detachment lately commanded by Capt. [Joseph] Cross 
which has been much afflicted with the Dysentery from its 
first arrivals and the disease appears rather to be gaining 
ground than decreasing. Capt. [Geo. R. C] Floyd will im- 
mediately bend all his attention towards making his men as 
comfortable as possible and as soon as a sufficiency of tents 
are erected for their reception a system of training will be 
commenced and regularly attended to whenever the weather 
will permit. In this business I will give Captn. Floyd all the 



 

assistance in my power. [No] Other expense has attended 
our preparations for the march than the purchase of some 
axes and a few tools. The axes (40 I believe) were neces- 
sary to erect the fort with dispatch and it was also my inten- 
tion to have placed the troops each night under the cover of 
a breastwork of trees after the example of General Wayne. 

I have the Honor to be with the highest respect Sir your 
Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 

The Honble William Eustis, Esqr. Secretary of War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, October 26, 1810 

Har. Pa. IJ, U 

Gov. W. H. Harrison Sir: 

Having consulted the President on the subject of your Ex- 
cellency's letter of the 10th instant, I have the honor to in- 
form you of his decision, that it is not expedient to make 
the military movement to establish the post on the new pur- 
chase on the Wabash, or to run the line the present season. 
The considerations which have led to this determination are 
various; among them, altho' not the most prominent, are the 
lateness of the season and the existing state of things in West 
Florida which may require the whole of our disposable force 
on the Western waters. 

[Capt. Thornton] Posey's Company with the detachment 
under [Joseph] Cross should therefore in case they shall not 
have marched, be quartered near Vincennes, either in huts 
for the winter, or such other temporaiy accommodations as 
the Country affords, holding themselves in readiness to de- 
scend the Mississippi. 

Capt. Cross being an artillery Officer & detached for St. 
Louis was not intended for a permanent command in the 
Indiana Territory & will be ordered there. In the Spring 
of the year a favorable opportunity will offer in which to 
establish a strong post & display a respectable force on the 
Wabash. I am perfectly satisfied that this is the only effi- 
cient language to be held to the Prophet & his adherents & 
the most peaceable measure which can be adopted. 

It has indeed occurred to me that the surest means of se- 



 

curing good behavior from this conspicuous personage & his 
brother, would be to make them prisoners. But at this time 
more particularly it is desirable that peace with all the In- 
dian tribes should be preserved, and I am instructed by the 
President to express to your Excellency his expectation and 
confidence, that in all your arrangements this may be con- 
sidered (as I am confident it ever has been) a primary object. 

An Answer to the speech of Tecumseh will be forwarded. 

I am &c. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 7th Nov. 1810 
Har. Pa. JT2-37J, 

Sir: 

I enclose herewith the copy of a letter [Oct. 14, above] 
received last evening from Mr. [John] Johnson the agent 
at Fort Wayne. The Miamis who are there represented to 
be so dissatisfied with the Treaty of Fort Wayne as late as 
the month of July last, when Col. [Francis] Vigo was with 
them, had discovered no cause of complaint against it. The 
poison has been since that time infused into their minds. I 
have good grounds to believe that the scheme originated with 
a scotch tory [William Mcintosh] who lives at this place and 
that [William] Wells was the instrument made use of to 
effect it. To enable you to form a correct opinion of what 
this man is capable of to effect his purposes, you need only 
refer to the correspondence betvv^een the War Department and 
him and that department and myself in the spring and sum- 
mer of the year 1805 or to ask of Genl. [Henry] Dearborn 
to give you a sketch of his conduct relatively to a treaty con- 
cluded by me with the Delawares. I am persuaded that you 
can scarcely from an idea of the villainous intrigues which 
are carried on with the Indians in this country by foreign 
agents and other disaffected persons. I have not heard from 
the surveyor [McDonald] who set out to run the boundary 
line since his arrival at the point from which his work is to 
commence but I do not believe that he will be interrupted 
indeed he may finish the woi'k before it is known by the 
Prophets party that it is commenced. Tecumseh, the Prophets 
brother, set out about ten days ago to visit the British Agent 
at Maiden. The Wea Chiefs are frequently with me and ap- 



 

pear to have gotten over their fit of sulkiness entirely as well 
the Miamis, beyond all doubt if they are treated in the man- 
ner that Mr. Johnson has set out with. A party of Kicka- 
poos from the village of the Prairie, the principal town, 
headed by several chiefs, have been with me for the purpose 
of receiving their annuities. I have refused to give a blanket 
untill all or a majority of the Chiefs shall attend and formally 
and solemnly renounce the Prophet's party and again put 
themselves under the protection of their father the Presi- 
dent. They left this a few days since, pouring execrations 
upon the Prophet and the British — nothing could come more 
directly home to their feelings than this refusal for they are 
almost literally naked. The whole tribe will no doubt be 
here in a short time. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Secy, of War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department 10 Nov. 1810 

Ha,: Pa. ir>, li: 

Gov. W. H. Harrison Sir, 

Your Excellency's letter of the 24th of October is received 
and it is satisfactory to learn that the arrangements made 
by your Excellency will correspond with the determination 
of the President, which I had the honor to communicate on 
the 26th of October. 

Pistols & Horsemen's Swords have been ordered to be de- 
posited at Newport Ky. from which the mounted militia may 
be supplied (on the order & receipt of your Excellcy) under 
the Law providing for arming the whole body of militia. 
Rifles may also be delivered under the same law. 

I am, respectfully &c. &c. 

War Department Nov. 10, 1810 
Tench Coxe, Esq. Sir, 

I will thank you to enquire and inform me whether there 
is to be found in Phila. a man who has worked in mines, of 
sober habits, a practical mineralist, who would be willing to 



 

go to Detroit and from thence to Lake Superior, to accom- 
pany a Gentleman who will be selected for the purpose of 
exploring the Copper Mines on the margin of that Lake and 
in case a suitable person should offer, what compensation he 
would require, for a tour of duty which would occupy six or 
nine months. As he will be employed in working out the 
metal it will be seen that an experienced workman, and not 
a theorist is required.' 

Petition 

Nov. 11 1810 

Har. Pa. U30-A33 

A Numerous meeting of the Citizens of the Indiana Territory 
To James Madison President United States : 
Sir: a numerous assemblage of a people occupying a re- 
spectable section of the Indiana territory address you — and in 
this t'-j^ir manner of approval they were fully aware that they 
virtually present themselves before the first personage of the 
continent — not with that dread that debased man dared to pe- 
tition the potent monarchs of the old world — whose steps 
reddened by the blood of the unfortunate part of their fellow 
mortals, forms the most prominent feature of character — But 
Sir as freemen acquainted with their rights in you we do our- 
selves the honor to respect the sovereignty and majesty of the 
federative union — constituting a great nation and the only 
one whose policy is marked by honesty — and you the only man 
now bearing rule in a sovereign capacity whose virtues raised 
you to the zenith of exaltation — and whom future historians 
will endeavour to outvie each other, in placing in the most 
illustrious view — whose acts when centuries have rolled away 
will be deemed of highest historical importance — whilst we 
acknowledge our steady attachment to the constituted author- 
ities of our country — we cease not to admire the firmness and 
patriotic zeal evidenced in your conduct, towards the contend- 
ing Belligerants. It is a matter of regret that even we so far 
in the interiour cannot be shielded from the effects of the more 
than savage policy of Britain — in constantly keeping commis- 
saries for the corruption of our aboriginal neighbours — and 
it is still more lamentable that strong grounds of presump- 

1. This was evidently in answer to an enquiry by Harrison. A copy of the letter 



 

tion exist that there are those resident amongst us engaged in 
the nefarious design — But to our Executive we honestly at- 
tribute public tranquility and the encreasing prosperity of the 
Territory — Although the proceedings of these individuals, may 
by the mildness of our laws, elude the definitions of legal crim- 
inality, yet we are not less sensible of this moral culpability, 
nor are the effects of their political mischief less execrable for 
they proceed from the very forms of corruption — Nothwith- 
standing Sir that we are not entitled in our present grade 
to all those privileges that the individual states of the union 
enjoy yet we are perfectly tranquil — nor do we find that any 
inconvenience is the result of that privation — whilst favoured 
with the man in the continuity of the excecise of his duties of 
Gubernation that faithfully discharged them many years past 
with a distinguished reputation — that no man occupying a 
similar station can form a paralel. But we should do injustice 
to public feeling, if we were to stop here or even indifferently 
acknowledge our sense of the laborious assiduity, patient in- 
vestigation, and intrepid conduct of his Excellency William 
Henry Harrison, on the late momentious occasion of Indian 
Aifairs — But to particularize the many instances in which the 
military, the legislative and executive talents of this states- 
man has been displayed would be to exhibit a history which 
the limitations of an address prohibiting and the President's 
knowledge of the zeal and manner with which this gentleman 
has on every occasion and in every situation discharged that 
portion of official business to him entrusted, evinces a great- 
ness of talents that render such a detail unessential — But it 
would be undutious in us not to pay more than common def- 
erence to that strength of intellect that suits his acute and 
distracting mind, to the education of principles and compre- 
hension of results which ever terminate favourable to the na- 
tion and those honored by his Government — and permit us to 
declare it the well grounded opinion of the people in their 
associated capacity that his Excellency the Governor merit the 
entire confidence of the people of Indiana, and possess it, and 
also entitled to the Patronage of the President of the United 
States — and that his brillient genius render him competent, 
and his virtues worthy of employ in any station however im- 
portant, that the ordinary or extraordinary circumstances of 
the country may demand on motion the foregoing adopted by 
an unanimous vote of the citizens present, and ordered to be 



 

signed by the President of the meeting and attested by the 

Secretary in Behalf of the people. 

Attest Signed agreeable to order 

Wm. Fleming' President of the Meeting 
Willis Stucker Secty. of the meeting 

Endorsement : 

Wm. Fleming, President of a meeting in Nov. of the Indi- 
ana Ty. represent to the President the approbatory sense of 
the meeting of the conduct &c. of Wm. H. Harrison 

Annual Message 

November 12, 1810 

Vincennes Western Sun, December 8, 1810 
Dawson, Harrison, 16^ 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and House of Repre- 
sentatives:^ 

The length of time which has elapsed since the territory 
has had the advantage of a Legislature, makes a meeting with 
you at this time particularly agreeable to me. I know not, in- 
deed, of any great injury which our citizens have sustained 
for the want of legislative aid, but there are some subjects 
which could not much longer remain unattended to without 
producing inconvenience. Some of these I shall notice in my 
present address, and others will form the subjects of future 
special communications. 

Presenting as we do a very extended frontier to numerous 
and warlike tribes of the aborigines, the state of our relations 
with them must always form an important and interesting 
feature in our local politicks. It is with regret that I have 
to inform you that the harmony and good understanding 
which it is so much our interest to cultivate with these our 
neighbors have for some time past experienced a considerable 
interruption, and that we have indeed been threatened with 

1. No mention of Fleming or Stucker has been found. It is not known definitely 
where this meeting: was held. 

1. A new assembly, the Third, was elected April 2. 1810 and met on call of the 
Kovernor Nov. 12. 1810. The Council was composed of Solomon Manwaring of Dear- 
born. James Beggs of Clark, John Harbison of Harrison, Walter Wilson and William 
Jones of Knox. The House consisted of Ephraim Overman. Richard Rue, John Temple- 
ton of Dearborn : John Paul and Thomas Downs of Clark : Dennis Pennington of 
Harrison ; and Gen. W. Johnston, Peter Jones and John Caldwell of Knox. 



488 INDIANA illSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

hostilities by a combination formed under the auspices of a 
bold adventurer, who pretends to act under the immediate in- 
spiration of the Deity. His character as a Prophet would not, 
however, have given him any very dangerous influence, if he 
had not been assisted by the intrigues and advice of foreign 
agents, and other disafi'ected persons who have for many 
years omitted no opportunity of counteracting the measures of 
the government with regard to the Indians, and filling their 
naturally jealous minds with suspicions of the justice and 
integrity of our views towards them. 

The circumstance which was laid hold of to encourage dis- 
affection on the late occasion was the treaty made by me at 
Fort Wayne, in the autumn of the last year. Amongst the 
difficulties which were to be encountered to obtain those ex- 
tinguishments of title which have proved so beneficial to the 
Treasury of the United States, and so necessary as the means 
of increasing the population of the territory, the most formid- 
able was that of ascertaining the tribes which were to be ad- 
mitted as parties to the treaties. The subject was accordingly 
discussed in a lengthy correspondence between the government 
and myself, and the principles which were finally adopted 
were made as liberal towards the Indians as a due regard to 
the interests of the United States would permit. Of the tribes 
which had formed the confederacy in the war which was ter- 
minated by the peace of Greenville [1795], some were resi- 
dents upon the lands which were in possession of their fore- 
fathers at the time that the first settlements were made in 
America by the white people, whilst others- which were emi- 
grants from distant parts of the continent had no other claim 
to the tracts they occupied than what a few years residence, 
by the tacit consent of the real owners, could give. Upon 
common and general pi-inciples, the transfer of the title of the 
former description would have been sufficient to vest in the 
purchaser the legal right to lands so situated. But in all its 
transactions with the Indians our government has not been 
contented with doing that which was just only. Its savage 
neighbors have on all occasions experienced its liberality and 
its benevolence. Upon this principle, in several of the treaties 
which have been made, tribes have been admitted to a partici- 



 

pation in their benefits who had no title to the lands ceded, 
merely because they had been accustomed to hunt upon and 
derive part of their support from them. For this reason, and 
to prevent the Miamies, who were the real owners of the land, 
from experiencing any ill effects from their resentment, in 
case they were excluded, the Delawares, Putawatamies, and 
Kickapoos, were made parties to the late treaty of Fort 
Wayne. No other tribe was admitted, because it never had 
been suggested that any other could plead even the title of use 
or occupancy of the lands which at that time were conveyed 
to the United States. It was not until eight months after the 
conclusion of the treaty, and after his design of forming a 
hostile combination against the United States had been dis- 
covered and defeated, that the pretensions of the Prophet with 
regard to the lands were made known. A furious clamour 
was then raised by the foreign agents amongst us, and other 
disaffected persons, against the policy which had excluded 
from the treaty this great, influential character, as he was 
termed, and the doing so expressly attributed to personal ill 
will upon the part of the negociator. No such ill will did in 
fact exist. I accuse myself, indeed, of an error in the patron- 
age and support which I afforded him upon his first arrival on 
the Wabash, before his designs of hostility to the United 
States had been developed. But upon no principle of pro- 
priety or policy could he have been made a party to the treaty. 
The personage called the Prophet is not a chief of the tribe to 
which he belongs, but is an outcast from it, rejected and hated 
by the real chiefs, the principal of whom [Hockingpomskon] 
was present at the treaty, and not only disclaimed upon the 
part of his tribe any title to the lands ceded, but used his per- 
sonal influence vdth the chiefs of the other tribes to effect the 
cession. 

As soon as I was informed that his disaffection at the late 
treaty was assigned as the cause of the hostile attitude the 
Prophet had assumed, I sent to inform him that whatever 
claims he might have to the lands which had been purchased 
for the United States, were not in the least affected by that 
purchase — that he might come forward and exhibit his pre- 
tentions, and if they were really found to be just or equitable, 
the lands would be restored, or an ample equivalent given for 
them. His brother was deputized and sent to me for that 
purpose [August 12-20, 1810]. But far from being able to 



 

shew any colour of claim, either for himself, or any of his fol- 
lowers, his objections to the treaty were confined to the as- 
sertion that all the land upon the continent was the common 
property of all the tribes, and that no sale of any part of it 
could be valid, without the consent of all. A proposition so 
extremely absurd, and which would forever prevent any fur- 
ther purchase of lands by the United States, could receive no 
countenance from any friend to his country. He had, how- 
ever, the insolence to declare, that by the acknowledgment of 
that principle alone could the effects of his resentment be 
avoided. No person who is in the least acquainted with the 
history of Indian affairs upon our northwestern frontier, for 
some years past, can be at any loss for the source of all this 
mischief, or will hesitate to believe that the Prophet is a tool 
of British fears or Bi'itish avarice, designed for the purpose 
of forming a combination of the Indians, which in case of war 
between that power and the United States may assist them in 
the defence of Canada, or as the means of keeping back our 
settlements, and by rendering us suspected and hated by the 
natives, secure to themselves a continuance of the valuable fur 
trade, which they have so long engrossed. It gives me great 
pleasure, however, to state to you, gentlemen, that the greater 
part of the neighboring tribes have continued firm in their 
attachment to the United States, in despite of the artful and 
malicious stories which have been circulated, and the goods 
distributed amongst them, for the purpose of producing a con- 
trary disposition. I have every reason to believe that the 
Prophet and his party have been for some time losing ground, 
nor do I believe that he will ever be able to form a confederacy 
strong enough to commence hostilities. As long, however, as 
he continues in his present position, it may be in his power to 
raise those alarms which have so mischievious an effect in re- 
tarding the population of our country. 

I have been thus particular, gentlemen, in giving you infor- 
mation upon the present state of our affairs with the neigh- 
boring Indians, that you may have them fully before you in 
case you should think proper to make them in any shape the 
subject of your deliberations. Although the management of 
Indian affairs, in relation to their character as an independent 
people and to the trade with them in their own country, is 
entirely and exclusively under the control of the United States, 
it has been determined that the regulations for the govern- 



 

ment of the latter are of no force in our settlements. Every 
person has been allowed to trade with them who pleases, which 
proves a source of numberless abuses of mischievous effect, 
both to the Indians and ourselves. Should you think proper 
to pass a law either prohibiting the trade of Indians within 
our settlements altogether, or confining it to the frontiers and 
obliging those who follow it to take out licenses, I am per- 
suaded your constituents would receive from it much benefit. 
It will be worthy of your consideration, also, whether some 
penalty might not be advantageously imposed upon those who, 
by improper interferences and by circulating falsehoods 
amongst the Indians, counteract the intentions of the govern- 
ment, and lay the foundation for distrust and enmities which 
may produce the most serious consequences. It is believed 
that to intrigues of this kind we are indebted for much of the 
uneasiness and dissatisfaction which has prevailed in the In- 
dian country for the last six months. The brother of the 
Prophet expressly declared, in the presence of a large audi- 
ence, that two secret visits had been made to his town by 
diff'erent white men, who urged him to oppose the execution 
of the late treaty, and who assured him that his pretensions 
would be supported by a considerable portion of our citizens. 
No treaty was ever concluded with the Indians under happier 
auspices than that of Fort Wayne. A number of highly re- 
spectable characters were witnesses to its progress and final 
termination, and to the satisfaction with which the chiefs and 
the whole body of warriors assented to its conditions. For 
upwards of ten months from this date, not a lisp of discontent 
was heard from any of those who were parties to it. So late 
as the month of July last, a worthy and patriotic citizen of 
this neighborhood was sent to the Miamies to obtain their 
consent to a conditional article in the Kickapoo treaty. This 
gentleman was received at the principal village with great 
cordiality and respect, and assurance given him not only that 
the original treaty would be cheerfully complied with, but 
that the article in that with the Kickapoos', which was the 
particular object of his mission (and with which they were 
under no obligation to comply), would be ratified as soon as 
they could assemble all the chiefs of their tribe. But by a 
communication which has just been received from the agent 
at Fort Wayne, it appears that the chiefs who were at that 
time so cordial in their feelings towards the treaty have been 



 

since convinced that the treaty was forced upon them, con- 
trary to their incHnation, and that it was necessary for them 
to petition the President to annul the treaty, and remove from 
office the person who negotiated it. It is very remarkable 
that the very words by which the Indians conveyed their com- 
plaint are almost the same which were used in the conversa- 
tion of some persons within our settlements. What has 
passed, gentlemen, is not to be affected by any law you may 
enact; and I think I may venture to assure you that, as soon 
as the Indians are convinced that our government is not to 
be trifled with, we shall hear no more of opposition to the 
execution of the treaty. 

The disaffection (of those who were parties to the treaty 
I mean) is confined to a part of one tribe only. But the 
effects which these intrigues may produce upon any future 
attempt to treat with the Indians for their lands ought, if pos- 
sible, to be avoided. Although much has been done toward 
the extinguishment of Indian title in the territory, much still 
remains to be done. We have not yet a sufficient space to 
form a tolerable state. The eastern settlements are separated 
from the western by a considerable extent of Indian lands, and 
the most fertile tracts that are within our territorial bounds 
are still their property. Almost entirely divested of the game 
from which they have drawn their subsistence, it has become 
of little use to them ; and it was the intention of the govern- 
ment to substitute for the precarious and scanty supplies 
which the chase affords the more certain support which is de- 
rived from agriculture and the rearing of domestic animals. 
By the considerate and sensible amongst them this plan is 
considered as the only one which will save them from utter 
extirpation. But a most formidable opposition has been raised 
to it by the warriors, who will never agree to abandon their 
old habits until driven to it by absolute necessity. As long as 
a deer is to be found in their forests they will continue to 
hunt. It has, therefore, been considered that confining them 
to narrow limits was the only means of producing this highly 
desirable change and averting the destiny which seems to im- 
pend over them. Are then those extinguishments of native 
title — which are at once so beneficial to the Indians, the ter- 
ritory, and the United States — to be suspended on account of 
the intrigues of a few individuals ? Is one of the fairest por- 
tions of the globe to remain in a state of nature, the haunt of 



 

a few wretched savages, when it seems destined by the 
Creator to give support to a large population, and to be the 
seat of civilization, of science, and of true religion? It may 
be asked, perhaps, how these effects can be produced by a few 
persons whose opportunities of intercourse with the Indians 
are so very limited. Nothing is more easy than to excite the 
jealousy and suspicion of a savage, and to make him believe 
that he is imposed upon. And upon no subject are their 
passions more easily raised, than that of their lands. Every 
treaty that has been made with them has proved a work of 
difficulty. Besides their natural prejudices, the clashing in- 
terests of the several tribes were to be accommodated, the in- 
juries they have received from white people palliated and ex- 
cused, and the fears, excited by seeing so many tribes driven 
from their ancient seats by the progress of our settlements, 
lulled, or diverted by opening brighter prospects as the re- 
ward of their fidelity. A single artful or imprudent observa- 
tion from a designing or careless individual is frequently 
sufficient to destroy the labor of weeks, and induce the Indians 
to abandon an intention which they seemed to have adopted 
after the maturest deliberation. Although I am persuaded 
that the blackest treachery and hatred towards our govern- 
ment and nation have produced some of the intrigues of which 
I complain, I am also convinced that much mischief has been 
done by others who, actuated by no views that were inimical 
to their country, have suffered their passions, prejudices, and 
personal animosities to lead them astray, and to do that which 
their cooler judgments must condemn. Whilst a penal law 
would perhaps deter the former, it would be the means, as an 
expression of the public sentiment, of reclaiming the latter to 
their duty. Should you think proper to take the subject under 
your consideration, gentlemen, the original documents in my 
possession, in support of what is here advanced, will be sub- 
mitted to you. 

There is still, gentlemen, some defect in our revenue laws. 
Altho' it is ascertained that the taxes which are due are more 
than sufficient to answer all the expenses of the government, a 
number of old claims remain unsatisfied, nor is there a dollar 
in the treasury belonging to the contingent fund. As a meas- 
ure tending to the great relief of the poor, the Legislature two 
years ago, upon my recommendation, took off the tax upon 
neat cattle and single young men, and substituted an addi- 



 

tional tax upon lands for county purposes in lieu of it. I rec- 
ommended at that time also to lower the tax upon horses, par- 
ticularly those that are employed in agriculture. It appears 
to me that the tax of fifty cents per head must be very op- 
pressive to the poorer class of our citizens. 

The court of Chancery, gentlemen, is still in the situation in 
which the law that created it left it. No provision has yet 
been made for the compensation of the Chancellor and the 
other officers of the court. The opinion given by me to a for- 
nier Legislature on this subject continues the same: "If ever 
there was a country where a court of Chancery was necessary, 
ours is the one; because in no other (as I believe) has there 
ever been so much valuable property transferred without the 
observance of the legal forms of conveyance, or where the 
evasion of the specific performance of contracts would produce 
so much confusion, injustice, and ruin. It is not many years 
since the bare assignment of title to lands upon a bit of paper, 
without any of those peculiar phrases which our laws require 
in the transfer of real property, was deemed both by the buyer 
and seller a sufficient conveyance ; indeed there have been in- 
stances where the delivery of possession has been considered 
and accepted as sufficient evidence of purchase. To enforce 
the observance of bona fide contracts made in this manner it 
is believed a court of Chancery is alone competent. Nor is 
it by any means that loose and fluctuating tribunal which 
some have considered it, where will, and not law, presides, 
and where the abitrary opinion of the judge is the only rule 
of decision. It is, on the contrary, bound down by rules and 
laws as well defined and as well understood as those of any 
other court; and as it compels the specific performance of 
contracts, and enables contending parties reciprocally to avail 
themselves of facts which might otherwise be forever buried 
in the bosoms of their opponents, it is particularly calculated 
to protect the simple and ignorant against the artful and 
designing." 

The Judiciary system may also, perhaps, be susceptible of 
improvement. Should it be thought from the number of new 
counties which are in contemplation that a Superior court 
cannot be holden in each, a district might be composed of sev- 
eral contiguous counties. 

With respect to the militia, gentlemen, I am at a loss what 
to recommend, because our finances are so limited that I fear 



 

we could not easily provide the means of supporting them in 
those camps of discipline which I have formerly recommended, 
and in which military duty can alone bo taught. If you think, 
however, that the treasury could bear the expense, or that it 
would not impose on the men too great a burden to oblige them 
to furnish their own provision, I am persuaded that the muster 
days directed by the present law would be most usefully com- 
muted for even the same number of days successfully devoted 
to military improvement in a camp. Altho' I almost despair 
from the scantiness of our means of seeing our militia arrive 
at that high state of perfection which they ought to attain, 
much may nevertheless be done towards keeping up that spirit 
of improvement until the genera! government shall provide 
an uniform system for the whole continent, and the means for 
carrying it into effect. 

But your attention, gentlemen, may in the mean time be most 
usefully directed to the rising generation. Military discipline 
consists in a number of minute observances, which collectively 
form a beautiful and connected system but considered indi- 
vidually appear trifling and even ridiculous. Hence it hap- 
pens that so many persons become disgusted with military 
duty before they have .seen the application of those appar- 
ently frivolous orders which are given to the novitiate in arms. 
Youth, being more docile, is therefore the proper period for 
military as well as every other species of instruction. And 
next to that knowledge of their rights when they become men 
and citizens, what is more necessary than to teach them the 
art by which these rights are to be defended? Ours is, I be- 
lieve, the only republic that ever existed which neglected this 
important part of education. In the republics of Greece, the 
exercises of the gymnasium always succeeded the studies and 
and lectures of the lyceum ; and in that of Rome, a strict atten- 
tion to the duties of the Campus Martius was exacted of every 
youthful candidate for citizenship. 

The liberality of Congress, gentlemen, has committed to 
your control a section of land in each township for the use of 
schools, and the seminary at this place [Vincennes] is sup- 
ported also by a considerable benefaction [a congressional 
township] in the same species of property. Let me earnestly 
recommend to you, that in the system of education which you 
may establish for those schools the military branch may not 
be forgotten. Let the masters of the inferior schools be 



 

obliged to qualify themselves and instruct their pupils in the 
military evolutions, whilst the University, in addition to those 
exercises, may have attached to it a professorship of tactics, 
in which all the sciences connected with the art of war may 
be taught. I can see no reasonable objection to this plan. It 
will afford healthful exercise and amusement to the youth, in- 
spire them with patriotic sentiments, and furnish our militia 
with a succession of recruits, all of them habituated to the 
performance of military evolutions and some of them with 
considerable attainments in the higher branches of tactics. 
The sole additional expence to the ordinary mode of education, 
independent of the additional professorship in the University, 
will be the procuring for each subordinate school a number of 
mock firelocks of wood, a few martial instruments, and for the 
higher schools a few hundred real guns of the cheapest manu- 
facture. 

Since the last session of the Legislature, gentlemen, I have 
received for the fourth time, from the President and Senate 
of the United States, an appointment to the Executive duties 
of this territory. I hope that I duly appreciate this mark of 
continued confidence in the government of my country; but 
I will not attempt to deny that the circumstance connected 
with the appointment, from which I have derived much satis- 
faction, is the zeal and anxiety which were manifested in my 
favor by the great majority of your constituents, expressed as 
well by themselves as their representatives to the last General 
Assembly. Will you be pleased, gentlemen, to bear them my 
most sincere thanks for the confidence and support with which 
they have favored me for so many years. Assure them that 
their interests and happiness will ever be the great objects for 
which I shall labor, and that I shall always consider their ap- 
probation as the greatest reward for any services which, 
through the assistance of Divine Providence, I shall be able to 
render them. ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES Decembr. 24th 1810 

Ojj,. Her. Pa. JS0-.386 

Your letters of the 26th of Oct. and 10th of Novembr. were 
duly receiv'd. Nothing extraordinary has happened in rela- 



 

tion to Indian affairs, since I had the honor to write to you 
in October. 

When I heared last from the Prophet's Town, Tecumseh 
had not returned from his visit to upper Canada. The Presi- 
dent's injunction with regard to the preservation of peace 
with the Indians shall be faithfully attended to. I believe 
indeed that there will be no great difficulty in the affair. The 
Prophet's threats against those who should receive their an- 
nuities, have been in a great measure disregarded. Even the 
Kickapoos to a considerable number have been in to receive 
theirs. As it was not a complete representation of the Tribe, 
half of the goods only were delivered, the rest are still in 
my possession, but I am persuaded that the party which has 
hung back will apply for them before the Winter is out. 
Altho' I am persuaded, that there is not at present any prob- 
ability of an Indian war, the affairs of that department are 
by no means in such a situation as I could wish them. The 
Indians appear to be more uneasy and dissatisfied than I 
ever before saw them, and I believe that the Prophet's prin- 
ciple, that their lands should be considered common property, 
is either openly avowed or secretly favored by all the Tribes, 
west of the Wabash. A Wea Chief who attended their late 
council at Bro\vnstown informs me that a resolution to pre- 
vent the sale of any more lands to the United States, was 
entered into by the chiefs after Governor Hull had left them. 
That the British Agent [Matthew] Elliott strongly recom- 
mended this measure to them, and informed them that the 
English and French had made peace and would soon unite 
their arms to dispossess the Americans of the lands they had 
taken from the Indians. 

The Miamies have been so much frightened by the threats 
of the Prophet and his party and the jealousy which other 
Tribes not connected with the Prophet have manifested of their 
exclusive pretentions to the lands on the Wabash, that I should 
not be greatly surprised if they were to abandon their claim 
and acknowledge a community of interest with the other 
Tribes. A step of this sort would be of infinite prejudice to 
the United States. It would shut the door against any fur- 
ther extinguishment of Indian title upon the valuable tract 
of country south of the Wabash, which is now embraced by 
our settlements upon three sides. And upon the obtaining of 
which the public opinion in the Western country is so fixed 



 

that it will be difficult for the Government to divert it to any 
other district. The tide of immigration from Pennsylvania 
and the State of Ohio rolls directly against it. The little 
tract which was purchased to the west of the Greenville 
boundary will be soon filled up to the very line and our back- 
woods men are not of a disposition to content themselves with 
land of an inferior quality when they see in their immediate 
neighbourhood the finest country as to soil in the world occu- 
pied by a few wretched savages. The members of the Ter- 
ritorial legislature which has been lately in session warmly 
recommended to me to smooth the way for another extinguish- 
ment of title parallel to the Grouseland purchase and I must 
confess that my own views are strongly directed to that meas- 
ure. I am indeed interested in the question ; for without such 
further purchase Indiana cannot for many years become a 
member of the Union and I am heartily tired of living in a 
Ten-itory. You will pardon me Sir for my presumption in 
intruding my opinions upon you but I really think that the 
Indian affairs in this country require the particular atten- 
tion of the Government, that is if further purchase of land 
in this quarter have entered into the scope of its policy, for 
whether those purchases are made at this time or delayed 
for several years measures may now be taken which may 
greatly facilitate them or if neglected when the day arrives, 
on which they may be desirable, intrusions of other claims 
and titles may have intervened, which may totally disappoint 
our expectations. I must at any rate beg of you a solution 
of and directions upon a question which may arise, or which 
may be brought to arise out of the present state of Indian 
politics. The Miamies are certainly the real proprietors of 
the country south east of the Wabash, which has not been 
purchased by us (excepting the claim upon white River, 
which by the last treaty they ceded to the Delawares) they 
are pressed by the neighbouring Tribes to give up this ex- 
clusive claim but knowing its value nothing but fear will 
induce them to do it. I am convinced that they (the Chiefs 
at least) had much rather commit themselves to the protec- 
tion of the United States entirely and surrender their whole 
claim for a suitable annuity, than to divide it with the neigh- 
bouring Tribes. If such a disposition really exists, shall it 
be encouraged? If the offer is made, how shall it be re- 
ceived? You will ask why is it at present necessary to de- 



 

termine at all upon the subject? why not wait for a calmer 
moment when the agitation which now exists amongst the 
Indians shall have subsided? Because I fear by such delay 
the opportunity may be entirely lost. If we wish to obtain 
the lands in question, it is our policy to support the claims of 
the Miamies and prevent the other Tribes from settling on it. 
If we do not interfere I am persuaded that the Miami must 
yield to the pressure of the other Tribes. The establishment 
of the Prophet will receive their sanction. The Wyandots 
are also forming a Town upon the Wabash and altho' their 
numbers are now small the country is so superior to their 
own that numbers will flock to it. This is indeed the land 
of promise to which all the Tribes on Lake Erie and the 
lower Lakes have directed their attention as those of the 
Mississippi have to the Osage country. I have understood 
that numbers of the six nations are in motion and at the 
councils of Brown's Town had demanded lands to settle on 
of the Indians of this country. 

I have done myself the honor to enclose herewith my ad- 
dress to the Territorial Legislature and the copy of a Law 
passed in consequence of it, and another message transmit- 
ting a letter from the late President. The latter will I am 
persuaded be received with gi'eat satisfaction. I was par- 
ticularly desirous, that the Legislature should have before 
them a complete view of the Indian afi'airs in this quarter. 
For altho' there are some points touched upon in my ad- 
dress that are entirely without their control the opinions of 
so respectable a body cannot fail to give me great support, 
if my conduct has been correct and if it has not been a fair 
opportunity was offered for investigation and selection. For 
this purpose I may have in the estimation of some persons 
sacrificed some dignity to the shrine of popularity, for as 
ever has been my practice, I invited their scrutiny to mat- 
ters which were entirely foreign to their powers. The re- 
sult was, however, a most cordial understanding and an 
unanimity which is, I believe not parralleled in the United 
States. 

The Law which is enclosed will not be efl'ectual as it re- 
lates to the sale of ardent spirits to the Indians unless a 
similar prohibition could be established in the neighbouring 
territories. Our situation in this Town will be a most dis- 
agreeable one. The Illinois Territory is separated from us 



 

only by the Wabash and the Indians will there procure as 
much whiskey as they want whilst this Town will experience 
all the inconvenience of their drunkenness. The Illinois ter- 
ritory being in the first grade of government, the Governor 
and judges can not pass any law nor adopt one without a 
precedent from one of the original states. No such precedent 
is to be found. The prohibition therefore to sell the ardent 
spirits to the Indians in that Territory must come from 
Congress. I would have sent the law which has passed here 
to Governor Edwards, that the application for a similar one 
might come from him, but I feared that the Session of Con- 
gress would nearly have expired, before it could reach the 
seat of government in this circuitous way. I must therefore 
beg leave to recommend this subject to your attention. 
I have the honor to be with great respect. Sir, 
your humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. WILLIAM EusTIS, Esq. Secy, of War 



Paul to Manwaring' 

Madison January 9th 1811 

.1/.S.S-. in State Library 

Dear Sir 

I am at a loss to know what Could have been the Cause 
of your most Extraordinary Conduct on your way home= to 
ride at least one half mile out of your way to get past my 
house without Calling if I have meritted such Contempt I 
do not know it my keeping on before you was as much for 
your accomodation as for my own I well knew we Could 
not all be accommodated at one place at the same time and 
from the Circumstances of the Case you had no right to take 
snuff before it was offered but I flatter myself it will not 
prevent a friendly Corrospondence for the benefit of Our 
Country I am afraid that some of our friends will injure 
the Governor [Harrison] through perfect friendship trying 

1. Solomon Manwarring was born 
1803. member of Legislative Council 18 
Died in Dearborn Co. Feb. 1836. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 501 

to prevent men from Voting for the man of their Choice 
because he was not in a habit of perfect friendship with the 
Governor & that [Jonathan] Jennings has said something 
against the Governor. I am sure I am as real a friend to 
the Governor as any one in the Territory and I should be 
very sorry even to intimate to any one that he ought not to 
Vote for a man of his choice because he was not in perfect 
friendship with the Governor indeed I am of Opinion that 
I could not offer a greater insult to the Governor than to 
proceed in that way — the Governors own Conduct is suffi- 
cient to recommend him he needs no person to represent him 
in Congress — Nothing injures the Governor so much as those 
poor Creatures do who go about with such piteous tales — 
I am dear Sir with much Esteem 
Your St. 

John Paul" 
Illegible 
Solomon Manwarring 



Jennings to Manwarring 

Washington January 22d 1811 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 
Dr. Sir 

I received your friendly [letter] last evening, and hope 
that I may have the pleasure of hearing from you often — I 
am much obliged to you for your information, it will be of 
much advantage to me. 

I have written to you before and suppose they have reached 
you ere now, viz, I wrote or enclosed documents I do not 
recollect. 

We have no great stock of news to give you, none I sup- 
pose more than your paper regularly afford — The Gov- 
ernor [Harrison] is very unpopular here and daily becomes 
mor unpopular — 

I have received depositions and certificates with charges 
against Harrison and have shown them to several members 
of Congress and they all tell I am bound to give them their 

3. John Paul, born near Philadelphia. Penn., soldier 
settled in Ky. ; moved to Ohio : member of Constitutional conven 
founded Madison 1810: state senator 1816-18. Died in Madison li 

Ind. Mag. 



 

usual course and declare he ought to out of office — His 
political career is ended. I shall lay the ground work of an 
impeachment before ten days — ' 

The above in confidence until I see you — 

From what has been written to me from every County in 
the Territory I think there is little doubt of my next election. 
But sure bind, sure find, is the best maxim, and I have writ- 
ten to several of my friends to use every proper exertion, 
because if we succeed, the Governor and his federal friends 
must go to the wall — 

This is the only struggle on our part to become quite vic- 
torious, that is necessary, and the condescension of the Gov- 
ernor is only to obtain thereby some advantage — He has 
been forced to this condescension, otherwise he would have 
been equally condescending at other times. Necessity is no 
virtue, and he who makes a virtue of necessity deserves no 
credit. 

I have thought proper to ask of my friends in Franklin & 
Wayne the favour if they feel disposed, to have a meeting 
in each County, and resolve that they will support [Jen- 
nings] at the next election as Delegate to Congress. 

I shall not mention the thing to any others but yourself 
and Mr. [John] Templeton- and Capt. [Thomas] McCoy^' and 
Capt. [Robert] Hanna.^ 

I do not wish it to be laiown as being my request it would 
be made a handle of by my enemies. But policy is necessary — 

Such a measure will have the greatest weight in Knox 

1. Dec. 21. 1810 Jennings introduced a resolution to the effect that no appointee 
of Harrison should sit in the territorial legislature. This was laid on the table without 
vote or discussion and never referred to again. So far as the A7inals show Jennings 
never "impeached" the governor. This letter is a fair sample of Jennings' statesman- 
ship. Senator Joseph Anderson of Tenn. introduced a bill to broaden the right of 
suffrage in Indiana, which became a law. This law contained a section embracing the 
substance of the Jennings resolution. How far he was instrumental in the passage 
of the law cannot be ascertained from the Annals, though it is a fair inference that 
he should have the credit. Jennings was greatly handicapped by his inability as a 
speaker. 

2. John Templeton was appointed a justice for Dearborn Co. (now Franklin) 
April 11. 1806. He was the son-in-law of Capt. Robert Hanna. He was elected to the 
territorial legislature in 1810 and by his efforts Franklin Co. was organized. His 
father Robert Templeton came with Robert Hanna from S. Car. in 1804. 

3. Thomas McCoy was a Kentuckian who settled south of Richmond in 1805. Dec. 
24. 1806 he was made a Capt. in the militia. He was an Irishman and a farmer, 
dieing on his farm near Centerville, 1845. 

4. Captain Robert Hanna was one of the earliest settlers of what is now Franklin 
Co. He came from S. Car in 1804 ; was first sheriff of his county ; a member of the 
Constitutional convention of 1816 and one of the best known men of Franklin county. 



 

County because it is reported with great industry that Ran- 
dolph will get a majority with your upper Counties — 

I shall write to the same effect to those gentlemen — I 
have before now seen such farces as that of [James] Dill"' 
and Harrison, do not trust to their appearances, they are 
well aversed in deception — Make my respect to Mrs. Man- 
waring and believe me to be most respectfully yours very 
sincerely 

Jonathan Jennings 
To Solomon Manwarring 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 6th Feby. 1811 

Har. Pa. JS7 

Sir: 

The Militia which were called out in the course of the last 
spring have never yet been paid. The muster rolls were 
forwarded immediately after they were dismissed. Will you 
be pleased to direct the military pay master of this District 
or some other person to pay them? 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Esqre. 



War Department 



Feby 4, 1811 

Har. Pa. 18 



[Enclosed to Harrison] 
Col. J. Kingsbury' Sir 

Your letter of the 30th of November ult. inclosing Lieut 
Brevoort's= report relative to the condition of the Snow 
Adams" has been received. You will be pleased to have her 
put into a complete state of repair and equipment for service, 

5. James Dill was an Irishman by birth. He was the son-in-law of Governor St. 
Clair. March 7, 180» he was appointed recorder of Dearborn Co. He was an old 
acquaintance of Harrison, having served as a Lieut, in the army 1799-1800 at Cin- 
cinnati. He continued a well known attorney of Dearborn Co. till his death. He served 
in the territorial le?:islature and was a member of the Constitutional convention 1816. 

Smith. Trials and Sketches, 172 



 

having such part of the mechanical and other labor executed 
by the troops as they can perform. 
I am, &c. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES Feby 6th 1811 

Har. Pa. .?SS, 3S0 

Sir: 

Having never received any directions from your depart- 
ment since the commencement of the present administration 
[Madison] with respect to the issues of provisions and occa- 
sional benefactions to the Indians, I have pursued the plan 
laid down in letter of General Instructions received from the 
late President [Jefferson] in his own hand writing, and which 
has served for my guide for me in this particular for many 
years past. If however the further extinguishment of Indian 
title should not enter into the plans of the Government, a 
retrenchment of the annual expenses of the Indian Depart- 
ment at this place might be gradually effected. At any rate 
50 or 60 dollars per annum might be saved in the article of 
Tobacco if that article were purchased by the quantity in 
Kentucky, and sent here and perhaps twice that sum by the 
employment of an armourer by the year for the Indian busi- 
ness, rather than the present mode of paying for it by the 
job. Whatever directions you may please to give me on 
these subjects shall be punctually observed. 

I have no knowledge of the present disposition of the Brit- 
ish Government towards the United States but what I gather 
from the Documents which accompanied the President's mes- 
sage to Congress but I am certain that if their intentions are 
pacifick the Indian department of Upper Canada have not . 
been made acquainted with them — for they have certainly 
(and very lately too) said everything to the Indians, who 
have visited them, to irritate them against us — excepting this 
I have heard nothing new from the Indian country. Indeed 
this is not the season for intrigue amongst them as they are 

1. Colonel Jacob Kingsbury of Conn., served in the Revolution in the Continental 
line — in the regular army almost continuously until Ji,ne 15. 1815 — died July 1. 1837. 

2. Lieutenant Henry B. Brevoort of New York, in the reiiular army from F«b. 
16. 1801 to June 15. 1815 when he was honorably discharged. 

Heitman Register, 601 

3. This was a vessel at Detroit carrying 14 guns. 

Mieh. Hist. Pioneer Cott. XV. 1890 



 

dispersed in hunting camps and have very little communica- 
tion with each other. 

I have the honor to be with great respect, Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Esqr. Sec2j. of War 

Johnson to Secretary of War 

Fort Wayne, February 8th, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 800 

has been at this place. The information derived from 

him is the same I have been in possession of for several years, 
to wit: the intrigues of the British agents and partizans, in 
creating an influence hostile to our people and Government, 
within our territory. I do not know whether a garrison is 
to be erected on the Wabash or not; but every consideration 
of sound policy urges the early establishment of a post, some- 
where contiguous to the Prophet's residence. [Extract] 

John Johnson 



McCarty and Brown to Harrison 

[Mar. 4, 1811] 

.Msa. in Indiauri Slate Library 

To his Excellency William Henry Harrison 

Governor and Commander in Chief in and over Indiana 
Territory 
Sir 

At your Request there has been an Election held in our new 
County of Franklin for County officers and it appears that 
Anthony Halverstadt is Elected Coroner, Landon Robertson 
Surveyor, Justices, Samuel Rockafellar, John Hall, Andrew 
Tharp, Benjamin Smith, John Ewing, Isaac Wilson, John 
Fugate [Fugit] — John Templeton' put himself to the peoples 
choice and was elected by a great Majority, We would just 
hint to your Excellency that we approve the peoples choice 

1. These were all tax payers in Franklin county in 1811. All were appointed 
March 4. 1811. Executive Journal, 29 



 

in Regard to the officers and that there is a scarcity of the 
Territorial Laws amongst us and if a few copies could be 
Transmitted to us it would oblige 

Sir your Humble Servts 

, , ( Benj. McCarty 
Judges I ^^^^^g g^^^^ 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES April 23d 1811 

Hm: Pa. 390-397 

Sir: 

You were no doubt informed by the acting Govr. of Louisi- 
ana [William Clark] of the murder of four of our citizens 
last fall on the Missouri by two Potawatimies. A short time 
before Govr. [Benjamin] Howard' left St. Louis he sent me 
a number of documents relating to this subject and requested 
that I would cause the culprits to be apprehended (if as he 
had been informed they were within the limits of this [In- 
diana] Territory) and delivered up to him. My enquiries 
have at length verified the supposition that they were within 
my superintendency and that they had wintered amongst 
those of their Tribe, which inhabit the country between the 
Wabash and Lake Michigan at no great distance from the 
Prophet's Town. 

About the first of this Inst, four of the same Tribe and 
from the same place came into the settlement of Busseron 
(20 miles above this) and took from thence twelve head of 
Horses. These scoundrels I have no doubt belong to a Ban- 
ditti that were established formerly on the upper parts of 
the Illinois River [around Peoria] from whence they carried 
on the most successful depredations, under the command of 
a celebrated Chief, called Turkey-foot, who became the terror 
of all the settlements on the Mississippi and the Illinois. I 
was three years endeavouring in vain to oblige his Tribe to 
deliver him up for the murder of two Frenchmen and was 
at length oblig'd to employ a war chief of the Tribe, who was 

Ky. Representative in congress from Ky. 
: territory (not Indiana territory as stated 
1 the U. S. army in 1813. Died Sept. 18. 

Scharf. Histonj of St. Louis I, Jiv 
Lanman, Dictionary of Congress. 190 



1. Benjamin 


Howa 


vA. 


born. 


LexingK 


1807-1810. Appointed g 


ove 


rnor o 


if Louisi: 


in references) in 


1810. 


B 


ri.sadit 


.,-genera 


1814 at St. Louis 


, Mo. 









 

a friend of mine, to apprehend him. In the encounter which 
ensued Turkey-foot was killed and his scalp brought to me. 
This struck such terror in the party that they did no mis- 
chief other than that of stealing a few horses, until the mur- 
der on the Missouri. I have little expectation of their being 
given up, but I have sent [William] Wells and [John] Con- 
nor who were here as witnesses at the general court, to the 
Indian country to ascertain precisely where they are, by what 
chiefs they are protected, to endeavour to recover the stolen 
horses. 

I hold [Michael] Bruillet in readiness to go for them should 
it appear probable from Wells' report that they will be sur- 
rendered. If the murderers and thieves are not quietly given 
up I shall wait your further directions on the subject. 

I have pursued the President's directions with regard to 
the use of pacific and conciliatory measures with the Indians. 
That is I have paid more than common attention to gratify 
their little wants and to do away unfavorable impressions 
but having received no orders to the contrary, I have uni- 
formly and positively declared that the Treaty [Fort Wayne, 
1809] of which they have been made to complain would never 
be abandoned, and that we were determined to keep the land 
which we had fairly acquired of the rightful owmers even 
at the expense of as many lives as there were Trees grow- 
ing on it. I believe that this course has produced all the 
good effects which I had anticipated from it. The little Wea 
Tribe [near Lafayette] had begun last fall to give itself airs 
in imitation of, or in obedience to the directions of, the other 
Tribes. They are now all submission, and far from imposing 
any impediments to the settlements, which are at this moment 
progressing far into the new purchase, they afforded these 
adventurous citizens, all the aid in their power. But a few 
days ago the Head Chief applied to me for a writing desig- 
nating him as such and certifying his disposition to live upon 
the most friendly terms with those people who have so pre- 
maturely taken possession of that very land (the site of his 
principal village) which a few months ago, they discovered 
so much aversion to give up, after they had fairly and will- 
ingly sold it. Encroachment upon the rights and pi'operty 
of those who will not resist is a characteristic of every sav- 
age. "Sooner shall the lover stop short of the last favor (I 
use a figure of the late Presdt. Adams) "having obtained the 



 

rest" than an Indian cease to demand as long as there is a 
prospect of his demands being complied with. The unfor- 
tunate Traveller who yields his coat to Indian insolence need 
not expect that he will be able to retain his shirt. On the 
contrary (pursuing the above simile) the licentious rake is 
far more easily checked by the frowns of Indignant virtue 
than are the arrogant pretensions of an Indian, (I Speak 
from experience) when opposed by decision and manly re- 
sistance. 

I have no reason to believe that the disposition of the 
Prophet and his Brother towards us has undergone any 
change, but I do not think that he will be able to excite the 
usual disturbance this spring amongst the Indians. Finding 
that they are unable to raise a sufficient force to make war, 
and that their threats have availed them nothing I am in 
hopes that they will remain quiet. I sincerely hope however 
that the President's determination to build the Fort on the 
Wabash [Harrison] may only have been suspended not 
abandoned. The establishment of a Factory [for Indian 
trade] there also would be highly advantageous to the In- 
dians and would produce all those good effects to us, which 
have been experienced from those establishments at other 
places. I do not see Indeed how the Indians can procure 
necessaries without it, as they are precluded by the law I 
sent you from trading in the settled parts of this Territory. 

If my letters and opinions on the subject of Wells have 
appeared to you in any degree inconsistant and contradictory 
I can not say that they have not exhibited a faithful presenta- 
tion of what has passed in my mind. You will do me justice 
in believing that this has not proceeded from fickleness of 
temper or any less worthy cause but from the contradictory 
impressions which a knowledge of his superior talents for 
an appointment in the Indian Department and the fear of 
his possessing dispositions which might in some degree prove 
dangerous, have made upon me. Without troubling you again 
with observations upon his character which I have before 
frequently made I will merely mention the conclusions which 
my mind has arrived at after much reflection. Could I be 
allowed to dispose of Wells as I thought proper my first wish 
would be to place him in the Interiour of our settlements 
where he would never see and scarcely hear of an Indian. 
But as this is impossible from his being located in such a 



 

manner at Fort Wayne, that he cannot be removed without 
very considerable expence my next wish is to get him such 
an appointment as he could consider an object where he might 
be used to advantage but at the same time so limitted as to 
prevent his doing mischief. I sincerely believe that he would 
now be faithful. His activity and talents need not be doubted. 
The arrangement which I should recommend would be that 
there should be no principal agent that Wells should be sub- 
agent for the Miamies and Eel River Tribes, or if it was 
thought improper to give him that title he might be called 
Interpreter — Mr. [John] Shaw Sub-agent for the Potawati- 
mies and Conner for the Delawares. The Salary of each to 
be 550 or 600$. The annuities to be delivered by the Factor 
and all payments to be made by him. The three to report 
separately and individually to the Governor. 

The additional expence (fixing the salaries at $600) would 
be but about $600 in the whole which is much less than a 
principal agent could be got for — Wells would gladly accept 
of such an appointment and Shaw and Connor have sei'ved so 
faithfully that they deserve some little advance. Indeed upon 
general principles such promotions are always promotive of 
public service. 

I believe that I did myself the favor to inform you last fall 
that I had commenced a suit against a certain Wm. Mcintosh 
a Scotchman residing at this place, for slandering me in rela- 
tion to my management of the Indian Department. The ac- 
cusations which he brought against me were of the most seri- 
ous nature. "Such as defrauding the Indians in the Treaties 
I have made with them. Making chiefs to answer my own 
particular purposes. Excluding the real chiefs. By this and 
the conduct producing all the disturbances which have taken 
place in the Indian country, and the alarm produced in this 
etc." This suit was tried in the Superior Court of this Ter- 
ritory on the 11th inst. A short report of it will be published 
and I will do myself the Honor to send you a copy. Suffice 
it at present to say that no defendant in a case of that kind 
ever allowed so much latitude as my opponent was, by my par- 
ticular direction to my attorneys. Not only every species of 
justificatory evidence was allowed with regard to the points 
at issue but he was allowed to bring forward testimony totally 
irrelevant to it, in fact every part of my conduct and admin- 
istration for ten years was scrutiniz'd. The result is that 



 

after twenty-five witnesses were examined, the rascally calum- 
niator begg'd for mercy, and his council labour'd only for a 
mitigation of damages. A select or special jury gave a ver- 
dict in my favor of four thousand dollars damages. A new 
trial was moved for on the ground of excessive damages, but 
refused by the court.- 

I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect, 
Yr. Obt. Servt. etc. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble Wm. EUSTIS, Esqre. Secy, at War 

Irwin to Secretary of War 

Chicago, May 13th, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs 1, 800 

An assemblage of the Indians is to take place on a branch 
of the Illinois, by the influence of the Prophet — the result 
will be hostile, in the event of a war with Great Britain. 

W. Irvine [Matthew Irwin, Jr.]' 



Clark to Secretary of War 

St. Louis, May 24th, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 800 

From the hostile appearance of the Indians towards the 
[Great] lakes and about the head of the Wabash river, I 
have thought it a duty to keep out spies, and have at this 
time spies among those tribes. I enclose you a talk from the 
loways (from which the following is extracted) : "I tell 

2. This apparently insignificant lawsuit has received considerable historical notice 
by Dunn, Indiana, 413 ; Humphrey Marshall, Kentuckij II, 507 ; and Heni-y Adams, 
History of V. S. VI, 107 follows these. The Letters of Decius were a series of scurrilous 
attacks by an Irish barrister named Isaac Darneille. The trial was a test between the 
land speculators and Indian traders on the one hand and the Bovernor on the other. 
The Frankfort Ky. and Cincinnati papers of the time had lengthy accounts of it. 
indicating that the opposition was widespread. See Western Spy (Cincinnati) May 4, 
1811. Evidently William Wells reestablished himself in the governor's graces by his 
testimony in the case. 

1. Matthew Irwin, Sr. was a native of Ireland, came to Philadelphia while young, 
merchant, loaned money to American army, commissoi-y of Penn., 1777. Bankrupt 
1788 ; brother-in-law of Gov. Thos Mifflin of Penn. His third son, Matthew Irwin Jr., 
was the factor at Chicago 1810-1812. In 1816 he became factor at Green Bay where 
he remained !7 yrs. Returned to Uniontown Penn. where he died 1845. 

Wis. Hist. Col. VH, 269: Nile's Rcgi.iter II. 343 



 

you this, although death is threatened against those who dis- 
cover it: The time is drawing nigh when the murder is to 
begin, and all the Indians who will not join are to die with 
the whites." 

Wm. Clark 



Lalime to Clark 

Chicago, 26th May, 1811 

A. T. Andreas, History of Cook County, III, 77 

Sir: — An Indian from the Peorias passed here yesterday, 
and has given me information that the Indians about that 
place have been about the settlements of Kaskaskia and Vin- 
cennes, and have stolen from fifteen to twenty horses. It 
appears by the information given me that the principal actors 
are two brothers of the wife of Main Poc' He is residing 
at the Peorias, or a little above it, at place they call Prairie 
du Corbeau.- By the express going to Fort Wayne, I will 
communicate this to the agent. I presume. Sir, that you will 
communicate this to the Governor of Kaskaskia [Ninian Ed- 
wards] and to General Harrison.* I am. Sir, with respect, 
H'ble. Servt. 

J. Lalime* hid. Interpreter 
Gen. Wm. Clark, St. Louis 

1. Main Poc-Main Poque-Maipock or Marpack a Potawatomi chief. A bad Indian 
and a drunkard. Died 1815. He professed supernatural powers. E. H. Blair, Indian 
of the upper Mississippi and Great Lakes Regions, 203, 278 

2. Prairie du Corbeau or Crow Meadow about twenty miles up the river from 
Peoria, Illinois. John Melish, Map of Illinois, JS!S 

3. "St. Louis, June 27, 1811 
"Mr. Lalime, Indian interpreter at Chicago, says Indians ave plotting: Main Poc 

is the leader. An Indian just from the Prophetstown says the Prophet is the instigator. 
He hopes to unite the Pottawattomics, Sauks, Kickapoos and Ottoways. Over 200 are 
gone to Maiden for arms. Price was killed just above the mouth of the Missouri. 
People on 111. frontier are building blockhouses." 

Cin. Liberty Hall, July 24, 1811 
"The ne.xt murder of the same year was Price, a relative of the Whitesides. Price 
was killed on June 20, near the spring the lower end of the present city of Alton. 
Price and another man were plowing their corn and they saw the Indians apin-oaching 
them at the spring, where there was a small cabin. The horse was unhitched and the 
whites had a gun. As the Indians came near the spring, the Americans asked them 
if they were for war or peace. One of the Indians, who was very large and tall, 
laid down his gun and gave his hand to Price, but held him fast and the other Indians 
murdered him. While the conflict was going on, his companion jumped on the horse 
and was wounded in the thigh in making his escape." 

Reynolds. Histonj of Illinois, 1,0', 

4. John Lalime was of English and Indian birth, and interpreter. He was acci- 
dently killed 1812. A. T. Andreas, History of Cook County, 77 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 6th June 1811 

Har. Pa. 389-109 

Sir: 

I have delayed writing to you since the 23rd of April under 
the expectation of being able to give you a correct view of 
the course which Indian politics was about to take this sum- 
mer. In this however I am disappointed and I am sorry to 
say that what I have learned is by no means indicative of a 
pacific disposition. [William] Wells made a report to me 
from Fort Wayne of his proceedings at the Prophet's Towti 
relative to the stolen horses he was in search of, and the 
Potawatomies who committed the murders on the Missourie, 
Four of the Horses were delivered up. Tecumseh and the 
Prophet both disclaimed having any agency in taking them, 
altho they acknowledged that it was done by the part of the 
Potawatomie tribe which are under their influence. They 
promised to procure the rest and send them in — this how- 
ever they have not done and we have every reason to believe 
that others have since been taken. 

The murderers were said to have been removed from that 
part of the country and gone to reside on the Illinois River. 
[William] Wells did not make a formal demand of them but 
he was informed that they would not be delivered up. He 
(Wells) had much conversation with Tecumseh, and he says 
that the latter openly and positively avowed his determina- 
tion to resist the encroachments of the white people. Upon 
Wells observing that he would never be able to accomplish 
his intentions he declared that Wells would live to see the 
contrary. About five weeks ago a Kickapoo chief who had 
an excellent character came to me of his owai accord and told 
me that as I had always treated him with kindness he had 
determined to put me upon my guard against the Prophet 
and his brother. He said that their pacific professions were 
not to be relied upon that he had heard them speaking to 
the Indians for several years and in that time he had never 
heard anything that they said but war and hatred against 
the United States. That the delivery up of the Horses which 
were occasionally stolen was merely intended to lull our 
vigilance and to prevent us from discovering their designs 
until they were ripe for execution. That they frequently told 



 

their young men that they would defeat their plans by their 
precipitancy. That in their harangues to the Indians they 
frequently requested those who would not join their con- 
federacy to keep their secrets That he always promised them 
a rich harvest of plunder and scalps, declaring that the first 
stroke would put them in possession of an ample supply of 
arms, ammunition and provisions. 

On the 2nd of May General William Clarke^ of Saint Louis 
wrote to me informing that the Prophet had sent a Belt to 
the Mississippi tribes inviting them to war against us, and 
declaring that his intention was to begin the war by an attack 
on theis place. I received a letter from [John] La Lime the 
Interpreter at Chicago at the same time in which he says 
that he had ascertained that the Indians in that quarter had 
actually determined on going to war. When General Clark 
wrote the above letter he was of opinion that none of the 
tribes on the Mississippi would accept the Belt. 

By the last mail however he informed me in a letter of the 
23rd ultimo that the Sacks have absolutely acceded to the 
hostile confederacy and that a part of them had gone to De- 
troit, no doubt to get annuities. 

One of the surveyors who was employed by the Surveyor 
Genl. to divide the new purchase into Townships has been 
frightened off by the Weas. They took two of his men who 
were in advance making preparations to cross the Wabash 
prisoners, took from them a rifle and some other articles and 
kept them tied up all night, they were however released the 
next day and the Indians declared that they took them for 
deserters from the Garrison near the place. The surveyor 
was however so frightened that he immediately pushed off to 
Cincinnati without coming to this place. I am still unable 
to determine whether I should consider this transaction as 
a hostile act on the part of the Indians or not. I have some 
reason to believe the the surveyor found it very convenient 
to postpone his work till fall from the great difficulty of 
surveying at this season, and I am convinced that the Weas 
would not have dared to interrupt him if they had not been 
encouraged to do so, and assured of the support from above. 

1. General William Clarke, a member of the Lewis Clark expedition 1803-1806, 
was born Aug. 1, 1770, near Charlottesville Va. Governor of IVIissouri 1813-1820. He 
died at St. Louis, Sept. 1, 1838. 

Elliott Coues, Lewis and Clark expedition 

33—21182 



 

Those that I have seen declare that they had no intention of 
stopping the surveyor. On the other hand some threats which 
they have incautiously droped amongst the settlers on the 
frontiers incline me to believe that the seizing the men was 
intended to feel our pulse and connected with other circum- 
stances is at least calculated to excite strong suspicions. 
About eight or ten days ago a war party consisting of ten 
men came to a House on Shoal Creek fifteen miles from Ca- 
hokia murdered a young man and took a young woman pris- 
oner, this information was brought by two respectable looking 
travelers on Thursday last and is confirmed by two others 
(one of whom I know) who arrived on Saturday.- There 
is no doubt of the fact, that that it was done by the Pota- 
watomies of the Illinois River. The murderers were pur- 
sued by a detachment of thirty militia. [Michael] Bi'ouillette 
is now at the Prophets Town. I have not heard from him 
since he went from hence but expect him in a few days. 

Concieving it to be all important to procure correct intel- 
ligence I have employed a Mr. [John Baptist] Leplante^ who 
has resided many years with the Potawatimies at the very 
Site of the Prophets Town to take Brouillettes^ place, and 
have recalled the latter. Brouillete is too well known to be 
in the service of the Government to do much good and I am 

2. "Vincennes June 15, 1811 
Informed by gentleman from St. Louis 10 days ago- a party of Indians thought 

to be Pottawattomies attacked a family 30 miles south-east of Cahokia. Father and 
mother were away from home. Killed son and took daughter prisoner. Pursued by 
Capt. Whitesides. Girl found tomahawked. Killed two Indians but had to return for 
aid." [The girl was not killed] 

Cin. Liberty Hall. July 3. 1811 
"Some few murders were committed on our frontiers before war was declared. On 
June 2. 1811. a family of the name of Cox resided on Shoal Creek. [111.] near the forks. 
and the Indians discovered the family from home, except a young man and woman. 
They killed the young man mangled his body cruelly. The girl they took prisoner and 
also took several horses. Col. Fruit acting as captain, Heni-y Cox, Ben Cox. and some 
others, to the number of eight or ten men pursued the Indians and overtook them 
and the girl about seven miles from their town and fifty miles north of Springfield. 
A kind of bashful fight ensued. In the scramble the girl broke from the Indians toward 
the whites, and as she ran. an Indian wounded her severely in the hip. by throwing 
a tomahawk at her. The whites got some of the stolen horses and the girl. They 
reached home in safety." 

Reynolds, Pioneer History of Illinois, iOi 

3. John Baptiste La Plante came with wife and family from Detroit to Vincennes 
in 1798. Scout and guide tor Harrison on Tippecanoe campaign. Many descendants 
still living in Vincennes. 

History of Knox County (18S6) S61 

4. Michael Brouillette served as captain in war of 1812. Trusted friend of Harrison 
for whom he carried mail to the frontier settlements. Native of Vincennes. 

History of Knox County (1SS6) SIS 



 

moreover not satisfied with some part of his conduct, I ex- 
pect much advantage from the employment of Laplante. 
French men Hke him who speak no english and who have 
always been engaged in the Indian trade are not considered 
by the Indians as much attached to the American Govern- 
ment indeed very few of them are so. This man is I believe 
entirely worthy of confidence. I dispatched ten days a go a 
Perogue with the anuity Salt for the Indians. I directed a 
pax't of it to be offered to the prophet. 

I wish I could say the Indians were treated with justice 
and propriety on all occasions by our own citizens but it is 
far otherwise. They are often abused and maltreated and 
it is very rare that they obtain any satisfaction for the most 
unprovoked wrongs. 

Since my letter of the 23rd of April a Muscoe Indian was 
killed by an Italian Innkeeper [Laurent Bazadone] inthisplace. 
The Indian came into his yard drunk and perhaps was insolent, 
he was however entirely unarmed, nor did there appear the 
least necessity for killing him. He was shot in the Abdomen 
with large Duck Shot and expired immediately. I imme- 
diately caused the perpetrator to be apprehended and or- 
dered a special court for his trial, he was however acquitted 
by the jury almost without deliberation. The friends of the 
deceased were much exasperated. In some degree to quiet 
them I made them a present of about seventy dollars worth 
of goods. Since the above two Weas were badly wounded by 
a white man about twenty miles from hence. I sent out a 
surgeon to their relief and they are both in a fair way to 
recover. Such instances (and the latter was if possible more 
unprovoked than the former) have a great tendency to ex- 
asperate the Indians, and prevent them from delivering up 
those of their ti'ibes who may commit offences against our 
laws. 

Such was the case with the Delaware Tribe upon my de- 
mand of White Turkey a Delaware who robbed a house of 
Mr. Vawter' of this territory, the chief declared they would 
never deliver up another man until some of the white per- 
sons were punished who had murdered their people, they 
would however punish him themselves and did accordingly 
put him to death. 

5. James. John and William Vawter were early settlers near Madison in what was 
thun Clark county. They were commissioned for various offices by Gen. Harrison. 

Indiana Historical Society Pub. Vol. Ill 



 

I have the honor to enclose herewith Mr. Vawter's account 
of the articles stolen by the White Turkey with their valu- 
ation for which the U. S. have promised indemnification most 
of those were recovered by Mr. [John] Conner and taken to 
Fort Wayne, were deposited in a weare House, which was 
broken open and the whole of them again stolen. The Dela- 
ware chiefs have refused to pay for them alledging that they 
have done all that was required of them by their treaty in 
punishing the thief and delivering up such of the articles as 
could be procured. Mr. Vawter is very urgent for compen- 
sation and I must request your decision on the case. 

I have received seventy pairs of pistols and the like num- 
ber of swords from the Arsenal at Newport, they are hand- 
somly finished but I am told by those who have examined 
them that the swords are certainly made of Iron and that 
not of the harder quality. They may answer to attack the 
naked scull of a Savage but would have little effect on the 
iron helmet of a Marmaluke or even the leathern cap of a 
. British Dragoon, Major [Thomas] Martin" has infonned me 
that he has no rifles. Our Militia are extremely awkward 
with the Musket and cannot be brought under the present 
mode of training to alter their sentiments respecting it. I 
should be much pleased to get about five hundred rifles. An 
ofiicer of the Militia has invented a mode of loading arm 
which does away any objection to its use. His plan is to 
have cartridge bands of leather to buckle in front like those 
formerly used by the light Infantry. The cartridges are tin 
Julies holding exactly a charge of powder with the ball, and 
patch placed on the tops. The lower orifice of the Tube is 
closed with a wooden stopper which is easily removed and 
to prevent being lost is attached to the tube by a string, 
when drawn out to be used the cartridge is reversed, the ball 
is secured by the palm of the hand, the stopper removed with 
the teeth, the gun primed, the place of the stopper supplied 
by the finger until the tube is replaced in the muzzle of the 
Gun with the right hand, the ball and patch being at the 
same time removed with the left and placed in the proper 
position to be forced down with the ramrod the right hand 
in the mean time conveys the tube to the pouch or pocket or 
in great urgency it is droped on the ground. I have seen 

6. Thomas Martin of ViiKinia. a 2 Lieut. 9 Va. Rev. at this time military store 
keeper at Newport. Died Jan. 18, 1819. 

Historical Register Vol. 1, 693 



 

the inventor load and fire his rifle with the aid of these 
Tubes, and I am satisfied he will at least load one third 
oftener than any pei-son can do in the common way the man 
is poor and wishes to know whether the Government will give 
him any reward for his discovery. 

I have not yet been honored with an answer on the subject 
of the pay of the two companies of militia which were in 
service two weeks last summer. They are very clamorous 
for their money. 

I am with great respect Sir yr. humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. The carrier of the Illinois Mail (who has just ar- 
rived) informs us that the woman taken by the party of In- 
dians was recovered by the Militia who were in pursuit of 
them. The Indians finding that they were likely to be over- 
taken abandoned her after attempting to tomahawk her, 
which their huriy prevented them from effecting. The post 
rider also says that two Indians were killed by the White 
people in the neighborhood of the place where the woman 
was taken from, a few days ago and that the whole country 
is in alarm and getting into Forts as fast as possible. I have 
not made the least attempt to put this country in a state of 
defence and shall not do any thing until every doubt of the 
Hostile designs of the Indians is removed from the unfavor- 
able eff"ect produced by these alarms upon the emigration 
and the injury that the frontier people would sustain by the 
abandonment of their crops. If the afi'air in Illinois is actu- 
ally the commencement of general hostilities Many families 
will be butchered nor will anything but the want of resolu- 
tion to undertake to prevent this and other Towns from 
being sacked. 

I am told that Elias McNamea' of this town has or will 
be recommended to you for the appointment of surgeon's 
Mate. I pledge myself to you Sir that there is not a more 
unprincipled scoundrel in existence than this man. 

I have the Honor to enclose under another cover the news- 
paper containing the report of the Trial mentioned in my 
last. I wish it had been fuller. W. H. H. 

The Honble William Eustis, Esqr. Secy, of War 

Rec'd. July 2, 1811 

7. Elias McNa 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 19th June 1811 

Har. Pa. J,in-J,lii 

Sir: 

I informed you in my last that I had sent a Perogue up the 
Wabash with the annuity salt for the Indians. The perogue re- 
turned last evening. The person who had charge of her in- 
formed me that he was stopped by the Prophet and the whole 
of the salt taken from him, I had directed him to put out five 
barrels at the Prophets Town two for the Kickapoos and three 
for the Shawnees and other Indians. The Prophet informed 
[Michael] Brouillette who left the town the day before the 
arrival of the salt that he would accept none of it. When it 
arrived, however he immediately called a council and the re- 
sult of their deliberations was that the whole should be seized 
which was done accordingly. He directed the men to tell me 
not to be angry at his seizing th6 salt as he had got none the 
last year and had more than two thousand men to feed. [John 
B.] La Plante (the person whom I mentioned to have sent up 
in my last by the Perogue) informed me that there are about 
a hundred men and that Tecumseh is daily expected with a 
considerable reinforcement from the lakes. 

From all I can collect I have not the least doubt but a crisis 
with this fellow is approaching — His determination is, and 
(I have my information from so many different sources that 
it is impossible to disbelieve it) to come to this place with 
as many men as he can raise and if the land which was lately 
purchased is not immediately given up to commence the war. 

I am really very much at a loss how to proceed. To sit 
still and suffer this scoundrel to come into this town with six 
or eight hundred men without having an adequate force to 
oppose him does not appear to me to be proper and yet I am 
certain he will come and equally so of his bad intentions. The 
whole force I could collect for many miles, would not equal 
his number. And at this season of the year it is ruinous to 
the Citizens to leave their farms nor would they be willing to 
abandon their wives and children. I shall endeavour to 
temporize with him until I can receive your orders. Permit 
me to recommend that the troops now at Pittsburgh may be 
ordered here immediately and that offensive measures be 
authorized against the Prophet as soon as it is ascertained that 
he is decidedly hostile. For my own part I am so satisfied of 



 

his intentions that if I had any discretion on the subject I 
would attack him on his way hither with any force that I 
could collect. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
your Huble. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Esqr. Secretary of war 

10 o'clock. The postmaster has just informed me that the 
western mail has not arrived and that he entertains appre- 
hensions for its safety. [See June 25, below] W. H. H. 

Harrison to Clark 

ViNCENNES, 19th June, 1811 
Andreas, Cook County, 77 

Dear Sir: I have been exerting myself to find out where 
the Pottawatomies who murdered Captain Cole' and his party 
wei'e to be found and the best means of apprehending them, 
for some months past. I will now give you the result of my 
inquiries on the subject. The chiefs of the Pottawatomies all 
acknowledge that the murderers belong to their tribe. Sev- 
eral of the principal ones were at Fort Wayne early this 
spring, and informed Captain [William] Wells that they had 
put themselves under the protection of Main Poc, the great 
war chief of the tribe, who resides upon the Illinois River. 
One of these, however, spent the last winter with the Prophet. 
I sent Wells up to the town of the latter in April last, to ascer- 
tain whether they were there and what would be the most 
likely means of getting hold of them, and four others of the 
same tribe, who had in the beginning of that month stolen 
fourteen horses from this neighborhood. In his I'eport Wells 
informed me that the murderers were not there; that they 
lived on the Illinois River and were only occasionally on the 
Wabash. I would immediately have communicated this infor- 

1. Captain Cole, settled about the mouth of the Gasconade river, Missouri. Mur- 
dered by Indians in July, 1810. 

"In July 1810, the Pottawatomies of the Illinois made a raid upon a settlement 
in Missouri, opposite the mouth of the Gasconade, stealing property and murdering 
several settlers, amont: whom was Captain Cole. The Governor of Missouri (General 
William Clark) made a requisition upon Governor Ninian Edwards of Illinois, for the 
murderers. They had taken refuge with Main Poc, the war chief of the tribe, then 
residing near Peoria Lake, but whose village was on the Kankakee, just above the forks." 
Andreas, History of Cook County, III, 77 



 

matioii to you, but as I still had a man at the Prophet's village, 
I waited his return to know whether he would bring any fur- 
ther intelligence. A few days ago he arrived, and with him 
a young Indian, who formerly lived with me, and who is the 
son-in-law of Onoxa of Five Medals, a principal Pottawatomie 
chief. Onoxa desired the young man to inform me that there 
was no probability of the murderers being delivered up, and 
that there was no way of getting them but by sending a party 
of men and taking them wherever they would be found. 
[Michael] Brouilette, the young man above mentioned, says 
that a Pottawatomie was at the Prophet's town when he left 
it, with one of the horses taken from Cole, but he does not 
know whether he was one of the party that took him. I have 
on the 23d April written to the Secretary of War for partic- 
ular instruction on the subject of these fellows, but have not 
yet received an answer. I think, however that a formal de- 
mand had better be made of Main Poc by Governor Edwards, 
as they are certainly within his jurisdiction, and I will cause 
the same thing to be done of the chiefs who attend at Post 
Wayne to receive their annuity. There is not, however, the 
smallest probability of their being surrendered. I have no 
doubt of the good disposition of Tupennibe,- the principal 
chief of the tribe, Onoxa and many others, but the tribe is so 
large and scattered that they have no control over the distant 
parts, indeed very little over the young men that are about 
them. I am therefore certain that there is no other mode of 
bringing the culprits to justice but by seizing them ourselves. 
All the information that I receive from the Indian country 
confirms the rooted enmity of the Prophet to the U. S. and his 
determination to commence hostilities as soon as he thinks 
himself sufficiently strong. From the uncommon insolence 
which he and his party have lately manifested, I am inclined 
to believe that a crisis is fast approaching. A Frenchman 
descending the Wabash about ten days ago was robbed of his 
piroque and some small quantity of goods; but the most dar- 
ing piece of insolence that they have yet ventured upon is that 
of seizing the salt destined for the tribes above them. The 
piroque which I sent up with it returned last evening and the 

2. Tupennibe "Waubun", for a detailed account of this chief and his tribe at this 
time, see Elmore Barce, "Topenebee and the Decline of the Pottawattomie nation." 
Indiana Magazine of History XIV, S-12. Mr. Barce has made a careful study of the 
work of Tecumseh and his writings furnish the best account of this affair now available 
to the general reader. 



 

man who had charge of her reports that he stopped at the 
Prophet's village and offered him three barrels of salt intended 
for him, and that he was ordered to stop until a council was 
held and the wole was then taken from him. If our govern- 
ment will submit to this insolence, it will be the means of mak- 
ing all the tribes treat us with contempt. 

I do not recollect anything of the claim of Briam which you 
mention in your last. I may perhaps have received the papers 
and sent them to Fort Wayne but I have forgotten it. I will 
thank you to state the particulars. 

I am yours sincerely, 

Wm. H. Harrison 

Harrison to Tipton 

June 20, 1811 

il/ss. ('?; Indiana State Libra.i-y 

Indiana Territory, ss. 
William Henry Harrison, 

Governor and Commander in Chief of the Indiana Territory 
To all who shall see these presents. Greeting : 

Know Ye, That we have assigned and constituted, and do 
by these presents constitute and appoint John Tipton^ to be a 
Justice of the Peace, in our county of Harrison and to keep, 
and cause to be kept, the Laws and Ordinances made for the 
good of the peace, and for the conservation of the same, and 
for the quiet rule and government of our citizens of the said 
county, in all and every the articles thereof, according to the 
force, form and effect of the same, and to chastise and punish 
all persons offending against the form of those Laws and 
Ordinances, or any of them, in the county aforesaid, as ac- 
cording to the form of those Laws and Ordinances shall be 
fit to be done, and to cause to come before him the said John 
Tipton all those that shall break the peace, or attempt any 
thing against the same, or that shall threaten any of the citi- 
zens in their persons, or in burning their houses, to find suffi- 
cient security for the peace, and for their good behaviour, 

1. John Tipton was born in Sevier Co. Tenn. Aug. 14, 1786; came to Harrison 
county. Ind. 1807 ; served under Spencer at Tippecanoe. Later he became Indian agent at 
Fort Wayne and Logansport. U. S. senator 1831-1839. Died at Logansport Apr. B, 1839. 

Woolen Biographical Sketches, 1S5 
Ind. Mag. of Hist. IX, H7-26i 



 

towards the citizens of this government ; and if they shall re- 
fuse to find such security, then to cause them to be kept safe 
in prison until they shall find the same; and to do and perform 
in the county aforesaid, all and whatsoever, according to our 
Laws and Ordinances, or any of them, a Justice of the Peace 
may and ought to do and perform. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Vin- 
cennes the Twentieth day of June Anno Domini, one thousand 
eight hundred and Eleven and in the thirty fifth year of the 
Independence of the United States of America. 

William Henry Harrison 

By The Governor, JNO Gibson Secret<mj 

Harrison County ) 
Indiana Territory j 

Personally came before me, Richard McHeth, John Tipton 
the within named to whom was duely administered the Oath of 
office as well as that to support the Constitution of the United 
States by virtue of a commission granted from his Excellency 
W. Harrison to administer the Oaths of office to cival and 
Military Officers 

In witness where of I have hereunto Set my hand and Seal 
this 4th day of February 1812 

R. McHeth Seal 



Harrison to Tecumseh 

June 24, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, 1 79 
T>\\\on,hidmna,J,51 

Brothers, 

Listen to me, I speak to you about matters of importance, 
both to the white people and yourselves ; open your ears, there- 
fore, and attend to what I shall say. 

Brothers, this is the third year that all the white people in 
this country have been alarmed at your proceedings, you 
threaten us with war, you invite all the tribes to the north and 
west of you to join against us. 

Brothers, your warriors who have lately been here, deny 
this; but I have received the information from every direc- 
tion; the tribes on the Mississippi have sent me word that 



 

you intended to murder me, and then to commence a war upon 
our people. I have also received the speech that you sent to 
the Potawatamies and others, to join you for that purpose; 
but if I had no other evidence of your hostility to us, your 
seizing the salt which I lately sent up the Wabash is sufficient. 

Brothers, our citizens are alarmed, and my warriors are 
preparing themselves ; not to strike you, but to defend them- 
selves and their women and children. You shall not surprise 
us as you expect to do; you are about to undertake a very rash 
act ; as a friend, I advise you to consider well of it ; a little re- 
flection may save us a great a deal of trouble, and prevent 
much mischief ; it is not yet too late. 

Brothers, what can be the inducement for you to undertake 
an enterprise where there is so little probability of success ; do 
you really think that the handful of men that you have about 
you are able to contend with the power of the Seventeen Fires, 
or even that the whole of the tribes united could contend 
against the Kentucky Fire alone. 

Brothers, I am myself of the long knife fire; as soon as they 
hear my voice, you will see them pouring forth their swarms 
of hunting-shirt men, as numerous as the musquitoes on the 
shores of the Wabash, brothers, take care of their stings. 

Brothers, it is not our wish to hurt you ; if we did, we cer- 
tainly have power to do it ; look at the number of our warriors 
to the east of you, above and below the Great Miami, to the 
south, on both sides of the Ohio and below you also. You are 
brave men, but what could you do against such a multitude; 
but we wish you to live in peace and happiness. 

Brothers, the citizens of this country are alarmed, they must 
be satisfied that you have no design to do them mischief, or 
they will not lay aside their arms. You have also insulted the 
government of the United States, by seizing the salt that was 
intended for the other tribes; saisf action must be given for 
that also. 

Brothers, you talk of coming to see me, attended by all your 
young men ; this, however, must not be so, if your intentions 
are good, you have no need to bring but a few of your young 
men with you. I must be plain with you ; I will not suffer you 
to come into our settlements with such a force. 

Brothers, if you wish to satisfy us that your intentions are 
good, follow the advice that I have given you before; that 
is, that one or both of you should visit the President of the 



 

United States, and lay your grievances before him. He will 
treat you well, will listen to what you say, and if you can 
shew him that you have been injured, you will receive justice. 
If you will follow my advice in this respect, it will convince 
the citizens of this country and myself that you have no design 
to attack them. 

Brothers, with respect to the lands that were purchased last 
fall, I can enter into no negotiation with you on the subject; 
the affair is in the hands of the President, if you wish to go 
and see him, I will supply you with the means. 

Brothers, the person who delivers this, [Walter Wilson] is 
one of my war officers; he is a man in whom I have entire 
confidence, whatever he says to you, although it may not be 
contained in this paper, you may believe comes from me. 

My Friend, Tecumseh, the bearer is a good man and a brave 
warrior; I hope you will treat him well, you are yourself a 
warrior and all such should have an esteem for each other. 
[See June 25, below] 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 25th June 1811 
Har. Pa. U13-A15 

Sir: 

The Illinois Mail has this moment arrived its failure last 
week was occasioned by the foundering of his horse. No new 
occurrence had taken place to excite apprehensions of the In- 
dians in that quarter after the murder of the man and capture 
of the woman mentioned in my last. Nothing of moment has 
occurred here. Several minor circumstances however 
strengthen my opinion of the designed hostility of the Prophet. 
Five Shawnees and ten Winebagos of his party arrived here 
on friday last. They came as they said for the purpose of 
delivering some peltries to a trader of the Town to whom the 
Prophet was indebted, to get a number of arms repaired 
(rifles and Tomhawks) a small part of these were left with 
the Shaker Society and the ballance brought to me. I could 
have no motive to conceal from them the information I had 
received of the hostile designs of the Prophet and I there- 
fore without reserve disclosed to them the particulars and the 
impressions it had made upon me and fortunately refused to 
have any of their arms mended or to supply them with any 



 

article that could be used as an instrument of War. They 
received this declaration with great sulkiness and denied the 
truth of the information I had received. A few traps and 
hoes which I had offered to repair for them (that had been 
taken to the smiths for that purpose) they took away with 
much ill humor and even told the Interpreter that their chiefs 
would soon settle the matter with them. The next day how- 
ever they thought proper to relax their austerity. They paid 
me a visit and with much aparent sincerity acknowledged the 
propriety of my conduct. A party of Potawatimies who are 
under the immediate influence of the Great Chief Tobinebe 
(who has always been our friend) was then in the Town. 
Meeting with the Shawnes they upbraided them severely with 
their intended hostility against their father and charged them 
with having come for the purpose of examining our situation. 
The principal of the Shawanees was so frightened at the 
menaces of the Potawatimi that he hid himself for some hours. 
Nothing but the great talents of Tecumseh could keep together 
the heterogeneous mass which conposes the Prophet's force. 
I have sent up a militia officer [Walter Wilson] to their towns 
to demand an explanation of them and to tell them that I will 
not permit them with any considerable force to come into our 
settlements. [June 24, above] I have also taken care to en- 
deavour to impress them with an opinion that we are prepared 
for them and that a considerable auxiliary force is in readi- 
ness in Kentucky to march across to the Wabash and inter- 
cept their return should they descend that river with hostile 
intentions. 

It is with the deepest regret that I have to inform you of 
the death of Lieut. [Jesse] Jennings by the hand of Capt. 
[Thornton] Posey. They were alone in the room of the latter. 
The circumstances which are known are infinitely shocking 
and I fear that if viewed in the most favorable light for the 
Captain they are such as to attach an imputation upon his 
character which he will never be able to wipe off if indeed he 
should escape an ignominous death. I will do myself the honor 
by this next mail to give you the particulars of the transaction 
as they were developed on the Coroner's inquest. Captain 
Posey has made his escape and took with him a sergeant of his 
company. 

The only officer remaining in the garrison is Lieut. [Jacob 



 

W.] Albright.' His military experience does not suit him for 
such a command. I would prefer Lieut. [Ambrose] Whitlock 
to any other that I know in the army. Captain Posey wrote 
to you after the perpetration of the above fatal affair which 
happened on the night of the 23rd inst. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
Your Humble Servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. WILLIAM EUSTIS Esqr. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 2d July 1811 

Har. Pa. /,16-il<) 

Sir: 

I have this moment received a dispatch from Governor 
[Ninian] Edwards by a militia Captain with a command of 
twenty men who also brought letters addressed to you which 
have been deposited in the post office of this town. By these 
you will be informed of some unpleasant events which have 
happened in the Illinois Country and I am sorry to add to the 
rest of these by communicating the intelligence which I re- 
ceived on Sunday evening of the massacre of three whole fam- 
ilies in that Territory about one hundred and twenty miles 
west of this place and fifty from Kaskaskias. Governor Ed- 
wards had received no account of this distressing affair when 
his express came off. I have not the least reason to doubt 
the accuracy of the account. There are some grounds for 
supposing that it was perpetrated by a party of five Shaw- 
aneses. I was informed four weeks ago that it was the in- 
tention of the Prophet to commence hostilities in the Illinois 
in order to cover his principal object which was an attack 
upon this place. These events, Sir, require no comment from 
me. They merit and will no doubt receive the immediate at- 
tention of the Government. If some decisive measures are 
not speedily adopted we shall have a general combination of 
all the Tribes against us. At present a majority with all the 
best informed chiefs are for peace but every scalp taken from 
us with impunity will add to the number of the hostile party. 

1. Jacob W. Albright enlisted from Penn. as an ensign in the 1st Inf. Mar. 6. 
1806: was made a 2d Lieut. Nov. 15, 1807: 1st Lieut. Auk. 26, 1812. Discharged June 
15, 1815. Died June 3, 1823. 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS S^T" 

Can the President want any fuither proof of the Prophet's 
designs against us? I can assure you Sir that there is not an 
Indian excepting those of his party that does not know and 
acknowledge when asked that he is determined to attack us, 
and wonder at our forbearance. Governor Edwards is pre- 
paring to erect a chain of block houses around his frontiers. 
The people there are in great alarm and have talked of col- 
lecting in sections. I have not advised it at present because 
of its ruinous consequences to the crops both of com and 
wheat at this critical season. Indeed it is a plan which affords 
at best but a partial security. There is no safety in any de- 
fensive measures. I have taken the liberty on former occa- 
sions to express my opinions so fully on the subject that it 
would be presumption to repeat them. I think it however my 
duty to observe that the minds of the people have become so 
irritated in consequence of the depredations which they con- 
stantly suffer from the Prophet's party that unless measures 
are speedily taken to ensure their own safety and the safety 
of their property they will fall upon the Indians indiscrim- 
inately wherever they meet them and punish the innocent with 
the guilty. I believe that no two days pass over without 
some horses being stolen. I have hitherto prevented the thieves 
from being pursued knowing that it would inevitably lead to 
hostilities. In a letter from Genl. William Clark to Governor 
Edwards of the 2nd ult. he sayd that the design of the Prophet 
as he has collected from different sources is "to make some 
grand stroke as soon as he has collected a sufficient force". 
This I have long known as well as that this place is his object. 
I am also pursuaded that the murders lately committed in the 
Illinois were in consequence of his directions. Tecumseh has 
returned to his village but did not bring with him the Iriquois 
and Wyandots, whom he expected to prevail upon to join him. 
He says that they are to come on in September. It is probable 
that this failure will cause a postponement of the contemplated 
attack until the roasting-ear season. 

In my last I informed you of Capt. [Thornton] Posey having 
killed Lieut. [Jesse] Jennings. The Commissary of the Gar- 
rison gives the following account of the affair, viz: that he 
was sitting in his room in company with another person and 
he heard a noise resembling the report of a pistol and in a few 
seconds another, that upon looking out at the window he saw 
that Lieut. Jennings had fallen out of the Door of Captain 



 

Posey's Quarters apparently dead, that upon going up to him 
with others he was at first told by the Capt. to stand off — 
but in a little time the latter asked him to come in, upon his 
asking for an explanation of the scene before him he said 
that Lieut. Jennings had come into his room, that some alter- 
cation had taken place between them, that he had insisted upon 
the Lieut, fighting him and had offered him the choice of 
pistols, that he had put one of them into the Lieut.'s hand and 
that the latter instantly seized him by the neck or breast when 
he (the Capt.) shot him, upon being asked how he came to 
shoot him the second time he said that he could not account 
for it but supposed that Jennings had dropped his pistol and 
that he had taken it up. Jennings received one ball in his 
right breast which passed through his body and other behind 
the left shoulder which ranged along his back and came out 
at the right shoulder, his clothes both behind and before were 
burned with the powder. Jennings was certainly entirely un- 
armed when he went into the Captain's room. It is equally 
certain that the Captain told two persons two days before 
the fatal affair that he expected that Jennings meant to as- 
sassinate him and that he had been twice to his room door in 
the night, he believed for that purpose. I am told also that 
Mr. J .... s. told two different persons some time before that 
he would kill the Captain if he could. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
your Hble. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. Wm. Eustis Esqr. Secij. of War 

Clark to Secretary of War 

St. Louis, July 3, 1811 

Am. St a. Pa. Indian Affairs I, SOO 

All the information received from the Indian country, con- 
firms the rooted enmity of the Prophet to the United States, 
and his determination to commence hostilities as soon as he 
thinks himself sufficiently strong. His party is increasing, 
and from the insolence which himself and party have lately 
manifested, and the violence which has lately been committed 
by his neighbors and friends, the Pattawatamies, on our fron- 



 

tiers, I am inclined to believe that the crisis is fast approach- 
ing. 

A number of horses have been taken from the Mississippi, 
by Pattawatamies, Winnebagoes, and others, under the in- 
fluence of the Prophet. [Extract] 

Wm. Clark 

Tecumseh to Harrison 

July 4, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, 181 
Brother, 

I give you a few words until I will be with you myself. 

Brother, at Vincennes, I wish you to listen to me whilst I 
send you a few words, and I hope that they will ease your 
heart ; I know you look on your young men and your women 
and children with pity, to see them so much alarmed. 

Brother, I wish you now to examine what you have from 
me, I hope that it will be a satisfaction to you, if your in- 
tentions are like mine, to wash away all these bad stories 
that have been circulated. I will be with you myself in 
eighteen days from this day. 

Brother, we cannot say what will become of us, as the 
Great Spirit has the management of us at his will. I may 
be there before the time, and may not be there until the day. 
I hope that when we come together, all these bad tales will 
be settled ; by this I hope your young men, women, and chil- 
dren vdll be easy. I wish you, brother, to let them know 
when I come to Vincennes and see you, all will be settled in 
peace and happiness. 

Brother, these are only a few words to let you know that 
I will be with you myself, and when I am with you, I can 
inform you better. 

Brother, If I find that I can be with you in less time than 
eighteen days, I will send one of my young men before me, 
to let you know what time I will be with you.' 

Tecumseh 

1. This is the answer brought back by Capt. Walter Wilson to the letter of 
Governor Harrison dated June 24. Wilson was well received by Tecumseh and enter- 
tained to the best of hia ability. No evidence of hostility was shown. 



530 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONg 

Edwards to Secretary of War 

Illinois Territory, July (Jth, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, SOO 

An express has been received, with information of several 
other murders having been committed by the Indians on the 
frontiers. In fact, I consider peace as totally out of the ques- 
tion; we need not expect it till the Prophet's party is dis- 
persed, and the bands of Pattawatamies about the Illinois 
river are cut off. 

Hostility, with them, has grown into a habit; there is no 
reason to believe that they will make sufficient satisfaction 
for the murders they committed, and the goods and horses 
which they stole last year, or for the very aggravated and 
increased instances of similar hostilities in the present year. 
Energetic measui'es would lessen liis power of fonning coali- 
tions with other tribes, but we have not the power of taking 
any efficient means to arrest his progress ; if we do not make 
preparation to meet him, an attack is certain; if we make 
preparation formidable enough to deter him, though no war 
actually take place, we have to encounter all the expense, 
inconvenience, and injury to which a war with him would 
subject us; and there seems to be no reasonable ground to 
hope for a change for the better, whilst he is permitted to 
increase his strength with impunity. [Extract] 

Ninian Edwards 



Lalime to Johnson 

Chicago, July 7, 1811 

A. T. Andreas, History of Cook County, 77 

Sir : — Since my last to you we have news of other depreda- 
tions and murders committed about the settlement of Cahokia. 
The first news we received was that the brothers-in-law of 
Main Poc went down and stole a number of horses. Second, 
another party went down, stole some horses, killed a man, 
and took off a young woman, but they being pursued, were 
obliged to leave her to save themselves. Third, they have 
been there, and killed and destroyed a whole family.' The 

1. Sir. — An Indian from the Peioiias passed here yesterday, and has given me 
information that the Indians about that place have been about the settlements of 



 

cause of it, or in part, is from the Little Chief that came 
last fall to see Governor Harrison, under the feigned name 
of Wapewa. He told the Indians that he had told the Gov- 
ernor that the Americans were settling on their lands, and 
asked him what should be done with them. He told the In- 
dians that the Governor had told them they were bad people, 
that they must drive them off, kill their cattle and steal their 
horses, etc. Being the quarter ending with the 30th of June, 
I am busy with the factory and have a number of Indians 
here paying their visit to Captain [Nathan] Heald. From 
these circumstances, I hope sir, you will excuse my hurry. 
Please give my respects to Mrs. Johnson. 

I am with respect. Sir, Your obedient servant. 

J. Lalime 
[To John Johnson, Fort Wayne] 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES lOth July 1811 

Har. Pa. J,20-Jt"21 

Sir: 

From the Illinois Post rider who has just arrived I learn 
that but one of the three families which were supposed to 
be murdered as mentioned in my letter of the 3rd Inst, have 
really suffered, the other two were fortunate enough to make 
their escape into the settlement. Should any murder be com- 
mitted upon any of our citizens in this neighbourhood we 
should be placed in a most disagreeable situation on account 
of the friendly Tribes of Weas and Piankeshaws and Dela- 
wares. They (the Weas Particularly) are very much mixed 
in with our settlements and it would be absolutely impos- 
sible to distinguish them in many instances from the hostile 
Indians. I know of no other mode of saving them but by 
removing the Weas considerably into the settled country and 

Kaskaskia and Vincennes. and have stolen from fifteen to twenty horses. It appears 
by the information given me that the principal actors are two brothers of the wife 
of Main Poc. He is residing at the Peorias, or a little above it, at a place they call 
Prairie du Corbeau. By the express going to Fort Wayne, I will communicate this 
to the agent. I presume. Sir, that you will communicate this to the Governor of 
Kaskaskia and to General Harrison. 

I am, Sir. with respect. Hble. Servt. 

J. Lalime. 
Andreas, History oi Cook County Illinois, 77 



 

supporting them. The Delawares might be confined to their 
towns which are placed in a favorable situation for that pur- 
pose. In case of open war some of the Miamis and friendly 
Potawatimies those of the latter which are attached to us 
are sincerely so. I have supposed that if the Prophet does 
not immediately throw off the mask and commence the war 
that calamity might be avoided by marching a considerable 
force up to our exterior boundary up the Wabash and re- 
quiring the immediate dispersion of the Banditti he has col- 
lected. This measure would give confidence to our friends, 
confii-m the wavering (if any yet waver) in favour of peace 
and perhaps break up the confederacy. 

If no appointment of surgeons mate for this garrison has 
been made permit me to request that post for Doctor Edward 
Sculp of this place. Dr. S. is 24 or 5 years of age, of re- 
spectable connexions has received a regular classical educa- 
tion at Princeton then commenced the study of medicine in 
Pittsburgh under Dr. Stevenson and finally finished his studies 
by attending the medical lectures in Philadelphia. He is a 
young man of good moral character, attentive to his profes- 
sion and professed, as I sincerely believe, of his common skill 
for his experience. 

Certificates of his regular Education will be forwarded to 
you. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir your Humble 
Servt 

William Henry Harrison 

Honble WiLLM. EUSTIS, Esqr. Secy, of War- 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 10 July 1811 

Har. Pa. 4 2 J- J, 28 

Sir: 

Captain [Walter] Wilson the officer whom I sent to the 
Prophets Towai returned on Sunday last. He was well re- 
ceived and treated with particular friendship by Tecumseh. 
He obtained however no satisfaction. The only answer given 

1. Dr. Edward Scull was appointed surgeon for the volunteer troops on the Tippe- 
canoe campaign. He was transferred to the 19th U. S. Inf. Apr. 8, 1814. Died Nov. 
28, 1815. He was from Penn. June 4. 1812 he was appointed surgeon for the First 
regiment Ind. Militia. In 1813 he killed Parmenas Beckes in 8 duel. 



 

was that in 10 days Tecumseh would pay me a visit for the 
purpose of explaining- his conduct. Upon being told that I 
would not suffer him to come with a large force, he promised 
to bring with him a few men only. I shall not however de- 
pend upon this promise, but shall have the river well watched 
by a party of scouts after the descent of the Chief lest he 
should be followed by his warriors. I do not think that this 
will be the case. The detection of the hostile designs of an 
Indian is generally for that time to defeat them. The hopes 
of an expedition, conducted through many hundred of miles 
of toil and difficulty are abandoned frequently, upon the 
slightest suspicion of discovery, their painful steps retraced 
and a more favorable moment expected. With them the sur- 
prise of an enemy bestows more eclat upon a warrior than 
the most brilliant success obtained by other means. Tecumseh 
has taken for his model the celebrated Pontiac and I am per- 
suaded that he will bear a favourable comparison in every 
respect with that far-famed warrior. If it is his object to 
begin with the surprise of this place, it is impossible that a 
more favourable situation could have been chosen than the 
one he occupies. It is just so far off as to be removed from 
our immediate observation and yet so near as to enable him 
to strike us when the water is high in 24 hours and even 
when it is low their light canoes will come fully as fast as 
the journey could be performed on horse back. The situation 
is in other respects admirable for the purposes for which he 
has chosen it. It is nearly central with regard to the Tribes 
which he wishes to unite. The water communication with 
Lake Erie by means of the Wabash and Miami, with Lake 
Michigan and the Illinois by the Tippecanoe is a great con- 
venience. It is immediately in the centre of the back line 
of that fine country which he wishes to prevent us from set- 
tling and above all he has immediately in his rear a country 
that has been but little explored consisting principally of 
barren thickets interspersed with swamps and Lakes into 
which our cavalry could not penetrate and our Infantry only 
by slow and laborious efforts. 

I have some reason to believe that the information I have 
given and the opinions I have expressed on the subject of 
the Prophet and his intentions have been considered by some 
of the members of the Government as premature and un- 
founded. This has not however prevented me from continu- 



 

ing to communicate all the intelligence I receive with such 
observations as my local situation enabled me to make and 
I shall continue to do untill I am directed to do otherwise. 
I know that the President is too just to censure an officer 
for unintentional error or to lend a favourable ear to the 
calumnies which are so industriously circulated to the preju- 
dice of every one who is placed in a situation in any way 
conspicious and of which I have had my full share. Be the 
event of my opinions and predictions what they may I am 
satisfied that I shall suffer no otherwise in the estimation of 
the President than to be considered as a man of feeble judge- 
ment and credulous disposition. That indeed would be suf- 
ficiently mortifying and humiliating but I willingly run the 
risque of incurring it by again reporting that unless some 
decisive and energetic measure is adopted to break up the 
combination formed by the Prophet we shall soon have every 
Indian tribe in this quarter united against us and you may 
depend on it that it will be attended with much trouble and 
expence and loss of blood to subdue them. In my former 
communications I have treated so largely upon the situation 
of the Indians and the causes which would bring them to 
unite and to make war upon us that I deem it unnecessary 
to repeat them. As little would I consider myself authorized 
to trespass upon you a reiteration of those opinions which I 
have before given upon the plan that was proper to be adopted 
to defeat the Prophet's schemes. I shall only observe, that 
I had attached some degree of importance to the proposition 
which I had the honor to make last fall of sending a speech 
from your office to the Prophet in the President's name. He 
has been repeatedly told that the acquirement of more land 
was no object with the U. States. That they had more than 
they could possibly settle, that the frequent purchases which 
have been made for some years past had no other object than 
to distress the Indians, that the schemes originated with me 
and that the U. States would give up a considerable part of 
them rather than go to war with the Indians and the latter 
had nothing to do but to contend for them in this way and 
everything they required would be granted. 

Although I have no doubt that the mischief which has been 
done in the Illinois is to be attributed to the Prophet, I think 
it nevertheless extremely probable that his friends there have 
gone further than he intended and that he did not mean that 



 

more than one or two persons should be killed, for upon ma- 
ture reflection and comparing a number of circumstances 
which I have learned relatively to his situation I do not think 
that he intended that the war should break out at this time. 
I may however be mistaken. Those circumstances which I 
mention as forming the ground of my opinion may have been 
artfully brought into view for the purpose of deception. 

Mr. John Johnson the Factor of Fort Wayne has applied to 
me for the agency of the Shawanese Tribe with a small salary 
and in case of success will resign his appointment as Factor. 
His object is to live on his farm near the Town of the Shaw- 
anese. He says he will require no interpreter nor will the 
agency be attended with any other expense than the five hun- 
dred dollars which may be allowed him as a salary. If the 
arrangement which I had the honor to recommend in April 
last for the appointment of a sub-agent for each Tribe be 
adopted I can see no objection to gratify Mr. Johnson, but 
the loss of his sei-\'ices from Fort Wayne which I estimate 
very highly. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. William Eustis, Secretary of War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, July 17th, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, 190 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your excel- 
lency's letter of the 2d instant. 

The fourth regiment, with a company of riflemen, mak- 
ing in the whole 500 men, is ordered to descend the Ohio from 
Pittsburgh, with all possible expedition. Captain [William] 
Piatt' of the second regiment, who will be in advance, will 
advise you of his approach. A letter addressed to him or 
colonel [John Parker] Boyd,- at Louisville, will be immedi- 

1. William Piatt of N. J. became a Sec. Lieut, in the 2d Inf. March 2, 1799. He 
became a Capt. Feb. 17. 1809. During the War of 1812 he served in the quartermasters 
Dept. ; wounded at New Orleans, Dec. 23, 1815. Became Maj. paymaster and died in 
the service Aug. 16, 1834. 

2. Gen. John Parker Boyd of Mass. was Col. of the 4th Inf. at this time. He 
served with Harrison at Tippecanoe and became a Bris. Gen. in 1812. He was dis- 
charged June 15, 1815 and died Oct. 4, 1830 



 

ately respected. Colonel Boyd is ordered to follow the advice 
and directions of your Excellency, respecting his movements 
and the positions he is to take. 

Letters from Governor [Ninian] Edwards, announce sev- 
eral murders, and a state of general alarm on the frontier of 
the Illinois territory: Your Excellency, it is presumed, will 
consult with him, and make such arrangements of the mili- 
tary force, as may be best calculated to afford protection. 

The authority of the executive to call out the militia in a 
case like this, notwithstanding an expression in my last, is 
considered entirely competent : and in case circumstances shall 
occur which may render it necessary or expedient to attack 
the prophet and his followers, the force should be such as to 
ensure the most complete success. This force will consist of 
the militia and regular troops. Those under colonel Boyde 
are well officered, and well disciplined in the common tactics 
of infantry; but have no knowledge or experience in Indian 
warfare : Your excellency will therefore, in such an event, as- 
sign to them such*duties as they are calculated to perform. 

If the prophet should commence, or seriously threaten, hos- 
titlities he ought to be attacked ; provided the force under your 
command is sufficient to ensure success. Very respectfully, 
Your excellency's obedient servant 

W. EUSTIS 
His Excellency Gov. HARRISON, Vincennes 



Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, July 20th, 1811 

Dawson, Harriaon, 191 

Sir, 

Since my letter of the 17th instant, I have been particularly 
instructed by the President, to communicate to your excel- 
lency his earnest desire that peace may, if possible, be pre- 
served with the Indians, and that to this end every proper 
means may be adopted. By this it is not intended that mur- 
der or robberies committed by them should not meet with the 
punishment due to those crimes, that the settlements should 
be unprotected, or that any hostile combination should avail 
itself of success, in consequence of a neglect to provide the 
means of resisting and defeating it ; or that the banditti under 



 

the prophet should not be attacked and vanquished, provided 
such a measure should be rendered absolutely necessary. Cir- 
cumstances conspire at this particular juncture to render it 
peculiarly desirable that hostilities (of any kind or to any de- 
gree not indispensable required) should be avoided. The force 
under colonel [John P.] Boyde has been ordered to descend 
the Ohio. Instead of Louisville, they will make their first 
halt at Newport, Kentucky where they will await your orders. 
Captain [William] Piatt, who will be in advance, will receive 
your first instructions. And although the force is at the dis- 
posal of your excellency, I am instructed to inform you, that 
the President indulges the hope and expectation that your 
exertions and measures with the Indians, will be such as may 
render their march to the Indiana territory unnecessary, and 
that they may remain liable to another disposition. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully. 

Your excellency's most obedient servant. 

W. EUSTIS 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 24th July 1811 
Har. Pa. J,29-JtJ0 

Sir: 

In the letter which I had the honor to write you on the 10th 
Instant I informed you that Tecumseh had been told by Capt. 
[Walter] Wilson that I would not sufi:er him to come here with 
a large body of Indians and that he promised he would bring 
a few with him only — Nothwithstanding this he is now ac- 
tually within a few miles of me with one hundred and twenty 
or thirty warriors exclusive of the Weas who are coming on 
behind him. The Chief of the latter I know he has seduced 
to his interest. How many of his men may have followed his 
example I know not — but the greater part of them are rascals 
that will engage in any mischief that their fears will permit 
them to undertake. The preparation which I have made to 
repel an attack should one be made is the stationing two com- 
panies of militia Infantry and a Detachment of fifteen 
Dragoons on the borders of the Town which are relieved every 
two days. The whole of the neighbouring militia are put on 
the alert. 



 

The above mentioned force is not sufficient for the defence 
of the Town. It would require at least four Companies but 
the scarcity of providing has prevented me from employing 
moi-e. We shall now however assume the most imposing atti- 
tude. The insolence which is manifested by the Shawnee by 
bringing such a body of men with him after my positive in- 
junction to the contrary shows his real character. If it was 
not for the solemn injunctions of the President to preserve 
peace if possible he should not come here until he had se- 
cured the right to do so by a previous victory. But under 
the obligations imposed by your orders of November last I 
shall bear with him as much as is possible until your final in- 
structions shall be received. The alarm and irritation 
amongst the people has however reached to such a heighth 
that I am in constant apprehension of their firing upon some 
of the parties that are passing through the settlements in 
every direction. And it is impossible for them to distinguish 
the hostile Tribes from those that are friendly. To prevent 
any accident of this kind I keep the Interpreter [Michael] 
Brouillette constantly riding through the country visiting the 
Indian Camps and informing the whites of what he has 
learned respecting them. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir 
your humble Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. WILLIAM EUSTIS, Esq. Secy, of War 

Petition to James Madison, President of the United States 

July 31 1811 
q._ Dawson, Harrison, 189 

In obedience to the wishes of a numerous meeting of our 
fellow citizens, assembled for the purpose of taking into con- 
sideration the state of the country in relation to Indian affairs, 
we have the honor to address you. In approaching the chief 
magistrate of our country, who is so deservedly celebrated for 
the talents which distinguish the statesman, and the virtues 
which adorn the man, we should not do justice to our own feel- 
ings, and the feelings of those whom we represent, if we neg- 
lected to express our confidence in his administration, and our 
sincere respect and esteem for his person. 



 

In fulfilling the duty which has been assigned to us, sir, it is 
scarcely necessary that we should do more than to refer you 
to the resolutions which are enclosed; they contain a true 
statement of facts, and a true picture of the feelings of the 
citizens of this part of the country. It is impossible to doubt 
but that the combination which has been formed on the Wa- 
bash, is a British scheme; and it is equally certain that this 
banditti is now about to be let loose upon us, and that nothing 
but vigorous measures will prevent it. In this part of the 
country we have not as yet lost any of our fellow citizens by 
the Indians ; but depredations upon the property of those who 
live upon the frontiers, and insults to the families that are 
left unprotected, almost daily occur. 

The impunity with which these savages have been so long 
suffered to commit crimes, has raised their insolence to a 
pitch that is no longer supportable. We are not, sir, advo- 
cates for unnecessary rigor towards our Indian neighbors. 
The character which some of us sustain as ministers of the 
gospel of Christ, will shield us from the supposition that we 
wish to plunge our county in an unnecessary war — our object 
is peace — but we are fully persuaded that that blessing can 
now only be secured to us by the exertion of some rigor. 

Let the savages be made sensible that every aggression 
from them will meet with correspondent punishment, and In- 
dian depredations will seldom be heard of. 

Since the adoption of the resolutions under which we act, we 
have listened to the speech delivered by the brother of the 
prophet to Governor Harrison, and if a doubt remained upon 
our minds as to the designs of the confederacy he has formed, 
it has been completely removed. Shall we then quietly wait 
the stroke, when we see the weapon is suspended over us ; we 
hope and trust that this will not be expected, and that the 
general government will take effectual measures to avert the 
danger. What these measures shall be we will not presume 
to dictate ; but we beg leave most respectfully to observe that 
we conceive that the country will forever be exposed to those 
alarms, which are at once so injurious to its settlement, and 
the interest of the United States, as long as the banditti under 
the prophet are suffered to remain where they now are. The 
people have become highly irritated and alarmed, and if the 
government will not direct their energies, we fear that the 
innocent will feel the effects of their resentment, and a gen- 



 

eral war be the consequence. The western country, sir, is 
indebted to your predecessor for an undeviating attention to 
its prosperity, and the gratitude and attachment which they 
feel towards that distinguished patriot, can never be effaced. 
With equal confidence they look up to his successor who, pur- 
suing the same course of politics with regard to European 
powers, is to them sufficient proof of coincidence of sentiment 
in that which relates to the continent. 

That you may be the means under providence of establishing 
the affairs of your countiy, and settling its interests in every 
quarter of the globe upon a secure and lasting foundation, and 
that you may long live to enjoy the blessings of your country- 
men for the happiness you procure for them, is the sincere 
prayer of your 

Fellow citizens, 

Samuel T. Scott> 
Alexander Devin 
Luke Decker 
Ephriam Jordan 
Daniel M'Clure= 
Walter Wilson 
F. Vigo 

Resolutions Concerning Indians 

July 31, 1811 

Dawson, Haii-ison, 1S7 

At a meeting of a very considerable number of the citizens 
of the county of Knox, at the seminary in Vincennes, on 
Wednesday the 31st July, 1811, when colonel Ephriam Jordan 
was appointed President, and captain James Smith,^ Secre- 
tary: Thereupon general W. Johnston address the meeting, 

1. Samuel Thornton Scott came to Vincennes in 1807 as pastor of the first 
Presbyterian Church of Indiana. He came from Woodford Co. Ky. studied at Transyl- 
vania. He served his church at "The Presbyterian Stand" till his death Dec. 30, 1827. 
He was a warm personal friend of the governor. 

Hanford A. Edson, Pres. Church in Ind. iS aeq. 

2. Daniel McClure was appointed a justice of the quarter session court at Vin- 
cennes Sept. 22, 1804 and reappointed June 18, 1810. 

1. James Smith was appointed a J. P. Dec. 3 1812 at Vincennes. He settled 
in what is now Gibson Co. Feb. 3, 1813 he was appointed a captain in the militia 
4th Regt. He came from Va. 

Ex. Jour. 178-9 
History of Gibson County, 60 



 

in which he informed them of the present situation of the 
inhabitants of not only the town, but country, in regard to 
the Shawanese prophet, his brother Tecumseh, and their con- 
federacy of Indians, and advised, that for the safety of the 
citizens, some resohitions should be fallen into; and, there- 
fore, adjutant Daniel Sullivan- introdueced the following reso- 
lutions, which being read and explained in an audible voice, 
both in the English and French languages, were unanimously 
adopted as follows, viz: 

1st. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this meeting, that 
the safety of the persons and property of this frontier, can 
never be effectually secured but by the breaking up of the 
combination formed by the Shawanese prophet on the Wabash. 

2d. Resolved, That we consider it highly impolitic and in- 
jurious, as well to the inhabitants of the United States, as to 
those of the territory, to permit a formidable banditti, which 
is constantly increasing in number, to occupy a situation 
which enables them to strike our settlements without the least 
warning. 

3d. Resolved, That we are fully convinced that the forma- 
tion of this combination headed by the Shawanese prophet, is 
a British scheme, and that the agents of that power are con- 
stantly exciting the Indians to hostility against the United 
States. 

4th. Resolved, That the assemblage of Indians at this 
place, at this time, and under the circumstances which at- 
tended it, was calculated to excite the most serious alarm, and 
but for the energetic measures which have been adopted by 
our executive, it is highly probable that the threatened de- 
struction of this place and the massacre of the inhabitants, 
would have been the consequence. 

5th. Resolved, That a temporising policy is not calculated 
to answer any beneficial purpose with savages, who are only 
to be controled by prompt and decisive measures. 

6th. Resolved, That we approve highly of the prompt and 
decisive measures adopted and pursued by the Governor of the 
territory. We are convinced that the situation in which we 
stand with the prophet and his adherents, rendered them nec- 

2. Daniel Sullivan was an eaiiy settler at Vincennes. Sept. 24, 1803 he was made 
a Lieut, in the militia serving till 1807. In 1808 he was an ensign ; March 28, 1812 
he was a justice: adjutant Gen. July 12, 1812; colonel Jan. 14, 1813; Sept. 16, 1816 
judge. 

Executive Journal (under dates given) 



542 INDIANA PIISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

essary for our safety, and from them we confidently expect 
such a termination of the presumptious pretentions of this 
daring chief, as must be pleasing to every patriot, and honor- 
able to himself. 

7th. Resolved, That a committee to consist of the Rev. 
Samuel T. Scott, the Rev. Alexander Devin, colonel Luke 
Decker, colonel E. Jordan, Daniel M'Clure and Walter Wilson, 
esqs. and colonel Francis Vigo, or a majority of them, be and 
they are hereby appointed to prepare and forward to the 
executive of the United States, a respectful address on 
the behalf of this meeting, assuring him of our attachment 
to his person and administration, and requesting him to take 
such measures as his wisdom may dictate, to free the terri- 
tories in this quartei- from future apprehensions from the 
prophet and his party ; and that he be also requested to insist 
upon the surrender, by the Indian tribes, of those who have 
murdered our fellow citizens, and provide compensation for 
such as have lost their property. 

8th. Resolved, That these resolutions be printed in the 
Western Sim, and also the address which may be prepared, 
and forwarded to the President in pursuance of them. 

E. Jordan, President. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 6th August 1811 
Har. Pa. Jf^l-U'-' 

Sir: 

In my letter of the 24th ultimo I had the Honor to inform 
you of the approach of the Shawanee Chief Tecumseh with 
a considerable body of Indians. He did not make his ap- 
pearance here untill Saturday the 27th having taken up eight 
days in coming about 75 miles. This delay was owing to a 
disappointment in meeting with the several detachments 
which came by land and who were not at the rendezvous he 
had appointed at the time of his arrival. On the 25th Cap- 
tain [Walter] Wilson, the officer whom I had formerly sent 
to him, met him at Bosseron about 20 miles from this place 
with a message from me expressing my astonishment at his 
bringing so large a force with him nothwithstanding my 
positive injunctions and his promise to the contrary. After 



 

some equivocation he said, that he had but 24 men with him 
and that the rest had come of their own accord and that 
everything would be explained to my satisfaction upon his 
arrival at Vincennes. On Saturday the 27th he arrived with 
all those who came by water and on the next day the party 
which came by land arrived also making in the whole about 
three hundred persons, of whom between twenty and thirty 
were women and children. I endeavoured to get him to an 
immediate interview that I might send him off as soon as 
possible and appointed Monday for that purpose. He would 
not however attend on that day and it was late on Tuesday 
before he made his appearance at the arbor which I had 
erected for the occasion. An hour before his arrival he sent 
to know whether I was to be attended by armed men at the 
council or not, in which case he said his young men would 
be armed also. I informed him that he might take his choice. 
If his men were armed, those which I had on duty would be 
so too, but if his men left their guns at their camp I should 
have no other armed men than 25 or 30 dragoons dismounted. 
He prefered the latter arrangement, and came attended by 
about 170 or 180 men without guns, but all of them having 
knives and tomhawks or war clubs and some with bows and 
arrows. 

In my address to him I mentioned the great alarm which 
the late murders in the Illinois, and his appearance with so 
large a force had occasioned amongst our peoples and told 
him that I was ready to listen to anything that himself or 
any of the Chiefs had to say but that I would enter into no 
negociation on the subject of the late purchase. The affair 
being entirely in the hands of the President who had not 
sent any answer to the claim which he had last year set up 
in behalf of all the Tribes on the Continent. That he might 
if he pleased go and see the President and hear his deter- 
mination from his own mouth. I required an explanation of 
the seizure of the salt. In his reply he began with this sub- 
ject — admitted that it had been taken but said he was not 
at home either this spring or the year before when the salt 
boats arrived — that it was impossible to please me — last year 
I was angry because the salt was refused — and I was this 
year equally so because it was taken — after a few other ob- 
servations of no moment he requested me to adjourn the 
council untill the next day. I was obliged, indeed, to do so 



 

on account of a violent rain. I waited for them the next 
day untill near two o'clock. They at length arrived and the 
Wea chief began a long unconnected speech in which he pro- 
fessed to give a history of all the Treaties which had been 
made by myself on the part of the U. States and the Indian 
Tribes. He concluded with saying that he had heard that 
the Miami chiefs had been forced by the Potawatomies to 
make the late Treaty at Fort Wayne and that it would be 
proper to institute an enquiry to find out the person wlio had 
held the Tomhawk over their heads and punish him. The 
allusion was made to Winemack a Potawatomie Chief whose 
uniform attachment to the U. States had drawn upon him 
the hatred of the Prophet and his party. This statement was 
immediately contradicted by me and the Miami Chiefs who 
were present appealed to for its falsehood. Anxious to bring 
the Council to a close I then told Tecumseh that he had it in 
his power by a single act to manifest the truth of his pro- 
fessions of friendship to the U. States and his desire to pre- 
serve peace, by delivering up the two Potawatomies who 
murdered the four white men on the Missouri last fall and 
who I knew were in his camp. His reply was long and some- 
what artful but his designs were more completely developed 
by it than by anything that I have yet heard from him. He 
said that after much trouble and difficulty he had at length 
brought all the northern Tribes to unite and place them- 
selves under his direction. That the White people were un- 
necessarily alarmed at his measures — that they really meant 
nothing but peace — the U. States had set him the example 
of forming a strict union amongst all the fires that compose 
their confederacy. That the Indians did not complain of it — 
nor should his white brothers complain of him for doing the 
same thing with regard to the Indian Tribes. As soon as the 
council was over he was to set out on a visit to the Southern 
Tribes to get them to unite with those of the North. To my 
demand of the murderers he observed that they were not in 
his Town, as I had believed them — that it was not right to 
punish those people — that they ought to be forgiven as well 
as those who lately murdered our people in the Illinois that 
he had set us an example of forgiveness of injuries which we 
ought to follow. The Ottawas had murdered one of his 
women — and the Osage one of his relations and yet he had 
forborne to revenge them— that he had even taken the Tom- 



 

hawks out of the hands of those who were ready to march 
against the Osages. To my enquiry whether he was deter- 
mined to prevent the settlement of the New Purchase he re- 
phed that he hoped no attempts would be made to settle it 
untill his return next spring. That a great number of In- 
dians were coming to settle at his Town this fall and that 
must occupy that tract as a hunting ground and if they did 
no further injury they might kill the cattle and hogs of the 
white people which would produce disturbance, that he 
wished everything to remain in its present situation until his 
return — our settlements not to progress further — and no re- 
venge sought for any injury that had been or should be re- 
ceived by the white people untill his return — that he would 
then go and see the President and settle everything with him. 
That the affairs of all the Tribes in this quarter were in his 
hands and that nothing could be done without him— that he 
would dispatch messengers in every direction to prevent them 
from doing any more mischief — and that he made full atone- 
ment for the murders which had been committed by the Wam- 
pum which he delivered. 

I made a short reply — telling them that the moon which 
they beheld for it was then night would sooner fall to the 
earth than the President would suffer his people to be mur- 
dered with impunity — and that he would put his warriors in 
petticoats sooner than he would give up a country which he 
had fairly acquired from the rightful owners. I then broke 
up the meeting. I was not however able to get the bulk of 
the Indians off untill Saturday. Tecumseh did not set out 
untill yesterday — he then descended the Wabash attended by 
20 men on his way to the southward. The day before he set 
out he paid me a visit and labored hard to convince me that 
he had no other intention by this journey than to prevail on 
all the Tribes to unite in the bonds of peace. After having 
visited the Creeks and Choctaws he is to visit the Osages and 
return by the Missouri. 

I have not been able to determine what was the object of 
Tecumseh in coming here with so large a force. If it was 
his object to attack the town at some unguarded moment, I 
am persuaded that the Miami chiefs who accompanied him 
knew nothing of it — My spies say that he intended to demand 
a retrocession of the late purchase and if it was not obtained 
to seize some of the Chiefs who were active in making the 



 

Treaty in my presence and put them to death and should I 
interfere I was to have shared the same fate. Had he found 
me unprepared I am certain that he would have found means 
to pick a quarrel. That he had some design in view which 
he thought fit to abandon is most evident from a variety of 
circumstances. At the moment he was promising Captain 
Wilson to bring but a few men with him he was sending in 
every direction to collect his people. Besides those who were 
encamped with him and drew provisions there were consider- 
able numbers hanging about the settlements in small parties 
and at one time upwards of one hundred within two miles 
of the Town northwest of the Wabash. His manner through- 
out the Council was so embarrassed that it was evident to 
all that he had been put out of his Tract and that the speech 
he made was not that which he had prepared for the occa- 
sion. That he meditated a blow at this time was believed by 
almost all of the neutral Indians and the information which 
was given to Genl. [William] Clark upon the subject by some 
of the Mississippi Tribes and to me by many individual In- 
dians and white persons agreed in almost every particular. 

To intimidate and to prevent him from attempting any 
enterprize against us I made as great a display of force as 
possible. The day of his arrival I had a review of the neigh- 
bouring militia at which there were between 700 and 800 
men under arms. The Two infantry companies on duty were 
increased to three and these being relieved on different days 
by some management in marching and changing quarters it 
appeared to the Indians that four or five companies were on 
constant duty. The elegant Troop of Dragoons commanded 
by Captain [Benjamin] Parke (who is also one of our su- 
preme judges) were exhibited to the greatest advantage and 
nightly patrols both of horse and foot announced a vigilance 
which defied surprises. The Indians were in astonishment 
and Terror and I believe most of them went off impressed 
with the belief that Vincennes was not as easily to be taken 
as their chief would have convinced them. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Si)- 
your Humble Serxi; 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Secretanj of War 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES August 6th 1811 

Har. Pa. U3-U6 
Sir: 

I had the honor to receive by the last mail your letter of 
the 11th ultimo and I sincerely regret with you that there 
are no funds at the disposal of the Executive for paying the 
detachment of Militia who were called into actual service 
last year. The greater part of these men were paid the 
amount of what was due to them by Mr. Charles Smith' a 
merchant of this place soon after their discharge and it has 
been with him some difficulty that I have prevailed upon him 
to refrain from issuing warrants against them. May I ask 
the favour of you Sirs, to write a paragraph in a letter to 
me that I may shew to Mr. Smith assuring him that an ap- 
propriation will be made at the next session of Congress for 
the discharge of this debt. 

It is perhaps fortunate for us here that your letter did not 
sooner come to hand or I should have considered myself pre- 
cluded by it from furnishing the Militia that have been on 
duty here within provinces at the expense of the United 
States — The authority under which the Militia were formerly 
ordered out and which has never been revoked allowed me 
when in my opinion the threatened hostilities with the In- 
dians made such a measure necessary to call two or three 
companies into actual service at the expence of the United 
States. Upon the late occasion I thought it best to relieve 
the companies on duty every two days for this short time 
they could serve without pay and no further expence has 
been incurred than the provisions they have drawn and a 
little forage for the dragoons. 

If the President should think it proper to authorize any 
military enterprise in this quarter, men will not be wanting. 
The Militia of the Territory are subject by lav/ to be called 
out whenever the Governor shall think it necessary. Indeed, 
an army of volunteers from this and the neighbouring Terri- 
tories and States might be had to any amount. I sincerely 
hope that some means may be adopted to protect the settle- 

1. Charles Smith was appointed a Lieut. July 1, 1808 in the Vine, light infantry; 
June 21. 1810 a Lieut, in the 1st Regt. militia; Oct. 21. 1812 he became Adj. Gen. 
& brigade major. He was engaged in various enterprises, chief of which was the 
establishment of a steam mill which involved the territorial bank heavily. 



 

ments in the new purchase. The interest of the States and 
the prosperity of the Territory are equally concerned in it. 
I know a single individual, an emigrant from North Carolina, 
who has $20,000 in cash to lay out in that Tract and num- 
berless other persons are holding up their money for the 
same purpose. 

Captain Z. Taylor^ has been placed in command at the Gar- 
rison near this. To all the qualities which are esteemed for- 
an amiable man he appears to unite those which form a good 
officer. In the short time he has been a commander he has 
rendered the Garrison defensible — before his arrival it re- 
sembled anything but a place of defence. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
your Obt. servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Secretamj of War 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNEs August 7th 1811 

Har. Pa. U7-l,51 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors 
of the 11th and 20th ultimo. My letter of yesterday will in- 
form you of the arrival and departure of Tecumseh from this 
place and of the route which he has taken. 

There can be no doubt but his object is to excite the South- 
ern Indians to war against us. His mother was of the Creek 
nation and he builds much upon that circumstance towards 
forwarding his views. I do not think that there is any danger 
of any further hostility until he returns. And his absence 
affords a most favorable opportunity for breaking up his Con- 
federacy. I have some expectation of being able to accomplish 
it without a recourse to actual hostility. Tecumseh assigned 
the next spring as the period of his return. I am informed 
however that he will be back in three months. There is a 
Potawatimie War Chief here, who says he was present when 
the message from the British agent was delivered to the 
Prophet, telling him that the time had arrived for taking up 



 

arms, and invited him to send a party to Maiden to receive 
the necessary supplies. This man is one of the few of those 
who preserve their independence. 

The implicit obedience and respect which the followers of 
Tecumseh pay to him is really astonishing and more than any 
other circumstance bespeaks him one of those uncommon 
geniuses, which spring up occasionally to produce revolutions 
and overturn the established order of things. If it were not 
for the vicinity of the United States, he would perhaps be the 
founder of an Empire that would rival in glory that of Mexico 
or Peru. No difficulties deter him. His activity and industry 
supply the want of letters, for Four years he has been in 
constant motion. You see him today on the Wabash and in 
a short time you hear of him on the shores of Lake Erie or 
Michigan, or on the banks of the Mississippi and wherever 
he goes he makes an impression favorable to his purposes. 

He is now upon the last round to put a finishing stroke to 
his work. I hope, however, before his return that that part 
of the fabrick, which he considered complete will be demol- 
ished and even its foundations rooted up. Altho the greater 
part of his followers are attached to him from principle and 
affection, there are many others who follow him through fear 
and he was scarcely a mile from the Town, before they in- 
dulged in the most virulent invectives against him. The 
Prophet is imprudent and audacious but is deficient in judg- 
ment talents and firmness. 

Under the strong injunctions used in your letter against 
employing the Troops under Col. [John T.] Boyd, but in case 
of absolute necessity I shall forbear to call on here any other 
part of them than the Company of Infantry of the 2d Regi- 
ment commanded by Capt. [William] Piat. 

The outlines of my plan are to call upon all the Tribes, in 
the most peremptory terms to deliver up such of their people 
as may have been concerned in murdering our citizens. To 
require them also to fulfill that article of the Treaty of Green- 
ville which obliges them to give information and to stop any 
parties passing through their districts with hostile intentions, 
and that all such as are marching to join the Prophet are con- 
sidered by us as of that description. To require them also to 
cause such of their people as may have joined the Prophet 
immediately to return to their respective tribes or to put them 
out of their protection. From the Miamies I will require an 



 

absolute disavowal of all connection with the Prophet and 
as they are the owners of the land he occupies I will en- 
deavour to prevail upon them to express to him their dis- 
approbation of his remaining there. To all the Tribes I 
will repeat a declaration which I was instructed to make 
to them some years ago by the Secretary of War. That 
the United States had manifested through a series of 
years the utmost justice and generosity toward their Indian 
neighbours and had not only fulfilled all the engage- 
ments which they entered into with them with good faith, 
but had spent considerable sums in endeavours to civil- 
ize them and promote their happiness but if under those cir- 
cumstances which they all had an opportunity of knowing any 
Tribe should dare to take up the Tomhawk against their 
Fathers, they need not expect that the same lenity would be 
shewn them, as they experienced at the close of the former 
war, but that they would absolutely exterminated or driven 
beyond the Mississippi. I believe Sir that by the employment 
of proper agents to disseminate speeches which shall contain 
the above demands and declaration and by making use of some 
management to secure the exertions of influential chiefs in 
support of them that the combination formed by the Prophet 
will be dissolved. But to ensure success some military force 
must be brought into view, for this purpose if it meets with 
your approbation and there will be time enough to obtain your 
approbation I shall about the middle of September move up 
to the upper line of the New Purchase with the two companies 
of Regulars, fourteen or fifteen companies of militia and two 
troops of dragoons the latter comprising about one hundred 
men. 

Should circumstances render it necessary to break up the 
Prophet's establishment by force and I should discover that 
this force is not sufficient I can add to it two or three other 
companies from this county and as many volunteers as I 
choose to accept from Kentucky, provided thay are suffered 
to be mounted. Indeed, Sir they ought all to be mounted. 
The Militia of the western country are only formidable when 
acting as mounted infantry in this way from the velocity of 
their movements they are formidable indeed undisciplined as 
they are. I have taught a few companies around this place, 
to form a line or lines of battle from a line of mai'ch in the 
manner practiced by General Wayne but excepting these there 



 

is nothing like discipline in the infantry. Let me beg your 
attention to this subject and request that I may be allowed to 
use mounted militia upon any expedition that may be thought 
necessary. If circumstances should render Col. Boyd's Regi- 
ment unnecessary at the point to which they were originally 
destined I had much rather have them than militia. The 
event of General Wayne's action proved that disciplined 
musketry with their flanks secured by Dragoons and mounted 
riflemen are the best troops even against the Indians. In- 
fantry that are disciplined in the common manner can easily 
be formed for woods fighting. It requires only the observ- 
ance of very open order and doubling up instead of wheeling. 

I have this moment received a letter from Governor 
[Ninian] Edwards. No new aggression from the Indians 
had occured in that Territory. Governor Edwards enclosed 
me the copy of a letter from himself to Governor [Benjamin] 
Howard, which contains so many just observations on our 
present difi'erence with the Prophet and his party that I have 
taken the liberty of enclosing you an extract from it. [Not 
found] 

With great respect, I have the Honor to be Sir 
Yr. Obt. Servt 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Secretary at war 
Washington City 

Harrison to Bissell 

ViNCENNES 9th Aug. 1811 

Bissell Mss. 23, St. Louis Mercantile Library 

Dear Sir 

Your favor of the 2nd inst. was duly delivered by liiet. 
[Ambrose] Whitlock. In a letter which I wrote to the Secre- 
tary of War mostly after the shocking affair which happened 
at Fort Knox [Murder of Jennings] I mentioned Mr. Whitlock 
as a proper person to be entrusted with the command of that 
Fort. The answer of the Secretary was that he had no other 
objection to Mr. Whitlock being placed in that command but 
from its interference with his duties as Postmaster — He in- 
formed me also that a proper officer would be sent on. Under 
those circumstances & knowing that the command of Lietu. 



 

Whitlock would be of very short continuance I had no hesi- 
tation in recommending to Mr. W. not to deUver your letter to 
Capt. [Zachariah] Taylor. Notwithstanding the very ex- 
traordinary manner by which Capt. T. became possessed of 
the command he certainly deserves no share of the blame — He 
disapproved indeed of the whole proceeding but he certainly 
had no alternative but to obey the order he had received and 
placed in his situation I would have acted precisely as he has 
done altho Lt. [Jacob W.] Albright might very properly have 
refused to give him the command. As you cannot spare a 
Capt. from your cantonment I recommend that Capt. Taylor 
may be continued. He was entirely a stranger to me when he 
came here — but I am much pleased with him he appears to 
be a most amiable man and for his opportunity a good officer. 
Upon the other subject contained in your letter you will I 
hope excuse me from giving an opinion and believe that my 
reasons for declining to give one are such as I cannot dis- 
regard. 

I have herewith enclosed you copies of two letters received 
from the Sec. of War by the last mail by which you will per- 
ceive the protection of this & the Illinois Territory has been 
confided to me & the means which he has authorized me to use 
for the purpose. Under the Strong injunctions used by the 
Secretary not to employ the Troops under Col. [John P.] 
Boyd but in case of absolute necessity I have only called one 
company under Capt. [William] Piat. This will be placed in 
the Garrison of Fort Knox & report to you & be subject to 
your orders in every respect but as to a change of position. 
I do not think it proper for me to interfere nor shall I inter- 
fere in the police or internal management of the military 
that may be subjected to my control (excepting in the way of 
advice) until a part of the militia is ordered into Service. 
Until this does take place I can only give instructions of a 
general nature — Such as the change of position or something 
of the kind leaving the execution entirely to the officer com- 
manding. I have authority from the Secretary of War to 
build a fort or two higher up the Wabash than Fort Knox and 
the present Garrison of the latter was sent here for that ex- 
press purpose. Howsoever it would be highly improper for 
me to use them without a just authority derived from the 
Secretary of War or yourself. The distance to the seat of 
Government is too great to apply for it now. Indeed all that 



 

is necessary for the purpose would more properly come from 
you. I liave therefore to request that you would adress me an 
order to the commanding officer to receive such instructions 
as I may give him — assuring yourself that none other will 
be given than such as are strictly compatable with the rela- 
tive situations we occupy until the Militia are ordered into 
service. The enclosed letters demonstrating the views of the 
Government with respect to the Military arrangements in this 
quarter will be your complete satisfaction for any orders you 
may give on the occasion. 

I meditate an expedition about the 20th of Sept. with the 
2 companies of the regular troops, two of Dragoons & about 
14 companies of Militia — Would you think yourself at liberty 
upon my recommendation and request to join me with all the 
Troops you can have from Belle Fountain & to take command 
of the regulars & one of my Wings. Indeed if your brought 
no troops your personal services would be highly acceptable. 
You could leave the cantonment & the ladies to the care of our 
friend Capt. [Simon] Owens for a few weeks. 

I am with much respect & Esteem Dr. Sr. 
Your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
Capt. D. BissELL 

Edwards to Secretary of War 

Illinois Territory, August 11th, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 800 

Nothing but the most perfect conviction of the necessity, 
could have induced the calling out of the militia. Whether the 
prophet intends to make war, or not, partial war must con- 
tinue to be the consequence; the hostility which he excites 
against the United States is the cement of union among his 
confederates ; and such is the nature of Indians, that they can- 
not be collected, and kept together, under such circumstances, 
without having their minds prepared for war; and, in that 
situation, it is almost impossible to restrain them from prema- 
ture acts of hostility. Were this the only danger, it would 
be sufficient to justify the dispersion of the Prophet's party. 
[Extract] 

Ninian Edwards 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, August 13th, 1811 

Har. I'd. J,52-J,55 

Sir: 

The distance between us is so great and I have so much 
diffidence in my own judgment, that I have determined to take 
no step of importance in the present state of our Indian Rela- 
tions without the advice and approbation of governors 
[Ninian] Edwards [of Illinois] and [Benjamin] Howard 
[of Missouri]. The most perfectly good understanding exists 
between us and the President may rest assured that our united 
councils and exertions will be directed to preserve peace with 
the Indians. I believe however, that we all agree in opinion 
as to the necessity of breaking up the Prophet's establishment 
upon the Wabash, but at any rate to stop the further accumu- 
lation of force at that point. The latter may perhaps be ef- 
fected by calling upon the contiguous Tribes as we have a 
right to do, to prevent the reinforcements destined for the 
prophet from marching through their country, and the latter 
by calling upon those who are connected with us by treaty to 
withdraw their warriors from him. But our demands and 
remonstrances must be supported by an exhibition of force. 
It is in vain to threaten unless we shew that we are not only 
willing but able and ready to chastise. 

Heedless of futurity it is only by placing the danger before 
his eyes, that a savage is to be control'd. Even the gallant 
Tecumseh is not insensible to an argument of this kind. No 
courtier could be more complaisant, than he was upon his last 
visit. To have heared him one would have supposed that he 
came here for the purpose of complimenting me. This won- 
derful metamorphosis in manner was entirely produced by the 
gleaming and clanging of arms, by the frowns of a consid- 
erable body of hunting shirt men, which accidentally lined a 
road by which he approached to the council House. 

But let me assure you Sir, that I feel most forcibly the re- 
sponsibility imposed upon me, by the president's directions "to 
preserve peace if possible". And that recourse to actual hos- 
tilities shall be had only when every other means shall have 
been tried in vain to effect the disbanding the Prophet's force. 
Unless this is done, no arrangement that we can make, can 
ensure our tranquility for two months. 



 

And it appears to me, that the pecuniary interests of the 
United States are as much concerned in affecting it as are its 
honor and dignity and the peace and prosperity of the citizens 
of the Frontiers. As to the. means of accomplishing it, the ap- 
pearance of a considerable force is essential whether we apply 
immediately to the prophet himself or indirectly through the 
medium of the other Tribes, in the manner proposed above. 
Backed by a measure of this kind our friends amongst the 
Indians would speak with firmness and decision. The timid 
would be overawed and the wavering, and the majority are of 
that description, brought over to our side. 

I shall expect your final directions by the middle of Sep- 
tember and whatever they may be whether agreeing with my 
own opinion or not they will be punctually and cheerfully 
obeyed. 

When the Militia and Regular Troops act together in this 
Territory the articles of war would give me an unquestionable 
right to command. I am not certain what would be the effect, 
should we be obliged to go into an other Territory. The line 
separating this from the Illinois pursues the general course 
of the Wabash for some distance up and is found sometimes on 
one side and then on the other of that River. Besides it may 
be necessary that an expedition should be undertaken against 
some of the Tribes which reside in that Territory. From 
your last letter it appears that the President intended that the 
principal direction of the military should be with me. Would 
it not be proper then that I should receive some specific 
authority for that purpose. I know not well what it should 
be myself, but I should suppose something like that given to 
Governor Lee by the President upon the expeditionary against 
the Pennsylvania insurgents in 1794. 

I have already informed you that the best understanding 
exists between the Governors Edwards and Howard and my- 
self and as neither of them have had any military experience 
I should have no doubt of receiving any authority that they 
could give, but by the ordinance which is our constitution they 
are precluded from giving any commission higher than that 
of Colonel. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir 
yr. humble servt. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 
The Honble Wm. Eustis, Esqre. Secij. of War 



 

Harrison to Secretary op War 

ViNCENNES 14th August 1811 

gjjj . Har. Pa. i56-i57 

Since I had the honor to write to you yesterday Lieut. [Abra- 
ham] Hawkins' has arrived being despatched by Capt. [Will- 
iam] Piat from Louisville to receive my instructions. After 
a mature deliberation upon the subject I have thought it best 
to bring on the whole of Col. [John P.] Boyd's command to 
this place for the following reasons. Altho you have not in- 
foiTned me for what point the Troops under Col. Boyd were 
originally intended I am convinced that their route must be 
dowTi the Ohio and Mississippi thus being here then will not 
prevent their pursuing their destination whenever the Gov- 
ernment shall think proper. Lieut. Hawkins informs me that 
the whole Regiment is in Keel boats and this circumstance 
together with the state of the Wabash which is in better 
order for navigation than I have ever seen it at this season 
will make their arrivel here easy and expeditious and unat- 
tended with the expense of land transportation, a considera- 
tion which had some weight with me in forming the deter- 
mination to bring on but one Company. Their arrival here 
(even if they should advance no further) will have the effect 
of convincing the Indians that the Government are seriously 
determined to protect the frontiers and to chastise the re- 
fractory Tribes. Should their services not be required to the 
Southward their being here will supercede the necessity of 
the employment of as many militia for the purposes contem- 
plated in my letters of the 7th, and 13th instant as would 
be necessary without the aid of the Regulars, for these rea- 
sons I am convinced that you will agree with me that the 
Public service will sustain no injury and that it may be bene- 
fitted by bringing on the whole Regiment to this place. It 
will be kept embodied and ready to descend the River when- 
ever orders to that effect may be received. 
I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
Yr. Hble. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Esqr. Seaj. of War 

1. Abraham Hawkins of Connecticut entered the regtilar army as an ensign in 
the 4th Eegt. June 18, 1808; became a 2d Lieut. June 1809; Lieut. Aug. 25, 1811; 
Capt. Sept. 2, 1813 ; discharged June 16, 181B. „ .^ , „ . 

Heitman, Army Register, Sli 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 557 

Shaw to Secretary of War 

Fort Wayne, August 18th, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 801 

It appears that the fruit of the Shawanee Prophet and his 
band is making its appearance in more genuine colors than 
heretofore. I iiave lately had opportunities of seeing many 
of the Indians of this agency, from different quarters, and 
by what I have been able to leani from them particulai'ly the 
Pattav.^atamies, I am induced to believe the news circulating 
in the papers, respecting the depredations committed in the 
Illinois territory, by the Indians, is mostly correct, and is 
thought by them to have proceeded from Mar Foe, and the 
influence of the Shawanee Prophet. Several of the tribes 
have sent to me for advice. [Extract] 

[J. Shaw] 

Detachment Order' 
Detachment Main Quarters, U. S. Garrison 
Newport, [Ky.] Aug. 21st 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 163 

Conformably to the Instructions of His Excellency Gov- 
ernor Harrison the New England Detachment [Colonel Boyd] 
will embark and proceed to Vincennes. The Quarter Master 
will make the necessary arrangements for a sufficient supply 
of provisions, and eveiy exertion of the officers is required to 
expedite the movement. 

Signed, JNO. P. Boyd, Col. Uh Regt. C. D. 

[A Proclamation] Postponing the Assembly 

August 21, 1811 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 

By William Henry Harrison, Governor and Commander in 
chief of the Indiana Territory 
Whereas, the meeting of the Legislature of the Indiana 
Territory, cannot be conveniently held the first Monday in 

1. These military ordeis are given so that the reader or student may keep track of 
the military movements. They will save considerable explanation in foot notes. Nearly 
all are from Burton, Historical Collections^ to whom full credit is hereby given. 



 

October next, the day to which it stood Prorogued, I have 
thought proper further to Prorogue the same to Monday the 
twenty eighth day of that Month — At which time the Mem- 
bers of the Legislative Council and of the House of Repre- 
sentatives, are required to give their attendance at the Town 
of Vincennes. 

In Testimony whereof I have set my hand and caused the 
Seal of the said Territory to be hereunto affixed at Vincennes, 
this twenty-first day of August in the year of our Lord one 
thousand eight hundred and eleven. And of the Independence 
of the United States, the Thirty Sixth 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
By the Governor JNO Gibson Secty 

Daviess to Harrison 

August 24, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, 200 

Sir, 

By Mr. [Elihu] Stout,' the printer, I was yesterday in- 
formed that you were organising an army of militia and 
colonel Boyde's regiment to march against the Indians. 

The object of this letter is to say, that I am very desirous 
to be with you in this service, and certainly will attend if I 
am duly informed of the day of rendezvous. It is but rare 
that any thing of the military kind is done — it is still more 
extraordinary that a gentleman of military talents should 
conduct matters of this kind when they are to be done, since 
the land is infested with generals so grossly incompetent. 
Now under all the privacy of a letter, I make free to tell 
you, that I have imagined there were two men in the west 
who had military talents : And you, sir, were the first of the 
two. It is. thus, an opportunity of sei-\'ice much valued by 
me. I go as a volunteer, leaving to you sir, to dispose of me 
as you choose. No commission, I know, can be had; so I shall 
be a soldier. Perhaps some few young men here may join 
me and go on: If I had a full troop, I should like to be in 
the van-guard, very willing to be responsible for the good 
look out. 

1. Elihue Stout was the editor and publisher of the Western Sun at Vincennes. 
He came to Indiana from Ky. and was personally acquainted with Daviess. For a 

biography, see History Knox Count,, (1SS6) 250; Charity Dye, Some Torchbearers, 116 



 

I am not so sure, sir, how your regulars will do. There 
are two ways of doing this business: one depends for its 
success upon the suddenness of the blow; and for this, four, 
five, or six hundred will do very well. The other moves slow, 
with heavy foot and train of baggage; and this ought to be 
fifteen hundred or two thousand, since it gives full time to 
the enemy to fix time, place, etc., and because of its slovmess, 
very subject to be harrassed. 

You see, sir, I am a true militia-man, ready to offer advice, 
unasked, to my officer. 

I have been deliberating whether this army wish to carry 
on war absolutely, or whether the drawing of the sword was 
to be determined by the language and behaviour of the enemy 
after we arrived in their country. 

I would gladly receive a letter from you on this matter. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully yours, 

J. H. Daviess= 

Detachment Order 

D. M. Quarters, U. S. Garrison 
Newport, Aug. 27th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collections, 16^ 

It is expected that the required supply of ammunition and 
provision for the Detachment will be ready by Thursday morn- 
ing next, when the troops will immediately embark and de- 
scend the river, the officers will be pleased to report the boats 
in readiness on Wednesday morning, when the order regu- 
lating the proceeding of the boats will be made known. 

Signed, JNO. P. BOYD, Col. ith Regf. Infy., C. D. 

Johnson to Editor of Liberty Hall 

PiQUA, Miami Co. Ohio Aug. 27, 1811 

Liberty Hall, September J,, 1811 

Editors of Liberty Hall 
Sirs— 

Finding that a considerable number of the frontier inhab- 
itants were alarmed at the prospect of Indian hostilities grow- 

2. Joseph Hamilton Daviess was born in Bedford Co. Va., March 4, 1774. Came 
to Ky. when he was 5 yrs. old. Served in the war under Wayne 1793. Lawyer, well- 
educated. Appd. U. S. attorney for Ky. in 1800 and tiied to arrest the career of 
Burr. Killed at Tijipecanoe. 



 

ing out of the outrages lately committed in the Illinois coun- 
try I felt it incumbent on me to take such measures as would 
have a tendency to quiet the fears of our citizens in this quar- 
ter, I accordingly invited the Sawanoes and Wyandotts to a 
public council at this place. A deputation from each of those 
tribes, with a chief of the Senecas, in all 50 persons reached 
here on the 22'd inst. The conference began on the 23d in 
the morning and ended on the 24th at night. The result is 
as satisfactory as could be wished. I feel no hesitation in 
assuring the public that at present there is not the smallest 
danger to be apprehended from the Showanos, Wyandotts, 
Delawares or Miamies and it is believed many of the Potto- 
wattomies may be considered the true friend of the United 
States. The general govei'nment ever attentive to the safety 
of our citizens are taking measures to procure the satisfaction 
for the outrages already committed and security for the future 
good conduct of the Indians. 

I request the favor of you to publish, for the satisfaction 
of the people at large, this letter, with the two following 
speeches,^ which were answers to my address to the deputa- 
tion. 

Your Ob't. Servant 

John Johnson, Ind. Agent 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, August 29th, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, J 95 

Sir, 

Your excellency's letters of the 13th and 14th instant, have 
been received. 

My letters of the 22d, advised, that colonel [John P.] Boyde 
had been ordered to descend the Ohio to Louisville, and await 
your instructions. In case of his being required to march to 
the Indiana territory, he was authorized to purchase pack 
horses, on a presumption that the movement required de- 
spatch. 

The proposal of your Excellency, that the colonel should 
move in his boats by the Wabash, will save the expense of the 

1. Speeches by Capt. Lewis of the Shawnie village at Stony Creek, and by Black 
Hoof. Shawnee speaker, are given entire. They indicate peace, hostility and distrust of 
both the Prophet and British. 



 

horses and accommodate the troops with baggage. But it 
appears from tlie returns, that the regiment is becoming sick ; 
and, as the fatigue and exposure on the water, may increase 
the propensity to disease, I have left it to the judgment of 
the colonel, to take the route by land or by water, as shall 
appear to him to be most advisable. 

The reduction of this regiment by sickness, may render it 
necessary to employ an additional number of companies from 
the militia, of which, you will judge. 

As the expedition will be commanded by your Excellency, 
it is presumed, no objection or difficulty will arise from cross- 
ing the boundai-y of the territory, if circumstances should 
require it. 

I am respectfully, your Excellency's obedient servant, 

W. EUSTIS 

His Execellency, WILLIAM Henry Harrison 

Volunteers 

Lexington, Aug. 29, 1811 

Liberty Hall, October 2, 1811 

I am now able to inform you that certain information con- 
cerning the campaign up the Wabash is received. 

Gov. Harrison has written a gentleman of this place [Lex- 
ington, Ky.] that he will take the field about the 20th of 
Sept. and has received full powers from the government to 
that effect. 

I would recommend it to my comrades that we rendezvous 
at Louisville on the evening of 13" of Sept and on the morn- 
ing of 14th proceed. This will allow us a day or two to rest 
our horses at Vincennes. I expect to get supplies of pro- 
visions at Vincennes. 

I further recommend to my comrades not to be encumbered 
with too much baggage, which must prevent our usefulness 
as cavalry. Each man ought to have a good blanket under 
his saddle and one girded over it, this latter with hooks and 
eyes so as to answer all purposes of a great coat in bad 
weather and either a tent or bed at night, a pair of tanned 
leather hobbles for his horse, and no clothes which need wash- 
ing except SOX and linen ; a wallet and saddlebags will carry 
all needed supplies. 



5G 

The clothing ought to be a blue coatee and pantaloons with- 
out any scarlet, a hat or leather cap covered with bear skin, 
boots and spurs, and a pair of tanned leather moccasins to 
spare. The arms a good sword and a brace of pistols, with 
good locks, and a belt round the body with cartridge box and 
12 cartridges. The cartridge to consist of such a number of 
buckshot as the caliber of the pistol will permit, provide the 
ammunition but omit making up cartridges till we meet. 

Let each saddle have two secure girths. With regai-d to 
the pay, I have no information at all, but I proceed on the 
confidence that we will fare as other soldiers. 

J. H. Daviess 

Detachment Order 

D. M. Quarters, U. S. Garrison Newport 

August 30th, 1811 

Burton, Historical CoUectionx, l(>i 

Lieut. [John] Smith and [Lewis] Packham together with 
one Sergeant and six Privates being in the opinion of the 
Surgeon unable to embark with the troops destined for Vin- 
cennes, will remain at the Garrison until in the opinion of the 
attending Physician of the same they are able to proceed on 
for the main body. Lieut Smith will take charge of the con- 
valescent on their march to join. 

Signed JNO. P. Boyd Col. Wi Regt. Infy. C. D. 

Detachment Order 

D. M. Quartei-s, U. S. Garrison Newport 

August 31st, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 1(!5 

The Detachment being ordered by his Excellency Gov- 
ernor Harrison to proceed to Vincennes the command of the 
Garrison devolves on Lieutenant [James Washington] Bry- 
son who will take charge of the sick left, and accept the 
thanks of the commanding officer for the politeness and hos- 
pitality shewn the detachment while stationed here. It is 
expected the attending physician will attend to the sick that 
is left 

Signed, jNO. P. Boyd Col. Wi Regt. Infy. C. D. 



 

Detachment Order 

Encampment 40 miles below Newport Kentucky 
August 31, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 165 

Detachment Order 

The troops will reimbark tomorrow morning at Reveille for 
which the General will beat. For the regulation and facility 
of the march the officers will pay particular attention to the 
Detachment order of August 3rd 1811, except that they will 
form agreeable to rank, the hospital boat taking the center. 

Signed, Jno. P. Boyd, Col Uh Regt. Infy. C. D. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Jeffersonville (Falls of Ohio) ord September 1811 

Har. Pa. A71-J>72 

Sir: 

I came to this place a week ago expecting to find here the 
Troops under the command of Col. [John P.] Boyd. He did 
not however arrive until this morning. Whatever may have 
been the cause of this delay it is a circumstance much to be 
regretted, as the Ohio has fallen very rapidly, and the Wabash 
no doubt in the same proportion. The arrival of the regular 
Troops at Vincennes will be thus retarded, until within a 
very few days of the time which I had fixed on for march- 
ing up the Wabash. Further reflection has also induced me 
to believe that the destination of these troops spoken of in 
your former letters might be to our frontiers bordering on 
upper Canada. Should this be the case and a winters march 
to that quarter contemplated, the road from Vincennes, would 
not be so eligible as that from Cincinnati, but at any time 
when the rivers are not frozen the former route is much the 
best from the facility for transportation afforded by the 
Wabash and Miami of the Lake. If this surmise of mine 
with regard to the eventual destination of the 4th Regiment 
is correct measures may be taken which would render even a 
winter march from Vincennes by no means impracticable. 
I mention this not with an intention of prying into the views 
by the Government, but merely to show that I have had an 
Eye to every possible inconvenience that could result from the 



 

execution of the discretion vested in me relative to the em- 
ployment of Col. Boyds Regiment. The people of this Ter- 
ritory and Kentucky are extremely pressing in offers of their 
services for an expedition into the Indian country. Any 
number of men might be obtained for this purpose, or for 
a march into Canada. 

Previously to my leaving Vincennes I dispatched messen- 
gers [messages] to the several Indian Tribes containing the 
demands and declarations mentioned in a foi-mer letter — a 
demonstration of force on the Wabash will give efficacy to 
those and will most probably produce an entire dispersion of 
the Prophets party.' But should they fail my own opinion is 
decidedly in favour of marching to the immediate neighbor- 
hood of his To\vn and demanding Hostages for their com- 
pliance with our demands on the subject. I will not how- 
ever venture upon this step unless I receive your directions 
to that effect. It is also a question worthy of deliberation 
whether or not a Fort should be built on the reservation at 
the old Wea Towns, which is within fifteen miles of the 
Prophets Residence. 

I have appointed Capt. [William] Piat Quarter Master of 
the expedition as he appears from a letter of yours to him to 
enjoy your confidence and is I believe very desei'ving of it. 

I have the honor to be with great respect. Sir, 
your obt. servt 

William Henry Harrison 

Honble Willm. Eustis, Esq. Secy, of War 



Detachment Order 

September 6th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 165 

Order of boats the same as yesterday and will keep about 
four Roods distance from each other with the exception of the 
Powder boat, which will be ten Roods in rear of the whole; 
each boat will be governed by the boats immediately preceding 
it. All noncommissioned officers and soldiers are forbid firing 

1. Harrison had been waiting one week at JeScrsonville for the arrival of Col. 
Boyd. Meanwhile there was danger (or the inhabitants thought so) of an attack at 
any minute on Vincennes. The messages referred to follow the letter of Sept. 17, 1811 



 

or charging a gun without permission of the commanding of- 
ficer of the boat, to which he belongs, and as we must pro- 
ceed with all possible speed through the day, it is enjoined on 
the commanding officers of each boat not to suffer the small 
boats to leave the large ones unless in a case of emergency 
or absolute necessity. We move immediate after the com- 
munication of this order. 

Signed, James Miller' Lt. Col. 5th Regt. Infy. Comdg. 

Detachment Order 

D. Main Quarters, Mouth of the Wabash 
River, September 10th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 166 

The Detachment having arrived at the mouth of the Wabash 
River will at half past two o'clock embark to ascend the same, 
as a precautionary measure the Quarter Master will issue four 
cartiridges to each soldier bearing arms. The oflficers com- 
manding boats will take charge of them. No soldier will be 
allowed to charge his gun, unless by order of the officer of 
the day. Signed, jAMES Miller Lt. Col., Comdg. 



Parke to Harrison 

VINCENNES Sep. 13th 1811 
„ Har. Pa. i73-iT6 

In compliance with your Excellency's request of the 11th 
Inst, the following is respectfully submitted. 

It is a fact that the Prophets party is increasing. 

That defection is evidenced amongst all the tribes from the 
Wabash to the Mississippi and the Lakes. 

That the Indians of the Wabash, Illinois etc. have recently 
visited the British agent at Maiden. 

That they are now returning from thence with a larger sup- 
ply of goods than is known ever to have been distributed to 
them before. 

1. James Miller was a native of N. H., born Apr 25. 1776. He was a lawyer by 
profession and in command of the local militia. When the 4th Regt. under Boyd was 
recruited in New Eng. he accepted the position of major. He was prevented by illness 
from being present at Tippecanoe, being left in charge of Fort Harrison. He dis- 
tinguished himself later at Lundy's Lane. ^^^^.^^_ ,^._^^. ^^ ^^^^_ ^^^ 



 

That rifles or fuses are given to those who are unarmed and 
powder and lead to all. 

And that the language and measures of the Indians indicate 
nothing but War. 

Under these circumstances the publick interest certainly 
does require that a larger auxiliary force of Militia should be 
employed than that contemplated by the Honble the Secretary 
of War in his letter of the 22nd ultimo. 

And from the facts stated, it would not be safe to penetrate 
the country as high up as the upper line of the New Pur- 
chase with the force prescribed by the letter of the Honble. the 
Secretary of War above mentioned — were the attempt to be 
made, it would probably terminate in defeat and destruction. 

But admitting, there would be no danger of a defeat I 
should still insist that a larger force than that contemplated 
by the Honble. the Secretary of War ought to be employed. 

The Prophet appeared as the head of a party about five 
years since. For three years his measures have evidently 
been of a hostile character, negociation has been tried in vain. 
He has not abandoned his profjects and his partisans are now 
found from the Wabash to the Mississippi and up to the Lakes. 
His artifice and intrigues and the bounty of British agents 
have nearly perfected his plan of uniting all the Indians within 
our boundary under him, and nothing but the appearance of 
a force much larger than that contemplated by the Honble the 
Secretary of War will dissolve the confederacy. Four or five 
hundred men might excite alarm on the Wabash ; but to make 
an impression on the distant Tribes a force of several thou- 
sand ought to be exhibited. This would silence the turbulent 
and unprincipled, i-estore the timid and wavering, and give 
countenance and support to the friends of the U. States. 

Means of a temporizing nature or any farther delay would 
evidently jeopardize the peace and safety of the frontiers. 

The smallest reverse of fortune on the part of the Gov- 
ernment would instantly unite all the Indians against it — and 
a five years war would scarcely be sufficient to restore peace 
to the frontiers. 

I have the honor to be respectfully Sir, 
your obt. Servt. 

B[ENJAMIN] Parke, Capt. Light Dragoons 

His Excellency William H. Harrison 



 

Paul to Manwarring 

Madison September the 15th 1811 

Mss. in Sfdfe Librari/ 

Dear Manwarring 

I am soi-ry that I have to Charge you with ingratitude I 
have not received a line from you since my return from the 
Legislature last fall. I do not think that I am deserving of 
such treatment I have not even heard who was Elected to 
represent Franklin County nor have I yet received a line from 
my well beloved and most highly Esteemed friend Mr. [John] 
Templeton if you see him please inform him that I have not 
forgot him altho I am much neglected.' 

I flatter myself that we shall have your aid in attempting 
to move the seat of Government from Vincennes. Our object 
is to have it removed to Madison — which is as near the Centre 
of population as any place we can name — from Madison to 
Vincennes by way of the united States road is 120 miles — 
from Madison to Charles Town 30 from there to Corrodon 30 
from Madison to Lawrenceburgh 52 miles from there to 
Brookville 25 from there to the Centre of Wayne County 24 
you cannot doubt of the correctness of this statement the dis- 
tances are proven — which proves Madison in the Centre. You 
my dear Sir (as well as myself) are well apprised of the neces- 
sity of removing the seat from Vincennes you have seen the 
Exertions used in order to influence the minds of the mem- 
bers of our Legislature you well know that it was almost im- 
possible to get a Law passed that did not directly meet the 
approbation of a Certain Class of men at that place [Vin- 
cennes] together with their Connections at other places — The 
interference of Certain men at that place with the members of 
the [mutilated] my opinion is a very detestable imposition 
[mutilated] our Citizens — You Certa [mutilated] The Gov- 
ernor Came forward to the representative's Chamber in order 
to meet the members of both houses to influence them to ac- 
ceed to his measures to accept of and give sanction to Certain 
bills which he had drawn up to reorganize the Judiciary in 
which he Clothed himself with unlimited power I ask for what 
in the name of Common sense Could he have desired such 

1. The session the previous year was opened by the governor Nov. 12, 1810 and 
sat 38 days. The second session of this Assembly convened Nov. 11, 1811. This letter 
is concerned principally with the effort to relocate the capital — an issue far more in- 
teresting to the Assembly than the overemphasized slavery question. 



 

power if he did not wish to make [illegible] it. to me it had an 
awful aspect — I have no objections to [Benjamin] Park being 
a Judge but I do not wish him to Judge for me when sitting 
as a member of the Legislature — I have no objections to Har- 
rison being Governor but I cannot consent that my Vote shall 
be Governed by his opinion — I ask what would be the general 
of Opinion If President Madison was to solicit the Votes of 
any of the Citizens of the united States for any Certain Char- 
acter as a member of Congress — or what would be the result 
if the Judges of the high Court of the United States were to 
Come forward and solicit the members of Congress (openly 
in the representative hall) to reorganize the Judiciary and Ex- 
tend their power would not the walls of the house shudder at 
such an attemp if it would be a Crime in congress why not 
of the same magnitude in the Territory These things with 
a number of others, Causes me to wish the seat removed from 
Vincennes I flatter myself that you will Call on me on your 
way to Vincennes and tarry one day and night — when we Can 
have more Conversation on this as well as other matters that 
much Concern the interest of our Territory 
I [mutilated] yours 



[To Solomon Manw^aring] 



John Paijl 



Taylor to Harrison 

Vincennes Sept. 15th 1811 

Q„. Har. Pa. Jt77-J,78 

Your Excellency has requested my opinion on two proposi- 
tions, the 1st is: Would it be safe to penetrate the country 
as high up as the upper line of the new purchase^ with the 
force prescribed by the Honble. the Secretary of War by his 
letter of the 22nd ultimo? and 2nd admitting that there would 
be no danger of a defeat, would not the object of the Expedi- 
tion be greatly promoted and the public interest essentially 
served by employing the whole auxiliary force provided by the 
Governor say eleven Infantry Companies of Militia and three 
or four Dragoons ? 

In answer to the first proposition I beg leave to state as my 
decided opinion that the force contemplated by the Honble. the 

1. This "new purchase" was bounded on the north by the "ten-o-clock" line, ex- 
tending from near Vallonia in JaoKson county to Montezuma in Parke. 



 

Secretary of War wotild be insufficient to accomplish the ob- 
ject in view with safety. The spirit of hostility manifested 
by the Prophet and his followers (who it is said are daily in- 
creasing) the thefts and murders committed within a few 
months past and the unusual quantities of arms, ammunition 
etc. which not only these but the Indians generally have re- 
ceived from the British agent at Fort Maiden, strongly evi- 
dence a disposition to commence war as soon as a fit opportu- 
nity occurs. If a small force were marched into their vicinity, 
very little doubt can be entertained but it would be attacked 
and most probably be defeated. Should this be the case our 
extended Frontiers would be immediately exposed to the 
ravages and depredations of their warfare. 

But admitting that a defeat would not result from marching 
to the upper line of the new purchase, still it is my opinion 
that the object of the Expedition would be better promoted by 
employing a more considerable force than your Excellency 
has provided. Tho that may probably answer a very satis- 
factory purpose. To dissolve the combination which is openly 
avowed to be forming amongst the Indians and which threat- 
ens destruction to our scattered and defenceless citizens re- 
quires a force that would awe the turbulent and refractory, 
confirm the timid and wavering, and insure protection and 
safety to the friendly and well disposed. It would therefore 
seem to me the best policy to crush in Embryo a scheme which 
if suffered to be matured, will involve the United States in a 
war with the Indians, to terminate which great expence will 
be incurred, and the lives of members of our citizens will be 
saci'ificed. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect, Sir 
your obt. 'servt. 

Waller Taylor 
His Excellency, William H. Harrison 

Military Orders 

Headquarters of the Army of Indiana Territory, 

VINCENNES, Sept. 16, 1811 

Cockruni, Pioneer History of Indiana, 253 

The governor of Indiana Territory and commander-in-chief 
of the militia, being charged by the President of the United 



 

States with a military expedition takes command to the troops 
assigned, viz: The detachment of regular troops under the 
command of Col. John P. Boyd, consisting of the fourth U. 
S. Regiment of Infantry and a company of the Rifle Regiment, 
the present garrison at Ft. Knox and the various detachments 
of Militia, Infantry and Dragoons which have been ordered 
for the service. As the present garrison of Ft. Knox is to 
form a part of Colonel Boyd's command, the officers command- 
ing that post will receive the Colonel's orders. Capt. 
[William] Piatt of the Second U. S. Regiment has been ap- 
pointed Quartermaster for all the troops on the expedition and 
is to be obeyed and respected as such. Captain Robert 
Buntin' has been appointed quartermaster for the militia and 
is to be respected and obeyed accordingly. Henry Hurst, Esq., 
and the Honorable Waller Taylor, Esq. have been appointed 
aide-de-camps to the Commander in Chief, having the rank of 
Majors and are announced as such. All orders coming from 
them in his name, whether in writing or verbally, arc to be 
respected and obeyed as if delivered by the Commander in 
Chief in person. Captain Piatt is to have the superintendency 
of persons appertaining to the quartermasters of military 
agents department and the direction of all stores for the use 
of the expedition. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

VINCENNES 17th Sept. 1811 

Sir: ^'"- ^'"- ^'*'-^''^ 

I have the Honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter 
of the 22nd ultimo. From letters which you will have re- 
ceived from Col. [John P.] Boyd and myself you are apprised 
of my having anticipated your orders and that the whole of 
the Detachment under his command are on their way to this 
place. The Col. came through with me by land from Louis- 
ville and the troops were sent round by water under the com- 
mand of Col. [James] Miller. I calculate upon their being here 
Tomorrow or next day. I must now, Sir, request the honor 
of your attention whilst I explain the motives which have 



cleik of Kn 



Executive Journal, 92 passim. 
Hist. Knox County (1SS6) 136 seq. 



 

induced me to exceed your instructions with regard to the 
number of mihtia to be employed as auxiliaries to the regu- 
lar Troops upon the Proposed Expedition up the Wabash. 
In my letter of the 7th ultimo I informed you that I con- 
templated using two companies of Regulars 14 or 15 of 
Militia Infantry and two Troops of Dragoons, making an 
aggregate of nearly 1200 men. The substitute of the whole 
of Cols. Boyd's detachment for an equal number of militia 
is doubtless a very favourable exchange, particularly if the 
object was to bring the Indians to action under any Circum- 
stances. But the number of the Detachment fit for duty on 
this day of their arrival at Louisville was not much above 
four hundred and it is more than probable that other Casual- 
ties will considerably reduce it. Capt. [Thornton] Posey's 
company now in Garrison at Fort Knox with five or six men 
of the Rifle Corps annexed to it will not give more than forty 
effectives making in all of Regular Troops about four hun- 
dred and fifty ; from which is to be deducted a small command 
to be left in Garrison at Fort Knox. The Remainder added 
to the two Troops of Dragoons will form a force of 550 men, 
a number about equal to that which the Prophet has under 
his immediate control. My own opinion is that with this 
force we might march to the upper line of the New Purchase, 
erect a fort and return with safety. It would however pre- 
sent the Indians a great temptation and the defeat of this 
Detachment would give to the Prophet's party an eclat that 
would enable him to effect his pui-pose of uniting all the 
Tribes in a war against us. The appearance of a military 
force in the neighborhood of the Indian towns will produce 
a good or an ill effect in proportion to the operation it will 
have upon their fears. A small body of men will excite their 
contempt, a large one (such as they will think themselves 
unable to resist) will not only deprive them of a wish to meas- 
ure their strength wdth ours, but will cause all those who 
waver to decide in our favour and even many of those who 
are now in close union with the Prophet will think of nothing 
but retracing their steps and submitting to a compliance with 
our just demands. Our Friends will be enabled to speak out 
openly as such and be freed from the necessity of skulking 
about the woods (as at this moment) for fear of their lives. 
You will see below that Mr. [Touissant] Dubois reports that 
almost every Indian from the country above this had been 



 

or were then gone to Maiden on a visit to the British agent. 
We shall probably gain our destined point at the moment of 
their return. If then the British agents are really (as I most 
sincerely believe) endeavouring to instigate the Indians to 
make war upon us we shall be in their neighbourhood at the 
very moment when the impressions which have been made 
against us are most active in the minds of the savages. In 
your letter of the 17th July you enjoin it upon me in the most 
peremptory menner "not to attack the Prophet without having 
a force that would ensure success". The injunction appears 
to me to include a prohibition of placing myself in a situ- 
ation with a military force where I could be attacked with 
success, as the consequences in either case would be nearly 
the same. Upon the whole I think that the preservation of 
peace which is the great object of the President (and cer- 
tainly of myself also) would be jeopardized by the employ- 
ment of any force which the Prophet might think himself 
able to contend with. I do not think him much of a warrior, 
but he is certainly daring, presumptuous and rash. In pro- 
portion to the strength of our Detachment not only the rela- 
tive but the actual numbers of his followers will be decreased 
and if such a force as I could raise in two weeks was to go 
up and erect a Fort upon the reservation at the old Wea 
Towns I would pledge my reputation for judgment and a 
knowledge of the Indian character if four fifths of his fol- 
lowers would not instantly abadon him. And being once un- 
deceived with regard to his ability to defend them they would 
never be brought to unite with him again. I cannot how- 
ever think myself authorized to employ a larger force than 
is sufficient to defer an attack from the Indians or to chasten 
them should they think proper to attempt it. It will consist 
of the regular Troops above mentioned, 2 or more companies 
of militia infantry and three or four Troops of Dragoons — 
at this season of the year the Militia can leave their Homes 
without any material inconvenience. The sole objection then 
to the employment of this force is on account of the addi- 
tional expense and can the pay of a few companies for 35 or 
30 days be an object worthy of consideration to the United 
States when they are employed to take possession of a coun- 
try to which they have a fair and just claim by the sale of 
which they will be so amply remunerated? The sale of the 
small strip adjoining the Greenville Boundary line takes place 



 

next month and unless I am very much mistaken misinformed 
the proceeds of it in two months from the day that the oflice 
is opened vnW bring more money into the public Treasury 
than will be sufficient to reimburse the purchase money for 
both the Tracts and all the incidental expenses which have 
occurred since. I rely upon the Candour of the Government 
for my justification in this affair. The Troops of Cavalry are 
composed principally of Gentlemen to whom the pay is no 
object but as the whole are not of this description I presume 
that no discrimination can be made. I have actually engaged 
but one Troop from Kentucky, but I understand that another 
has been formed by young gentlemen at and in the neighbour- 
hood of Lexington who have done me the honor to think they 
could receive some military information by serving under my 
command. It is not my intention, Sir, to accept of any com- 
pensation for my services on this occasion nor even remunera- 
tion for my expenses. The Beef and Flour which I shall be 
obliged to take from the Contractor will be included in the 
provision abstract but no other article that is consumed in 
my family will be placed to the public account. 

As soon as I received your favour of the 22nd ultimo I 
laid it before Col. Boyd and the Honble Waller Taylor and 
Benjamin Parke two of the supreme judges of the Territory 
and both militia officers and requested their opinions in writ- 
ing upon the Expediency of employing a larger force than 
that contemplated by your letter. I have done myself the 
honor to inclose their several answers. I expect Governor 
[Benjamin] Howard and General [William] Clark daily. 
Governor [Ninian] Edwards is I hear very sick and gone to 
some medicinal spring in Louisiana. I have not heard from 
him since the return of the officer whom he sent up the Illinois 
River to demand the perpetrators of the two late murders 
but I have seen a young man (a connexion of the governor's) 
who was on the command.' He informed me that the chiefs 
professed a willingness to deliver up the culprits but declared 
that they were not within their power having taken refuge 
■with the Prophet. I hope to be able to march on Saturday 

1. July 24, 1811. Governor Edwards ordered Capt. Samuel Levering to eg to 
the tribes near Peoria and demand the murderers of Cole and his neighbors. They 
arrived at Peoria and learned from Gome the Pottawattomie that Five Medals. 
Topenebe. Moquango. Winemac and Marpack — all of Indiana were the guilty parties. 
This was perhaps an evasion. 

Edwards. Life and Timrs of Ninian Edwards. 38 



r, 

next. But I have some fear of a deficiency on the part of 
the Contractor. The government need be under no appre- 
hension for us Sir. If the Prophet attacks us we shall beat 
him. I promise you at least that we shall not be surprised 
and that if the men will fight (of which I have not the least 
doubt) they shall do so when perfectly prepared. The Greek 
maxim "Aephales garaot Ameion a thrasus Statelate" which 
was so great a favourite with Augustus (who by the bye was 
I believe inferior as a Warrior either to the little Turtle or 
Tecumseh) shall be ever present to my mind, and in Indian 
warfare (whatever it may be in any other) it is certainly a 
good one. 

When I received your letters of the 17 and 20th July I dis- 
patched an Indian Messenger to bring back the Miami Chief 
who had accompanied Tecumseh to this place and who had 
only left it two days before, the Messenger did not overtake 
them until they had reached their towns. They refused to 
return aledging that the letters which I pretended to have 
received from the President were forgeries and that they 
were told by White Men at Vincennes, that I intended to 
practice this cheat upon them. I immediately prepared 
speeches to be sent to the different Tribes conformably to the 
plan mentioned in my letter of the 7th ultimo and I employed 
Mr. Dubois a French gentleman who is well known to and 
much respected by the Indians to carry the one intended for 
the Miamies. He found the chiefs all preparing to go to 
Maiden. With the assistance however of Messrs. [John] 
Shaw and [William] Wells he got them all together at Fort 
Wayne. The result of the Council discovered that the whole 
Tribe (including the Weas and Eel Rivers for they are all 
Miamis) were about equally divided in favour of the Prophet 
and the United States. I have the Honor to enclose a copy 
of my speech and the original minutes of the Council as taken 
by Dr. [William] Turner^ at Fort Wayne. [Immediately be- 
low] The Lapousier who makes the insolent speech is the 
Wea Chief who spoke in the late council here and whom I 
before mentioned to you as being seduced by the Prophet. 
Mr. Dubois repeatedly demanded of him what land it was 
that he was determined to defend with his blood. Whether 

2. William Turner enlisted in the army from Md. and was a surseon's mate in 
the garrison at Fort Wayne. He served throuRh the War of 



 

it was that which was ceded by the late Treaty or not; but 
he would give no direct answer. Mr. Dubois reports that all 
the Indians of the Wabash have been or now are on a visit 
to the british agent at Maiden. He has been in the Indian 
Trade thirty years and has never known as he thinks more 
than one fourth as many goods given to the Indian as they 
are now distributing. He examined the share of one man 
(not a chief) and found that he had received an elegant rifle, 
25 pounds of powder 50 of lead 3 blankets 3 strouds of cloth, 
ten shirts and several other articles. He says that every In- 
dian is furnished with a gun (either Rifle or fusil) and an 
abundance of ammunition. A trader of this country was 
lately in the King's stores at Maiden he saw 150 keggs of 
Powder (supposed to contain about 60 pounds each) and he 
was told that the quantity of goods for the Indian Depart- 
ment which had been sent over this year exceeded that of 
common years by £20,000 sterling. It is impossible to ascribe 
this profusion to any other motive than that of instigating 
the Indians to take up the Tomhawk. It cannot be to secure 
their trade, for all the Peltries collected on the waters of the 
Wabash in one year if sold in the London market would not 
pay the freight of the goods which have been given to the 
Indians. Altho I am decidedly of opinion that the tendency 
of these British measures in hostility to us. Candour obliges 
me to inform you that from two Indians of diff'erent Tribes 
I have received information that the British Agent abso- 
lutely dissuaded them from going to war against the United 
States. One of them (a Delaware) says that he was present 
at the audience given by the agent (Elliot) to 300 Sacs from 
the Mississippi. The latter informed him that they had taken 
up the Tomhawk against the United States at the request of 
the Prophet and that they come there to get arms and am- 
munition that Elliot told them that he would supply their 
wants but strongly advised them to decline the meditated war. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
your Humble Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

P. S. Col. Boyd has not yet prepared the written opinion 
about above mentioned but he authorizes me to say that it is 
precisely the same with the Judges Taylor and Parke. 
The Honble WILLIAM EUSTIS Esq. Secretary of War 



 

William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Indiana Terri- 
tory, to the Miami, Eel River and Wea Tribe of Indians 

My children. You had left this place but two days, when 
I had received Letters from your great father the President 
of the seventeen fires, and it was my wish that you should 
know what they contained, because their contents was of con- 
sequence to you. I sent after you one of your own people in- 
viting you to return. You not only refused to do so but you 
insulted my messengers. You insulted me and the great chief 
of the western fires whom I represent. You told him that the 
letters which I pretended to have received was forgeries. 

My Children. This conduct of yours has grieved me much 
and my anger against you was for a while very great but I 
have now cast it off. And I feel nothing but pitty for you 
and anger against those who have deceived you. I now speak 
to you in the name of your Father the President of the seven- 
teen fires — listen to me. 

My Children. My eyes are open and I am now looking 
toward the Wabash. I see a dark cloud hanging over it. 
Those who have raised it intended it for my destruction ; but 
I will turn it upon their own heads. 

My Children. I hoped that you would not be injured by this 
cloud, you have seen it gathering you had timely notice to 
keep clear of it, the thunder begins to roll take care that it 
does not burst upon your heads. 

My Children. I now speak plainly to you. What is that 
great collection of people at the mouth of the Tipecanoe in- 
tended for? I am not blind my children, I can easily see what 
their object is, those people have boasted that they will find me 
asleep, but they will be deceived. 

My Children do not suppose that I will be foolish enough 
to suffer them to go on with their preparations until they are 
ready to strike my people. No. I have watched their mo- 
tions. I know what they wish to do, and you know it also. 
Listen then to what I say. I will not suffer any more strange 
Indians to settle on the Wabash ; those that are there and do 
not belong there shall disperse and go to their own Tribes. 

My Children. When you made the Treaty with General 
Wayne you promised that if you knew of any parties of In- 
dians passing through your country with hostile intentions 
toward us that you would give us notice of it and endeavor to 



 

stop them. I now inform you that I consider all those who 
join the Prophet and his party as hostile and call upon you to 
fulfill your engagements. I have also sent to the tribes who 
have any of their warriors with the Prophet to withdraw them 
immediately. Those who do not comply I shall consider to 
have let go the chain of friendship which united us. 

Mjj Children, be wise and listen to my voice. I fear that 
you have got on a road that will lead you to destruction. It is 
not too late to turn back. Have pity upon your women and 
children. It is time that my friends should be known. I 
shall draw a line. Those that keep me by the hand must 
keep on one side of it and those that adhere to the Prophet on 
the other. 

My Children. Take your choice. My warriors are in mo- 
tion but they shall do you no hurt unless you force me to it. 
But I must have satisfaction for the murder of my people and 
the war-pole that has been raised on the Wabash must be taken 
down. 

My Children let me know your determination by Mr. 
[Touissant] Dubois, he will explain to you everything. Do 
not suffer bad advice to mislead you. Throw yourselves again 
into the arms of your father, and he will receive you and nour- 
ish you. 

Do not be afraid to speak your minds. Tell those people 
that have settled on the Wabash without your leave that the 
land is yours and you do not wish them there. Do not be 
afraid to say this. You shall be supported by my warriors. 
My warriors are getting ready and if it is necessary you shall 
see an army of them at your backs more numerous than the 
leaves of the trees. 

Speeches delivered by the different Miami Chiefs in council at 
Fort Wayne in answer to a speech from William H. Har- 
rison Governor Indiana Territory addressed to the 
Miami Tribe of Indians. 

Laprusikur the Wea Chief. 

William H. Harrison Governor of Indiana Territory. 
Listen to what I have to say, you wish to hear what I had to 
say. You tell us that we are now on a wrong road, a road 
that will lead us to destruction. You are deceived we are not 
on a wrong road. When I was walking a long, I heard you 

37—21182 



 

speak respecting the Shawanee. You said we were of his 
party. I hold both you and the Shawanee by the hand, but I 
hold him slack. You have both told me one story; that if 
I would adhere to you, that my people, the women, and chil- 
dren would be happy. The hearts of the Miamies is good. 
The Great Spirit has put them on the choice spot of land. We 
are now anxiously waiting to see which of you tells the truth. 
For the first time Father your eyes are now open. When you 
cast them on your children you see they are poor, they are 
destitute some of them, even for the necessaries of life. We 
want ammunition to support our women and children; and 
the want of those things has compelled us to undertake our 
present journey. 

Father; we have not let you go, we yet hold you by the hand, 
neither do we hold the hand of the Prophet with a desire to 
injure you, therefore I now tell you, that you are not correct, 
when you supposed we joined hands with the Prophet to in- 
jure you. 

Father I listened to you a few days ago, when you pointed 
out to me the depredations of murder that has been committed 
by the Indians on the Mississippi. I told you that I and my 
people had no wish to join in acts of that kind. I told you 
that we both loved your people, that it gives us pleasure when 
we see them standing around us, that we should deprive our- 
selves of this pleasui-e, if we commence a war with each other, 
as a war would be the destruction of both parties. You al- 
ways told me that our great father, the President of the 
United States had placed you here for good purposes, that his 
heart is good towards his red children. How then does it 
happen that our father's heart is changed toward his red chil- 
dren. 

Father, you have called upon us to fulfill the Treaty of 
Greenville ; in that treaty it is mentioned that we should give 
information if we knew of any hostile design of a foreign 
power against each other. I now tell you that no information 
from any quarter has reached our ears to injure any of your 
people or ours, except from yourself. You have told us that 
the thunder begins to roll. 

Father Your speech has overtaken us at this place, we have 
heard it, but it has not scared us, we are not afraid of what 
you say. We are now going on to that country which has 
been frequently visited by Tecumseh and we shall be able to 



 

know in the course of our journey whether he has told us lyes 
or not; that all the Indians were of the same opinion that he 
is; but when we return we shall be able to tell you whether 
what Tecumseh has told us be true or not. 

Now Father you have heard what I have to say you will 
hear it well what come from me. 

Father you have told me twice that you were very angry 
with me. I went to see you v/ith my warriors. We were sit- 
ting close face to face, and toes to toes, you told me that the 
Indians on the Mississippi had struck you, and 1 said noth- 
ing to you. 

You now tell us that you sent a messenger after us, that we 
had insulted the messenger, yourself, and our great father. 
This is twice you have told that you were angry with us; we 
have looked for the cause, but can find none. 

Father, we the Miamies are not a people that is passionate, 
we are not so easily made angry as it is supposed you are. 
Our hearts is heavy as the earth, and our minds are not easily 
irritated. We don't tell people we are angry with them for 
light causes; we are afraid if we did fly in a passion for no 
cause we should make ourselves contemptable in the eyes of 
others ; therefore we hope you will no more say you are angry 
with us, lest you should make yourself contemptable to others. 
We have told you we would not get angry for light causes. 
We have our eyes on our lands on the Wabash with a strong 
determination to defend our rights, let them be invaded from 
what quarter they may; that when our best intei'est is in- 
vaded, we will defend them to a man, and be made mad but 
once. Father now consider your children the Miamies, what 
they have said to you. You have now ofi'ered the war club to 
us, you have laid it at our feet, and told us we might pick it 
up if we chose. We have refused to do so, and we hope this 
circumstance will prove to you that we are people of good 
hearts. 

We hope father that you will not be angry any more with 
us ; we will not be angry with you. This is all I have to say. 

From an observation of Mr. Dubois the following expres- 
sions fell from the lips of Laprusieur. 

If Governor Harrison draws a line and leaves us out, he 
may, but if he takes us in it is very good. But if our lands 
are invaded, we will defend them to the utmost and die with 
the land. 



 

Here follows the names of the chiefs that was in favor of 
Laprusieur's speech. 

Pecan 

Big-Man (or Lagros) 

Negro Legs 

Osage 
The One that Eats stones [Stone Eater] 

Names of the persons that took these notes : 

Wm. Turner Surgeon's Mate U. States Army 
Fort Wayne 4th September 1811. 

SiLVERHEELS the Massassinway Chief spoke at great length 
and said; that he informed his people that he conceived it 
greatly to the interest of his nation, that a decisive answer 
should be given to their great fathers speech, that he had 
asked for it, and that he was entitled to have it, that for him- 
self he had always detested the Prophet and his doctrine, and 
that the interest of the nation required of the Miamies that 
they should have no connection with the Prophet ; that in case 
a misunderstanding should take place between the U. States 
and the Prophet it is the interest of the Nation to remain 
neutral, and hold our father by the hand. 

My Chiefs and warriors now present, I hope this will be the 
answer that you will send to our great father. 

Oscenut, Puttawa Chief: 

He did not wish what he was now going to say to be put on 
paper as it was rather advice to his people. He observed as 
the rest of the chiefs was absent he thought it his duty to make 
a few remarks on behalf of his nation saying that it appeared 
to him that his younger brothers on the Wabash had got on a 
wrong road, that the Gov. had told them of it and that it was 
not yet too late for them to turn back. We the Pottawattimie 
Chiefs have told our young men not to listen to the Prophet 
but notwithstanding some of them was foolish enough to hear 
his counsel. 

Charley the Eel River Chief spoke at considerable length 
very favourably ; but did not wish any part put on paper ; only 
that Laprusieur the Wea chief came forward and made a 



 

speech without consulting or knowing the opinion of the In- 
dians. 

The Little Turtle, Miami Chief, to Governor William H. 
Harrison 

Father your speech by Mr. Dubois was communicated to us 
yesterday. 

Father your children the Miamies of the Wabash are all glad 
to hear what you say, this is the sentiments of the Indians. 

Father you have asked us whether we are disposed to take 
part with the Prophet or hold you fast by the hand, this ques- 
tion causes us to believe that some misunderstanding has took 
place between you and some of our people that has visited you 
lately. It appears also that you have made your intentions 
known to the Pottawattimies respecting the Prophet you have 
told the Pots, and other Indians living on the Wabash to leave 
him you have told the Miamies the same thing, these are 
things that have surprised us. The transactions that took 
place between the white people and Indians at Greenville is yet 
fresh in our minds; at that place we told each other that we 
would in future be friends, doing all the good to each other 
and raise our children in peace and quietness. These are yet 
the sentiments of your children the Miamies. 

Father you have told us you would draw a line, that your 
children should stand on one side and the Prophet on the other 
We the Miamies wish to be considered the same people that 
we were at the Treaty of Greenville, holding fast to that treaty 
that united us the Miamies and Potawattimies. 

Father listen to what I have to say, it is our request that 
you pay particular attention to it. We pray you not to bloody 
our ground if you can avoid it in the fii'st instance let the 
Prophet be requested in mild terms to comply with your wishes 
and if possible avoid spilling of blood. The land on the Wa- 
bash is oui's we have not put the Prophet there, but on the 
contrary we have endeavoured to stop his going there — he 
must be considered as setting there without our leave. 

Father I must again repeat you say you will draw a line 
between your children and the Prophet we are not pleased at 
this because we think you have no right to doubt our friend- 
ship towards you. I have not said much to you but I think I 
have said enough for the present occasion my words are few 
but my meaning is great and I shall close by requesting that 



 

you will pay particular attention to what I have said. This 
is all I have to say. I have said it in presence of your Messen- 
ger and people of this place as also my own people. 

OSCEMIT 

I have said that I am here alone. I have come to attend to 
che interest of my women and children. I have thought it my 
duty to do so as the other chiefs of my nation was absent. 
When I heard the words of my Father. We the Potawatti- 
mies inhabiting the Lakes from Chicago round to the east 
are of the opinion as those of the Miamies. Just delivered by 
the Little Turtle. Notwithstanding some of our foolish young 
men have killed some of the whites. We the chiefs of our 
nation have told our young men not to listen to any bad birds 
that are flying in the air, notwithstanding some of them have 
been led astray in not listening to our words, and have im- 
prudently involved themselves in difficulties. Therefore we 
are determined that their faults shall not be charged to our 
nation. We the Potttaw. and Miamies have been friends and 
brothers since children. We shall continue to be so their 
sentiments are ours and ours theirs. 

Father what we said to each at the treaty of Greenville 
is fresh on our minds we there told each other that improper 
conduct of individuals should not involve us in difficulties. 
This also must be fresh in your memories for you wrote it 
down and I hope it will long be remembered by both of us. I 
have nothing more to say. 

White Loon 

You have heard what my Uncle the Little Turtle has said 
and my mind is the same. 

Little Turtle, addressing the Miamies 

I told my people when they were going to see the Governor 
not to say anything respecting the land, that the treaty was_ 
made and it was a fair one, they had signed the paper which 
bound the sale of the lands, and that nothing further should 
be said on the subject; I also charged them whatever they 
did to have nothing to do with the Prophet; that the Prophet 
was an enemy of Governor Harrisons and Governor Harrisons 
of his; that if they formed any kind of connection with the 
Prophet it would make the Governor enemies of theirs. 



 

Extract of a letter from Governor Harrison to Mr. Johnson 
Indian Agent at Fort Wayne 

Under these circumstances it is a matter of the first im- 
portance to ascertain how far the disaffection may have ex- 
tended amongst the tribes of your agency, and to assure the 
fidelity of those who still continue faithful or who may be 
fluctuating between their attachment to us and the induce- 
ments which may be held out to them to join the hostile party. 
From what I have heard and my knowledge of the disposi- 
tions of those two tribes I have little doubt of the fidelity of 
the Miamies or Delawares and I should suppose that that 
part of the Potawatimies under the control of Topenebe the 
five medals and the chief who was lately at the seat of Govern- 
ment ai'e also to be depended upon. You will therefore please 
to communicate to them by apprehensions of the Ti'ibes men- 
tioned above and call upon them to fullfill that article of the 
Treaty of Greenville which obliges them to give information 
to the United States of any hostile intention that may be medi- 
tated against their settlements and also to prevent any such 
hostile party from passing through their country; it will be 
necessary forcibly to impress upon them the necessity of doing 
this for their own safety. For as our people will generally 
pursue the attacking party and it will be impossible for them 
to distinguish the several tribes the innocent will frequently 
suffer for the guilty and a few accidents of the kind will bring 
on a General war with all the tribes. Such will be the wish 
of the Tribes who commence the attack and they will fre- 
quently so manage their war parties as to make the mischief 
they do appear to be the act of our friends. The Tribes of the 
Miamies Delawares and Potawatimies ought then immediately 
to take measures in the first place to find out what is the real 
object of the Prophet and his friends and if they find that he 
is really disposed for war and they cannot induce him to 
abandon the project to fall upon some scheme to protect them- 
' selves from its efl'ects and if possible to keep without its vor- 
tex. We do not wish them to take part with us unless they 
should themselves think it necessary. We wish only to place 
them in such a situation that no part of the exemplary ven- 
gahce which we shall inflict upon these tribes who have the 
temerity to attack us shall fall upon their heads. A situation 
admirably calculated for this purpose is offered by the White 



 

River Country — if a community of the friendly tribes is 
formed on that River from its sources down to the settlements 
and if they absolutely preclude those who are hostile from 
making war in that direction they may remain there in safety 
without the least apprehension of being disturbed by our war- 
riors. 

But to prevent if possible the necessity of this measure 
which cannot do otherwise than produce inconvenience to 
them, a solemn deputation from all the friendly Tribes should 
be sent to the Prophet and his party to remonstrate upon the 
folly and wickedness of their designs, which must inevitably 
terminate in their utter destruction. You will be pleased also 
to state in all your communications with the Indians upon 
this subject that the war that may be waged against us by 
any of the Tribes shall be the last that they shall ever make, as 
it is the positive determination of our Government after hav- 
ing so long and so sincerely laboured for their advantage to 
open their eyes to their inferior condition and to provide the 
means of their improvement and civilization that they will 
not again suffer themselves to be imposed upon by the profes- 
sions of those who have so often deceived but that the War 
once begun it will be pursued to the utter exterpation of those 
who shall commence it or until they are delivered to such a dis- 
tance as to preclude all probability of their again annoying 
us. To the Delawares Miamies and Potawatimies it may be 
observed that if they should be weak enough to suffer them- 
selves to be seduced by our enemies the first consequence will 
be the forfeiture of their annuities which were granted upon 
the express condition of their acknowledgement of their de- 
pendence upon the United States and upon no other power 
whatever. / 

General Orders 

Head Quarters, ViNCENNES, Sept. 20th 1811 
Burton, Historical Collections, 166 

It is the intention of the Commander-in-Chief to form the 
whole of the Troops into two lines, the first to be composed of 
all the U. S. Infantry, U. S. Riflemen and such of the Militia 
Corps as may be selected fo)- the purpose. For the present 
Capt. [Benjamin] Parke troop of Light Dragoons, the Har- 



 

rison Volunteers of Capt. [Spier] Spencer^ and the small de- 
tachment of Kentucky Dragoons under Col. [Jos. H.] Davies 
are to report to and receive the orders of Col. [John P.] 
Boyd. All the other Militia Corps including Capt. [Peter] 
Funks- troop of Kentucky Dragoons ai-e to be under the com- 
mand of Col. Bartholemew. Report of all the several Corps 
are immediately to be made to the Adjutant Col. [William] 
McFarland^ and Col. Boyd will please to make arrangements 
for withdrawing the Garrison of Fort Knox. 

He will receive particular directions from the Governor 
with respect to the Command which is to be left there. The 
Col. will also cause the baggage of the regular troops to be 
assorted. That which will not be wanted for the expedition 
will be deposited in Fort Knox. Such as will be useful at the 
point of destination but not wanted on the march will be 
prepared for water conveyance. For the balance wagons will 
be furnished. 

It is expected that all the arrangements in the Quarter 
Master's Depaitment will be completed tomorrow morning. 

Return for camp equipage and deficiencies in arms and ac- 
countrements will be immediately made out and as far as 
possible supplied from the public stores. Returns for Twenty 
four rounds of ammunition for the musquetry and a half 
pound of Powder and one of Lead for the Riflemen per man 
will be immediately made. 

Capt. [William] Piatt will see that the issues are made and 
the balance of the ammunition properly packed for trans- 
portation. 

As long as the troops remain in this town the Adjutant of 
the Several Corps will attend at 12 o'clock each day at Col. 
McFarland's Quarters for orders. 

1. Spier Spencer was born in Ky., moved to Vincennes. thence to Corydon in 
1809. becoming sheriff. He mairied a sister of Judge Wm. Polke. They kept a tavern 
at Corydon and were intimate friends of Harrison. His brother was killed at Tippe- 
canoe. A son. 14 yrs. old, was with him at Tippecanoe. After Spencer's death 
Harrison took the son into his own tent and later saw that he was educated at West 
Point. Spencer was perhaps the most popular hero of the battle. 

Pirtle, Tippecanoe, 68 
Roose, Harrison County, 11 

2. Peter Funk was born Aug. 14. 1782 at Funktown Md. Came to Jefferson Co. 
Ky., near Louisville, 1795, where he lived till his death Apr. 9, 1864. He carried the 
message from Harrison to Scott in Aug. 1811, asking for Ky. militia. 

Pirtle, Tippecanoe, 19 

3. William McFarland was one of the first settlers of Lexington, Ind. He was 
prominently connected with the Miami Exporting Co. which did a banking business 
at Lexington. He bored a salt well near his home 400 ft. deep. He became 
financially involved and left Indiana for the west. 



586 -INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

The Commander in Chief request Lt. Col. [James] Miller 
and all the oflicers and soldiers of the 4th U. S. Regiment and 
the Rifle Company attached to it to accept his thanks for the 
exertions they had used in ascending the Wabash. It is cer- 
tain that their arrival here has anticipated the expectation 
of all those who know the difficulties to be encountered in 
ascending the River in the present low state of the water. 
The conduct of the Troops on this occasion has been highly 
meritorious and is honorable to themselves and the school in 
which they have been trained. No Guards will be necessary 
as long as the troops remain in town but such as are neces- 
sary for the Police, of which the commanding officer of Corps 
will judge. 

A Militia General Court Martial will sit tomorrow at Ten 
o'clock to consist of Thirteen members for the trial of such 
prisoners as may be brought before it, Major Rezin Redman* 
President five Captains and seven Sub. will be detailed for the 
above duty. 

The Quarter Master will procure small orderly books to be 
delivered to the companies immediately. 

All the sick of the regular troops are to be sent to Fort 
Knox and to be placed under the command of Doctor [Jacob] 
Kuykendall. Doctor [Josiah D.] Foster surgeon of the 4th 
U. S. Regiment is to be considered senior surgeon of the 
AiTny. He will have the superintendence of all the stores 
and medicine and to him application will be made to the 
surgeons for those articles. 

The Quarter Master will furnish any articles which Doctor 
Foster may think necessary, as well as the means of trans- 
portation. 

By the Commander in Chief 

Signed, H. Hurst, A. D. C. 

4. Rezin Redman was an early settler of Utica. Clark Co. Sept. 20, 1803, he was 
commissioned an ensign in the militia under Col. Bartholomew. Jan. 7, 1814 he 
was appointed a judge for the Clark Co. court. He was a miller it seems in Utica. 

Executive Journal 

5. Josiah D. Foster came from Mass. with the 4th Regt. having enlisted Dec. 12, 
1808. He remained with it till his death Dec. 22. 1812. 

Heitman. Register, iSS 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 587 

Detachment Order 

U. S. Detachment Main Quarters, 
ViNCENNES, Sept. 20th 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 168 

It is with unfeigned satisfaction that the Col. commanding 
meets the detachment assumes the command Offers his 
best thanks to Lieut. Col. [James] Miller and the officers of 
his late command, whose persevering exertions only meet dif- 
ficulties to surmount them. 

Every exertion will now be made to prepare for actual 
service. Major George R. C. Floyd having reported himself 
for duty will be pleased to join his Regiment, where he will 
be obeyed and respected accordingly. 

Signed JNO. P. BOYD, Col. Uh Reg. Infy. C. D. 

Detachment Order 

U. S. Detachment Main Quarters, 
VINCENNES, Sept. 22nd 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 168 

Pursuant to the Commander in Chief's order the officer 
commanding Fort Knox will hold the troops under his Com- 
mand in readiness to join the camp at Vincennes tomorrow 
morning excepting one Sergeant and the sick of the Garrison. 

Signed, Jno. P. Boyd, Col. ith Regt. Infy. C. D. 

After Orders 

Head Quarters, ViNCENNES, 22nd Sept. 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 170, 171 

The army being formed in the order of march prescribed 
by the General order of this day, if an attack should be made 
on the right flank, the whole will face to the right and it will 
then be in two lines parallel to the line of march, the right 
column forming the front line and the left the rear. Should 
an attack be made on the left flank, the reverse of what is 
here directed will take place till the whole will face to the 
left, the left column acting as the front line, the right as the 
rear. If the attack is made on both flanks at the same time 



 

both columns face outward. To resist an attack in the rear 
the same manoeuvre as is directed for an attack in front, 
with this difference only, that the leading grand division of 
each battalion will form by the filing up of each man in suc- 
cession and the second grand division by doubling round its 
front guide and displaying to the left. To resist an attack 
in the front and rear, the five leading battalions will perform 
the manoeuvre directed for the front attack and the five 
others that which has been last described. In all cases where 
there is an attack other than a front or rear or flank guards 
according to the situation they may be placed in relatively 
to the rear of the ai-my and perform the duties which those 
situation respectively require as heretofore directed. 

Signed, H. Hurst, A. D. C. 

Detachment Order 

ViNCENNES 25th September, 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 172 

Agreeable to the General order of yesterday the Troops 
under my command will be ready to march at 10 o'clock this 
morning the commanding officers of each company will cause 
to be delivered twenty four rounds fixed ammunition three 
flints and one priming wire to each man fit for duty. All 
servants liable to bear arms will be furnished and accoutred 
as other privates and will be on duty with their officers. The 
commanding officers of companies will be held responsible 
that the guns are put in the best possible order, for action 
and kept so. They will also cause a careful inspection of all 
the ammunition flints priming wires and breeches to be made 
every morning and if any waste is committed or any loss by 
unavoidable accident, it shall be their duty to report the same 
to the commanding officer of the Detachment. If waste be 
committed the offender will be immediately confined and pun- 
ished according to the nature of his offence. 

The Quarter Master will receive all the arms and accoutre- 
ments of the sick, box them and put them on board the Boat 
to ascend the river. They will be immediately collected and 
delivered by the officers commanding companies. 

The officers of each company are allowed one wall tent, one 
common tent, is allowed to six non commissioned officers. 



 

musicians and privates, and one wall and one common tent 
will be furnished for the medical department. 

Each non commissioned officer Musks [?] and Privates will 
have two days provisions cooked and packed in their haver- 
sacks. Sergeant Wright and nine men will be detailed to take 
charge of the boat to ascend the river to the point of destina- 
tion. 

The Lt. Colonel commanding the Detachment has the fullest 
confidence in the officers and soldiers of his command and 
firmly trusts that their conduct in the contemplative expedi- 
tion will be honoi'able to themselves and to their country. 

Signed, James Miller, Lt. Col. C. D. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 25th Septr. 1811 

Har. Pa. ;,S6-U90 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter 
of the 29th of August, mine of the 18 Inst will have informed 
you that I had anticipated your last instructions by the Em- 
ployment of a larger militia force than was contemplated by 
your favour of the 22nd ultimo. The regular Troops under 
Colonel [James] Miller arrived here on the 19th at night. 
Their sick at that time very little increased from the time 
of their departure from Louisville. Within a day or two 
however a considerable number have been added to the sick 
reports. Their complaints are intermittent of the slightest 
kind and Dr. [Josiah] Foster assures me that the greatest 
part of them which are on the sick report will be able to 
march. This was intended to have taken place on this day, 
but an uncommonly heavy rain which is now falling has in- 
duced me to postpone it until tomorrow. As the militia are 
entirely without tents and the saving them even one severe 
wetting is an object of some consequence. We shall how- 
ever take up our line of march tomorrow morning at Reville 
rain or not. The Cavalry were sent off yesterday to Bus- 
seron (20 miles in advance) where Forage can be more easily 
procured. The 20th inst. had been fixed by me to commence 
our movements and the troops were here on that day, but it 
was not until yesterday that a Boat load of Flour arrived 



 

for the Contractor, this added to what he had here on hand 
amounts to little more than 12,000 rations. He has however 
more coming up the Wabash which will follow us. Our whole 
force will amount to about one thousand men including one 
hundred and forty dragoons and 60 mounted riflemen. 

I have the satisfaction to inform you, Sir, that the speech 
which I sent to several of the Tribes by the Potawatimi Chiefs 
and the report of a considerable assemblage of Troops being 
about to be moved at this place has brought foi-ward a deputa- 
tion from the Prophets Town full of professions of peace and 
that I have extorted from them a promise to comply with our 
demands. But I must previously inform you of a circum- 
stance of a very diff'erent character which happened about 
twelve days ago but which has only entirely developed since 
my last letter. As Capt. [William] Piatt was coming from 
Louisville to this place his Horses and that of another travel- 
ler were taken from the stable on the White River 35 miles 
from this and the night after four others from the Busseron 
settlement. The Trail of the Horses from the latter place 
was very visible, and two white men and a free negro who 
speaks some of the Indian languages went immediately in 
pursuit of them. They crossed the Wabash and on the second 
day near night they came to the Indian Camp. There were 
but three Indians in the camp and they soon discovered their 
own horses. Captain Piatt's and a number more. After some 
consideration they agreed to give up the four horses which 
were taken from Busseron. Our People then commenced 
their return and had gotten but a few miles when they per- 
ceived the Indians in pursuit of them, having but one gun 
amongst them they endeavored to escape by flight but the 
two foremost Indians soon came so near as to fire on them 
and the negroe would have been killed if he had not throwTi 
himself from his horse. They had no other alternative than 
to abandon all the horses (even those which they rode) and 
betake themselves to a thick swamp which luckily presented 
itself. They separated and after having suffered much from 
Hunger and fatigue they all arrived home. The Hostility and 
the Spirit of determined aggression upon us manifested by 
the above transaction called for some energetic measure. And 
I had resolved as soon as I had erected a work at the point 
contemplated on the Wabash that would admit of defence to 



 

make a demonstration towards the Prophets Town and even 
to march into it unless satisfaction was made. 

The apparent head of the mission from the Prophet's Town 
above mentioned is the old hereditary chief of the Kickapoo 
tribe who has been deprived of his authority by the Prophet 
and not supposed to act as a chief since he signed the last 
Treaty two years ago, but the efficient character of the party 
is a war chief of talents, entirely devoted to the Prophet. In 
his first speech he expressed his astonishment at seeing such 
warlike preparations that it had excited great alarm, that 
his women and children were all in Tears, that his heart and 
the hearts of all the Prophets party were warm toward the 
United States that their establishment had no other object 
than peace and that he wanted to know what were our in- 
tentions. In my answer I declared the great reluctance with 
which their Father would draw the sword against his red 
children but that the injuries which his own people had sus- 
tained were such that he could no longer put up with them. 
I recapitulated all the instances of hostility which they had 
manifested towards us and informed him that it was the 
President's positive determination to have retribution for the 
past and some security for the future. In the Council of 
yesterday I informed them that the army would march in 
a day or two, that I should go up the Wabash shortly and if 
they were inclined to join our friends who were endeavouring 
to have the persons who had killed our people taken and the 
stolen horses returned they might meet us on the way. He 
answered that the time was too short, that nothing could be 
done this Fall that we must wait until the next spring and 
then they would get all the Indians together and endeavour 
to find out who had injured us. I then informed him per- 
emptorially that the army would march today and that the 
distance they would go up the Wabash would depend entirely 
on the Indians themselves, that if they would not deliver up 
those who had murdered our people and restore the stolen 
property we must take on ourselves the trouble of finding 
them altho it might be the means of doing some injury to 
some innocent persons. A Potawatimi war chief whom I had 
employed to take one of my speeches in to the Indian coun- 
try at that moment arrived and I seized the occasion of telL 
ing the Kickapoo that that man knew of the hostile inten- 
tions of the Prophet's party and was present (the Kickapoo 



 

himself being also present) when the speech from the British 
Agent was delivered to the Prophet telling him that the time 
had arrived for them to take up arms. But notwithstanding 
we had such full evidence of their bad designs against us we 
would again receive them as oui* children upon their com- 
pliance with our just demands. I gave until this morning to 
consider of what I had said "he wanted no time — he could 
answer them — everything that I wished should be complied 
with as far as possible. The stolen horses should be restored 
he did not know where the murderers were but would en- 
deavour to find them — he would go up to his Town, do what 
he could to satisfy me and return to meet me. The Hour of 
the closing the mail is so near that I have only to add that 
I am with greatest consideration 

your obt. servt. 

WiLLM. Henry H.a.rrison 

I have not yet had an Interview with the Potawatimi Chief. 
He declines saying anything until Winemac's arrival which is 
every moment expected. 
The Honble WILLIAM EUSTIS, Esqr. Secy, of War 

General Orders 

Headquarters, BOSSERON CREEK, Sept. 27th, 1811 
Burton, Histoncal Collection, 173 

Parole Washington; Countersign Hancock 

The detail for camp guard Will be until further orders two 
captains guards consisting of one captain, two sergeants, two 
corporals, and forty privates each. Two subaltern guards 
consisting of one subaltern, one sergeant one corporal and 21 
privates each. One subaltern, one sergeant, one corporal and 
twelve privates for the guard of the Commander in Chief, one 
select corporal three men for a contractor's guard. A field of- 
ficer of the day. The Guards will be warned every morning 
at roll call and to mount immediately upon the halting of the 
army at night, Capt [James] Bigger's,' [Walter] Wilsons, 
[Richard M.] Heths,= and [Thomas] Berry's^ companies are 

1. James Bigger served on the Tippecanoe campaign as captain of a company 
of riflemen from Clark county. Later in the War of 1812 he was in charge of one of 
the three companies of rangers on the Indiana frontier. Though he was well known 



 

not to be included in the detail, they are however to be under 
the command of the officers of the day, and when within the 
line of sentinels are to form such a portion of the chain as 
the officer of the day may assign to them. When without the 
chain of sentinels they will furnish guards for their own se- 
curity only when the troops fall into the line of march. Upon 
the beating of the long Roll the Guards will be conducted into 
camp and will join their several companies a Sergeants guai'd 
of the regular troops only excepted which will be detached to 
form a baggage guard, and for the purpose of picking up 
stragglers. The order of march will be in Two lines as the 
army is now placed. Capt Biggers riflemen in front of the 
column, in line across the direction of the line of march at one 
hundred and fifty yards distance. Capt. [Benjamin] Park's 
troop 50 yards in the rear of this Company and drawm up in 
the same order, Capt. Wilsons riflemen in the same order and 
at the distance of one hundred and fifty yards from the rear 
of the column, Capt. [Charles] Beggs troop in the same order 
at 100 yards from the rear of the column, Capt. [Peter] Funks 
troop on the right flank at the distance of one hundred yards 
from the column and in a line parallel to it. Capt. Berrys 
and Heths companies will be for the present on the left flank 
at one hundred yards distance from the column. The spies 
and guides will be considerably advanced and will receive par- 
ticular directions from the commander in chief. The order 
of encampment will depend on the nature of the Ground which 
is to be occupied, the Dragoons will encamp within the lines of 
Infantry in such order as may be assigned. They will fur- 
nish a picquet to remain in or out of camp the officer of the 
day may direct to consist of one subaltern one sergeant one 
corporal and twenty privates, one orderly drum will be de- 
tailed for the Deputy Adjutant General, and one orderly ser- 
geant for the Commander in Chief. All signals will be given 
from the quarters of the Deputy Adjutant General excepting 
those which relate to the signals of the several Corps, the taps 

in five or six counties and by half the settlers in southern Indiana no details of 
his life are at hand. 

2. This seems to be Richard M. Heth of Corydon. July 26, 1811 he was appointed 
a captain in the Harrison Co. militia. He bought the fann opened up by Squire Boone 
near Corydon. His name is not on the roster of the Tippecanoe army and no ex- 
planation is offered of the difficulty. 

3. Thomas Berry was appointed a captain in the Harrison county militia March 
7, 1811. He led a detachment of mounted riflemen to 
killed Nov. 7, 1811. No biographical details are available. 

38—21182 



 

will be beaten ten minutes before the Drummers call which 
precedes the reveille and tattoo and these will succeed the 
drummers call five minutes. At the Taps which precedes the 
Reveille the whole army will rise, the Dragoons will saddle and 
prepare to mount, at the beating of the reveille the whole army 
will parade until they are dismissed. Col. Boyd will please 
to direct that on the line of march the music to be equally 
divided between the heads of the two columns. 
By the Commander in Chief 

Signed, Wm. McFarland, Adj. Gen. of the Army 



Regimental Order 

Headquarters, TiERMANS, Sept. 29th, 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, JTi 

Capt. VV. C. Baen"' having reported himself will join his 
company, and Lieutenant [Oliver G.] Burton^ will join his own 
company until further orders. 

Signed, JAMES MILLER, 
Lt. Col. of the 5th Reg. Commanding 



Detachment Orders 

Head Quarters, 
Battelle des Illinois [Terre Haute] 4th Oct. 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 175 

A command to consist of one subaltern one sergeant, one 
corporal and 20 privates from the regular troops and 1 sub- 
altern 2 sergeants 2 corporals and thirty privates from Capt. 
[Spier] Spencers company of rifle is to parade this evening at 
2 o'clock. These troops are to take with them their blankets 
and to draw five days provisions exclusive of this day, the two 
subalterns will apply at Head Quarters for orders. 

By the Commander in Chief, 

Signed, H. HURST, A. D. C. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 595 

Harrison to Secretary op War 

Camp on the Wabash 65 miles from Vincennes 
October 6th 1811 

Har. Pa. 491-3 

Sir: 

I have the Honor to inform you of the arrival of the Troops 
under my command at this place on the 2nd Inst. The regu- 
lar Troops stood the march surprisingly well. There are a 
good many sick but most of them of very slight complaints 
and there is not an individual who can be called ill. I have 
reconnoitred the country nearly to the boundary line and have 
fixed upon this as the most eligible situation for a fort. The 
timber is now preparing and it will be finished with all pos- 
sible dispatch. We have as yet seen no Indians. Those ex- 
cepted who were at Vincennes previously to the commence- 
ment of our march. I expect a deputation from the Prophets 
Town in five or six days. If I do not I shall send one to him 
and make a movement with the Troops in that direction. 
Those scoundrels have been again plundering our citizens. 
They took eight horses from a detached settlement in the Illi- 
nois Territory about thirty miles above Vincennes nine or ten 
days ago in open day light. I sincerely wish that my instruc- 
tions were such as to authorise me to march immediately to 
the Prophets Town. The Troops which I command are a fine 
body of men and the proportion of Regulars, Irregulars, In- 
fantry and Dragoons such as I could wish it. I have no 
reason to doubt the issue of a contest with the savages and I 
am much deceived if the greater part of both oflicers and men 
are not desirous of coming in contact with them. I bear con- 
stantly in mind your injunctions on the subject of the return 
of the 4th Regiment to Pittsburg this winter. I fear how- 
ever that the thing is Impracticable. Both men and oflicers 
(the colonel excepted) are extremely desirous to winter in this 
Territory, and if they have not time to reach Pittsburgh be- 
fore the Freezing of the Ohio it certainly would be advisable, 
rather than to occupy any intermediate point upon the Ohio 
when they could do no manner of service. This Regiment is 
in great want of clothing. It arrived at Newport shortly after 
the departure of the Regiment from there. Col. Boyd con- 
sulted me upon the subject of the orders to be given respecting 
it and I recommended that it should be sent to the mouth of 



 

the Wabash because the wants of the men were represented 
to be so great as to make it a considerable object to get the 
clothing as soon as possible even if their ascent of the Ohio 
were certain. I shall dispatch the 4th Regiment as soon as I 
can make any satisfactory arrangements with the Indians. 
But if any change of circumstances should render it less nec- 
essary at the point to which it was originally destined I am 
persuaded that its being placed in winter quarters here would 
be greatly beneficial to the public service. I beg you however 
to believe, Sir, that I shall endeavour to the utmost of my 
power to execute your instructions without suffering my own 
views and opinions to have any influence in producing a neces- 
sity for deviating from those which you may do me the Honor 
to communicate. 

With perfect respect I have the Honor to be 
Your Humbl. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Esqr. Secretary of War 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 



597 



Pi -3 



c ^ 

I .3 



i so 



1 


1 
.t 

£ 

1 
1 
i 

§ 

1 

3 


sa,BAU<i 


: ■is"-^ 


k 


11 


uajv asaoH ^acj | ::.::;- 


- 


sjai-uBj 


;:::":; 


■- 


sjaippEg 


;;;;-;: 


- 


•s..snM 


; -- :- : 


2 


sjaiadtun.ix 


; : ! i" M 


- 


sicaod..oo 


: :^g--' : 


K 


sjuBaSjag 


: :?;SJi"° : 


s 


■iSg uiaa,.,:„5 


: :„..- ; : 


- 


sjofnj^ |gg 


: : ; 


" 


BSmiV SUOOSJ g 




- 


SUMSrng 


;;-;:;: 


- 


sasiSKiujaiJcnfj 


; >>- ': \ 


" 


s,at:,nCpv 


: :— ; ; 


' 


JOISBIIIACJ 


\\-~ :\\ 


- 


suaaiitjqng 


: i^s'"-' ; 


u 


■stdtjQ 




. 


s..ofej^ 


: ;_.,„ : ; 


- 


■spo ir.on 


: — : ; 


„ 


spuopo 


\ ~ WW 


- 


aaiSTJK aStjjoj 


''■" \'W'\\ 


- 


jofujv ■ran":"Ha 


\" \ w\\ 


- 


A-uuy JO -iSg 


:- ; M M 


- 


draco ap saP'V 


->:;:;: 


c, 


janjO ui japumumoQ 


~ '■ ['W:\\ 


- 








Field and Staff 

Lieut. Col. Bartholomew's' Militia! '.'.'.'.W.W.W ' 

Major Daviess' Squadron of horse 

Capt. Spencer's Mounted Riflemen 

Capt. Dubois' Spies and Guides 


1 





598 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



■juasqv puB jaasajj 
S81BAIJJ ip sjsnjv 



>«s| 



sjofBjv jSaag 



^H 



■jdBQ I 






.M^.| 



siBjodaoo I 



I :||Eis 

illllii 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Camp Battle des Illinois, 
13th Octr. 1811 

Har. Pa. 495-501 

Sir: 

Your letter of the 18th ultimo I had the Honor to receive 
yesterday. My views have hitherto been limited to the erec- 
tion of the Fort which we are now building and to a march by 
way of feint in the direction of the Prophet's Town as high 
perhaps as the Vermillion River. But the powers given me 
in your last letter and circumstances which have occuri-ed here 
at the very moment on which it was received call for measures 
of a more energetic kind. I had always supposed that the 
Prophet was a rash and presumptuous man but he has ex- 
ceeded by expectations. He has not contented himself with 
throwing the gauntlet but has absolutely commenced the war. 
His parties were in our neighbourhood for the first time on the 
night of the 10th inst. our Centinals were fired on and one of 
the best men of the 4th U. State Regiment badly tho not 
mortally wounded. The army was immediately turned out 
and formed in excellent order in a very few minutes. Patrols 
were dispatched in every direction but the darkness was such 
that pursuit of the enemy was impracticable. Other alarms 
took place in the course of the night probably without good 
cause but the Troops manifested an alertness in taking their 
positions which was highly gratifying to me. Previously to 
my leaving Vincennes I had sent to the Delaware Towns to 
request some of their Chiefs to meet me upon the march that 
I might employ them in Missions to the several Tribes which 
have a part of their warriors with the Prophet. All the 
Chiefs of this faithful tribe that were able to march set out 
from their Towns on the 6th Inst. They had proceeded but 
a few miles when they were met by a deputation from the 
Prophet's Town requiring from the Tribes a catagorical an- 
swer to the question "Whether they would or would not join 
them in the war against the United States — that they had 
taken up the Tomhawk and that they would lay it down only 
with their lives. They had however positive assurances of 
victory and when they had beaten the Americans, those Tribes 
who refused to join them would have cause to repent it". The 
Delaware Chiefs immediately dispatched the Interpreter Mr. 



 

[John] Connor and feur of their men to inform me of this 
circumstance and "that they had determined to go immedi- 
ately to the Prophet's Town to endeavour to divert him from 
his purpose, that they would be with me in a few days and 
communicate the result of their mission, and that if they were 
unsuccessful in their endeavours to prevent the Prophet from 
striking us they would abandon him to his fate". From this 
statement of Facts, Sir, you will no doubt be of opinion with 
me that the return of the Troops under my command without 
effecting the dispersion or humiliation of the Prophet's Party 
v.-ould be attended with the most fatal consequences. If he is 
thus presumptuous upon our advance our return without chas- 
tising him or greatly alarming his fears and those of his fol- 
lowers would give him an eclat that would increase his fol- 
lowers and we would have to wage through the Winter a de- 
fensive war which would greatly distress our Frontiers. With 
this conviction thoroughly impressed upon my mind it is with 
the greatest moi-tification I have to observe that my advance 
to the Prophets Town depends upon circumstances which are 
entirely without my control. The supply of provisions on 
hand is by no means sufficient and the means of land trans- 
portation for it altogether inadequate. We have hitherto de- 
pended upon water transportation but it is impossible to rely 
upon it in our advance from this. From the winding course 
of the rivers and the nature of the ground near it the as- 
cending Boats cannot be protected by the army. Defending 
them, by detachments is equally impracticable because I could 
not make them sufficiently large without weakening my main 
body so as to expose it to certain defeat. As soon as I re- 
ceived your letter therefore I directed the Contractor to send 
down to Vincennes for five or six waggons and upon the ar- 
rival of these must depend in a great measure the practicabil- 
ity of our advance. The Fort is in such forwardness as to 
enable me to leave it in three days but it is necessary that we 
should wait for the waggons. The necessity of this delay sug- 
gested the idea of obtaining a reinforcement. I have cer- 
tainly the highest opinion of the bravery of the Troops under 
my command and the composition of this little army is en- 
tirely to my mind, but with regard to actual service they are 
altogether raw and inexperienced. The Militia are the best 
I ever saw and Col. Boyd's Regiment is a fine body of men. 
But like all men who are about to engage a strange and un- 



 

tried Enemy many of the privates have imbibed such ideas of 
Indian address and Ferocity that it was found a matter of 
some difficulty to keep the centinels to their posts the night 
after the alarm. Two of the Delawares who are now in camp 
speak good English and before I was aware of it an opinion 
had been pretty generally imbibed from them amongst the 
men and by most of the officers that our force was too small 
to attack the Prophet with success. From the return which 
is herewith enclosed [Oct. 12, above] you will observe that 
our effectives are but little above nine hundred. From these 
must be deducted a small garrison for this fort and perhaps 
twelve or fifteen more sick than the report recognizes. From 
all the information which I have received I cannot estimate 
the Prophet's force at less than 600 men. Whatever pre- 
cautions I may use it will be in his power to attack us when 
and where he pleases and precipitate the whole of his force 
upon our weakest point. With raw Troops I found upon my 
march hither that it was impossible to preserve that order and 
precision in our movements which is so desirable and nec- 
essary. The menouver which I have adopted for forming an 
order of Battle from the order of march altho extremely simple 
the men are not sufficiently expert in performing altho every 
opportunity has been embraced of practising it. A panic or 
confusion from an attack at that particular moment might be 
fatal. From Mr. Connor I learn that all the Delawares were 
impressed with a belief that the Prophet would attack us and 
that he and his followers were confident of success. I know 
not from whence this confidence can be derived, it is certain 
that it was not felt four weeks ago. I cannot learn that he 
has received any accession of strength and the ridiculous and 
superstitious pranks which he is practising inspire his fol- 
lowers with a belief in his supernatural powers can impose 
upon them only. Whatever may be the cause of this confi- 
dence the probability of its existence is sufficient to inspire 
caution. I do believe most sincerely that the Troops I have 
now with me are equal to the task of beating all the force the 
prophet can muster altho admitting him to have 600. The 
relative proportion is less favourable to us than it has ever 
been in any general action with the Indians, but I am not so 
ambitious of military fame as to subject the troops under my 
command to any unnecessary hazard to obtain it. A few com- 
panies more would make success entirely unequivocal. I have 



 

the Honor to inclose to you the result of a Council which I 
have held with my superior officers on the occasion. With 
their opinion I entirely coincide. I have sent for four Com- 
panies. Three only were contemplated by me but to secure 
them it was necessary to send for four. I shall not wait for 
them but move with cautious steps for twenty-five or thirty 
miles higher up so that we shall not have but forty or forty 
five miles to march when the reinforcement comes up. I have 
directed them to come on mounted. In the meantime my own 
and the exertions of my officers shall be used to inspire the 
men with confidence in themselves and contempt for the 
enemy. 

I would have believed that the message which was sent by 
the Prophet was an empty boast if his parties had not been 
sent to fire on our centinels. But however unsuccessful our 
advance may have been in making a favourable impression 
upon the prophet it is certain that it has made such a one on 
the Weas and Miamis. The Chiefs of the former who have 
just returned from Maiden are now collecting their women 
and Children (who had fled on our approach) at their village 
about two miles from us. The Miami Chiefs are also on their 
way to visit me, and the Weas say that the Wyandots have 
opened the Eyes of them all and that they will never again 
listen to the Prophet. 

I am extremely glad that the return of Colonel Boyd's Regi- 
ment to Pittsburg may be dispensed with. It will certainly 
be of considerable sei-vice here and the season will be so far 
advanced before they can commence their voyage as to leave 
scarcely a probability of their being able to get them, and it 
would be exceeding harrassing to the men. This Regiment 
is not more sickly than when I wrote to you last week altho 
the weather has been uncommonly warm and consequently 
unfavourable. Two men have indeed died in camp within this 
week and one within a few hours after my last letter was 
written but he was so well in the morning as to be able to walk 
out and killed himself by eating heartily of fried liver. 

I have the Honor to enclose to you herewith a letter from 
Dr. [Josiah] Foster. He says that his private aflfairs so im- 
periously require his presence that unless he can get a Fur- 
lough he must resign. I think him so valuable an officer that 
he ought if possible to be kept in service. His presence can 
be dispensed with for you may rest assured that the autumnal 



 

frosts will restore his regiment to perfect Health, and re- 
spectable medical men can be procured here if the Regiment 
should remain with us. Lt. Colonel [James] Miller has been 
very much indisposed but is better. He will not however I 
fear be able to march with us a circumstance infinitely to be 
regretted, for the experience which he has had. I have known 
no better officer and he is so much beloved by the officers and 
men of the 4th Regiment that I am persuaded that they would 
follow him to the Devil. Col. Boyd commands all the infantry 
as a Brigadier. There is not an officer of the regular troops 
(Col. Miller excepted) who cannot eat his rations as heartily 
as he ever could. The two that were left at Vincennes (one 
with an accidental hurt) are well and are coming up. 
I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect. Sir, 
Your Humble. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. WILLIAM EUSTIS, Esqr. Secretary of War 

Proclamation: Postponing the Assembly 

October 14, 1811 
Executive Jonrnal, '33 

The Governor Issued his proclamation further postponing 
the meeting of the Legislature of the Territory until the 
Eleventh day of November next. [Abstract] 

Regimental Orders 
Camp, Battle des Illinois, Oct. 16th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 175 

Regimental Order 

The officers commanding the different companies will be 
very particular in the execution of the General order of this 
day relative to the inspection of the anns, etc., as quick as 
possible it is to be understood that the examination of the 
arms and ammunition is to be thus particularly attended to 
every day, by the officer commanding the different companies 
and to make their report to the Commanding officer of the 
Regiment daily. 

Signed, G. R. C. Floyd, Major ith Infantrij 



 

Brigade Orders 
Camp Battle des Illinois, October, 25th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Colled ion, 176 

Brigade Order 

Pursuant to the General order of yesterday the Brigade 
will commence their march on 27th inst. The moment not 
being distant when they will be called to actual duty enforced 
it on the commander of Corps to see their arms and ammuni- 
tion in perfect order and for that purpose a daily inspection 
. will be made and all deficiencies immediately replaced. 

In the event of meeting the enemy the Brigade will be or- 
dered to make a vigorous and successful charge, the enemy 
will retreat in confusion, the horse will pursue and complete 
the victory. 

Officers and soldiers will remember what their country ex- 
pects from them and what a determined body are capable of 
performing against an inferior number of Indians. Soldiers 
must be obedient to their officers prompt and resolute in exe- 
cution of their duty. Lieutenant Colonel [James] Miller's ill 
health deprives him the honor of leading the Regulars; that 
duty devolves on Major [Geo. R. C] Floyd, and by the di- 
rection of the Commander in Chief Capt. [William C] Baen 
will perform the duty of Major. He will be mounted and 
lead the left wing of the regulars. 

Signed, JNO. P. BoYD Col. Wi Regt. Infy. A. C. G. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Camp Battelle Des Illinois 29th Octr. 1811 

Har. Pa. 502, 503 

Sir: 

The want of provisions and waiting to know the result of 
the Delaware mission to the Prophet has detained me here 
until this time. The Fort has also taken much more work 
than I had expected and the great deficiency of axes and the 
bad quality of those which we had had protracted the finish- 
ing it to double the time that it would have taken otherwise. 
It is now however completed and is a very handsome and 
strong work. The Baggage is now loading and the General 
will be beaten as soon as a Boat load of Flour which can at 



 

this moment be but a few miles from us make the appearance. 
The Delaware Chiefs arrived in Camp yesterday and gave an 
account of their efforts to induce the Prophet to lay aside 
his hostile designs in presence of all the officers. They were 
badly received, ill treated and insulted and finally dismissed 
with the most contemptuous remarks upon them and us. The 
party which fired upon our Centinels arrived at the Tovni 
when the Delawares were there, they were Shawanees and 
the Prophet's nearest Friends. Nothing now remains but to 
chastise him and he shall certainly get it. One of the com- 
panies which I have ordered on will join me today and an- 
other tomorrow. I cannot account for the conduct of the 
Prophet upon any rational principle. Many of the Pota- 
watimies have left him ; from the best accounts I can get he 
has not more than 450 men. But these are desperadoes 
wound up to the highest pitch of enthusiasm by his infernal 
arts. The Delawares left him practising his magic rites and 
performing their war dances day and night. 

I am still in hopes that the Kickapoos will abandon him 
on our approach. The Sick amongst the Militia have greatly 
increased since the last report but the regular Troops which 
are on the sick report are generally better. I am happy to 
inform you that the whole of the Troops are in fine spii'its 
and eager to come in contact with the Enemy. I have used 
every exertion in my power to perfect them in the manouvers 
which they are to perform. I have exercised them myself 
almost daily, and their progress has been such that I do not 
hesitate to pronounce them so perfect as Genl. Wayne's army 
was on the day of his victory over the Indians. I promise 
you Sir that all the objects intended by the Expedition shall 
be effected. 

[William] Well's account of the manner in which the mur- 
ders in the Illinois Territory were perpetrated is absolutely 
false. The truth is that they were directed by the Prophet 
for the purpose of forcing the Indians of the Illinois River to 
unite with him. He has determined to commit to the flames 
the first of our men whom he can take in person. 

I have the Honor to enclose herewith a return of the troops 
under my command. 

I am with sincere respect Sir your humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 



 

P. S. The Miami Chiefs have just arrived. They are en- 
tirely humbled. 
The Honble Willm Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
Camp near the Vermilion River Nov. 2nd 1811 

„ Har. Pa. 50U-506 

I arrived at this place with the Troops under my command 
last evening. I crossed the Wabash about ten miles below 
this and have been this day employed in the erection of a 
small blockhouse upon the bank of the Wabash for the pro- 
tection of the provisions and boats which I shall be obliged 
to leave here as the best and more direct road to the Prophets 
Town passes so much to the north ward of the River that 
the Boats can be no longer protected in ascending. Indeed 
I was not able to cover them as completely as I could have 
wished in the ascent to this place. And I was in constant 
apprehension of their being attacked when we were not in 
a situation to defend them. I was congratulating myself on 
their arrival when a letter from Col. [James] Miller (whose 
indisposition was such as to oblige me to leave him at the 
new Fort) announced the unfortunate intelligence of an at- 
tack upon a boat loaded with com which was ascending the 
river from the fort to this place. It was fired on four miles 
above the fort and one man killed. The crew immediately 
returned to the fort. This circumstance has caused me much 
apprehension for the settlements below. I have therefore 
sent off a small detacliment of mounted riflemen to patrol 
round the settlements and have directed the senior militia 
officer at Vincennes to put every man upon the alert and to 
call out one or two companies should he think it necessary. 
The country round me has been examined for a considerable 
distance. Some signs of Indian parties passing southwardly 
have been discovered but in the attempt to trace them up the 
best woodsmen I have were baffled. 

I am now from the best information I can get about 40 or 
50 miles from the Prophet Town. The Country is generally 
open and there are as I understand a few places only where 
we can be advantageously attacked by the enemy. This in- 
formation shall not however lull my vigilance. We march 



 

tomorrow moniing & shall reach one of the most difficult 
passes (called Pine creek) on the 4th Inst, the anniversary 
of General St. Clair's defeat. Should we be attacked on that 
day I hope to alter the Color with which it has been marked 
in our callender for the last twenty years. I have been joined 
by two out of the four Companies of Mounted Riflemen which 
I ordered on. There is no probability of the others coming 
up. The spy which I sent to the Prophets TowTi has not re- 
turned & I very much fear that he has fallen a victim to his 
confidence in the friendship of the Indians for him. 

Captain [Paul] Wentworth' has sent in his resignation 
through Col. Boyd. I was consulted on the occasion & gave 
my sanction to the measure because Eleven out of twelve of 
his brother officers expressed an opinion of his being entirely 
unfit for the service. I thought it best however to order him 
to take the immediate command of the new Garrison [Fort 
Harrison] as the extreme low state of Col. Miller's health 
made it necessary that there should be another officer. I 
remained at the Garrison a few hours after the march of the 
army and the Captain took that opportunity to request my 
permission to leave the Fort and return to Vincennes. I 
pointed out the necessity of his staying and referred him to 
Col. Miller who was so weak as to be unable to walk without 
the assistance of a stick. The Colonel's answer was that he 
hoped I would permit him to go as he had rather spare the 
Captain than the meanest soldier in the Garrison. I mention 
this in the hope that the Captain's pay and Emoluments may 
cease on the 29 Ultimo the day he left the Fort. 

It was my intention to have named the Fort after one of 
the Heads of the Departments who performs his duties not 
more advantageously to the public interests than satisfactorily 
to those who have the Honor to receive their Orders from him, 
but recollecting that it was a temporary work and would be 
only wanted for a few years it occurred to me that I should 
do injury where I meant to do honor. At the request of my 
officers therefore I gave them permission to name the Work 
and they were pleased to call it Fort Harrison 

I have the Honor to be With great respect Tr your Hble 
Sevt WiLLM Henry Harrison 

The Honble William Eustis Secretary of War 



1. Paul Wentworth wa 


s from New Hampshire. He was made a captain in the 


4th Inf. May 3, 1808 and r< 


■signed Oct. 29, 1811. No reason is given but the inference 


is that he feared the Indiar 





 

Brigade Orders 

Encampment at Prairie Grove, Nov. 3rd, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 176 

Brigade Orders 

With the approbation of His Excellency the Commander in 

Chief, George Croughan^ Esq. is appointed volunteer-aid-de- 

Camp to the acting Brigader General. All orders therefore 

delivered through him will be obeyed and respected according. 

Signed, JNO. P. Boyd Col. ith Regt. Infy. C. D. 

The Battle of Tippecanoe^ [Nov 7, 1811] 

Dawson, Harrison, 20h-208 
McAfee, The Late War, 22 seq 

On the evening of the 5th November, the army encamped 
at the distance of nine or ten miles from the prophet's to\vn. 
It was ascertained that the approach of the army had been 
discovered before it reached Pine creek. The traces of re- 
connoitring parties were very often seen, but no Indians were 
discovered until the troops arrived within five or six miles of 
the town on the 6th of November. The interpreters were then 
placed with the advanced guard, to endeavor to open a com- 
munication with them. The Indians would, however, return 
no answer to the invitations that were made to them for that 
purpose, but continued to insult our people by their gestures. 
Within about three miles of the town, the ground became 
broken by ravines and covered with timber. The utmost pre- 
caution became necessary, and every difficult pass was exam- 
ined by the mounted riflemen before the army was permitted 
to enter it. The ground being unfit for the operation of the 
squadron of dragoons, they were thrown in the rear. Through 
the whole march, the precaution had been used of changing 
the disposition of the diff'erent corps, that each might have the 
ground best suited to its" operations. Within about two miles 

1. George Croghan was a member of one of the pioneer families of the west. His 
home was at Louisville. He volunteered for this expedition along with Jo. Daviess, 
John OFallon, and other young Kentuckians. He later became a hero of the army 
and won a congressional medal for the defence of Fort Stephenson. O. Died Jan.- 8. 1849. 

1. This description of the battle is taken from Robert McAfee. History of the 
Late War, and may be considered as the work of General Harrison. He not only 
furnished the substance to the author but in 1824 when Moses Dawson wrote his 
narrative this was quoted with the approval of General Harrison. The same facts are 
found in the National InleUigenccr, Mar. 4, 1817. Following this there will be a 
number of descriptions of the battle, without the usual regard for chronological 



 

of the town the path descended a steep hill, at the bottom of 
which was a small creek running through a narrow wet 
prairie, and beyond this a level plain partially covered with 
oak timber, and without under-brush. Before the crossing of 
the creek, the woods were very thick and intersected by deep 
ravines. No place could be better calculated for the savages 
to attack with a prospect of success, and the Governor appre- 
hended that the moment the troops descended into the hollow, 
they would be attacked. A disposition was therefore made 
of the infantry, to receive the enemy on the left and rear. A 
company of mounted riflemen was advanced a considerable 
distance from the left flank to check the approach of the 
enemy ; and the other two companies were directed to turn the 
enemy's flanks, should he attack from that direction. The 
dragoons were ordered to move rapidly from the rear and oc- 
cupy the plain in advance of the creek, to cover the crossing 
of the army from an attack in front. In this order the troops 
were passed over ; the dragoons were made to advance to give 
room to the infantry, and the latter having crossed the creek, 
were formed to receive the enemy in front in one line, with a 
reserve of three companies — the dragoons flanked by mounted 
riflemen forming the first line. During all this time, Indians 
were frequently seen in front and on the flanks. The inter- 
preters endeavored in vain to bring them to a parley. Though 
sufiiciently near to hear what was said to them, they would 
return no answer, but continued by gestures to menace and 
insult those who addressed them. Being now arrived within 
a mile and a half of the town and the situation being favorable 
for an encampment, the Governor determined to remain there 
and fortify his camp, until he could hear from the friendly 
chiefs, whom he had dispatched from fort Harrison, on the 
day he had left it, for the purpose of making another attempt 
to prevent the recurrence to hostilities. These chiefs were to 
have met him on the way, but no intelligence was yet received 
from them. Whilst he was engaged in tracing out the lines 
of the encampment, major Daveiss and several other field of- 
ficers approached him, and urged the propriety of immediately 
marching upon the town. The Governor answered that his in- 
structions would not justify his attacking the Indians, as long 
as there was a probability of their complying with the de- 
mands of the government, and that he still hoped to hear 



 

something in the course of the evening from the friendly In- 
dians, whom he had dispatched from fort Harrison. 

To this it was observed, that as the Indians seen hovering 
about the army, had been frequently invited to a parley by the 
interpreters, who had proceeded some distance from the lines 
for the purpose ; and as these overtures had universally been 
answered by menace and insult, it was very evident that it 
was their intention to fight; that the troops were in high 
spirits and full of confidence; and that advantage ought to be 
taken of their ardour to lead them immediately to the enemy. 
To this the Governor ansv/ered, that he was fully sensible of 
the eagerness of the troops; and admitting the determined 
hostility of the Indians, and that their insolence was full evi- 
dence of their intention to fight, yet he knew them too well to 
believe, that they would ever do this, but by surprise, or on 
ground which was entirely favorable to their mode of fighting. 
He was therefore determined not to advance with the troops, 
until he knew precisely the situation of the town, and the 
ground adjacent to it, particularly that which intervened be- 
tween it and the place where the army then was — that it was 
their duty to fight when they came in contact with the enemy 
— it was his to take care that they should not engage in a situa- 
tion where their valor would be useless, and where a corps 
upon which he placed great reliance would be unable to act — 
that the experience of the last two hours ought to convince 
every officer, that no reliance ought to be placed upon the 
guides, as to the topography of the coujitry — that relying on 
their information, the troops had been led into a situation so 
unfavorable, that but for the celerity with which they changed 
their position, a few Indians might have destroyed them: he 
was therefore determined not to advance to the town, until he 
had previously reconnoitred, either in person, or by some one, 
on whose judgment he could rely. Major Daveiss immedi- 
ately replied, that from the right of the position of the 
dragoons, which was still in front the openings made by the 
low grounds of the Wabash could be seen; that with his adju- 
tant Davis Floyd, he had advanced to the bank, which 
descends to the low grounds, and had a fair view of the culti- 
vated fields and the houses of the town; and that the open 
woods, in which the troops then were, continued without inter- 
ruption to the town. Upon this information, the Governor 



 

said he would advance, provided he could get any proper per- 
son to go to the town with a flag. Captain T. Dubois of Vin- 
cennes having offered his services, he was dispatched with an 
interpreter to the prophet, desiring to know whether he would 
now comply with the terms, that had been so often proposed 
to him. The army was moved slowly after in order of battle. 
In a few moments a messenger came from captain Dubois in- 
forming the Governor that the Indians were near him in 
considerable numbers, but that they would return no answer 
to the interpreter, although they were sufficiently near to hear 
what was said to them and that upon his advancing, they con- 
stantly endeavored to cut him off from the army. Governor 
Harrison during this last effort to open a negotiation, which 
was suflicient to show his wish for an accommodation, re- 
solved no longer to hesitate in treating the Indians as enemies. 
He therefore recalled captain Dubois, and moved on with a de- 
termination to attack them. He had not proceeded far, how- 
ever, before he was met by three Indians, one of them a prin- 
cipal cousellor to the prophet. They were sent, they said, to 
know why the army was advancing upon them— that the 
prophet wished if possible to avoid hostilities ; that he had sent 
a pacific message by the Miami and Potawatamie chiefs, who 
had come to him on the part of the Governor — and that those 
chiefs had unfortunately gone down on the south side of the 
Wabash. A suspension of hostilities was accordingly agreed 
upon ; and a meeting was to take place the next day between 
Harrison and the chiefs, to agree upon the terms of peace. 
The Governor further informed them, that he would go on to 
the Wabash, and encamp there for the night. Upon march- 
ing a short distance further he came in view of the town, 
which was seen at some distance up the river upon a com- 
manding eminence. Major Daveiss and adjutant Floyd had 
mistaken some scattering houses in the field below, for the 
town itself. The ground below the town being unfavorable 
for an encampment, the army marched on in the direction 
of the town, with a view to obtain a better situation beyond 
it. The troops were in an order of march, calculated by a 
single conversion of companies, to form the order of battle, 
which it had last assumed, the dragoons being in front. This 
corps, however, soon became entangled in ground, covered 
with brush and tops of fallen trees. A halt was ordered, and 
major Daveiss directed to change position with [Spier] Spen- 



 

cer's rifle corps, which occupied the open fields adjacent to the 
river. The Indians seeing this manoeuvre, at the approach 
of the troops towards the town, supposed that they intended 
to attack it, and immediately prepared for defence. Some of 
them sallied out, and called to the advanced corps to halt. 
The Governor upon this rode forward, and requested some of 
the Indians to come to him, assured them, that nothing was 
farther from his thoughts than to attack them — that the 
ground below the town on the river, was not calculated for an 
encampment and that it was his intention to search for a bet- 
ter one above. He asked if there was any other water con- 
venient besides that which the river aff'orded ; and an Indian 
with whom he was well acquainted, answered, that the creek, 
which had been crossed two miles back, ran through the 
prairie to the north of the village. A halt was then ordered, 
and some officers sent back to examine the creek, as well as the 
river above the town. In half an hour, brigade major 
Marston Clarke^ and major Waller Taylor returned, and re- 
ported that they had found on the creek, everything that could 
be desirable in an encampment — an elevated spot, nearly sur- 
rounded by an open prairie, with water convenient, and a suf- 
ficiency of wood for fuel. An idea was propagated by the 
enemies of Governor Harrison after the battle of Tippecanoe, 
that the Indians had forced him to encamp on a place, chosen 
by them as suitable for the attack they intended. The place, 
however, was chosen by majors Taylor and Clarke, after ex- 
amining all the environs of the town ; and when the army of 
general [Samuel] Hopkins' was there in the following year, 
they all united in the opinion, that a better spot to resist In- 
dians, was not to be found in the whole country. 

The ai-my now marched to the place selected, and encamped 
late in the evening, on a dry piece of ground, which rose about 
ten feet above the level of a marshy prairie in front, towards 
the town, and about twice as high above a similar prairie in 
the rear; through which, near the bank, ran a small stream 

2. Marston Clark was born in Va. 1774. About 1800 he settled near Louisville. 
From there he moved into Ind. and finally located at Salem. His father was pei-- 
haps a brother of Geo. R. Clark. He was well known as a militia officer and served 
in the legislature as well as U. S. Indian agent. He was grand master of the 
Indiana masons in 1825. He died at Salem in 1842. McDonald, Freemasonry in Indiana, 
336. 

3. Samuel Hopkins was a native of Albemarle Co. Va. : a soldier of the Rev. 
surrendered with Lincoln at Charleston. May 20, 1780. Came to Ky. 1797. Located at 
Red Banks, now Henderson. Seri'ed in congress 1813-15 and died Oct. 1819. Collins, 
Kentucky, 360. Lossing, War of 1S12, 336-8. 



 

clothed with willows and brush wood. On the left of the en- 
campment, this bench of land became wider; on the right it 
gradually narrowed, and terminated in an abrupt point, about 
one hundred and fifty yards from the right flank. The two 
columns of infantry occupied the front and rear. The right 
flank being about eighty yards wide, was filled with captain 
Spencer's company of eighty men. The left flank, about one 
hundred and fifty yards in extent, was composed of three com- 
panies of mounted riflemen, under major general [Samuel] 
Wells,' commanding as a major. The front line was com- 
posed of one battalion of United States' infantry, under the 
command of major Floyd, flanked on the right by two com- 
panies of militia infantry, under captain [W. C] Baen, com- 
manding as a major; and four companies of militia infantry, 
under lieutenant colonel [Luke] Decker;'^ the regulars being 
stationed next the riflemen under Wells, and the militia on 
the other end of the line adjoining Spencer's company. The 
cavalry under Daveiss were encamped in the rear of the front 
line and the left flank. The encampment was not more than 
three fourths of a mile from the town. 

The order given to the army, in the event of a night attack, 
was for each corps to maintain its ground at all hazards till 
relieved. The dragoons were directed in such a case, to 
parade dismounted, with their swords on and their pistols in 
their belts, and to wait for orders. The guard for the night 
consisted of two captain's commands of twenty four men and 
four non-commissioned officers ; and two subalterns' guards of 
twenty men and non-commissioned officers — the whole under 
the command of a field officer of the day. 

Taylor to National Intelligencer 

February 22, 1817 

Niles Register, XII, 90 

The above account taken from McAffee's History of the 
War in the Western Country, as it relates to the situation of 

4. Samuel Wells was a well known Kentucky Indian fighter. He advanced with 
Harrison to the relief of Fort Wayne in 1812, led the detachment which destroyed 
the village of Five Medals on Elkhart river, and marched with Winchester to the 
Raisin, but had returned for reinforcements. 

5. Luke Decker came from Va. to Knox Co. Ind. before 1783. He was a slave 
holder and brought his slaves with him. Decker was in office or connected with the 
public service throughout his life. In politics he supported Harrison. History of 
Knox County (1886). 



 

the camp occupied by the army under the command of gov- 
ernor Harrison, on the night between the 6th and 7th of No- 
vember, 1811, is entirely correct. The spot for the encamp- 
ment was selected by col. [Marston] Clarke, (who acted as 
brigade major to general Boyd,) and myself. We were di- 
i-ected by governor Harrison to examine the country up and 
down the creek until we should find a suitable place for an 
encampment. In a short time we discovered the place on 
which the army encamped, and to which it was conducted by 
us. No intimation was given by the Indians of the v^ash that 
we should encamp there, nor could they possibly have known 
where the army would encamp until it took its position. The 
only error in the above extract is, in saying that major Clarke 
and myself were sent back, by which it would appear that the 
army retrogaded to take up its encampment; this is not the 
fact, the army filed off in front of the town at right angles 
to the Wabash to reach its encampment. It has ever been my 
belief that the position we occupied was the best that could 
be found anywhere near us, and I believe that nine-tenths of 
the officers were of that opinion. We did not go on the Wa- 
bash above the town, but I am certain that there was no posi- 
tion below it that was eligible for an encampment. 

Waller Taylor 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Near the Prophets Town Nov. 8th 1811 

Har. Pa. SOS 

Sir 

I have the honor to inform you that the dawn of yesterday 
terminated an action between the Troops under my command 
and the whole of the Prophet's forces. Their precipitate re- 
treat leaving a number of the warriors dead on the field and 
the subsequent abandonment of their Town (which was par- 
tially fortified) attest for us a complete and decisive victory. 
It has however been dearly purchased — a number of brave 
and valuable men have fallen victims to their zeal for their 
country's service. The behavior of both regulars & Militia 
Troops was such as would have done honor to Veterans. I 
arrived at my present position (a mile from the Town) on 
the evening of the sixth Instant. A correspondence was im- 



 

mediately opened with the Prophet and there was every ap- 
pearance of a successful termination of the expedition with- 
out bloodshed. Indeed there was an agreement for the sus- 
pension of hostilities until a further communication should 
take place on the next day. Contrary however to this en- 
gagement he attacked me at half past four oclock in the 
morning so suddenly that Indians were in the Camp before 
many of the men could get out of their tents. A little con- 
fusion for a short time prevailed, but aided by the great ac- 
tivities of the officers I was soon enabled to form the men in 
order. The companies which were hard pressed were sup- 
ported, several successful charges made, and about daylight 
the enemy were finally put to flight after having penetrated 
to, and killed men in the very center of our Camp. Our killed 
and wounded amounted to 179, of these 42 are now dead and 
seven or eight more will certainly die. I believe that the 
Prophet's force is so entirely routed that he will not be able 
to collect a sufficient number to harrass us on our return. 
But should this be the case it may be in his power encumbered 
as we are with the wounded to do us considerable injuiy. We 
are moreover destitute of every article of provisions except- 
ing the corn (which we have taken) and about four days 
issues of flour at the short allowance of % of a pound per 
man. Indeed the army have drawn no more than this for 
three weeks and all our beef cattle broke from us the night 
of the action and were dispersed and driven ofl[ by the In- 
dians. You may rest assured Sir, that I shall make every 
exertion in my power to conduct the Ti-oops in safety to the 
settlements. I have not been able to ascertain the number of 
Indians in the action, it must however have been consider- 
able. The principal chief of those Potawatamies who have 
joined the Prophet is wounded and in our possession. I have 
taken care of him and shall send him back to his tribe. At a 
more leisure moment I shall do myself the honor to transmit 
a more particular account of the action and of our previous 
movements and am with the highest respect Sir 
your Hble. Sevt. 

William Henry Harrison 

The Honorable William Eustis Secretary of War 



 

Elliott to Brock 

Amherstburg 12th January, 1812 

(Nov. 8, 1811) 

Wood, Canadian War of 1812, I, 280 

Sir 

I have the honor to infomi you, that just as I had finished 
writing you yesterday, a Kickapoo Chief who was in the 
action on the Wabache arrived here, and reports that with- 
out having sent any previous message. Governor Harrison 
advanced from his Fort against the Indians with intention 
of surrounding the Village on all sides, that none might 
escape if they proved refractory. He completely surrounded 
it on the Land side, and attempted it by the River, but the 
Indians boldly ordered him to desist, or it would not go well 
with him — He then asked where he could Camp, and was told, 
"wherever he pleased except round their Village . . ." All 
this time the Officers and Cavalry had their swords ready 
drawn and the Infantry were drawn up ready to fire upon 
them. 

He however retreated about a Quarter of a mile over a 
little rising ground and Camped by a small Rivulet; but be- 
fore he retreated the Indians took a Negi'o and threatened 
to put him to death if he did not inform them of the Gov- 
ernors intention. The Negro told them that he intended to 
deceive them, and they let him go. And the Governor after 
he had encamped, sent the same Negro back to them to de- 
sire them to sleep. sound and be at ease, and not approach 
his Sentinals lest they should be shot, and that he would not 
allow any of his people to go near them. 

The Indians however had their Piquets to prevent surprise 
and often, during the night ordered the American Spies to 
retire from their Posts, without doing them an injury — Two 
young Winibiegoes, no doubt out of curiosity (for it appears 
the Indians had no intention to attack but to defend them- 
selves if attacked) went near some of the American Sentinals 
and were shot at, and fell as wounded men, but on the Sen- 
tinals coming up to dispatch them they arose and Toma- 
hawked them. 

This insult roused the indignation of the Indians and they 
determined to be revenged and according commenced the at- 
tack at Cock Crowing — They had the American between two 



 

fires, driven by the Winibiegoies, they were received by the 
Kickapoos, alternately, until about 9 o'clock vi^hen the In- 
dians gave way for want of Arrows and Ammunition. It 
appears, that not above one hundred Indians fired a shot, the 
greater number being engaged in plundering and conveying 
off horses. 

The women and children saved themselves by crossing the 
river during the engagement. 

The Americans burned the Prophet's Village and all the 
Corn of the Shawanoes, but the Kickapoos saved theirs by 
having had it previously buried. Twenty-five Indians only 
are killed ; the Kikapoo does not know the number of Ameri- 
cans killed, but he says their loss must have been consider- 
able, not less than one hundred. 

The Prophet and his people do not appear as a vanquished 
enemy; they re-occupy their former ground. 

From this man's report, the Chiefs of these Tribes have 
determined to come here early in the Spring to make a de- 
mand of ammunition and Arms. 

The Prophets brother, who went to the Southward in Win- 
ter 1810-11 is reported by this man to be on his return and 
has reached the farthest Kickapoo Town, and is there in Coun- 
cil with the different Nations. He passed Vincennes on his 
way home, and met the Army of Governor Harrison retreat- 
ing, but no insult was offered to him or his few friends who 
accompanied him. 

When the Messenger I sent, returns, I no doubt will 
receive further intelligence respecting the views of the In- 
dians and will lose no time in transmitting it to you — or per- 
haps be the bearer of it myself. 

The following is an account of the numbers of the Different 
Nations killed in the action viz. 

Kickapoos 9 

Winibiegoes 6 

Potewatemies 4 , __ 

Ottawas 3 

Creeks 2 

Shawanoes 1 

From the manner in which the Kickapoo relates his story 
I sincerely believe his account to be correct. 



 

I have the honor to be Your Honor's Most Obedient & Most 
Humble Servant 

(Signed) M: Elliott S. I. A. 

P. S. The Indian Forces consisted of from 250 to 300 and 
not more than 100 were ever engaged/ 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 18th Nov. 1811 
Har. Pa. 52J,-536 

Sir: 

In my letter of the 8th Instant, I did myself the Honor to 
communicate the result of an action between the Troops under 
my command and the confederation of Indians under the 
Shawanee Prophet. I had previously informed you in a letter 
of the 2nd Instant of my proceedings previously to my ar- 
rival at the Vermilion River where I had erected blockhouse 
for the protection of the Boats which I was obliged to leave 
and as a depository for our heavy baggage & such part of our 
provisions as we were unable to transport in Waggons. On 
the morning of the 3rd Instant I commenced my march from 
the Block house. The Wabash above this turning consider- 
ably to the eastward I was obliged in order to avoid the broken 
and woody country which borders upon it to change any 
course to the westward of North to gain the prairies which 
lie to the back of those woods. At the end of one day's march 
I was enabled to take the proper direction (N. E.) which 
brought me on the evening of the 5th to a small creek at about 
eleven miles from the Prophet's Towni. I had on the preced- 
ing day avoided the dangerous pass of Pine creek by inclining 
a few miles to the left where the Troops and Waggons were 
crossed with expedition and safety. Our route on the 6th for 
about 6 miles lay through prairies separated by small points 
of woods. 

My order of march hitherto had been similar to that used 
by General Wayne, that is, the Infantry were in two columns 
of files on either side of the road and the mounted Riflemen & 
Cavalry in front in the rear and on the flanks. Where the 
ground was unfavorable for the action of Cavalry they were 

1. Compare this with Shabonee's account in India-na Magazine of Historti XVII, 
353-364: Isaac Naylor's account in the same magazine. II. 164; and John Tipton's 
Journal in the same 11, 170. 



 

placed in the rear but where it was otherwise they were made 
to exchange positions with one of the mounted Rifle Corps. 
Understanding that the last four miles were open woods and 
the probability being greater that we should be attacked in 
front than on either flank I halted at that distance from the 
Town & formed the army in order of battle. The United 
States Infantry placed in the center, two companies of Militia 
Infantry and one of Mounted Riflemen on each flank formed 
the front line. In the rear of this line was placed the baggage 
drawn up as compactly as possible and immediately behind 
it a reserve of three companies of Militia Infantry. The Cav- 
alry formed a second line at the distance of three hundred 
yards in the rear of the front line and a Company of mounted 
Riflemen the advanced guard at that distance in front. To 
facilitate the march the whole were then broken off in short 
columns of Companies, a situation the most favorable for 
forming in order of battle with facility & precision. Our 
march was slow and cautious & much delayed by the exam- 
inations of every place which seemed calculated for an ambus- 
cade. Indeed the ground was for some time so unfavorable 
that I was obliged to change the position of the several Corps 
three times in the distance of a mile. At half past two o'clock 
we passed a small creek at the distance of one mile and a half 
from the Town and entered an open wood when the army was 
halted and again drawn up in order of battle. During the 
whole of the last days march parties of Indians were con- 
stantly about us and every effort was made by the Inter- 
preters to speak to them but in vain. New attempts of the kind 
were now made but proving equally ineffectual a Capt. 
[Touissant] Dubois of the Spies & Guides off'ering to go with 
a flag to the Town, I dispatched him with an Interpreter to 
request a conference with the Prophet. In a few moments a 
messenger was sent by Capt. Dubois to inform me that in his 
attempt to advance the Indians appeared on both his flanks 
and altho he had spoken to them in the most friendly manner 
they refused to answer but beckoned to him to go forward and 
constantly endeavored to cut him off" from the army. Upon 
this information I recalled the Capt. and determined to en- 
camp for the night & take some other measures for opening a 
conference with the Prophet. Whilst I was engaged in trac- 
ing the lines for the encampment Major [Joseph] Daviess 
who commanded the Dragoons came to inform me that he 



 

had penetrated to the Indian fields, that the gi-ound was en- 
tirely open and favorable, that the Indians in front had mani- 
fested nothing but hostility and had answered every attempt 
to bring them to a parley with contempt and insolence. I was 
immediately advised by all the officers around me to move for- 
ward. A similar wish indeed pervaded all the army, it was 
drawn up in excellent order and every man appeared eager to 
decide the contest immediately. Being informed that a good 
encampment might be had upon the Wabash I yielded to what 
appeared the general wish & directed the troops to advance, 
taking care however to place the interpreters in front with di- 
rections to invite a conference with any Indians they might 
meet with. We had not advanced above four hundred yards 
when I was informed that three Indians had approached the 
advanced Guard & had expressed a wish to speak to me. I 
found upon their arrival that one of them was a man in great 
estimation with the Prophet. He informed me that the Chiefs 
were much surprised at my advancing upon them so rapidly, 
that they were given to understand by the Delawares and 
Miamis whom I had sent to them a few days before that 1 
would not advance to their Town until I had received an 
answer to my demands made through them. That this an- 
swer had been dispatched by the Potawatamie Chief Winemac 
who had accompanied the Miamis & Delawares on their return 
—that they had left the Prophet's Town two days before with 
a design to meet me but had unfortunately taken the road on 
the south side of the Wabash— I answered that I had no in- 
tention of attacking them until I discovered that they would 
not comply with the demands which I had made — that I would 
go on and encamp at the Wabash and in the morning would 
have an interview with the Prophet & his chiefs and explain 
to them the determination of the President — that in the mean 
time no hostilities should be committed. He seemed much 
pleased with this and promised that it should be observed on 
their parts. I then resumed my march. We struck the culti- 
vated grounds about five hundred yards below the Towai but 
as these extended to the bank of the Wabash there was no 
possibility of getting an encampment which was provided with 
both wood and water. My Guides and Interpreters being still 
with the advanced Guard and taking the direction of the Town 
the army followed and had advanced within about 150 yards 
when 50 or 60 Indians salied out and with loud exclamations 



 

called to the Cavalry & to the Militia Infantry which were 
on our right flank to halt. I immediately advanced to the 
Front caused the army to halt and directed an Interpreter to 
request some of the Chiefs to come to me. In a few minutes 
the man who had been with me before made his appearance. 
I informed him that my object for the present was to procure 
a good piece of ground to encamp on where we could get wood 
and water. He informed me that there was a creek to the 
North West which he thought would suit our pui"pose. I im- 
mediately dispatched two officers to examine it and they re- 
ported that the situation was excellent. I then took leave of 
the Chief & a mutual promise was again made for suspension 
of hostilities until we could have an interview on the following 
day. I found the ground destined for the encampment not al- 
together such as I could wish it. It was indeed admirably 
calculated for the encampment of Regular Troops that were 
opposed to Regulars but it afforded great facility to the ap- 
proach of savages. It was a piece of dry Oak Land rising 
about ten feet above the level of a marshy prairie in Front 
(towards the Indian Town) and nearly twice that height above 
a similar prairie in the i-ear, through which and near to this 
bank ran a small stream clothed with willows and other brush 
wood. Towards the left flank this bench of high land widened 
considerably but became gradually narrower in the opposite 
direction and at the distance of one hundred and fifty yards 
from the right flank terminated in an abrupt point. The two 
columns of Infantry occupied the front and rear of this ground 
at the distance of about one hundred & fifty yards from each 
other on the left and something more than half that distance 
on the right flank. These flanks were filled up, the first by 
two Companies of Mounted Riflemen amounting to about one 
hundred and twenty men under the command of Major Gen- 
eral [Samuel] Wells of the Kentucky Militia who served as a 
Major, the other by [Spier] Spencer's Company of mounted 
Riflemen which amounted to eighty men. The front line was 
composed of one Battalion of United States Infantiy under the 
command of Major [Geo. R. C] Floyd, flanked on the right 
by two Companies of Militia and on the left by one Company. 
The rear line was composed of a Battalion of United States 
Troops under the command of Capt. Baen acting as Major and 
four Companies of Militia Infantry under Lieut. Col. [Luke] 
Decker. The Regular Troops of this line joined the mounted 



 

Riflemen under Gen. Wells on the left flank & Col. Decker's 
battalion formed an angle with Spencer's Company on the left. 
Two Troops of Dragoons amounting to in the aggregate 
about sixty men were encamped in the rear of the left Flank 
& Capt. [Benjamin] Parkes Troop, which was larger than the 
other two, in the rear of the front line. Our order of encamp- 
ment varied little from that above described excepting when 
some peculiarity of the ground made it necessary. For a 
night attack the order of encampment was the order of battle 
and each man slept immediately opposite to his post in the 
line. In the formation of my Troops I used a single rank or 
what is called Indian file, because in Indian Warfare where 
there is no shock to resist one rank is nearly as good ^s two 
and in that kind of Warfare the extension of line is a matter 
of first importance. Raw Troops also manoeuvre with much 
more facility in single than in double ranks. It was my con- 
stant custom to assemble all the field officers at my Tent every 
evening by signal to give them the watch word and their 
instructions for the night. Those given for the night of the 
6th were that each Corps which formed a part of the exterior 
line of the encampment should hold its own ground until re- 
lieved. The Dragoons were directed to parade dismounted in 
case of a night attack with their pistols in their belts and to 
act as a Corps de reserve. The Camp was defended by two 
Captain's Guards consisting each of four non-commissioned 
officers & 42 privates and two Subaltern guards of twenty 
non-commissioned officers and privates. The whole under the 
command of a field officer of the day. The Troops were regu- 
larly called up an hour before day and made to continue under 
arms until it was quite light. On the morning of the 7th I 
had risen a quarter after 4 oclock and the signal for calling 
out the men would have been given in two minutes when the 
attack commenced. It began on our left flank — but a single 
gun was fired by the Centinals or by the guard in that direc- 
tion which made not the least resistance but abandoned their 
office & fled into Camp, and the first notice which the Troops 
of that flank had of the danger was from the yells of the 
Savages within a short distance of the lines, but even under 
these circumstances the men were not wanting to themselves 
or to the occasion. Such of them as were awake or were 
easily awakened seized their arms and took their stations, 
others which were more tardy had to contend with the enemy 



 

in the doors of their tents. The storm first fell upon Capt. 
[Robert C] Barton's Company of the 4 U. S. Reg. and Capt. 
[Frederick] Geiger's' Company of mounted Riflemen which 
formed the left angle of the rear line. The fire upon these 
was excessively severe & they sufliered considerably before 
relief could be brought to them. Some few Indians passed 
into the encampment near the angle and one or two penetrated 
to some distance before they were killed. I believe all the 
other Companies were under arms and tolerably formed be- 
fore they were fired on. The morning was dark and cloudy, 
our fires aff'orded a partial light which if it gave us some op- 
portunity of taking our positions was still more advantageous 
to the enemy afi:"ording them the means of taking a surer aim, 
they were therefore extinguished as soon as possible. Under 
all these discouraging circumstances the Troops Nineteen- 
twentieth of whom had never been in action before behaved in 
a manner that can never be too much applauded. They took 
their places without noise and with less confusion than could 
have been expected from Veterans placed in a similar situa- 
tion. As soon as I could mount my horse I rode to the Angle 
that was attacked I found that Barton's Company had suffered 
severely and the left of Geiger's entirely broken. I immedi- 
ately ordered [Joel] Cook's- Company & the late Capt. [Paul] 
Wentworth's under Lieut. [George P.] Peters' to be brought 
up from the centre of the rear line where the ground was 
much more defensable and formed across the angle in support 
of Barton's & Geigers, My attention was there engaged by 
a heavy firing upon the left of the front line where were sta- 
tioned the small Company of U. S. Riflemen (then however 
armed with muskets) and the Companies of Bain, [Josiah] 

1. Frederick Geiger was bom near Hafferstown. Md. June 8. 1753, a German 
from the Mohawk valley. He and wife came to Ky. about 1790 and located at Louis- 
ville. He raised a company of men for the Tippecanoe campaign and caught up with 
Harrison just above Fort Harrison. Geiger brought a new British musket home with 
him from the battle. On the night of the battle Indians entered his tent and were run 
out by the captain. He died on his farm near Louisville Aug. 28, 1832. 

Pirtle, Battle of Tippecanoe, 17 

2. Joel Cook of Conn, was an ensign in the 3d infantry in 1798 but discharged 
when the army was reduced June 16. 1800. June 13, 1808 he became a captain in the 
4th Inf. and served till Sept. 2, 1813. 

Heitman, Register, 353 

3. George P. Peters joined the 4th Inf. from N. H. Dec. 3. 1807. Became a Ist 
Lieut. Oct. 29, 1811, eight days before the battle of Tippecanoe. He continued in the 
service till his death Nov. 28, 1819. 

Heitman. Register, 7Se 



 

Snelling* and [Geo. W.] Prescott^ of the 4th Reg. I found 
Major Daviess forming the Dragoons in the rear of those Com- 
panies and iniderstanding that the heaviest part of the enemies 
fire proceeded from some trees about fifteen or twenty paces 
in front of those Companies, I directed the Major to dislodge 
them with a part of the Dragoons. Unfortunately the Major's 
gallantry determined him to execute the order with a smaller 
force than was sufficient which enabled the enemy to avoid 
him in Front and attack his flanks. The Major was mortally 
wounded and his party driven back. The Indians were how- 
ever immediately and gallantly dislodged from their advan- 
tageous position by Capt. Snelling at the head of his Company. 
In the course of a few minutes after the commencement of the 
attack the fire extended along the left flank the whole of the 
Front, then right flank and part of the rear line. Upon 
Spencer's mounted Riflemen and right of [Jacob] Warwicks^ 
Company which was posted on the right of the rear line it was 
successively severe. Capt Spencer and his first and second 
Lieutenant were killed and Capt. Warwick mortally wounded. 
Those companies however still bravely maintained their posts, 
but Spencer's had suffered so severely and having originally 
too much ground to occupy I reinforced them with [David] 
Robb's Company of Riflemen which had been driven or by 
mistake ordered from their position on the left flank towards 
the center of the Camp and filled the vacancy that had been 
occupied by Robb with Prescott's Company of the 4th U. S. 
Regt. My great object was to keep the lines entire to prevent 
the enemy from breaking into the Camp until day light should 
enable me to make a general and eff'ective charge. With this 
view I had reinforced every part of the line that had suffered 
much and as soon as the approach of morning discovered itself 
I withdrew from the front line Snelling's, Posey's (under 

4. Josiah Snelling enlisted in the 4 Inf. from Mass. May 3, 1808 as a lieutenant. 
Served with distinction during the War of 1812. Later he commanded on the western 
frontier. Fort Snelling is named in his honor. Died in service Aug. 20. 1828. 

Hcitman, Register, 906 
B. George W. Prescott joined the 4th Inf. from N. H. June 18, 1808, as a 
captain. He served till Aug. 15, 1813 when he resigned. 

Heitman, Register, SOS 

6. Jacob Warrick was a pioneer of Gibson county Indiana. He was appointed 

captain of militia May 21, 1808. He with his father-in-law Thomas Montgomery came 

from Ky. and settled near Owensville in 1807. He lived on this farm until 1811 when 

he led his company to Tippecanoe where he was killed. 

Stormont, Gibson County, S3 



 

Lieutenant [Jacob] Albright)" & Scott's and from the rear 
line [Walter] Wilson's Companies and drew them up upon 
the left flank and at the same time I ordered [Joel] Cook's 
and [William C] Baen's Companies the former from the rear 
and the latter from the front line to reinforce the right flank 
foreseeing that at these points the enemy would make their 
last eflforts. Major Wells who commanded on the left flank 
not knowing my intentions precisely had taken the command 
of these Companies and charged the enemy before I had 
formed the body of Dragoons with which I meant to support 
the Infantry, a small detachment of those were however ready 
and proved amply sufficient for the purpose. The Indians 
were driven by the Infantry at the point of the Bayonet and 
the Dragoons pursued and forced them into a marsh where 
they could not be followed. Capt. Cook and Lieut. [Charles] 
Larabee>* had agreeably to my order marched their Companies 
to the right flank, had formed them under the fire of the enemy 
and being then joined by the Riflemen of that flank had 
charged the Indians, killed a number and put the rest to a 
precipitate flight. A favorable opportunity was here offered 
to pursue the enemy with Dragoons but being engaged at that 
time on the other flank I did not observe it until it was too 
late. 

I have thus, Sir, given you the particulars of an action 
which was certainly maintained with the greatest obstinacy 
and perseverance by both parties. The Indians manifested a 
ferocity uncommon even with them, to their savage fury our 
Troops opposed that cool and deliberate valour which is char- 
acteristic of the Christian Soldier. 

The more pleasing part of my duty (that of naming to you 
the Corps and Individuals who particularly distinguished 
themselves) is yet to be performed. There is however con- 
siderable difficulty in it. Where merit was so common it is 
almost impossible to discriminate. 

The whole of the Infantry formed a small Brigade under 
the immediate orders of Col. Boyd. The Col. throughout the 

7. Lieutenant Jacob Albright of the First Inf. was commanding a company of 
the Seventh Inf. formerly under Captain Thornton Posey. There is mentioned a 
captain John Posey in the militia under Decker but it is hardly probable a captain 
of the regulars would have been placed in command in his place. 

8. Charle Larrabee was a native of Conn. ; enlisted June 13, 1808 ; Lieut, in 4" 
Inf. June 12, 1809. Served throughout war of 1812. Lost an arm at Brownstown. 
Resigned Apr. 7. 1825. 

Heitman, Register 

40—21182 



 

action manifested equal zeal and bravery in carrying into 
execution my orders, in keeping the men to their posts & 
exhorting them to fight with valour. His Brigade Major, 
Clark, & his Aid de Camp George Croghan Esq. were also 
very heroicably employed. Col. Joseph Bartholomew' a very 
valuable officer commanded under Col. Boyd the Militia In- 
fantry. He was wounded early in the action and his services 
lost to me. Major G. R. C. Floyd the Senior officer of the 
4th U. S. Regt. commanded immediately the Battalion of that 
Regt. which was in the Front line. His conduct during the 
action was entirely to my satisfaction. Lieut. Col. [Luke] 
Decker who commanded the Battalion of Militia on the right 
of the rear line preserved his command in good order. He 
was however but partially attacked. I have before mentioned 
to you that Major General Wells of the 4th Division of Ken- 
tucky Militia acted under my command as a Major at the 
head of two Companies of Mounted Volunteers. The Gen- 
eral maintained the fame which he had already acquired in 
almost every Campaign and in almost every battle which has 
been fought mth the Indians since the settlement of Ken- 
tucky. Of the several Corps the 4th U. S. Regl. and the two 
small Companies attached to it were certainly the most con- 
spicuous for undaunted valour. The Companies commanded 
by Captain Cook, Snelling and Barton, Lieutenants Larabee 
Peters & Hawkins were placed in situations where they could 
render more service and encounter more danger and those 
officers eminently distinguished themselves. Captains Pres- 
cott, & [Return B.] Browni'" performed their duty entirely to 
my satisfaction as did Posey's Company of the 7th Regt. 
headed by Lieut. Albright. In short. Sir, they supported the 
fame of American Regulars and I have never heard that a 
single individual was found out of the line of his duty. Sev- 

9. Joseph Bartholomew was born in New Jersey March 15, 1766. At the age 
of 5 his father moved to Laurel Hill, Pa. Here he married and in 1788 moved to near 
Louisville. For some years he was a surveyor in the Northwest Ter. In 1798 he 
settled near Charlestown, Ind., where he raised a family of 10 children. He led a 
company of 120 men to join Harrison in 1811. He served as a captain of Rangers 
during the war of 1812. In 1820 he was in the legislature. In 1817 he helped organize 
the grand lodge F. & A. M. at Corydon. Helped locate the capital at Indianapolis in 
1820. In 1830 he lost his fai-m on a security debt and moved to McLean Co. III. He died 
Nov. 2. 1840. the next day after Harrison's election and is buried beside his comrade 
in arms Capt. James Bigger. 

Geo. Pence in Ind. Mag. of Hist. XIV, 287 

10. Return B. Brown was from Vt. Enlisted as a Capt. in the 4th Inf. Mar. 18, 
1809: became a major Mar. i), 1814 and was honorably discharged June 15, 1815. 

Heitman, Register 



 

eral of the Militia Companies were in no wse inferior to tlie 
Regulars. Spencer's, Geiger's and Warwick's maintained 
their posts amidst a monstrous carnage, as indeed did Robbs 
after it was posted on the left flank, its loss of men (17 killed 
and wounded) & keeping its ground is sufficient evidence of 
its firmness. Wilson's, Scott's Companies charged with the 
Regular Troops & proved themselves worthy of doing so. 
Norris's Company also behaved well, Hargrove's and [An- 
drew] Wilkin's'' Company were placed in a situation where 
they had no opportunity of distinguishing themselves or I 
am satisfied they would have done it. This was the case wth 
the Squadron of Dragoons also. After Major Daviess had 
received his wound knowing it to be mortal I promoted Cap- 
tain Parke to the Majority than whom there is no better 
oificer. 

My two aids de Camp Majors [Henry] Hurst and [Waller] 
Taylor with Lieut. [Nathaniel F.] Adams of the 4th Regt. 
the adjutant of the Troops, afforded me the most essential 
aid as well in the action as throughout the Campaign. 

The arrangements of Capt. [William] Piatt in the Quarter 
Masters department were highly judicious and his exertions 
on all occasions particularly in bringing off the wounded, 
deserved my warm thanks. But in giving merited praise to 
the living let me not forget the gallant dead. Col. Abraham 
Owen,'= Commandant of the 18th Kentucky Regt. joined me 
a few days before the action as a private in Capt. Geiger's 
Company, he accepted the appointment of Volunteer aid de 
Camp to me, he fell early in the action. The Representatives 
of his State will inform you that he possessed not a better 
citizen nor a braver man. Major J. H. Daveiss was known as 
an able lawyer and a great Orator. He joined me as a pri- 
vate Volunteer and on the recommendation of the officers of 
that Corps was appointed to command the Troop of Dragoons. 
His conduct in that capacity justified their choice. Never 
was there an officer possessed of more ardour and zeal to 
11. 

1810 ; Jii 
I. M. 

12. Abraham Owen was born in Va. in 1769 and moved to Ky. 1785. He was with 
Wilkinson in 1791 on the raid to the Wabash ; served at St. Clair's defeat, wounded 
twice : with Harrison to White river : in Ky. Con. Con. and legislature. He was l<illed 
at Tippecanoe, riding a white horse, and possibly mistaken by the Indians for Harrison 
who also usually rode a white horse but on that night mounted a bay. Daviess also is 

Pirtle, Tippecanoe, 6i 



said to have ridden a white horse. 



 

discharge his duties with propriety and never one who would 
have encountered greater danger to purchase Military fame. 
Captain Baen of the 4th U. S. Regt. was killed early in the 
action. He was unquestionably a good officer and valiant 
soldier. Captains Spencer & Warwick and Lieutenants [Rich- 
ard] McMahon" and [Thomas] Berry'^ were all my particu- 
lar friends, I have had the utmost confidence in their valour 
and I was not deceived. Spencer was wounded in the head, 
he exhorted his men to fight valiantly, he was shot through 
both thighs and fell still continuing to encourage them he was 
raised up and received a ball through his body which put an 
immediate end to his existence. Warwick was shot immedi- 
ately through the body, being taken to the Surgery to be 
dressed as soon as it was over being a man of great bodily 
vigor and still able to walk he insisted upon going back to 
head his Company although it was evident that he had but 
a few hours to live. 

All these Gentlemen, Sir, Capt. Baen excepted have left 
wives and five of them large families of children. This is 
the case too, with many of the privates among the Militia who 
fell in the action or who have died since of their wounds. 
Will the bounty of their Country be withheld from their help- 
less orphans, many of whom will be in the most destitute con- 
dition and perhaps want even the necessities of life? With 
respect to the number of Indians that were engaged against us 
I am possessed of no data by which I can form a correct state- 
ment. It must however have been considerable and perhaps 
not much inferior to ours, which deducting the Dragoons who 
were unable to do us much service was very little above seven 
hundred non-commissioned officers and privates. I am con- 
vinced that there were at least six hundred. The Prophet 
had three weeks before four hundred and fifty of his own 
proper followers. I am induced to believe that he was joined 
by a number of the lawless vagabonds who live on the Illinois 
River as large trails were seen coming from that direction. 
Indeed, I shall not be surprised to find that some of those 
who professed the warmest friendship for us were arrayed 
against us, 'tis certain that one of this description came out 
from the Town and spoke to me the night before the action. 

13. Richard McMahan was appointed 1st Lieut, in the Harrison Co. militia Jan. 
31, 1811. 

14. Thomas Berry was appointed captain of this detachment March 2S, 1811. This 
was an independent company of riflemen — all young men. 



 

The Potawatemie Chief whom I mentioned to have been 
wounded and taken prisoner in my letter of the 8th Instant, 
I left on the Battle ground after having all the care of him 
in my power. I requested him to inform those of his own 
tribe who had joined the Prophet and the Kickapoos and Win- 
nebagoes that if they would immediately abandon the Prophet 
and return to their owti Tribes their past conduct would be 
forgiven and that we would treat them as we formerly had 
done. He assured me that he would do so and that there 
was no doubt of their compliance. Indeed he said that he was 
certain that they would put the Prophet to death. I think 
upon the whole that there will be no further hostilities; but 
of this, I shall be enabled to give you some more certain in- 
formation in a few days. 

The Troops left the Battle ground on the 9th Instant. It 
took every Waggon to transport the wounded. We managed 
however to bring off the public property altho almost all the 
private baggage of the officers was necessarily destroyed. 

It may perhaps be immagined Sir, that some means might 
have been adopted to have made a more early discovery of 
the approach of the enemy to our Camp the morning of the 
7th Instant but if I had employed two thirds of the army as 
our posts it would have been ineffectual. The Indians in 
such a night would have found means to have passed between 
them. Placed in the situation that vfe were there is no other 
mode of avoiding a surprise than by a chain of centenals so 
close together that the enemy cannot pass between without 
discovery, and having the army in such readiness that they 
can get to their alarm posts at a moment's v/arning. Our 
Troops could not have been better prepared than they were 
unless they had been kept under arms the whole night, as 
they lay with their accoutrements on and their arms by 
their sides and the moment they were up they were at their 
posts. If the Centenals and the guards had done their duty 
even the Troops on the left flank would have been prepared 
to receive the Indians. 

I have the Honor to enclose you a correct return of our 
killed and wounded, the wounded suffered very much before 
their arrival here but they are now comfortably fixed and 
every attention has been and shall continue to be paid to them. 
Doct. Foster is not only possessed of great professional merit 
but is moreover a man of feeling and honor. 



 

I am convinced Sir, that the Indians lost many more men 
than we did. They left from thirty six to forty on the field. 
They were seen to take off not only the wounded but the dead. 
An Indian that was killed and scalped in the beginning of the 
action by one of our men was found in a house in the Town. 
Several others were also found in the Houses and many graves 
which were fresh dug, one of them was opened and found to 
contain three dead bodies. 

Our Infantry used principally cartridges containing twelve 
buck shot which were admirably calculated for a night action. 

I have before informed you Sir, that Col. Miller was pro- 
vented by illness from going on the expedition. He rendered 
essential service in the Command of Fort Harrison. He is 
an officer of great merit. 

There are so many circumstances which it is important for 
you to know respecting the situation of this country that I 
have thought it best to commit this dispatch to my aid de 
Camp Major Taylor who will have the honor of delivering 
it to you and who may be able to give you more satisfaction 
than I could do by writing. Major Taylor (who is also one 
of our Supreme Judges) is a man of integrity and Honor, 
and you may rely upon any statements he may make. 

With the Highest Respect I have the Honor to be Sir, 
your Hble. Sevt. 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. Not a man of ours was taken prisoner & of three 
scalps which were taken two of them were recovered. 
The Honorable W. EUSTIS Secret, of War 

A general return of the killed and wounded of the army 
under the command of his excellency William Henry Har- 
rison, governor and commander in chief of the Indiana Ter- 
ritory, in the action with the Indians near Prophet's town, 
November 7, 1811. 

Killed — One aid-decamp, one captain, two subalterns, one 
sergeant, two corporals, thirty privates. 

Wounded, since dead — One major, two captains, twenty-two 
privates. 

Wounded — Two lieutenant-colonels, one adjutant, one sur- 
geon's mate, two captains, three subalterns, nine sergeants, 
five corporals, one musician, one hundred and two privates. 

Total of killed and wounded— 188. 



 

Names of officers killed and wounded, as per general return. 
General Staff 

Killed — Colonel Abraham Owens, aid-de camp to the com- 
mander in chief. 

Field and Staff 

Wounded — Lieutenant-colonel Joseph Bartholomew, com- 
manding Indiana militia infantry; lieutenant colonel Luke 
Decker, of do; major Joseph H. Daviess, since dead, com- 
manding a squadron of dragoons; Doctor Edward Scull, of 
the Indiana militia; Adjutant James Hunter, of mounted 
riflemen. 

United States Infantry, including the late captain [Moses] 
Whitney's rifle company 
Wounded — Captain W. C. Baen, acting major, since dead; 
Lieut. George P. Peters ; Lieut. George Gooding ; ensign Henry 
Burchstead. 

Colonel Decker's detachment of Indiana militia 
Wounded — Captain Jacob Warrick, since dead. 

Major [Regin] Redman's detachment of Indiana militia 
Wounded — Captain John Morris. 

Major Well's detachment of mounted riflemen 
Wounded — Captain Frederic Geiger. 

Captain Spencer's company, including lieut. Berry's detach- 
ment of mounted riflemen 

Killed — Captain Spier Spencer; First Lieutenant Richard 
M'Mahan ; Lieut. Thomas Berry. 

Nathl F. Adams, Adjt. of the army 

Resolutions, Tippecanoe 

Nov. 18, 1811 

Cockrum, Pioneer Histoi-y of Indiana, 271 

The Territorial Legislature [of Indiana] adopted the fol- 
lowing preamble and resolutions on the eighteenth of Novem- 
ber: 



 

Whereas, The services of His Excellency, Governor Har- 
rison, in conducting the army, the gallant defense made by 
the heroes under his immediate command and the fortunate 
result of the battle fouglit with the Confederacy of the Shaw- 
nee Prophet near Tippecanoe on the morning of the seventh 
of November, highly deserves the congratulations of every 
true friend to the interest of this Teri'itoiy and the cause of 
humanity — 

Resolved therefore, that the members of Legislative Coun- 
cil and the House of Representatives will wait upon His Ex- 
cellency the Governor, as he returns to Vincennes, and in 
their own name and of those of their constituents, welcome 
him home. 

and that General W. Johnson be, and is hereby appointed 
a committee to make the same known to the Governor, at the 
head of the army, should not unforeseen causes prevent. 

Brigade Orders 

Brigade Main Quarters 
Vincennes, Nov. 18th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 176, 177 

The General order of this day dissolves the Brigade which 
I have had the honor to command. 

In taking leave of many of my comrades in arms I cannot 
more strongly evince my exalted opinion of the troops com- 
posing the Brigade than by exhorting them when their coun- 
try calls for their aid to make it their determination to pre- 
serve unblemished the reputation acquired on the morning of 
the 7th when they gallantly defeated the combination of In- 
dians. Sacred be the memory of our gallant brothers who 
gloriously sacrificed their lives for their country on that day. 

Brigade Major [Marston G.] Clarke will be pleased to ac- 
cept of my thanks for his indefatigable zeal in performing 
the duties assigned him. Capt. [George] Croghan's (aid de 
camp to the acting Brigader) firmness on the morning of 
battle and attention to duty merits and receives my warmest 
thanks. 

Signed, JNO. P. BOYD Col. Uh Regt. Infij. A. B. G. 



 

Log of the Army to Tippecanoe 

Sept. 26 to Nov 18, 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 186 

The army moved from Vincennes the 26th September and 
on the 30th encamped at — 

1st October, Encamped at Battle des Illinois (now Fort 
Harrison) 

29th Oct. Moved from Fort Harrison for the Prophets town 
that evening encamped 6 miles from thence. 

30th. encamped about twenty miles 

31 Crossed the Wabash and encamped. 

Nov. 1. Marched about ten miles (10) miles encamped and 
on the 2nd built a Block House. 

3rd. Marched and encamped on an Island of high ground 
in the S. W. Part of the big Prairie. 

4. Crossed Pine creek and encamped on the opposite bank. 

5th. Marched within about 12 miles of the Prophets town. 

6th. Marched and when within about three miles of the 
Prophets town divested the troops of their knapsacks and 
moved on expected battle — approaced near the town when two 
Chiefs came out, halted for 14. hour. The Gov. proposed to 
encamp but was advised to move and immediately attack the 
enemy. Three cheers were given and the army advanced and 
encompassed three parts of the town, the Indians indicating 
by gestures and yells their determination to fight. Two Chiefs 
again came out which unfortunately occasioned a parley and 
the troops received orders to incline half a mile to the left 
and encamp. The Commander in Chief refused to take 
hostages, altho advised so to do by the second in command. 

7th. Two hours before our Camp was attacked by the 
united force of the Shawanoe Prophet, who were repulsed with 
much slaughter. 

8th. Destroyed the Town of Tippecanoe and large quanti- 
ties of grain. 

9th. Commenced a return, marched about 8 miles, convey- 
ing our numerous wounded in wagons. 

10th. Encamped about 5 miles above Pine Creek. 

11th. Encamped on the old encampment in the big Prairie. 

l2th. Arrived at the Block House. 



 

13th. Put the most severely wounded on board boats and 
recrossed the Wabash at the former place and encamped on 
the opposite bank. 

14th. Made a long march and encamped within about three 
miles of Fort Harrison. 

15th. After halting a few hours at Fort Harrison moved 
about 8 miles below and encamped. 

16th. Moved about miles. 

17. After a march of miles, encamped at Bosseron. 

18th. Arrived at Vincennes. The regular troops were 
placed at Fort Knox. A few days after some companies were 
cantoned at Vincennes where the general Hospital had been 
established.' 



Statement by Officers 

Nov. 19. 1811 

Hnr. Pa. 536 

The undersigned Field officers during the action at Tippe- 
canoe the morning of the 7th inst. desirous of stating their 
opinion with respect to the conduct of the Commander in 
Chief on that occasion, do hereby certify, that the Governor 
was calm and deliberate — that his orders were precise and 
distinct — that he performed duties that might have been de- 
volved on subordinates — that he directed and marched rein- 
forcements to points where aid was necessary and posted them 
himself — that he never avoided the post of danger. That the 
victory was obtained by his vigilance and activity — In a word 
that his conduct in every respect was worthy the General and 
the soldier. 

Joseph Bartholomew Col. 2d bid. Reg. 
Luke Decker Col U Ind Reg Infantry 
G. R. C. Floyd Major m U. S Inf Com, Regt. 
Samuel C. Wells Major Gen of the 6th Divmon of the Ken- 
tucky Militia. Now a major of the Mounted Riflemen In- 
diana Terr. 
B. Parke Major Light Dragoon 
Noah Purcell Major 4 Inft. Reg. 

with John Tipton's Tipj)ecanoe Journal, Indiana Magazine of 



 

I do hereby certify that the above was correctly copied from 
the original by me.' H. HURST A O C 

Message to Assembly 

Nov. 19, 1811 

Niles' Register, 1, 321 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and Gentlemen of the 
House of Representatives 

The execution of an order received from the President of 
the United States, at the head of a body of our troops, pre- 
vented me from meeting you at the time to which you were 
prorogued by my last proclamation. Although this circum- 
stance may produce some personal inconvenience to you, and 
perhaps a little additional expense to the territory, it will not 
I am sure be regretted, when it is recollected that the result 
of the expedition which I had the honor to command is a com- 
plete victory over the hostile combination of Indians which 
had been formed by the Shawanese prophet. It is with equal 
pleasure and pride, gentlemen, that I have it in my power to 
inform you that in an action where undaunted valor was con- 
spicuous in every corps, our own militia behaved in a manner 
to do credit to themselves as well as the territory. 

The numerous duties which claim my attention at this time, 
gentlemen, will prevent me from giving my opinion upon such 
subjects as require legislative provision. The most important 
of these, however, you will find discussed at length in my for- 
mer addresses. Permit me to recommend to you industry and 
concord in the discharge of your functions, and be assured of 
my cordial co-operation in every measure which may be cal- 
culated for the benefit of our constituents. 

Wm. H. Harrison 

1. "Three captains, four lieutenants, one ensisn and the surgeon and assistant 
surgeon of the 4th United States* regiment of infanti-y, have published certificates and 
statements relative to the battle of Tippecanoe, near the Wabash, in which the character 
of governor Harrison is represented in the most honorable light. No man has had 
the temerity to impeach the conduct of the governor during the battle ; but many 
have charged him with suffering himself to be surprised ; having, perhaps, formed their 
opinions from the first i-umoi-s of the affair, in which it was stated the centinels were 
shot with poisoned arrows, etc. It seems the gallant little army was not surprised. 
It is true, they were attacked in the night, and that the Indians rushed upon them with 
very great rapidity. But the whole of the men slept on their arms, with their ac- 
coutrements upon them, and the lines were foi-med in from four to six minutes after 
the firing of the first gun, with astonishing regularity and order — this could not have 
been accomplished in a dark night without a precise arrangement predicated upon a 
supposed attack." Niles' Register, II, 56 



 

House of Representatives to Harrison 

November 19, 1811 

Niles Register, I, 322 

To his excellency William Henry Harrison, governor and 
commander-in-chief in and over the Indiana territory 

Sir— The house of representatives of the Indiana territory 
in their own name, and in behalf of their constituents, most 
cordially reciprocate the congratulations of your excellency on 
the glorious result of the late sanguinary conflict with the 
Shawanoe prophet, and the tribes of Indians confederated 
with him: when we see displayed in behalf of our country 
not only the consummate abilities of the general, but the 
heroism of the man ; and where we take into view the benefits 
which must result to that country, from those exertions; we 
cannot for a moment withhold our meed of applause. 

We shall cordially and industriously endeavour to co-operate 
with you sir, in such measures as may best comport with the 
immediate interests of our territory — and although we may 
lament the occasion which gave rise to the necessary delay 
of legislative business, yet we feel it to be our duty as patriots, 
as representatives, and as men, to submit without a murmur to 
any inconvenience which the good of our common country may 
require. Gen. W. JOHNSTON, 

Sjicaker of the house of representatives 

Harrison to House of Representatives 

Nov. 19, 1811 
Niles Register, I, 322 

Gentlemen of the house of representatives 

Believing as I do that the highest reward which a repub- 
lican soldier can receive, is the approbation of his fellow- 
citizens, I cannot be otherwise than highly gratified at the 
applause which you have been pleased to bestow on my con- 
duct as commander of the late expedition. It has ever been 
my wish, gentlemen, to deserve the confidence of your constitu- 
ents. To promote their welfare and happiness, has been, for 
years, the great object of my cares and if in the late action 
it had pleased the Almighty to seal with my life the victory, 
which was to ensure their safety, the sacrifice would have been 
cheerfully made. Wm. H. Harrison 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 637 





1 
i 


I^iox 1 


:'^E^^ 


52;;^^' 1 


g 


II 


sajiJAUj 1 


; ;^2 




2 


otsnjM 








s]T;jodJ03 


: :^ : 




U5 


s?nBa3j9g 




• rt . lO -1 


^' 


suja^lt'qng 


: :" : 




n 


UTtJ^dBQ 1 




":"::! 


<M 


aiT!H •§■■%' 1 


■.'^ : 




'^ 


^aB)nfpv 


." ; : 




"^ 


■soioo n 








Q 
P 

1 

1 
1 

1 


saiuAuj 


:2;'^ 


lO -TOCO -I 


f, 


3tsnH 










siijjodioo 










sjuTsaSjag 










sujaJlTJqng 










SUIB^dBQ 


i'^" 






JoCupM 


.'^ ; 




" 


•0100 n 








i 


sa^BAUJ 






^. 


aisniM 








siBaod,ioo 


; :'^ 






g^uTjaSjag 




'"':::: 


'"' 


suja^iuqng 






" 


SUTt'ldBQ 




;"^ ; 


" 


SJ0tl!I\[ 










0100 n 










daiBO ap PIV 


-^ : 




" 






: : :! 

fill 

1 O^tJC 


Major Redman's Do 

" Davies' Dragoons 

" Wells' Mount. Rifle 

Capt. Spencer's Do 

Spies Guides and Wagoners. . . . 


1^ 


I 



11 



638 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



l58 

O g a 



1^ 



i 
1 
w 

o 
IS- 


a^uSajSay 


2-- 


.COOCCO-JC 


1 ^ 


irilidsoH 1 wo : 
ui FJOx 1 " 


— --2- 


1 '^ 


8;BAt.IJ c-->o . 


^^ M .O IC CO o oc 


1^ 


uBiotsniAil : : : 




- 


1" 


■Idjooj - : : 


; ; i-^ 




h 


luBaSjsg 1 : - : 


:-.Mc-i 


1 CO 


ujajiuqns | '^ : j 


; ; - 


- 


1 " 


u..,d.o| ::: 






! : 


z 

§ 

is 

i 

1 


■spunoA^ 
JO aouts 
psip iBiox 


— 


. :„.. 




2 


ajBAy J [ " ^ - 


- — 




S 


utTioisnjxrj : 












•irfJOQ : : 












luBaSias : : 












ujs^ieqngj [ : 












uiBtdBQ : : : 








-^ 




■psiIFM 1 -H : : 
IB?ox 1 


.'r-, :cc~ — 


- 


i 


ajvAu<j 1 - : ; 




« 


UBiarsni^ ; : : 








•idioo : : : 


; -y' 




(N 


luuaSiag 














luajinqng 














UIB^dBQ 
















1 


Ill 

o 




1 




^ 
H 





 

FIELD AND STAFF 

Nov. 19, 1811 
Har. Pa. 534 

Wounded Lieut. Colo. Joseph Bartholomew Commanding Indiana Militia 
Infantry 
Lieut. Colo. Luke Deeker Of. Do Do 

" Major Joseph H. Daviess Since Dead Commanding Squadron 

Dragoons 
" Doctor Edward Scull of the Indiana Militia 

" Adj. James Hunter of Mounted Riflemen 

U. S. Infantry including the Late Capt. Whitneys Rifle Company 
Wounded Capt. W. C. Baen acting Major, Since Dead 

" Lieut. George P. Peters 

" Lieut. George Gooding 

" Ensign Henry Burchstead 

COLONEL Deckers Detachment of Indiana Militia 
Wounded Capt. Jacob Warrick since Dead 

Major Redman's Detachment of Indiana Militia 
Wounded Capt. John Morris 



Major Well's Detachment of Mounted Riflemen 
Wounded Capt. Frederick Geiger 



Captain Spencers Company Including Lieut. Barrys Detachment of Mounted 

Riflemen 
Killed Captain Spier Spencer 

" 1st Lieut. Richard McMahan 

" Lieut. Thomas Berry 

To His E.xcellency The Commander in Chief. 

Nath. F. Adams Adj. of the Army. 
Adj. Eastman's Report of the Killed with their Names of the 4th Regt. 
U. S. Infantry Fort Kno.x Nov. 14th 1812 

FORT KNOX 

November 19th 1811 

Har. Pa. 533 

Killed in the Action, 2 Coq^orals, 5 Privates, died since of wounds 1 Captain 
12 Privates. Wounded now in Hospital 57, Total 77. 

J. L. Eastman A. Adjutant 4th Reg. Tupz. 

List of Killed & Woimded of the 4th U. S. Regiment in the action with 
the Indians on the 7th November, 1811 Wabash River 
Captain Wentworth Compy 
Wounded. Lieut. George P. Peters 
Corpl. Solomon Johnson 
Private Curtis Phipps 
Charles Wait 
" William Layman 

Caleb Critchet 
" Jacob Keyser 
" Noah Fumald 
" Joseph Burdett 
" Stanton Smilie 
" Nathl. Harris 
" Isaac M. Nutz died since 

Killed " William H. King 13 



640 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Captain Baen Company 

Wounded, Captain William C. Baen 
Private Dexter Earl 
" Sylvester Dean 
" John Donahue 
" Timothy Foster 
" John D Jones 
" Daniel Redman 
" John Mahannah 
" Francis Nelson 
" Isaac Rathbone 



died since 
died since 



Captain Snelling Company 
Woimded Leathiel Hathaway 

Rufus Goodman 
Killed Joseph Tibbetts 



Captain R. B. Brown Company 
Wounded Private Augustus Bradford 
Bliss Lovell 
" John Yeoman,-died since. 



Late Captain Welche's Company (Under command of Capt. Burton) 


Wounded. Lieut. 


George Gooding 




Sergt. 


Montgomery Orr 




Corpl. 


John Rice 




Private Jona Crowell 


died since 




Daniel Gillman 


died since 


" 


Stephen Petti-s 
William Pomroy 




« 




« 


Lucias Sollis 




" 


James Stepheson 
Samuel Tibbetts 




" 




Killed Corp. 


James Mitchell 




J 


David L. Thompson 




Private Levi Cary 


13 


Captain Barton's 


! Company 




Wounded. Private David Cames 


xiied since 




Lewis Taylor 


Do 


" 


Lemon E. Welch 


Do 


" 


John Clark 




'< 


Robert Douglass 




" 


William Foster 




" 


Samuel Louther 




" 


William Turner 


8 


Captain Prescott 


's Company 




Wounded Private John Sanborn 


died since 
1 


Captain Cooke's 


Company 




Woimded. Sergt. 


Harvey Munn 




Private Nathan Snow 


died since 




Dennison Crumby 
Robert Thompson 
Charles Coger 




" 


Wm. M. Saimderson 




« 


Daniel Rogers 




" 


Amos Roice 


died since 




Daniel Lee 


died since 



 



Lieut. Albright Detachmeut 
Wounded. Sergt. Alecott Babbet 

" Nathan Fairbanks 
Private Samuel Potter 
" Lewis Mangum 
" Elisha Napp 
Killed " Israel Butler 



Late Whitney's Company Rifle 
Wounded. Ensign Henry Burchsted 
Sert Reuben Newton 
Do Aaron Furbu.«h 
Private Eben T. Andrews 
" William Brigham 
" Ephraim Hall 
" Israel Newhall 

Edward E. Tuck 
" Samuel Thing 
Musician Adam Walker 
Killed Private Ira T. Toowbridge 11 

A Report of the sick and wounded at Fort Knox, 
of Capt. Cook, December 17th. 1811 



Under the Command 



Companies 


Names 


Total 


Remarks 


Capt. Cook 


Sanderson 


1 


Wounded Invalid 






4 




Rarton'<! 


Wilson 






Poland 

Foster 


Hypochondriac 
Woimded Convales. 


Lieut. 
Baens 


Leonard 

Hall 

Ballow 


4 


In term, fever Convalescent 
Scalded foot Invalid 
Woimded " 




Foster 




Welche's 


Spaulding 


1 


In term, fever, convalescent 




Segt. PhiUps 

Dutton 


5 


In term, fever 


Whitney's 


Hair 






11 « 




Russell 


Paralytic Stroke 


Posey's 


Segt. Fairbanks.. 

Corp. Hicks 

Corp. Bolan 

Clark 


10 
25 


Wounded Invalid 

Interm. fever Convalescent 






(i 11 




cZons::::/: 


" " 




Sheldon 

Benson 

Gibbs 


Stiff Knee Invalid 
General Debility 
Dropsy Convalescent 


Total 











Ja Kuykendall asst. Surgeon's mate 



642 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Report — Continued 

Report of the Sick, Wounded and Invalids of the United States Troops 
in the General Hospital at Vincennes and of the Sick in Quarters of three 
Companies Stationed in Town. 

Har. Pa. 527-629 



Names 


Where Wounded or 
what disease 


Remarks 


1 Hall 


Arm Fractd 






Side 




3 Tuck 


Thigh 




4. Thing 

5 Orr Sergt 


Thigh 




Body 




6 Rice Corp . . . 


Thigh & Hand 




7. Tibb'etts 


Thigh 






Thiih. . 




9 Johnson 


Thigh 




10. Smiley 

11 Waite 






Side 




12 Rodman 


Hand 






Thigh 




14 Mahannah 


Arm Amptd. 




15 Dean 






16 Lovelle 


Thigh Amptd 


Dangerous 
Dangerous 






18 Lauthers 


Leg 










Hand 




21 Harris 


Arm Fractd 






Loins 






Body 




24. Mangam 


Leg 




Militia 




25 Mahan 










27 Minor 






28 Weathers 


Thigh 






sidZ^;;;;::::;::;:;::::::' 




30 Collins 


Leg 






Debility ' . . 




U. S. Troops sick in Hospital 




31 King 






















35 IMcDuffv 


u 














Very Sick 




Cold ... 


Sick in Quarters. 




38 Colby 




39 Parker 






40. Wells 


Diarrhea 








(Name torn off) 
43. Watson 


Diarrhea 





 
Report — Continued 



Names 


Where Wounded or 
what disease 


Remarks 


11 


Mears 


Diarrhea 


All the Sick & 










16 


Rice 


Debility 


whose names no 


17 


Knight 




remarks is made 






« 








Slight Wound 






Bradford . . 















Josiah D. Foster Surgeon 4 Rt. Inffy 
Hosea Blood A. Asst. Surgeon 4th Regt. 
Infantry. 



Snelling to Harrison 

Fort Harrison, Nov. 20th 1811 

Hm: Pa. 5 US 

Sir: 

M. [Touissant] Dubois a young man in the contractor [de- 
partment] being about to make a journey to Vincennes has 
offered me an opportunity of communicating to your Excel- 
lency the substance of a conversation I had with a chief [Little 
Eyes] of the Miami tribe who visited me yesterday. He in- 
formed me that when the Delawares went with your last mes- 
sages to the Prophet town he accompanied them and with 
them returned in expectation of meeting you until they dis- 
covered that you had crossed the River they followed and on 
the morning of the action were encamped about one mile from 
us where they distinctly heard the report of our guns; after 
the action was over (as he says) he proposed to his com- 
panions that they should come to our camp but his proposal 
was rejected through that the Kentucky people not knowing 
them for friend might shoot them. He therefore went to the 
Prophet's town where he found the Indians very much exas- 
perated at their loss and reproaching the Prophet in bitter 
terms for the defeat he had brought upon them accusing him 
of the murder of their friend who had fallen &. It seems that 
after pronouncing some enchantment over a composition he 
had prepared on the night preceding the action, he assured 
them that by the power of his art half the army was already 
dead and the other half bewildered or in a state of distraction 



 

and they had nothing to do but rush into the Camp and com- 
plete the work of destruction with the tomahawk. 

You are a liar said one of the Winebagoes to him for you 
told us that the white people were dead or crazy when they 
were all in their senses and fought like the Devil. He ap- 
peared much crest fallen or as Little Eyes described it held 
his head down between his knees, but attempted to pacify 
them by saying that the virtue of his composition was lost in 
consequence of it being with his wife the time of her monthly 
visitation, which circumstance he was unacquainted with until 
after the actions and earnestly entreated them to suffer him 
once more to try his skill, but not withstanding his entreaties 
they bound him with cords and it was the opinion of Little 
eyes they would sacrifice him. The little Kickapoo who spoke 
in council at Vincennes would have shared his fate had he not 
made his escape — parties of their young men were daily out in 
pursuit of him — when they wanted him. First they marched 
only twenty miles and encamped on the Waters of Wild Cat 
Paunch Creek' where they now are. The Pottawattamie Chief 
who was left wounded on the ground made a faithful report 
of what you said to him and it appeared to have a good effect 
upon them. 

All the confederated tribes had abandoned their faith in 
the Prophet except about forty Shawanose who still adhered to 
him. Many of their warriors remained very sick who were 
wounded with buck shot, four of them were wounded with a 
sabre, two severely. From the account given I imagine by 
Capt. [W. C] Baen, Little Eye says they told him one of 
them had shot a soldier and was stooping to scalp him when 
he received a severe wound on his posterior from a stout war- 
rior who was immediately surrounded and slain by four 
others, but not before he had wounded them all, one of them 
with his pistol which shot away all the flesh and muscles from 
the upper part of his arm of which wounds he died the next 
day. 

It gives me pain to inform your Excellency that the bodies 
of our deceased friends were the next day dispossessed of 
their graves and the slain Indians supplied their places and 
it is still more to be regretted that they should have occasion 
to plead the white men's example who they said had disturbed 

1. Wild Cat Creek was usually called Ponce Passau— Pause au Plchou. The writer 
translates it very well into Wild Cat Paunch creek. It joins the Wabash a few miles 
above Lafayette, from the south. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 645 

the graves of their dead. Little Eyes said a Winnegabo told 
him they found fifty slain which was contradicted but I sus- 
pect by the shrewd looks of the Indian when I spoke that he 
had occular demonstration of the fact. 

He requested me to tell his father the Governor that he 
was convinced he was a good and true man that you had told 
them you would go to the Prophet Town but that you would 
not turn aside to the right or left to injure your children, the 
Miamis which promise you had faithfully kept, which the 
Prophet had told them nothing but lies. He also wished me 
to inform your Excellency that in about twenty days there 
would be a great Council of the Delawares, Potawatomies, 
Hurons, and Miamis at a place about sixty miles from this 
post for the purpose of talking of good things, that it was 
their desire to become one people and live in perpetual peace 
with the United States. The Chippeways and Ottoways were 
to meet at the same time on the water of Tippecanoe river, 
that it was their intention to send a deputation to Vincennes 
to inform your Excellency of the result of their Council and 
hear a talk from you. He repi-esented to me that he was in 
a suffering condition for want of powder and earnestly re- 
quested a small supply. I told him it was not in my powei- 
to furnish him nor could I suffer him to purchase it of any 
person in the Garrison until I had received your instructions 
on the subject. 

Mons. Brulette infomis me that just as Little Eye was about 
to depart he told him that Lapoucher, Negro Legs, Stone 
eater. Pecan, The Big Chief, Lorain, and Gamlin- say they 
will not receive annuities from the U. S. because they like 
their land too much to part with it. All the rest of the Chiefs 
are willing to take. 

I know not but all these things I have related may be mere 
trifles but deeming your Excellency knows much better than 
myself in what estimation to hold them, I conceive I should 
be wanting in my duty did I not communicate them. 

Suffer me to intrude on your patience one moment more 
and I have done. I observed in your instructions that I was 
occasionally to furnish the Indians who visit me with pro- 

2. Little Eyes or Chiquia was a Wea ; as were Lapoussier and Negro Lees (or 
Quequa), Pecan was a Miami, as were Stone Eater (or Sanama honsa) Big Chief 
(or Me she I<e ie a ta) and Louison — all passed as Miamies. 



 

visions, have I authority to draw on the contractor for them 
and if so, does it extend to whiskey and Tobacco. 
With sentiments of the Highest Respect I am 

your Excellenceys most obedient servant 

R. I. Snelling Capt. J,th R. Inf. 

Regimental Order 
Regimental Head Quarters, Vincennes Nov. 20th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 177, 17S 

Fourth Regiment (in which I desire to inchide the 25 Rifle- 
men attached to the Regiment and the 16 men of Capt. Poseys 
Company) you have closed a campaign brilliant in success 
and highly advantageous to your country, in which you are 
no less distinguished for the intrepid bravery of the Pri- 
vates than for the gallant spirit and proud honour of the 
officers. The Glories you have gained on the morning of the 
7th inst., when your camp was surprised shall be recorded 
in time's eternal tablet, and no suspension of praise shall 
silence your just merits, my Brothers. Your conduct on that 
day can never be effaced from my gratitude, your contempt 
of danger and determined courage saved the camp and to you 
the candid militia ascribe the glorious victory obtained. It 
shall be my duty to make your merits known to the honorable 
Secretary. 

Signed, JNO. P. Boyd Col. Wi Regt. Infy. C. D. 

Regimental Order 
Head Quarters, Vincennes, Nov. 23rd, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 177 

The Campaign having closed and the troops taken winter 
quarters, the following arrangement of officers will take place. 

Lieutenant [Oliver G.] Burton will take charge of the late 
Capt. Welch's company. Lieutenant [Charles] Fuller, Capt. 
[Paul] Wentworth and Lieutenant [Charles] Larrabee the 
late [W. C] Baens. Lt. [Lewis] Peckham' will join his own 
company and Lt. [Ebenezer] Way= will do duty in Capt. [Rob- 

1. Lewis Peckham enlisted as an ensign in the 4th Regt. from R. I. Dec. 15, 1808; 
he was made a 1st Lieut. Nov. 9 after Tippecanoe: became a captain and was mustered 
out at end of the War of 1812. 

2. Ebenezer Way joined the 4" Reprt. from Conn. June IS, 1808. He became a 
1st Lieut. June 15, 1809; captain Jan. 20, 1813; discharged June 15, 1815. 



 

ert C] Barton's company. Lt. [John] Smith will take charge 
of the boat to ascend the Wabash with clothing, report him- 
self to Captain [Josiah] Snelling and join his company. 
Ephraim D. Dackham and John Silver of Captain [George 
W.] Prescott's company from the recommendation of their 
Captain are promoted to the rank of Corporals from the 1st 
October 1811. 

Samuel Fowler of the same company for his good conduct 
while at Fort Harrison and the recommendation of Lieut. Co. 
[James] Miller, is promoted to the rank of a corporal from 
1st November 1811. Major Mantor of the late Welch's Com- 
pany for his soldier-like conduct is reinstated as a sergeant 
to rank from 1st October 1811. William Turner of Cap- 
tain [Robert C] Barton's company for his good conduct in 
the late action with the Indians is reinstated as a corporal 
to rank from 1st October 1811. 

Signed JN. P. BOYD Col. Uh Regt. Infy. C. D. 

Vanderburgh and Others to Boyd 

ViNCENNES Nov. 25, 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 182 

At a meeting of the citizens of Vincennes and its vicinity 
the following address was unanimously agreed to and ordered 
to be presented to Colonel Boyd and that Henry Vander- 
burgh Esq., Chairman of the Meeting and John Baddolet' 
Esq. be a committee to present the Same. 

Henry Vanderburgh, Chairman 

John Johnson, Clk. 

Colonel JNO. P. Boyd, 

4th Reg. U. S. Inf. 
Sir, 

Permit us to convey to you and through you to the officers 
and men of the Regiment you command the exalted sense we 
entertain of the masterly and spirited conduct which you have 
displayed in the engagement with the Indians at Tippicanoe 
and to express the gratitude which fills our hearts for so 

1. John BadoUet was born in Geneva, 1758; came to America 1776 with Gallatin 
who appointed him register of the land office at Vincennes, an office he held from 
1807 to 1836. He represented Knox Co. in the Con. Con. of 1816. Died July 29, 1837. 

Cauthorn, Vincennes, 184 



 

many lives which your gallant exertions have contributed to 
preserve. Your near departure from this country prevent a 
more general and public manifestation of these sentiments, 
which are not peculiar to ourselves ; we find them universally 
entertained, and those grave regular's expressions I'epeated 
with enthusiasm by that spirited but untutored Militia who 
witnessed and emulated you cool intrepidity, evince at once 
the importance of the service you have rendered and the 
warmth of their gratitude. 

In endeavouring thus to portray our feelings on the present 
occasion, we present you the only reward it is in our power 
to bestow, the homage of thankfulness and truth, not the less 
gratifying to noble minds for being spontaneous and artless. 

A great good Sir will follow from your example, our fel- 
low citizens will be convinced that valour without science can- 
not however duly exerted lead to certain success and may 
eventually cause an useless effusion of blood, that an armed 
force without the military knowledge is little better than an 
inefficient multitude, and they will learn to submit with cheer- 
fulness to that discipline and subordination which .alone can 
render its efforts consentaneous and irresistible. 

In addressing you thus Sir, we are satisfied that we are 
discharging a duty of sacred justice and will reluctantly take 
leave of you with prayers to the Author of all good, that he 
may long preserve you and your gallant companions in arms 
for the honor and defence of our common country. [See Dec. 
21, below] 

Henry Vanderburgh, Chairman 
Jno. Johnston, Secretary 

Boyd to Vanderburgh and Others 

Vincennes, Nov. 25, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 183 

To Henry Vanderburgh Esq., Chairman, and the other Gen- 
tlemen, Citizens of Vincennes and vicinity: 
Gentlemen, 

We are honored by your notice of this day which conveys 
to us the officers and privates of the 4th Regt. your high ap- 
probation of our conduct in the action of the 7th Ins. With 
dignified pride we acknowledge this meed of merit. It is the 



 

soldiers boon, and if we have deserved of our country we are 
gratified by your public approbation of our exertions which 
are ever ready to meet the commands of our country. 

With much consideration and respect in the name of the 
Reg., I have the honoi- to be Gentlemen 

Your Obedient Servant, 

Jno. p. Boyd Col 4th Reg. U. S. I. 

Harrison to Secretary op War 

VINCENNES 26th Nov. 1811 
Har. Pa. .5J,0 

Sir: 

Before this reaches you I hope you will have received from 
the hands of my Aid de Camp Major Taylor my official ac- 
count of the late action with the Indians. On examining my 
letter to you of the 5th inst. I find that I had omitted to 
mention the circumstance of my having sent another mis- 
sion of Indians to the Prophet after the return of the Dela- 
ware chiefs. The day that the army left Fort Harrison I 
remained behind for some hours for the purpose of holding 
a conference with the Delaware Miami chief. I had no rea- 
son to doubt the information I had received of the intention 
of the Pi'ophet to burn the first prisoner he should take and 
was apprehensive that I should find much difficulty in open- 
ing a communication with him as my interpretors had become 
so alarmed that I could scarcely get them to the front of the 
army. I proposed to the Delawares that they should send 
three or four of their young men with me to be the bearers 
of an other speech to the Prophet. They agreed to the pro- 
posal and the Miamis then off'ered to go with all their chiefs 
and young men to make another effort to induce the Prophet 
to comply with my demands. I assented to their off"er ex- 
cepting as to the number of persons to be employed. I wanted 
only a few to go they were extremely desirous of going in 
masse and I was obliged peremptorily to declare that not more 
than twenty four should go. This number was at length 
agreed on. The demands which they were to make to the 
Shawanoe — were that— the Winibagoes Potawatomos & Kick- 
apoos who were with him should return to their respective 
Tribes. That all the stolen horses in his possession should 



 

be delivered up — that all the Murderers of our citizens should 
either be given up or satisfactory proof given that they were 
not nor lately been under his control. I did not think proper 
to say anything at that time upon the subject of Hostages. 
I have never had any account of those Indians until I re- 
ceived the inclosed letter from Capt. Snelling whom I left in 
command at Fort Harrison — the account given to the capt 
of the course pursued by these is most assuredly false and 
I should not be surprised to find that our good friends the 
Miamis assisted the Prophet not only with their council but 
with their guns — during the whole of engagement a shower 
of balls was poured into our encampment from persons who 
were at a considerable distance from us in the marshy Prairie 
in front. They were either cowards who did not wish to 
come into danger or person who did not wish to be discovered. 
I have determined however to dissemble my suspicions and 
if possible prevent any further hostilities. I fear however 
that the attitude of our own citizens may defeat my inten- 
tions. They are prodigiously exaspei'ated and raising of our 
dead will make them more so. To increase their forbearance 
I have commanded, threatened and entreated. I have writ- 
ten to Governor Edwards and Gen. Clark to request them to 
send speeches to the Kickapoos of the Prairie urging them to 
withdraw their warriors from the Prophet and have des- 
patched an express to Fort Wayne with instructions to Messrs. 
[John] Shaw and [William] Wells. 

I left Capt. [Josiah] Snelling in the Command of Fort 
Harrison with his own & Posey's Company. The two at that 
time making little more than fifty present fit for duty. The 
rest of the Regular Troops are in quarters in Fort Knox and 
in this Towne. The Militia that were employed upon the ex- 
pedition have all been mustered and discharged but I have 
thought it expedient to retain a company of mounted Rifle- 
men amounting to about fifty which had been turned out a 
few days before I arrived here to patrole round the settle- 
ments. They are posted at Busseron twenty miles above this 
and are still employed in that service. I fear if the other 
Indians commit no depredations that the Winebagos before 
their departure may break into our settlement and steal 
horses if not take scalps. To make it the interest of the 
Miamis & Potawatomies to get these fellows out of the coun- 
try as speedily as posible I have informed them through 



 

Messrs. Wells and Shaw that if we were obliged to send an- 
other army against them we would keep as our own the coun- 
try which we should drive them from. I am at a loss to know 
what to require of them in regard to the Prophet — whether 
to insist upon his being given up — put to death or driven off. 
The objection to the latter is that he may establish himself 
else where but this I am certain will never happen in a man- 
ner to be productive of much injury. The Veil under which 
he has practiced his imposture has been completely rent and 
must discover his true character to the most ignorant of the 
Indians. He has indeed by his avowed determination to stop 
the progress of our settlements acquire astonishing popu- 
larity amongst all the Tribes — a few chiefs excepted who 
were personally opposed to him perhaps there was not an 
Indian who did not wish well to his cause and hence I sus- 
pect that altho his warriors were in the prime of the late 
action will be found that he was supported by an host of 
those who call themselves friends. Nothing proves more 
clearly the treachery of the Miamis than the false informa- 
tion they gave me. They reported positively that the Pota- 
watimies had abandoned the Prophet whereas the fact is that 
they had obtained much strength from the Tribe. All the 
information I received from the Indian Country I shall im- 
mediately transmit to you that the President may be made 
to determine the course which is to be pursued. Under the 
circumstances in which the country is placed I have thought 
it expedient to retain the Command of the Regular Troops 
as well as the Militia and had directed Capt. Snelling to re- 
ceive his order from me. 

All the muster rolls of the Militia Companies will be for- 
warded immediately to the accomptant's office. I have never 
known what pay is due to Dragoons when they furnish their 
own horses. I promised the mounted Riflemen that they 
should receive the same. If I am not mistaken there is a 
law which provides for the payment of horses killed in battle 
— but not for those which were lost or taken. In the course 
of the action a number of the Horses broke loose and ran off 
and were taken by the Indians. An account of these have 
been taken as well as of the saddles that were destroyed. On 
the morning that the Troops marched from the battle Ground 
two wagons were appropriated to bring off the public prop- 
erty the baggage of the officers, the saddles of those who had 



 

lost their horses. It was soon however discovered that- it 
would require every Waggon for the wounded — it became 
therefore necessary to destroy all the private property and 
I had no other alternative to save the Guns of the killed and 
wounded men than to oblige each Dragoon to take one. The 
persons who have lost their horses and saddles in the manner 
above described flatter themselves that remuneration will be 
made them by the Government and I most sincerely hope that 
they may not be disappointed. I am not on this occasion an 
interested advocate. I lost no horse but one that was shot 
dead under my Aid de Camp Major Taylor. That is a case 
which I suppose to be already provided for and with regard 
to my baggage which was destroyed I shall never make a 
charge of it. But many of the men are in such circumstances 
that the loss of a horse and saddle will be severely felt. Every 
description of troops which compose my little army have cer- 
tainly deserved well of their country. Not only for their 
bravery in the field but for their patience under fatigue and 
hunger exposed too to the inclemency of the weather without 
tents and many of them without shoes and with clothing by 
no means suited to the season. I can also state that this is 
the only campaign in the Western country in which the Militia 
were made to work in the erection of forts — For the building 
of Fort Harrison the Militia were regularly detailed with the 
other Troops and besides their quota they furnished two small 
parties of Volunteers who were on constant duty at the more 
particular work of hewing timber and sawing. All the addi- 
tional expence encured by the Public was for the daily fatigue 
an extra gill of whiskey for man and for those on constant 
duty and extra half. 

I am soriy to inform you that several of the wounded men 
have died since Major Taylor left this and several have lost 
their limbs. By some unaccountable accident no bark has 
been sent on in the medicine chests for the 4th Regt. I was 
obliged yesterday to send to Louisville for some. 27th — A re- 
port reached town yesterday that more mischief had been 
done by the Indians about twenty miles off. It is however 
I am confident entirely false. 

With great Respect I am Sir 

your humble servant 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
Hon. Wm. Eustis, Sec. of War 



 

■ ' ' " ' Scott to Harrison 

Nov. 27, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, 2A3 

My dear Harrison, 

It is with sincere pleasure I have heard of your safe arrival 
at Vincennes with the troops under your command, after the 
rough play you have been engaged in. You have, so far as I 
can learn, acquitted yourself like a man, and the men you com- 
manded have really done wonders, considering the circum- 
stances. 

That you would not be wanting on your part was what every 
one who knew you would naturally expect, and especially one 
who knew your worth as well as I do. I should before this 
have answered your two favors from camp but for want of 
opportunity. My ignorance of the nature and extent of your 
orders, could alone have produced any hesitation in the line of 
conduct I should adopt, as to the supply of volunteers solicited 
from this state. 

For I had taken up the idea you had a right to call for them 
officially, or rather that I should have been warranted in order- 
ing them. For you may rest assured, I should be the last to 
throw cold water on any enterprize you were ordered to exe- 
cute ; for I feel a lively interest in your fame and fortunes. 
Your first letter alone would have been entirely sufficient, as 
to any explanation necessary toward me. I have only to re- 
gret, you had not more sufficient means to complete the chas- 
tisement of a treacherous enemy, and to entirely disappoint 
the views of our old enemy, who have too plainly urged them 
on. I should be pleased to be favored by you with as detailed 
an account of your engagements as your convenience will per- 
mit; and I the more wish this, to be enabled to do you justice 
against the cavils of ignorance or presumption. I am, as I 
ever shall be, your sincere friend. 

Charles Scott 

Neilly to Secretary of War 

Chickasaw, November 29th, 1811 

Am. St a. Pa. Indian Affairs I, S02 

The Shawanese Indians and some of the Kickapoos, solicited 
the king of this nation for men to join the Prophet's party. I 



 

am told that there are some Creeks gone to join the Prophet's 
party ; how many, I have not heard. 

I have been constanly advising this nation against, and 
showing them the consequences of, joining the prophet. 

J. Neilly 

Detachment Order 

U. S. Detachment Main Quarters 
VINCENNES, Nov. 29th, 1811 
Burton, Historical Collection, 178 

Detachment Order 

The campaign having closed every exertion of the Quarter 
Master is required to procure and arrange comfortable quar- 
ters for the Troops, who are immediately to put their arms 
and accoutrements in the best possible order. 

The Detachment Garrison order of the 27th June will be 
considered in force except that part which alludes to drills. 

The orderly Sergeants will make their reports at the adju- 
tants quarters, at 12 o'clock each day. The senior officer at 
the Barracks at Fort Knox will make a General report daily of 
the Troops quartered there. 

Officers commanding companies will agreeable to the Gen- 
eral order of yesterday deliver to the surgeon of the 4th Regi- 
ment the medicines hospital stores Furniture and bedding 
which has been sent on to them, for which they will take his 
receipt. He will also account to the several officers from 
whom he has taken clothing. His report of the sick and 
wounded Regulars is expected on Sundays and Wednesdays at 
Detachment Main Quarters. 

Per order J. L. Eastman^ 
A. Adjutant Jfth U. S. Regt. Infy. 

Legislature to Boyd 

December 4, 1811 

Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, 275 

Resolved by the House of Representatives of the Indiana 
Territory that the thanks of this house be given Colonel John 

1. John Langdon Eastman from N. H. joined the 4" Rest. Dec. 12, 1808 as a Lieut. 
He served till Nov. 4, 1823; died June 12, 1S6S. 



 

P. Boyd the second in command, to the officers, non-commis- 
sioned officers, and private soldiers, comprising the Fourth 
U. S. Regiment of Infantry together with all the United States 
troops under his command, for the distinguished regularity, 
discipline, coolness and undaunted valor so eminently dis- 
played by them in the late brilliant and glorious battle fought 
with the Shawnee Prophet and his confederates on the morn- 
ing of the seventh of November, 1811, by the army under the 
command of His Excellency, William Henry Harrison. [See 
Nov. 25, above] 

Resolved, that the said Colonel John P. Boyd be requested 
to communicate the foregoing to the officers and non-commis- 
sioned officers and private belonging to the said Fourth Regi- 
ment and that a copy of these resolutions signed by the 
speaker of this house be presented to the said Colonel Boyd 
by a committee of this house. 

Resolved by the House of Representatives, of the Indiana 
Territory that the thanks of this house be presented to Col. 
Luke Decker and Colonel Joseph Bartholomew, the officers, 
non-commissioned officers, and men composing the militia 
corps under their command, together with the officers, non- 
commissioned officers and soldiers composing the volunteer 
militia corps from the State of Kentucky, for the distinguished 
valor, heroism and bravery displayed by them in the brilliant 
battle fought with the Shawnee Prophet and his confederates 
on the morning of the seventh of November, 1811, by the army 
under the command of His Excellency, William Henry Har- 



BoYD TO Legislature 

December 4, 1811 

Cocki'um, Pioneer History of Indiana, 275 

To the Honorable House of Representatives, Indiana Terri- 
tory. 
Gentlemen : 

I have the honor for myself, the officers, and soldiers com- 
prising the fourth regiment, the rifle company attached, and 
the small detachment of Posey's company, to return you 
thanks for the distinguished notice you have been pleased to 
take of our conduct in the battle with the Shawnee Prophet 



 

and his confederates on the morning of the seventh of Novem- 
ber, 1811, by your resolution of this day. If our efforts in the 
discharge of our duties shall have resulted in advancing the 
public good we are gratified and to believe that we have mer- 
ited this tribute of applause from the assembled representa- 
tives of this very i-espectable portion of our country, renders 
it peculiarly flattering to our honor and our pride. 

John P. Boyd 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 4th December, 1811 

Ha/r. Pa. 5U-5i6 

Burton, Historical Collection, 26Jf 

Annals, 12 Cong., II, 2123 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that two principal chiefs of 
the Kickapoos of the Prairie arrived here bearing a flag on 
the evening before last. They informed me that they came in 
consequence of a message from the Chief of that part of the 
Kickapoos which had joined the Prophet requiring them to do 
so and that the said chief is to be here himself in a day or 
two. The account which they give of the late confederacy 
under the Prophet is as follows — The Prophet with his 
Shawanoes is at a small Huron village about twelve miles from 
his former residence on this side of the Wabash, where also 
were twelve or fifteen Hurons. The Kickapoos are encamped 
near to the Tippecanoe — the Patawatomees have scattered and 
gone to different villages of that Tribe — the Winnebagoes had 
all set out on their return to their owti Country excepting one 
chief and nine men who remained at their former village. 
The latter had attended Tecumseh in his tour to the South- 
ward and had only returned to the Prophet's Town the day be- 
fore the action. The Prophet had sent a messenger to the 
Kickapoos of the Prairie to request that he might be permitted 
to retire to their town. This was positively refused and a 
warning sent to him not to come there. He then sent to re- 
quest that four of his men might attend the Kickapoo chief 
here — this was also refused. These chiefs say on the whole 
that all the Tribes who lost warriors in the late action at- 
tribute their misfortune to the Prophet alone. That they con- 
stantly reproach him with their misfortunes and threaten him 



 

with death. That they are all desirous of making their peace 
with the United States and will send deputations to me for 
that purpose as soon as they are informed that they will be 
well received. The two chiefs further say that they were sent 
by Gov. [Benjamin] Howard [of Mo.] and General [William] 
Clark some time before the action to endeavor to bring off the 
Kickapoos from the Prophet's Town. That they used their 
best endeavor to effect it but unsuccessfully. That the 
Prophet's followers were fully impressed with a belief that 
they could defeat us with ease. That it was thus intended to 
have attacked us at Fort Harrison if we had gone no higher 
—that Raccoon Creek was then fixed on and finally Pine Creek 
and that the latter would probably have been the place if the 
usual road had not been abandoned and a crossing made higher 
up. That the attack made on our centinels at Fort Harrison 
was intended to shut the door against accommodations. That 
the Winnebagos had forty warriors killed in the action and 
the Kickapoos eleven and ten wounded — they have never heard 
how many of the Potawatomies and other Tribes were killed. 
That the Potawatimie Chief left by me on the battle ground 
is since dead of his wounds, but that he faithfully delivered 
my speech to the different Tribes and warmly urged them to 
abandon the Prophet and submit to my terms. 

I cannot say Sir how much of the above may be depended 
on. I believe however that the statement made by the Chief 
is generally correct particularly with regard to the present 
disposition of the Indians. It is certain that our frontiers 
have never enjoyed more profound tranquility than at this 
time. No injury of any kind that I can hear of has been done 
either to the persons or property of our citizens. Before the 
expeditions not a fornight passed over without some vexatious 
depredation being committed. 

I am sorry to inform you that three of our wounded men 
have died in the General Hospital since I last wrote and sev- 
eral have had their limbs taken off. The difficulty which is 
experienced in healing many of the wounds which appear at 
first of no great consequence has excited in Doctor [Josiah] 
Foster's mind as well as my own a suspicion that some of the 
balls were poisoned. It is certain that more of them were 
chewed before they were inserted into rifles for the purpose of 
enlarging the wound and lacerating the contiguous flesh. I 
saw myself numbers of them in the pouches that were taken 



 

from the dead Indians. The Kickapoo chiefs certainly tell an 
vmtruth when they say that there were but eleven of their 
Tribe killed and ten wounded. It is impossible to believe that 
fewer were wounded than killed. They acknowledge however 
that the Indians have never sustained so severe a defeat since 
their acquaintance with the white people.^ 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir 
your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. The chief of the Vermillion Kickapoos has this mo- 
ment arrived. 
William Eustes Esq. Sec. of War 

Detachment Order 

Detachment Main Quarters 
Vincennes, Dec. 6th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 179 

The col. views the cutting off the pantaloons of the soldiers 
presumptuous and contrary to the intentions of the Govern- 
ment, he therefore positively forbids it. The Regimental 
orders of June and October 1810 relative to clothing is con- 
sidered in force, and there will be a rigid inspection of arms 
and accoutrements on Sunday next, when it is expected they 
will be in the best possible order. 

Signed, JNO. P. Boyd Col. 4th Regt. Infy. C. D. 

Detachment Order 

Detachment Main Quarters 
Vincennes, Dec. 6th, 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 179 

Frequent complaints have been made about the sutling at 
the cantonment of Fort Knox. The Colonel forbids any per- 
son sutling for the troops of that cantonment but those men- 

1. In Burton, Historical Collection, 265, the last paragraph, excepting the last six 
lines, is omitted. Dec. 19, ISII. President Madison laid the letters from Harrison before 
congress and these letters were read. Whether the reference to the poisoned bullets 
was omitted from the copy sent by the president to congress intentionally or not can- 
not be determined, but in the copy printed in the Annals, 12 Cong. II, 2123 it is omitted. 
The idea expressed here was current on the frontier following the battle. 



 

tioned in the ordex- of the 22nd November 1811, and they will 
regulate their prices by the retailers at Vincennes. 

Till further arrangements are made for quarters, the regu- 
lar suttlers will occupy the room now occupied by the con- 
tractor as a counting room, but one room can be allowed for 
the contractor. All articles deposited by the Quarter Master 
will not be used but by order of the officers commanding the 
Detachment. 

Signed, Jno. P. Boyd Col. Uh Regt. Infy. C. D. 

Assembly to Harrison 

Dec. 7, 1811 
Dawson, Harrison, 21fl 

To His Excellency WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, Governor, and 
Commander in Chief, in, and over the Indiana Territory 

When in the course of human events it becomes necessary 
for a nation to unsheath the sword in defence of any portion 
of its citizens — and any individual of society becomes en- 
trusted with the important charge of leading an army of his 
country into the field to scourge the assailants of its rights — 
and it is proved by the success of that army, that that indi- 
vidual possesses superior capacity, accompanied by integrity 
and other qualities of the mind, which adorn the human char- 
acter in a superlative degree, it has a tendency to draw out 
the affections of the people, in a way that must be grateful to 
the soldier, and the man. Such is the light, Sir, in which you 
have the honor to be viewed by your country, and one which 
the legislative council, and house of representatives of this 
territory think you justly entitled to. 

And, Sir, in duly appreciating your services, we are per- 
fectly sensible of the great benefits and important services ren- 
dered by the officers and soldiers of the United States in- 
fantry under your command. And it is with pleasure we 
learn that the officers and militiamen of our country acted with 
a heroism more than could be reasonably calculated upon from 
men, (such as they generally were) undisciplined, and unac- 
customed to war. 

Resolved, That a joint committee attend to the insertion of 
the foregoing address in the Western Sun for one week. 
Signed, James Beggs 

General W. Johnston 



 

Elliott to Claus 

Amherstberg, 9th December, 1811 

Niles Register, VI, 359 

The Hon. WilHam Claus, deputy superintendent general and 
deputy inspector general of Indian affairs. 

Dear Sir : — Yesterday I received yours of the 27th ult. by 
two Indians; and until I am furnished with certain intelli- 
gence respecting the Prophet and the Americans, I can only 
inform you that on the third of this month, the report of an 
action between them was contradicted by a Putawatomie 
(Winamaigo) [Winamac] from near the Prophet's village, 
and of his adherents. He says that the Americans are con- 
structing a fort on the Vermillion river, which falls into the 
Wabash below them; but that when he left that place (eight 
days before he arrived here) nothing had been done on either 
side; although the Indians expected soon to be attacked, as 
they had been threatened with being driven out of that coun- 
try, and had sent to all the surrounding nations to call them 
to their aid. I have great reason to believe that what has 
been inserted in the public prints was the same report we had 
here; which, after the lapse of some days without some of 
my confidential Indians arriving, I give no longer credit to. 
I have men among the different nations who will at all times 
give me information of anything of importance ; but in addi- 
tion to those, I now dismiss to the Wabash and to the country 
west of that river, some more faithful men to obtain all in- 
formation possible of the movements of the Americans and 
the Indians. 

I am informed that the collector from Detroit is watching 
the opposite shore to us, from a suspicion of the Indians hav- 
ing received ammunition from us, and to seize it. 

As to the attack upon Detroit, which I am told is garrisoned 
by only 30 or 40 men (at all events not near 100) under cap- 
tain Whistler, who was formerly a British drummer, the at- 
tempt would be useless unless we struck the first blow, and 
take it by assault or surprise. If the Americans commence 
hostilities first, they will previously reinforce Detroit with 
some more regular troops or militia from the state of Ohio or 
Kentucky (for I do not believe they would trust the Canadians 
above Detroit;) and that would be no difficult matter in winter 
when the roads are frozen, when they might also bring for- 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 661 

ward as much provision and as many pieces of artillery as 
they would want. 

My plan would be to have a respectable body of troops here 
to give the Indians confidence in our sincerity; and with five 
hundred of the former, and the same number of the latter, who 
could soon be collected, seize Detroit in the first instance. 
That once done, the Indians, with some regular troops, would 
keep the Americans at bay until all the nations were assem- 
bled ; which they would do immediately. 

The road by which the Americans might and would advance 
from Kentucky, and which is all cleared, passes by the fallen 
timber at Ottaway town on the Auglaive, which falls into 
the Miami of the lake, where the road from Fort Pitt joins it. 
It passes the Miami Bay in the woods, and from Otter Creek 
on the Lake follows said lake to Big Rock and Brownstown. 
Perhaps near where Fort Miami stood would be the best sta- 
tion for annoying an advancing enemy. All the Indians, with 
the exception of a few tragglers, of all the nations within the 
limits of your sketch, may be depended upon; the exact num- 
ber of whom I cannot at present give you ; but the following is 
what I have been able to collect of those living from St. Croix 
river to the Wabash, viz, 

Chippewas 300 

Nodouessies 1000 

Saukies i ^^^ ^^*^' upwards, because 1000 in 
( one party went against the Osages. 

Foxes 1000 

Mashoutas 500 

lowas 200 

Menaumindis 300 

4400 
The situation of their villages it is out of my power to ascer- 
tain. 

The part of the country I was formerly acquainted with has 
entirely changed its face with its masters, and the Indians 
have moved to other parts. The Ottawas of the Miami Bay 
and branches of that river and about Sandusky; are about 800 
men. 

The Americans at Detroit are repairing their fort and 
mounting their cannon thereon, of which they received last 



 

year twelve 24 pounders and about 20 tons of shot, as I have 
been informed. They have also embodied their militia, and 
keep picquets out round the town. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient humble 
servant. 

M. Elliott 

Harrison to Legislature 

December 9, 1811 

Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, 275-7 

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: 

Your speaker has transmitted to me two resolutions of your 
house expressive of your thanks to Colonel John P. Boyd and 
the officers and soldiers of the Fourth U. S. Regiment, to 
Colonels Bartholomew and Decker and the officers and pri- 
vates of the militia under their command ; also the Kentucky 
volunteers for their bravery and good conduct in the action 
of the seventh of November at the battle of Tippecanoe. [See 
Dec. 4, above] 

It has excited my astonishment and deep regret to find that 
the mounted riflemen of the Territory, who so eminently dis- 
tinguished themselves and the squadron of Dragoons whose 
conduct was also so highly meritorious have, on this occasion, 
been totally neglected. 

I cannot for a moment suppose gentlemen, that you have 
any other wish than that of rendering impartial justice to 
all the corps. I cannot believe that you have the smallest 
tincture of that disposition which certainly elsewhere pre- 
vails to disparage the conduct of the militia and to deprive 
them of their share of the laurels which have been so dearly 
purchased by the blood of some of our best and bravest citi- 
zens. 

No! I can never suppose that it was your intention to 
insult the shades of Spencer, McMahan, and Berry by treat- 
ing with contempt the corps which their deaths have con- 
tributed to immortalize, nor will I believe that a Davis, a 
White, a Randolph and a McMahan have been so soon for- 
gotten, nor that the corps to which they belonged and which 
faithfully performed its duty was deemed unworthy of your 
notice. 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 663 

The ommission was certainly occasioned by a mistake but 
it was a mistake by which, if it is not rectified, the feelings 
of a whole country and part of another, now abounding with 
widows and orphans the unhappy consequence of the late 
action, will be wounded and insulted. 

The victory of the seventh of November, Gentlemen was 
not gained by any one corps but by the eiforts of all. Some 
of them indeed, more particularly distinguished themselves 
and of this number was the U. S. Regiment. In my official 
report to the Secretary of War I have mentioned them in 
such terms of approbation that if stronger are to be found 
in the English language, I am unacquainted with them, but 
I have not given them all the honors of victory. To have done 
so I should have been guilty of a violence of truth, of in- 
justice and of a species of treason against our Republic itself 
whose peculiar and appropriate force is its militia. 

With equal pride and pleasure, then do I pronounce that, 
notwithstanding the regular troops behaved as well as men 
ever did, many of the militia companies were in no wise in- 
ferior to them. Of this number were the mounted riflemen, 
commanded by Captain Spencer. To them was committed 
the charge of defending the right flank of the army. That 
it could not have been committed to better hands, their keep- 
ing their grounds, (indeed gaining upon the enemy) for an 
hour and a half with unequalled arms, against superior num- 
bers, and amid a carnage that might have made veterans 
tremble, is sufficient evidence. Nor can I say that Captain 
Robb's company after it was placed by the side of Spencer's 
was at all inferior to it. It is certain that they kept their 
post and their great loss shows that it was a post of danger. 
The dragoons also did everything that could have been ex- 
pected from them in the situation in which they were placed. 
Before they were mounted, they certainly kept the enemy for 
a considerable time from penetrating the camp by the left 
flank and when mounted, they remained firm at their post 
although exposed to the fire of the enemy at a time when 
they were necessarily inactive and consequently placed in a 
position most trying to troops. 

The failure of the charge made by Major Davis was owing 
to his having employed too small a number, but even with 
these it is more than probable that he would have been suc- 
cessful if he had not unfortunately mistaken the direction in 



 

which the principal part of the enemy lay. A successful 
charge was made, by a detachment of the dragoons at the 
close of the action and the enemy was driven into a swamp 
into which they could not be followed. 

You may perhaps, Gentlemen, suppose that I ought to have 
given you the information necessary to your forming a coi-- 
rect opinion of the merits of each corps. Military etiquette 
however and the custom of our country forbade this. It is 
to the Government of the United States alone that a detailed 
account of an action is made. In this communication I have 
given you such information only as was necessary to enable 
you to correct mistakes which, I am sure, were unintentional 
on your part. 

My sense of the merits of the other corps of the ai'my will 
be known when my official account is published. 

William Henry Harrison 
Governor of Indianu Territory 

To THE Legislative Council of the House of 
Representatives 

December 9, 1811 

Cockrum, Pioneer Histcrry of hidiuna, 273 

Fellow Citizens: 

The joint address of the two houses which was delivered to 
me on the fifteenth inst. by your committee, was received 
with feelings which are more easy for you to conceive than 
for me to describe. Be pleased to accept my sincerest thanks 
for the favorable sentiment you have been pleased to express 
of my conduct as Commander-in Chief of the expedition and 
be assured that the good opinion of the people of Indiana and 
their representatives will ever constitute no small portion of 
my happiness. If anything could add to my gratitude to you, 
Gentlemen, it is the interest you take in the welfare of those 
brave fellows who fought under my command. Your me- 
morial in their favor to the Congress of the United States 
does equal honor to the heads and hearts of those in whose 
name it was sent and is worthy of the Legislature of the 
Indiana Territory. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 11th Dec. 1811 
Ha. Pa. 51^7 

Sir: 

To show you to what a pitch the Spirit of the Western 
Country has risen I enclose you one out of many letters, on 
the same subject and containing similar offers, which I am 
almost daily receiving- from Kentucky and Tennessee. 

General Jackson (the writer) bears a high Character as a 
Soldier and a Patriot. 

I have the Honor to be with your Respect Sir 
your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. William Eustes Esq. Sec. of War 

Jackson to Harrison 

Hermitage, 28th November 1811 

Har. Pa. 5i9 

With deep and heart felt regret I received the information 
of the loss you sustained on the morning of the seventh in- 
stant, by the attack of the Indians upon your encampment. 
Upon the receipt of this information and hearing that you 
were slowly retreating I issued orders to my respective 
Brigades to hold themselves in readiness to march to your 
support, in case the safety of your frontier and your request 
might make it necessary and proper. 

Should the aid of part of my division be necessary to enable 
you to revenge the blood of our brave heroes, who fell by the 
deceitfull hands of those unrelenting barbarians — I will with 
pleasure march with five hundred or one thousand brave Ten- 
neseans. The blood of our murdered countrymen must be 
revenged. That banditti ought to be swept from the face of 
the earth. I do hope that government will see that it is nec- 
essary to act efliciently, and that this hostile band, which 
must be excited to war, by the secret agents of Great Britain, 
must be destroyed. Should any services be necessary to your 
safety, and that of your Country, by notifying me thereof, 
and at what point I can meet with supplies, I will have the 
number required at a short day at the appointed place. 



 

Being called by imperious business from home for a short 
time, I have directed my aids Major Anderson and Major 
Coffee, to attend Nashville, receive letters to my address and 
should you require men to have them ready and prepare to 
march at my return. You will please address me at Nash- 
ville. 

Accept assurances of my esteem & respect 

Andrew Jackson 
Major General 2 Division Tennessee 
Governor Harrison 

Harrison to Scott 

VINCENNES 13th Dec. 1811 
Har. Pa. 559 

My Dear Sir : 

I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 27th ultimo, 
by the mail of Wednesday last and beg you to accept my sin- 
cere thanks for the friendly sentiment it contains. 

You wish me to give you some account of the late action 
that you may be the better enabled to do me justice against 
the cavils of ignorance and presumption. I would do this 
with great pleasure but the legislature of this Territory be- 
ing about to close its session and having an unusual press of 
business I am unable to give you such an account as would 
be satisfactory. There is however less need of this as my 
official account to the Govei'nment will probably reach you 
nearly as soon as this letter. It appears to me from the 
hints contained in some of your newspapers that the charge 
of error in the planning or the execution of the late expedi- 
tion has been more particularly aimed at the President than 
myself. I most sincerely thank this Gentlemen for placing 
me in such good company and it is hardly necessary to in- 
form you that the charge against the administration in this 
instance is as unfounded as in all the others which have flowed 
from the same source. The orders of the Government with 
regard to the expedition wins as much wisdom as humanity. 
It was determined to protect its citizens but if possible to 
spare the effusion of human blood. This last object was pre- 
vented. But by whom? Why in a great measure by those 
very persons who are now complaining because a battle can- 



 

not be won without loss. At least in this Territory the 
clamour is confined to those who opposed the Expedition to 
the utmost of their power and by whose exertions in cir- 
culating every falsehood that malice or rivalry could invent. 
The Militia were prevented from turning out — and instead 
of a force of from 12 to 1500 men which I expected to have 
had I was obliged to march fi'om Fort Harrison with less 
than 880. My personal enemies here united with the British 
agents in representing that the expedition was entirely use- 
less and the Prophet as one of best and most pacific of mor- 
tals, perfect shaker in principle v/ho shuddered at thoughts 
of spilling blood. Every one of his aggressions upon us was 
denied or paliated and excused with as much eagerness as 
is the conduct of Great Britain by this same description of 
people in the Atlantic States. A party sent by the Prophet 
fired upon and wounded one of our centinels upon our own 
ground. The fact was at first boldly denied — the man was 
shot by one of our own people— and I believe it was even 
supposed that he shot himself when the whole circumstance 
was brought to light — these indefatigable gentry shifted their 
ground and asserted that the poor Indian fired in his own 
defence and that he was merely gratifying an innocent curi- 
osity in creeping up to see what was going on in camp and 
that if he had not shot the Sentry the Sentry would have shot 
him. 

I regret exceedingly that the friends of Col. Daviess should 
think it necessary to his fame to suppose a difi'erence of 
opinion between him and myself which never existed that I 
had slighted advice from him which was never given and 
that to give color to this had listened to stories with regard 
to the operation of the army which were absolutely without 
foundation. If the utmost cordiality and friendship did not 
exist between the Colonel and myself from the time of his 
joining the army until his death I have been very much de- 
ceived. If our Military opinions were not almost always in 
unison those which he expressed (and no man who knew him 
will accuse him of hypocracy) was not his own. The Colonel's 
mess-mate, Major G. R. C. Floyd and Capt. Piatt are well 
acquainted with the entire confidence which existed between 
us. They are acquainted with circumstances which indisputa- 
bly establish the fact and they and others loiow that I was the 
object of his Eulogy to an extent which it would be indelicate 



 

in me to repeat. Col. Daviess did indeed advise me to a meas- 
ure the day before the action on which he was joined by all the 
officers around me. Whether the advice was good or bad is 
immaterial to the present description since it was followed 
to the extent that it was given. It is not necessary to ex- 
press my opinion of the Col.'s merits at this time since it will 
be found in my ofiicial letter and I have no doubt that it will 
be satisfactory to his friend. 

With regard to my own conduct my dear Sir it is not in my 
power to enter into a defence of it unless I were to know in 
what particular it has been arraigned. However I may with 
safety rely for my defence upon the opinion of my aimy, be- 
lieving most sincei-ely that you do feel that lively interest in 
my fame and fortunes, which you profess. I am sure you 
will receive with interest the enclosed declaration signed by 
all the field officers of the Amiy one only excepted who was 
absent and the Resolution entered into by the Militia of this 
country who served on the expedition. The testimony of men 
who fought and suffered by my side ought I should suppose to 
be conclusive. 

The idea seems to prevail in your state that in the action of 
the 7th u. the whole army was completely surprised and that 
they were placed in a situation where bravery only decided 
the contest and where there was no opportunity whatever for 
the exercise of military skill of any kind. This was however 
far from being the case. It is true that the two companies 
forming the left angle of the rear line (Bartons & Geigers) 
were attacked before they were formed and that some of the 
men were killed in coming out of their tents but it is equally 
true that all the other companies were formed before they 
were fired on and that even these two companies lost but a 
very few men before they were able to resist. Notwithstand- 
ing the darkness the order of Battle (such as had been pre- 
viously prescribed) was taken by all the Troops. The Officers 
were active the men cool and obedient and perhaps there 
never was an action fought where (for the number of men 
engaged) there were so many changes of position performed. 
Not in disorder and confusion but with military propriety. 
The companies of the Regulars and Militia were extended, 
contracted, wheeled, marched and made to file up by word of 
command. My orders, and these were not a few, were obeyed 
with promptness and preciseness and if I am not more grossly 



 

deceived that mutual dependence which ought to exist be- 
tween a commander and his army was reciprocally felt. 

It has been said that the Indians should have been attacked 
upon our arrival before their town on the evening of the 6th. 
There were two reasons which prevented this, first that the di- 
rections which I received from the Government made it nec- 
essary that I should endeavour if possible to accomplish the 
object of the expedition (the disposition of the Prophets 
force) without bloodshed and secondly — that the success of an 
attack by day upon the Town was very problematical. I cer- 
tainly did not understand my instructions to mean that I 
should jeopardize the safety of the troops by endeavoring to 
bring about and accommodation without fighting. But if I 
had commenced and attack upon them after they had sent a 
chief to inform me that they were desirous of an accommoda- 
tion and that they had three days before sent a deputation to 
mo for that purpose who can doubt but that a much greater 
clamour would have been raised than exists at present — the 
cruelty of attacking those innocent people would have been 
pourtrayed in the strongest colors, the administration would 
have been represented as murderers and myself as their 
wretched instrument. But the army were exposed to the 
"nightly incursions" of the Indians. It has been well ob- 
served by a writer in the Argus? that if "a nightly incursion" 
was really so much to be dreaded by the army it had no busi- 
ness there. But the author of those objections perhaps will 
be still more surprised when he learns that "a nightly incur- 
sion" was precisely what I wished because from such a one 
only could I hope for a close and decisive action. If they had 
attacked us by day they certainly would have done it upon 
ground favorable to their mode of fighting. In night attacks 
discipline always prevails over disorder; the party which is 
able to preseve order longest must succeed. I had with me 
250 regulars that were highly disciplined and my militia had 
been taught to form in order of battle to receive any enemy in 
any direction with facility and precision. "But in the neigh- 
borhood of the enemy why were not the Troops made to con- 
tinue under arms throughout the night"? I answer that 
Troops can only bear a certain portion of fatigue and when in 
the presence of the enemy it is a matter of calculation with the 
Commander when they should be kept under arms and when 
permitted to rest. Upon the occasion I must acknowledge that 



 

my calculations were erroneous. In common with the whole 
army I did believe that they would not attack us that night. 
If it was their intention to attack us why had they not aimed 
upon our march where situation favorable to them might 
easily have been found. Indeed within three miles of the 
town we passed over ground so broken and disadvantageous to 
us that I was obliged to change the position of the Troops sev- 
eral times in the course of a mile. They had fortified their 
Town with care and with astonishing labour for them, and in- 
dicating that they there meant to sustain the shock. It was 
the scene of those mysterious rites which were so much ven- 
erated and the Prophet had taught his followers to believe that 
both his person and his Town were equally inviolable. I ex- 
pected that they would have met me the next day to hear my 
terms but I did not believe however that they would acceed to 
them and it was my determination to attack and burn the 
Town the following night. It was necessary therefore that 
the Troops should be as much refreshed as possible. But al- 
tho the men were not made to remain all night under arms 
every other precaution was used as if an attack had been cei-- 
tain. In fact the troops were placed precisely in that situa- 
tion that is called by military men "lying upon their arms," 
the Regular Troops lay in their lines with their accoutrements 
on and their arms by their sides the Militia had no tents they 
slept with their pouches on and their arms under them to keep 
them dry. The order of encampment was the order of Battle 
for a night attack and as every man slept opposite to his post 
in the line there was nothing for them to do but to rise and 
take their post a few steps in the rear of their fires and the line 
was formed in an instant. So little time was required for this 
operation that if the guard on the left flank had done its duty 
as well as the rest of the army the troops in that flank would 
have been formed before the Indians came near them. It was 
my custom every evening as soon as the army halted to exam- 
ine the ground of the encampment and environs and after- 
wards to call together the field officers of the army and give 
them their directions for the night. At these meetings (where 
everyone was required freely to express their sentiments) 
every contingency that was likely to happen was discussed. 
The advice that were proper to be given to them were then 
by the field officers reported to the Captains. Everyone being 
by those means possessed of my intentions there was no reason 



 

left for mistake or confusion. The orders given on the night 
of the 6th was solely directed to a night attack — the officers 
were directed in case of such an attack to parade their men 
in the order in which they were encamped and thus each Corps 
should maintain its self upon its own ground until other or- 
ders were given. With regulations such as these and with 
such a state of discipline as we claim you must allow my dear 
Sir we had no reason to dread a "night incursion" more than 
an attack by day. Indeed it was preferable because in no 
other could it have been so completely decisive. In the latter 
we might have lost as many men as we did loose without hav- 
ing killed a third as many of the enemy. In my letter to the 
Secretary it is asserted that the Indians had penetrated to the 
center of the encampment I believe however that not more 
than two Indians got within the lines. Men were certainly 
killed near the Center of the Camp but it must have been from 
balls fired from without. 

From this letter and my official despatch to the Secretary of 
War you will be enabled my dear General to form a correct 
opinion of the battle of Tippecanoe. When an action is over 
and we have time to meditate upon the circumstances that 
attended it there is no great judgment necessary to discover 
some error in the conduct of it. Something that was done 
which might have been better done or something that was 
omitted which if done might have produced great advantages. 
I believe the greatest Generals had admitted that they could 
fight a second battle upon the same ground much better than 
the first. If this is true with respect to them ought it not 
to be a motive to shield me from that severity of Criticism 
with which some of my fellow Citizens are desirous of scan- 
ning my conduct. A victory has been gained and the army 
which gained it is due in part at least to the measures of the 
Commander — but this is not sufficient — it should have been 
achieved without loss on our side. There is certainly no man 
more fully impressed with the excellent merits of those brave 
ones who fell in the action than I am; amongst them were 
many for whom I felt the warmest regard and friendship. 
But they were exposed to no dangers but what was common 
to the whole army and if they were selected by divine provi- 
dence as the price of an important victory there is nothing left 
us but to honor their memory and to bow submissively to a 
decree which we cannot alter. It would however bitter the 



 

remaining part of my life if I could suppose that their fate 
was produced by any misconduct of mine. But upon this sub- 
ject I have nothing to accuse myself. I am satisfied that all 
my weak powers were exerted to the utmost for the safety and 
glory of my Troops. Indeed no Commander had ever greater 
reason to do so — for none ever received greater marks and 
confidence and all attachment from an army than I did. Many 
of the Corps forgetful of their own danger seemed only 
anxious for me and a sentiment springing from personal at- 
tachment alone was imputed by them to a belief that their 
fate was intimately connected with mine. For such Troops 
it was impossible that I should not be willing to shed the last 
drop of my blood. 

Your friendship my dear General will pardon egotism con- 
tained in this letter. Perhaps I ought to disregard the idle 
tales that have been circulated to my prejudice — knowing as 
I do that there are not four persons who served under me upon 
the late expedition that will not be ready to contradict them. 
I have not sufficient control however to rest easy under enu- 
merated reproach and with the conciousness of haveing ren- 
dered some services to my country. I cannot bear to be de- 
prived of the good opinion of my fellow Citizens. 

With the greatest Regard I am Sir 

Your friend and Humble Servant. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
Gov. Charles Scott^ 

P. S. I should have covered my troops every night with 
breast work of trees but axes were too scarce (after having 
procured everyone that the Territory afforded) that it was 
with difficulty there a sufficiency of wood could be procured 
to make the men comfortable — and the Militia were without 
tents and many of them without blankets. The story circu- 
lated in some of the papers of officers fighting in their [shirt 
tails] is absolutely untrue. 

1. General Charles Scott was born in Cumberland Co. Va., served with Braddock 
at his defeat in 1755: commanded a regiment under Washington; was with Wayne when 
he stormed Stony Point : surrendered to the British at Charleston, was with St. Clair 
in 1791; commanded a wing under Wayne at Fallen Timbert ; led an e.'cpedition to 
the Wabash in 1791; Gov. of Ky. 1808-1811; died about 1820. 

Collins. Kentucky, 616 



 

House to Harrison 

December 17, 1811 

Cockrum, Pvjneyr History of Indiana, 278 

His Excellency, William Henry Harrison, Governor and 

Commander-in-Chief of Indiana Territory 
Sir: 

When this house addressed that portion of the troops to 
which you refer in your communication of the ninth inst. it 
was not the intention of this body to cast a shade over any 
portion of the troops which were under the command of Your 
Excellency in the late engagement nor to take from the Com- 
mander-in-Chief, any of that honor which he so nobly ac- 
quired in the late victory. [Dec. 4, above] 

In the joint address of both houses to you their notice of 
the militia in general terms was thought sufficient as it was 
out of their power to notice every man who distinguished him- 
self, therefore it was considered that any evidence of respect 
paid to the Commander-in-Chief was an evidence of approba- 
tion to all. It is not to be supposed that those gentlemen to 
whom particular respect has been paid, have done any more 
than their duty, or that they distinguished themselves any 
more than many private soldiers. Those gentlemen who fell, 
some of them did well and some others had not the opportu- 
nity, being killed to early in the battle, but there is not an 
individual in this body but acknowledges that it was a well 
fought battle and that praises are due; but they generally 
agree that the laurels won principally, ought to be the prop- 
erty of the Commander-inChief. 

President to Congress 

Washington, Dec. 18, 1811 

Annals of Congress, 12th Con., Pa/rt I, 1811-1812, p. 85 

The following Message was received from the President of 
the United States : 

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States : 

I lay before Congress two letters [See Nov. 8, 18, above] 
received from Governor Harrison, of the Indiana Territory, 
reporting the particulars and the issue of the expedition under 



 

his command, of which notice was taken in my communication 
of November 5th. ^ 

While it deeply lamented that so many valuable lives have 
been lost in the action which took place on the 7th ultimo, 
Congress will see, with satisfaction, the dauntless spirit and 
fortitude victoriously displayed by every description of the 
troops engaged, as well as the collected firmness which dis- 
tinguished their commander, on an occasion requiring the ut- 
most exertions of valor and discipline. 

It may reasonably be expected that the good effects of this 
critical defeat and dispersion of a combination of savages, 
which appears to have been spreading to a greater extent, 
will be experienced not only in a cessation of the mui-ders and 
depredations committed on our frontier but in the prevention 
of any hostile incursions otherwise to have been apprehended. 

The families of those brave and patriotic citizens who have 
fallen in this severe conflict, will, doubtless, engage the favor- 
able attention of Congress. - 

James Madison 

Secretary of War to Congress 

War Department, December 19, 1811 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 797 

Sir 

In answer to the call of the honorable committee of the 
House of Representatives, contained in your letter of the 25th 
ultimo, for "all evidence tending to shew what agency the 
subjects of his Britannic Majesty may have had in exciting 
the Indians on the Western frontier to hostility with the 
United States; the evidence of hostility towards the United 
States, on the part of the Shawanee Prophet, and his tribe, 
and which, it is presumed, gave rise to the expedition under 

1. Such a disposition has been made of our land forces, as was thoueht to promise 
the services most appropriate and important. In this disposition is included a force, 
consisting of regulars and militia, embodied in the Indiana Territory, and marched 
towards our Northwestern frontier. This measure was made requisite by the several 
murders and depredations committed by Indians, but more especially by the menacing 
preparations and aspect of a combination of them on the Wabash, under the influence 
and direction of a fanatic of the Shawanese tribe. With these exceptions, the Indian 
tribes retain their peaceable dispositions towards us, and their usual pursuits. 

Annals of Congress 12 Con. part 1, 1S11-1S12, p. n 

2. Dec. 27 the president laid before congress a memorial from the legislature of 
Indiana territoi-y asking for grants of land for those who were killed or wounded on 
the expedition. 



 

the command of Governor Harrison; and the orders, or au- 
thority, vested in Governor Harrison by the Government of 
the United States, under which the expedition is carried on:" 

I have the honor to state, that the information received by 
this Department, relative to the subjects of inquiry, is con- 
tained in the correspondence of the Governors of the Michi- 
gan, Indiana, and Illinois territories, and of other officers and 
agents of Government, on the Northern and Western frontier, 
extracts from which, embracing the objects of inquiry of the 
honorable committee, together with the memorials of the in- 
habitants of the Indiana and Illinois territories, are herewith 
transmitted. 

On the information and representation of facts, therein 
contained, the 4th regiment of infantry, with one company of 
riflemen, under the command of Colonel [John P.] Boyd, were 
ordered from Pittsburg to Vincennes subject to the further 
orders of Governor Harrison, who was authorized, with this 
force and such additional number of companies from the 
militia as should be deemed necessary, to establish a new post 
on the Wabash, and to march against, and disperse, the armed 
combination under the Prophet.' 

I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, 
your most obedient servant, 

W. EUSTIS 

General Orders 
Head Quarters, Vincennes, 20th December 1811 

Burton, Historical Collection, 179 

The Governor of the Indiana Territory having been di- 
rected by the President of the United States to take com- 
mand of the Troops destined for an expedition upon the 
Wabash of which the 4th U. S. Regiment formed a part, 
thought proper from the events that had happened and from 
the General aspect of Indian affairs to retain the Command 
after the Troops had returned, and the Militia been dismissed ; 
circumstances have however determined him to relinquish it 
and the U. S. Troops in the Territory are released from all 

1. Along with this were communicated 47 letters or extracts from letters con- 
taining evidence of the Proishefs activity. These letters cover the period from 1807 
to 1811. Extracts of many of these letters are to be found above in their proper place. 
All are given in Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 797-S02. 



 

obligation to receive orders from him; this order embraces 
Capt. [Josiah] Snelling the Commandant of Fort Harrison, 
so far at least as the Connection with the Indians is not con- 
cerned this Department being entirely under the control of 
the Governor the Capt. will still continue to communicate to 
him alone upon that subject. It is however to be considered 
as a voluntary duty but from the knowTi patriotism of the 
Capt. the Governor has no doubt of his performing it with 
cheerfulness, until another arrangement can be made. 

It is almost superfluous for the Governor on this occasion 
to express his sense of the merit of the Troops the command 
of which he has now thought proper to decline ; this has been 
done in a way to do them more honour than they could pos- 
sibly derive from an order of his, the circulation of which 
would not extend beyond the limits of their quarters; he 
cannot however forbear to declare, that although the official 
tie which has for some time connected him with those gal- 
lant troops is now dissolved, he will ever retain for them a 
sincerely afl'ectionate regard and that however distantly sep- 
arated from him they may be, to whatever part of the world 
they may be sent to fight the battles of their country, their 
honor and glory will be always dear to them. 

Doctor [Edward] Scull, [Hosea] Blood and Cummings em- 
ployed by the Governor as Surgeons mates will report them- 
selves to Col. [John P.] Boyd, to remain in the service if he 
should think proper. 

Signed, Nathl. J. Adams, Adjt. of the Army 

Resolutions and Notes Tippecanoe 

Dec. 21, 1811 

Westet-n Sun, December 21, 1811, January k, 1812 
Har. Pa. 56i 

On Thursday last the Owl a Miami chief arrived at this 
place, being sent by a party of Indians which are encamped 
about 40 miles from this place to know whether the governor 
would receive a deputation from the Kickapoos and Wine- 
bagos, who were in the late action, and who had sollicted the 
chiefs of the Wea tribe to intercede with the governor to 
grant them and interview. We are informed that the gov- 
ernor declined receiving this visit, and declared that he would 



 

listen to no pi-opositions for peace until the Prophet and all 
his followers, who did not properly belong to the Wabash 
were removed from the country. 

Last evening Mr. McCullough, [a surveyor] whom the Gov. 
had sent express to Ft. Wayne returned, he there saw the 
chief who came to meet the Governor from the Prophet's 
town the night before the action. This man informed Mc- 
Cullough that it was at first intended by the Indians to meet 
the Governor in a conference, as they promised, with the 
intention of assassinating him — That one of the Winebago 
warriors had agreed to devote himself for that purpose, when 
the conference ended he was to watch his opportunity, and 
kill the Governor — when this was done they supposed that the 
army could easily be defeated. The information given by the 
negro who deserted was the occasion of the attack being made 
at night. 

Western Sun, Dec. 21, 1811 

We are sorry to learn that Governor Harrison did, on yes- 
terday^ give up the command of the regular troops stationed 
at this place, and at forts Knox and Harrison — this is the 
more to be regretted, as we are not yet certain of the real 
disposition of the Indians towards us — should they attack us 
the Governor's services as commander, will, unquestionably 
be much needed— past experience so incontestibly proves the 
importance of his services, that we are of opinion the people, 
for their own sofety ought to unite in prayer to him to re- 
sume it — and thereby give them a man & a commander whom 
they know, & in whom they could justly confide — It is more- 
over to be lamented, because we understand that no immedi- 
ate communication from the oflicer commanding at fort Hai-- 
rison, can regularly be made to the Governor, as to any in- 
formation he may obtain, and it is all important that com- 
munication of that kind should be made to one who under- 
stands Indian afi:airs, and has the interest of the territory, 
and the safety of people at heart. We are, however glad to 
have it in our power to say that the governor's conduct dur- 
ing the late campaign exhibited so conspicuously the general, 
and the man of worth that it endeared him to every officer of 
the regular troops, with perhaps only one exception [Boyd]. 
Western Sun, Dec. 21, 1811 

1. See General Orders, Dec. 20, above. 



 

Resolutions — Dec. 7, 1811 

(At the request of a number of subscribers we are induced 
to republish the following : ) 

At a numerous meeting, (public notice for that purpose 
being given) of the Officers and Non-commissioned officers, 
or privates of the Militia corps (Hargrove's company ex- 
cepted) of the county of Knox which served on the late cam- 
paign under Gov. Harrison met at Beckes's Inn in Vincennes 
on the 7th December, 1811, Col. Luke Decker was appointed 
Chairman and Maj. Benjamin Parke, Clerk. 

A paper purporting to be "an address from a number of 
the citizen of Vincennes and its vicinity" and signed by Henry 
Vanderburgh, as Chairman to Col. John P. Boyd, being read, 
the following resolutions were unanimously agreed to. [Nov. 
2.5, above] 

1. Resolved unamiously , that we cannot consider the said 
Address in any other light than as one amongst the many 
attempts which have flowed from the same source, to wound 
the feelings and injure the character of Governor Harrison. 

2. Resolved, That the said Address in attempting to be- 
stow the merit of the masterly conduct in the direction and 
manoevering of the troops in the late action to any other 
than the Commander in chief asserts a notorious untruth, 
which will be acknowledged as such by the whole army. 

3. That our indignation is justly excited at the false and 
contemptuous manner in which the Militki who served under 
Governor Harrison are treated, in the said address; being 
there represented as an untutored, undisciplined band pos- 
sessing indeed courage, but none of the other requisites of 
soldiers; and owing eternal gratitude to the Col. Boyd and 
his Regiment, for the preservation of their lives. 

4. That the Militia which served under Governor Har- 
rison were neither untutored nor rindisciplined, but in com- 
mon with the Regular troops, they shared the attention of the 
Commander in Chief, and that by his personal exertions, both 
the Militia and Regulars were brought to a state of perfec- 
tion in that kind of manoevering calculated for Indian war- 
fare, and that they were enabled to perform all the directions 
of the Commander in Chief with promptness, facility, and 
precision. 



 

5. That it is a notorious fact, knowri to the whole army 
that all the changes of position made by the troops during 
the action of the 7th ult. and by which the victory was se- 
cured, were made by the direction of the Commander in Chief, 
and generally executed under his immediate superintendence. 

6. That we cannot but view as a most dangerous usurpa- 
tion, the meeting of a few individuals, not more than from 
seven to ten, in a private house, without any previous or 
public notice being given and to pass resolutions and ad- 
dresses in the name of a neighborhood. And we do further 
view the conduct of said individuals (almost every one of 
whom are the avowed enemies of the Commander in Chief — 
and several of whom have uniformly discountenanced and 
opposed every measure of the government, in respect to the 
Shawanoe Prophet and his party, and none of whom were on 
the Campaign) in daring to speak in the name of the Militia, 
as highly presumptions and unwarrantable. 

7. That it was owing to the skill and valor of the Com- 
mander in Chief that the victory of Tippecanoe was obtained. 

8. That we have the most perfect confidence in the Com- 
mander in Chief, and shall always feel a cheerfulness in serv- 
ing under him whenever the exigences of the country may 
require it. 

9. That we would prefer serving under him to any person 
that could be designated by the government for that purpose. 

10. That when commanded by him, honor will be achieved ; 
and we have every confidence that victory will be obtained. 

11. That in expressing the above opinions, in respect to 
the reprehensible conduct of the Addressers, we desire it to 
be definetly understood that we have no idea of wounding the 
feelings, or injuring the character of Col. Boyd that we are 
free to declare, that we believe his conduct during the action 
to have been that of a gentlemen and a soldier. 

12. That we feel the highest respect, and shall always 
recollect with gratitude, our brothers in arms, the Officers 
and Privates of the U. S. Troops. — We have often heard. We 
Jmve now seen what Yankees can do! 

13. That in obeying our country's call we shall feel a proud 
satisfaction in being associated with Kentucky volunteers. 

14. That the above resolutions be inserted in the Western 
Sun — and that such Printers as may give publicity to the 



 

Addresses above mentioned, be requested to publish also the 
aforesaid resolutions. 

Luke Decker, Chairman 
B. Parke, Clerk 
The Western Sun Vincennes, December 21, 1811 
Dawson's Harrison, 223 



Indian Loss at Tippecanoe 

Captain [Josiah] Snelling, the commandant of Fort Har- 
rison, arrived here a few days ago — the captain has had an 
opportunity of conversing with a number of the Indians, who 
were in the late action, and has taken much pains to ascer- 
tain the number that fought aginst our troops. He put down 
on paper the number of each tribe as gave by each individual. 
The one which gave the least, made the amount 569, and he 
who gave the most to upward of 700. They belonged to the 
Kickapoo, Wyandot, Potawatimies, Piankeshaws, Shawanoes, 
Muscos, Wyandots, (or Hurons) Ottawas and Chipewa tribes. 
Western Sun, Jan. 4, 1812 



Resolutions 

Dec. 27, 1811 

The mounted volunteer Riflemen at gen. Samuel Wells's^ on 
the 27th of December, 1811, for the purpose of partaking a 
dinner with the general. After appointing capt. James 
Hunter^ chairman and Major Isaac R. Gwathmey= secretaiy, 
a letter addressed to col. [John P.] Boyd with Henry Vander- 
burgh as signer — and also the resolutions adopted on the 7th 
of Dec. 1811, by the officers, non-commissioned officers and 
privates of the militia corps of Knox county, Indiana Terri- 
tory were then read to capt. Geiger and his company — when 
the following resolutions were unanimously agreed to. 

1. Resolved, That we the volunteers who fought in the late 
battle on the Wabash under the command of Col. Frederick 
Geiger, do with heartfelt satisfaction, highly approve of the 
resolutions adopted by our brother officers and soldiers at Vin- 
cennes, on the 7th of Dec. 1811. 



 

2. Resolved, That that part of the letter of Henry Vander- 
burgh/ which says that the militia were an untutored and un- 
disciplined band, is considered by us as a groundless and 
malicious falsehood, and is calculated to take from them (the 
militia) the never-fading laurels they won by their heroism, 
their braveiy and their firmness. 

3. Resolved, That we view the address of Henry Vander- 
burgh, as an unjustifiable attempt to wound the feelings of the 
commander in chief of the late expedition. And that we are 
ready and willing whenever our country calls, to volunteer 
under the same commander. 

4. Resolved, That the Editor of the TFesierw Courrier, be 
requested to give the proceedings of this meeting publicity in 
his paper. 

James Hunter, Chairman 
Isaac R. Gwathmey, Secretary 

Toasts 

Dec. 27, 1811 
After Dinner the Following Toasts were drank 

1. Our departed heroes, who gloriously fell on the 7th of 
Nov. while fighting the battle of their insulted country, may 
their virtues ever be remembered and their patriotism imi- 
tated — 2 Cheers. 

2. Governor Harrison, the brave and consummate general, 
he deserves not only the praises but the benediction of his 
country — 7 cheers. 

3. The British Agents at Vincennes, if any there be, may 
they call forth the just indignation of their countrymen, and 
be treated as traitors by every honest man. 4 hisses. 

4. The brave sons of Kentucky, when their country calls, 
may they not hesitate to volunteer their services — An everlast- 
ing cheer 

5. James Sommerville,* a brave and intreped Scotchman, 
whose heart was swolen with joy at the rapturous fount of 
liberty, while he manfully sacrificed his life for a boasted in- 
dependence. 3 Cheers 

3. A note in Dawson says "as this person [Henry Vanderburgh] is now dead, It was 
thought unnecessary to mention his name." He died April 6, 1812. 

4. James Somerville was a school teacher near Louisville. When Harrison called 
for volunteers Judge John Speed was unable to go but he fitted up young Somerville 
and he was killed at Tippecanoe. 

Pirtle, Tippecanoe, iO 



 

6. Stephen Mars,'' a Kentucky volunteer, who with more 
than Ceasarian bravery, fell heroically fighting for his coun- 
try. — 3 cheers. 

7. May the 7th of Nov. prove to our enemies that the spark 
of '76 is not yet extinguished. — 9 cheers. 

8. May the United States, no longer depend on fruitless 
negociations, but appeal to the God of Mars, to compel her 
enemies to respect her rights. — 6 cheers. 

9. The Eagle of America, when summoned from her peace- 
ful rock, may she hurl destruction on the British Lion. — 3 
cheers 

10. May the starry flag of 1812 float triumphantly over 
the ramparts of Quebec. — 17 Cheers. 

ViNCENNEs Lodge 
December 2d, A. L. 5311, 1811 A. D. 
Resolved unanimously, That the Members of the Lodge 
wear Crape on their left arm for the space of one month, as 
a testimonial of the respect in which this lodge hold our late 
M. W. Grand Master, Joseph H. Daviess. And the sincere 
regret the Lodge feel at the untimely and unfortunate fall of 
the said Joseph H. Daveiss, together with brothers Thomas 
Randolph and Isaac White ; who were killed in the battle with 
the Savages on the morning of the 7th ult. 
By orders of the Lodge.'^ 

ROBT. BUNTIN, Jr. Sec'y P. T: 

5. Stephen Mars, of Louisville, was a corporal in Captain Geiger's company. He 
seems to have been the sentinel who first discovered the approaching Indians on the 
night of the battle of Tippecanoe. After firing at the creeping Indian he ran toward 
the camp giving the alann but was killed before he reached it. 

Pirtle, Tixtpecanoe, 53 

6. Vincennes. Lodge No. 1. was organized under a dispensation from the Grand 
Lodge of Ky. dated Sept. 1. 1808. The charter is dated Aug. 31, 1809. The officers 
were installed, March 13. 1809. Daviess was Grand Master of Ky. and so of Vincennes. 
Secretary John Gibson was the first candidate to receive the third degree. In 1811 
Jo. Daviess presided over the lodge and raised Col. Isaac White. They were buried 
together by masons on the battlefield. 

McDonald, Hist, of Freemasonry in Indiana 
1, Two copies of the Western Sun, from which these items are copied, were en- 
closed by Harrison in his letter of Dec. 28, below. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 24th Dec. 1811 
Har. Pa. 553 

Sir: 

The enemies of the Administration in Kentucky have en- 
deavored to raise a clammour from some supposed defect in 
the planning or in the execution of the late expedition. Altho, 
I believe that the people generally pay very little attention to 
what these gentry say, I have never yet thought it proper 
to elucidate some of the circumstances which have caused their 
animadversion in a letter to my friend, Gov. Scott, a copy of 
which I have the honor herewith to enclose. [See Dec. 13, 
above] I cannot believe that any man of judgment who is the 
least acquainted with Indian warfare and who knew the 
strength of the position occupied by the Indians, can suppose 
that we could have gained any thing by attacking the Town on 
the evening of our arrival We might have carried it, but I am 
fully persuaded that our loss would have been much greater 
than it was. Indeed had we fought them any where by day 
upon ground of their own choosing we should I believe have 
beaten them, but their loss of men would have been compara- 
tively small to ours. This has been the case in every action of 
note that has been fought with the Indians. General [Josiah] 
Harmer plumed himself upon having killed one third or one 
fourth as many Indians as they killed of his men and in the 
action of Gen. [Anthony] Wayne, one hundred and thirty or 
forty of our men were killed and wounded and I am persuaded 
that there were not more than twenty Indians killed. When 
pressed by our troops they escaped with so much agility that 
altho there were little short of 2000 Dragoons and mounted 
riflemen they were not able to overtake them. So great were 
the advantages which I supposed we should derive in a night 
attack from our discipline, our bayonets and buckshot that I 
must confess I had no idea that we should ever be attacked in 
that way. I should however blush at my own want of pru- 
dence if any thing was omitted to guard against the success of 
such an attack which ought to have been done upon the prob- 
abilities which I had before me that it would be made. If I 
had placed pickets of observation without any chain of senti- 
nels, it would have been easy for the enemy to evade them, 
or to have cut them off. Our safety consisted in having the 



 

Troops prepared for action at a moments warning. They 
could not have been better prepared unless I had made them 
pass the whole night under armes. I confess that I had no 
idea that this was more necessary than it had been for many 
nights before. Indeed I thought it less so and I believe that 
I may with safety say that there was not an officer, perhaps 
not a man, in the Camp of a different opinion. But notwith- 
standing this the order of encampment was intended to resist 
a night attack. The orders given were directed to the same 
point. The great facility with which the troops were formed 
shows that they had been well instructed and well understood 
what they were to do and excepting the two Companies of 
Barton and Guiger, the rest of the Troops could not have been 
in better order than they were in when they were fired on, 
if they had stood at their posts the whole night 

Since I had the honor to write to you by the last mail the Owl 
a celebrated Miami Chief arrived here, to know whether I 
would receive some Winnebagos and Kickapoos, who were 
waiting his return at about a days journey from this with sev- 
eral of the Wea Chiefs. My answer was that I did not wish 
to see them here at present — being anxious to know the Presi- 
dents determination with regard to them before I took any 
further measures. The Owl confirms the opinion which I 
had before entertained that all the Potawatamies who reside 
on the Wabash (excepting the Chief Winenac) were in the 
action. He says he saw the warriors from both the Villages 
above the Prophets Town going to join him the day before 
the action and that it was with the greatest difficulty that the 
young men of his own Tribe could be prevented from joining 
him also. Amongst the Potawatamies were some men whom 
I had particularly cherished — indeed the chiefs and warriors 
of both those villages had partaken more largely of the bounty 
of the U. States dispensed by my hand, than any other. Their 
conduct and that of the Miamis unequivocally prove that the 
inclinations of the Indians were entirely on the side of the 
Prophet and that it was high time their establishment was 
broken up. My opinion is that they should not too easily be 
admitted to our favor again and I regret exceedingly that Mr. 
[John] Johnson should have been so precipitate in delivering 
the annuities at Fort Wayne. I have temporized with the 
Indians for the purpose of gaining time, that the Government 
may decide what is to be done. The course that I would rec- 



 

ommend is that the Miamis, Potawatamies and Kickapoos be 
made to drive off the Prophet and all the strange Indians from 
the Wabash. It may however be necessary to embody a re- 
spectable force to back them and to prevent those Vagabonds 
from turning upon our settlements. All the accounts that I 
have received from the Indian Country agree in stating the 
entire dispondence of the Prophets party and their disinclina- 
tion for further hostilities It is however pretty certain that 
the Winegabos have not returned home as the Kickapoos as- 
serted and it is possible that the return of Tecumseh, who is 
daily expected will produce other dispositions. 

In my letter of the 26th ult. I had the honor to inform you 
that from the aspect of our relations with the Indians I had 
determined to retain the command of the troops until I should 
hear from you. As however the Militia have all been dis- 
missed and no immediate danger apprehended I have relin- 
quished the control over them which I had retained. But 
upon the occurrence of any event to make it necessary or upon 
the receipt of your orders to that effect I will with cheerfull- 
ness resume it. There is indeed but a single circumstance' 
which makes the command disagreeable to me. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir 
Your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. William Eustis Sect, of War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, December 25th, 1811 

Dawson, Harrison, 255 

Sir, 

By the arrival of major [Waller] Taylor, on the 16th in- 
stant, your Excellency's despatches of the 18th of November, 
containing a particular account of the battle of the 7th, were 
received. The message of the president to congress, [See 
Dec. 18, above] herewith enclosed, will convey to your Excel- 
lency the high sense entertained by the executive, of the 
gallantry and good conduct of all the troops engaged in the 
expedition. And I "am instructed, by the president, to com- 

1. This doubtless refers to the restlessness of Colonel Boyd and the agitation at 
Vincennes as shown by the Vanderburs letter. In Kentucky Humphrey Marshall was 
the chief and almost the only critic of Harrison. 



 

municate to you, Sir, and through you to the officers and men, 
of the respective corps, his thanks, for the persevering zeal 
and bravery displayed in the action. The encomium bestowed 
by your Excellency on the regular troops, appears to have been 
justly due to the discipline, firmness, and valor with which 
the action was sustained on their part, and reflects the highest 
honor on colonel Boyd and his officers. 

It is presumed that the eff"ects of this defeat will be experi- 
enced in a return of the Indians to their former friendly dis- 
position, and in a prevention of future aggressions. The 
course remaining to be pursued with them will depend, in a 
great measure, on further indications of their meditated con- 
duct, and is under consideration. In the meantime, your Ex- 
cellency will continue to communicate every information, and 
to adopt such measures as exigencies may require. 

I have the honor to be, your Excel'ys, most ob't servant. 

W. EUSTIS 

His Excellency William Henry Harrison, Vincennes 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes 28th Dec. 1811 

Har. Pa. 5US 

Sir: 

A. W. Fowler arrived here from New Port the evening be- 
fore last with some groceries, medicine, and other necessaries 
for the sick and wounded. Nothing of this kind has been 
wanting hitherto and I am happy to inform you that all the 
wounded, one perhaps only excepted, are in a fair way to re- 
cover and that there has been but one death within the last 
fortnight. The enclosed letter from Captain [Josiah] Snell- 
ing [See Nov. 20, above] with the Indian talks which it con- 
tains, came to me by an express since the Departure of the 
last mail. It is another evidence of the complete discomfiture 
of the Prophets party. I have desired Capt. Snelling to per- 
mit the Stone Eater only to come here, by whom I will send 
an answer to the others. Before he leaves this I hope to re- 
ceive your directions with regard to the course which is to be 
pursued with the late hostile Indians. 

It is impossible Sir, that I should be insensible to the torrent 
of abuse which has been levelled at me by some of the papers. 



 

What we call here a glorious victory — such a one as in the 
opinion of Gov. Edwards, Gov. Howard, Gen Clark, and gen- 
erally of the whole mass of citizens will produce the most im- 
portant beneficial consequences to the western country and to 
the U. States, has been termed a "most distressing disaster", 
a "horible butchery". If these observations had been confined 
to the federal prints I should have disregarded them but none 
of them have been more rancourous than the paper called the 
Baltimore Whig. In my ofticial accounts it has been my aim 
to conceal no circumstance whatever even if it should militate 
against myself. I have indeed made statements which have 
had that tendency when there was no necessity for it and 
which upon further enquiry I found to be totally incorrect. I 
have asserted that the Indians penetrated to and killed men 
near the center of the Camp. I was led to the error because 
I knew that a few Indians had entered camp. I now find 
that there [were] but two, at most, who had passed into the 
camp near the left angle but they were killed within twenty 
yards of the line and I knew also that men were killed and 
wounded quite in the Interior of the Camp but every one 
agrees that it must have been from balls that came from with- 
out. 

I have said also that men were killed coming out of their 
tents. Capt. Barton informs me that the two Tents on the 
right of his Company were fired into before the men got out, 
but the rest were formed before they received any injury. 
Capt. Geiger had but one Tent — one of his men was killed 
in the mouth of this and another killed an Indian — and this 
with a slight wound himself, was all the injuiy his company 
received until they were formed in the rear of their fires. 
Thirteen men who joined us the day before the action were 
attached to Geigers Company and posted on his left, joining to 
Bartons were bi'oken and run off" on the first alarm, (two or 
three excepted) and it was this circumstance which caused the 
great injury to Bartons Company. I do aver that the Troops 
upon the front rear and right flank were completely formed 
before they were fired on. The left flank which suff'ered most 
were formed some minutes before they received a shot. It 
could not have been more than one minute and an half from 
the first alarm, (and Mr. Adams who attended me thinks it 
was not as long) before I led up myself two companies, com- 
pletely formed to the assistance of Barton and Geiger. But 



 

admitting that something more might have been done by me 
to ascertain the approach of the enemy, it appears from the 
above statement, that we sustained very little injury by the 
suddenness of their attack. In my letter from the Battle 
ground I have said that there was at first some little confusion 
before the Troops were formed. I read this letter to Col. 
Boyd at the time and he asserted that there was none, that 
there never was an army formed quicker or in better order. 
It is possible that the Col. may since have changed his opinion 
— with regard to my own conduct and the measures taken to 
secure the victory after the action commenced. I must refer 
you to the Declaration of the field officers and the Resolutions 
of six Militia Companies herewith enclosed. I have been 
very much misinformed if the sentiments they contain are not 
common to all the Plattoon officers of the 4th Regt. 
I have the Honor to be very respectfully Sir 
Your faithful Servant 

William JIenry Harrison 

P, S. For the satisfaction of the people I have caused the 
letter from Capt. Snelling and the Indian Speeches to be pub- 
lished and having no one at hand to copy them I have enclosed 
herewith the newspaper which contains them. [See Dec. 21, 
above] 

W. H. H. 
The Honble Secretary of War 



Adams to Harrison 

(Dec. 1811) 

Dawson, Harrison, 2It2 

Sir, 

In answer to the question, which your Excellency has put 
to me, 'Do you know, or have you ever heard, that any other 
companies than those of Bigger and Robb had abandoned 
their stations in the action ?' I must state, that I neither know, 
nor have heard, of any other companies who had deserted 
their posts; nor do I conceive, that those companies can justly 
be considered to have abandoned their posts, as Bigger's was 
certainly attacked in front, flank, and rear; their captain on 
guard, and themselves overpowered by numbei-s. Robb's com- 
pany, in common with the whole of that flank, may also justly 



 

be said to have given away before superior numbers. It was 
rallied and taken to the right flank, where they manfully sus- 
tained the repeated attacks of the savages until the close of 
the action, and suffered severely, as their list of killed and 
wounded will show, which answers, also, your Excellency's 
second question, viz: 'Do you not know, or have you sufli- 
cient reason to believe from what you have heard, that Robb's 
company was rallied and removed to the right flank, where 
in a post of great danger, it continued to discharge its duty 
until the close of the action?' In answer to the third ques- 
tion, 'Do you know, or have you ever heard, that any militia 
officer or soldier was killed or wounded behind, or under 
wagons, or behind trees, were on or near the line, and where, 
of course, it was proper for riflemen to be?' I must declare, 
I neither knew, nor ever heard, that any officer or soldier was 
wounded or killed behind trees or wagons. Most of those 
who were wounded, retired to the centre of the camp, which 
may have led those, who superficially obsei-ved things, to sup- • 
pose that they were there wounded ; such people, also, might 
have mistaken wagoners, men in the contractor's and quar- 
termaster's department, who were but few, whose duty called 
them about the wagons, for those who had fled from their 
posts. It must be, indeed, a source of regret to your Excel- 
lency, to find people, who are, perhaps, not the most deserv- 
ing, striving to rend in pieces the laurel wreath, which your 
little army so gallantly won, merely because they cannot be 
the exclusive owners. For them should be wove the wreath 
of discord, labelled with dissension, folly, and madness, on 
its front; that such may no more disturb where you com- 
mand, is. Sir, the wish of your obedient servant. 

Nath. W. Adams 
Captain 4th regt., adjutant of the army on the expedition 

Harrison to Dr. John Scott 

(Dec. 1811) 
Dawson, Hamson, 23U 
You say that you are astonished at my escape, and that 
you had calculated with certainty upon my fall in the event 
of an action with the Indians, from the circumstance of my 
being known to every Indian who was opposed to us. It is 
really astonishing to myself, and I consider my life as having 



 

been most providentially preserved. I had, indeed, many 
more chances to run than any other individual, as well from 
the circumstance which you mention as from the attempts of 
treacheiy, the first efforts of which would unquestionably 
have been directed against me. The first plan laid by the 
prophet and his chiefs was that which you have heard, of 
meeting me in council and procuring my assassination by 
means of two Winebagoes who had devoted themselves to that 
object. Had this plan been persevered in, whatever might 
have been the fate of the army, I, at least should have fallen. 
When this scheme was abandoned and an attack determined 
on, I am perfectly convinced that they intended to have first 
despatched me by means of the above mentioned negro, who 
was either to have done it himself, or conducted some of the 
Indians into camp for the purpose of effecting it. The latter 
is most probable, and would not have been very difficult of 
execution. A few Indians might have passed undiscovered 
-between the militia centinels, who, you know, are not very 
remarkable for their vigilance, as the negro himself did ; and 
being once within the lines, there was scarcely any further 
obstacle. For instead of the officer's guard to which my rank 
entitled me I had contented myself with a single dismounted 
dragoon centinel, and that more for the purpose of overlook- 
ing the horses and baggage wagon than any security to my- 
self. Ben had escaped all notice and was within a few yards 
of my quarters, making his observations, when captain Wil- 
son providentially approached him from behind and secured 
him. Had it not been for the captain's visit to me at that 
late hour, or had it been delayed but for a few moments, he 
would no doubt have escaped. He was tried the next morning, 
and the court unanimously sentenced him to suffer death. I ap- 
proved of the sentence and intended to have it executed in 
an hour; but the hour elapsed and another passed by. I ex- 
cused the delay to my own mind from the circumstance of 
the troops being engaged in fortifying the camp, and could 
not be called out to witness the execution. But the fact was 
that I began to pity him, and I could not screw myself up to 
the point of giving the fatal order. If he had been out of 
my sight he would have been executed. But when he was 
first taken, general Wells and colonel Owen, who were old 
Indian fighters, as we had not irons to put on him, had se- 
cured him a-la-mode de savage. This is done by throwing 



 

the person on his back, splitting a log and cutting notches 
in it to receive the ankles, then replacing the severed parts 
and compressing them together with forks driven over the 
log into the ground; the arms extended and tied to stakes 
secured in the same manner. The situation of a person thus 
placed is as uneasy a one as can possibly be conceived. The 
poor wretch thus confined, lay before my fire, his face re- 
ceiving the rain which occasionally fell, and his eyes con- 
stantly turned upon me as if imploring mercy. I could not 
withstand the appeal and I determined to give him another 
chance for his life. I had all the commissioned officers as- 
sembled and told them that his fate depended on them. Some 
were for executing him, and I believe that the majority would 
have been against him but for the interference of the gal- 
lant Snelling. 'Brave comrades,' said he, 'let us save him. 
The wretch deserves to die; but as our commander, whose 
life was more particularly his object, is willing to spare him, 
let us also forgive him. I hope, at least, that every officer of 
the fourth regiment will be upon the side of mercy.' Snelling 
prevailed, and Ben was brought to this place where he was 
discharged. To those who may censure me for pardoning 
Ben, you can state the circumstance of general Wayne's par- 
doning Antoine Lasselle, who, you know, was not only found 
fighting with the Indians against us, but actually hid within 
our lines, and although he was condemned as a spy, he was 
pardoned by the general. I have yet another providential 
interference in my favor to mention. I had in the campaign, 
for my own riding, a grey mare and a sorrel horse. They 
were both fine riding nags, but the mare was uncommonly 
spirited and alive. I generally rode them alternately, day and 
day about. On the day we got to the town I was on the mare, 
and as it was our invariable rule to have the horses saddled 
and bridled through the night, the saddle was kept upon her, 
and, like the other horses belonging to my family, she was 
tied to a picket driven into the ground in the I'ear of my 
marquee and between that and the baggage wagon. In the 
night the mare pulled up the picket and got loose. The 
dragoon centinel awakening my servant George, the latter 
caught the mare and tied her to the wagon wheel on the 
back side. When the alarm took place I called for the mare. 
George being aroused from his sleep and confoundedly fright- 
ened, forgot that he had removed her to the other side of the 



 

wagon and was unable to find her. In the mean time major 
Taylor's sei-vant had brought up his horse. The major ob- 
served that I had better mount him, and he would get another 
and follow me. I did so. Poor Owen accompanied me, 
mounted upon a remarkably white horse. Before we got to 
the angle which was first attacked, Owen was killed. I at 
that time supposed that it was a ball which had passed over 
the heads of the infantry that had killed him; but I am pur- 
suaded that he was killed by one of the two Indians who got 
within the lines, and that it was extremely probable that 
they mistook him for me. Taylor joined me in a few minutes 
after, mounted on my grey mare. I immediately directed him 
to go and get another. He returned to my quarters, and pre- 
ferring my sorrel horse to another of his own that was there, 
mounted him, and we thus continued on each others' horses, 
till near the close of the action. Being then with both my 
aid-de-camps, Taylor and Hurst, in the rear of the right flank 
line, the fire of several Indians near to the line was directed 
at us. One of their balls killed the horse that Taylor was 
riding, and another passed through the sleeve of his coat, a 
third wounded the horse I was riding in the head, and a 
fourth was very near terminating my earthly career. Now, 
what a singular combination of circumstances happened to 
save me. If I had been mounted on my grey mare I should 
have inevitably been killed, and I should have been on her 
if she had not broken loose in the night, or if, after being 
caught she had been tied where the other horses were, or 
if my servant had recollected where he had tied her. It oc- 
curred to none of us that it was dangerous to be on a white 
animal until after Owen fell, or he would not have been suf- 
fered to ride his own white horse, as there were several spare 
ones belonging to my own family. I have seen a paragraph 
in one of the papers stating that 'the white horse on which 
I had ridden the day before the action, was riddled with balls,' 
this is not the fact ; neither colonel Owens' horse, which colonel 
Wells has since taken home to his widow, or my mare were 
touched with a ball, and no one was upon the mare during the 
action but major Taylor, and he only for a minute or two. 



JOURNAL 



OF TWO CAMPAIGNS OF THE FOURTH REGIMENT OF 
U. S. INFANTRY 

IN THE 

MICHIGAN AND INDIANA TERRITORIES 

UNDER THE COMMAND OF 

Col. John P. Boyd and Lt. Col. James Miller 
During the Years 1811 and 12 



By ADAM walker, 

Late a Soldier of the Uth Regiment 



KEENE, N. H. 



PRINTED AT THE SENTINEL PRESS, 
By the Author 



PREFACE 

When the Author of the succeeding pages had determined 
on recording the events and operations of the Regiment to 
which he belonged, it was far from his intention to give them 
publicity. They were noted down for the amusement of his 
leisure hours and the perusal of his Friends, when he should 
return from the toils of the Camp and the fatigues of war ; — 
to portray to the view of those Friends the various vicissi- 
tudes of fate attendant on the life of a Soldier. — But since 
his return, many who have perused the manuscript, have ex- 
pressed their ardent desire to see it published, and to gratify 
their wishes, he has been induced to submit it to the press. — 
He indulges the hope that his simple narrative will fall into 
the hands of none but the candid and liberal, who affect not 
to despise the humble and unvarnished tale of the Private 
Soldier. 

The Author 



JOURNAL' 

The 4th Regiment of U. S. Infantry was raised principally in the 
year 1808 — from the five New England States, viz.: Vermont, New 
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut, and consisted 
of between 800 and 900 men — under the command of Colonel John P. 
Boyd. The regiment was not embodied until 

April 29, 1811. — When we received orders from Government to 
rendezvous at the Lazaret to Barracks on the Schuylkill, five miles below 
Philadelphia. Captain Whitney's Company of U. S. Riflemen, then sta- 
tioned at Newport, R. I., was also ordered to join the 4th Regiment at 
this place. 

May 24. — The whole regiment (except one company under Captain 
Rannie, which were detained at Marblehead) had arrived, and were im- 
mediately formed, consisting of about 600 of as noble fellows as ever 
trod the tented field; all in good health and fine spirits, and their 
discipline unrivalled; nothing worthy of note took place while we re- 
mained here, which was but a few days, except the degrading situa- 
tion in which Captain Whitney of the riflemen had placed himself while 
commanding officer, by descending to the level of a musician, and with 
his own hands bestowing corporeal punishment upon the bare posteriors 
of two privates of his company, in the face of the whole regiment on 
parade. Such conduct in a commander, merited, and received the pointed 
scorn of every officer of the regiment. The two men, who had hereto- 
fore been good soldiers, deserted within two hours after receiving their 
punishment — and a few days afterwards Captain Whitney resigned a 
command he was totally unworthy of and returned home. Lieutenant 
A. Hawkins, a fine officer, was afterwards appointed to the command of 
this company. We received our tents, camp equipage, &c., and Colonel 
Boyd and Lieutenant Colonel Miller having arrived to take the com- 
mand — On the 

3d June, 1811, we commenced our march for Pittsburgh. Crowds 
of spectators from the city of Philadelphia came to witness our de- 
parture; the day was extremely waim and we were almost suffocated 
with heat and dust. We marched five miles from the city and en- 
camped about 4 o'clock. Many respectable citizens from Philadelphia 
accompanied us to our encampment. 

I omit the particulars of our march through the state of Pennsyl- 
vania, as no event transpired except what falls to the lot of all soldiers 
on long marches. The country being extremely rough and mountainous, 
our shoulders pressed beneath the weight of our cumbrous knapsacks, 
our feet swollen and blistered, and performing toilsome marches be- 
neath a burning sun, amid clouds of dust, in the warmest season of the 
year, rendered our situation painful in the extreme and at times almost 
insupportable. A number of desertions took place on this march, in 
consequence of its having been whispered among the troops that they 

furnished by the Libraiy o( Congiess and printed 



 

were to be sent to New Orleans — and it is believed, had not Colonel 
Miller given them to understand that no such thing was intended, one- 
third, at least, of the regiment would never have reached Pittsburgh. 
However, placing unbounded confidence in the word and honor of Colonel 
Miller, order was restored and the fears of the men were calmed. 

On the 10th June we arrived at Carlisle, a handsome little town 
about 120 miles from Philadelphia, where we halted one day to refresh 
and rest our wearied limbs. 

June 12th we again proceeded on our march and arrived at the 
beautiful town of Pittsburgh on the 28th June, 1811. At Pittsburgh 
we found excellent quarters, necessaries of all kinds, cheap and plenty; 
— The inhabitants were kind, generous and hospitable; they knew how to 
commisserate, and were happy in relieving the sufferings of the soldier. 
While we on our part were grateful for their favors, which we endeavored 
to merit by treating them with the respect due to good citizens. Our 
time here passed very agreeably for two weeks, at the expiration of 
which we received orders to descend the Ohio River to Newport (Ken.). 

July 29th. The regiment embarked on board ten long keel boats, 
each boat being sufficiently large to contain one company of men. With 
our colors flying and drums beating, we left the shore in regular order 
and commenced our passage while the band, attached to the regiment, 
were chaunting our favorite ditty of Yankee Doodle amidst the cheers 
and acclamations of the generous citizens of Pittsburgh, assembled at 
the place of our embarkation. After passage of four days, without 
accident, we arrived at the little town of Marietta, where we had the 
pleasure of meeting with many of our hardy Yankee brethi-en from New 
England. We tarried here over night, and early next morning we con- 
tinued on our passage, and on the 8th of August we all safely arrived 
at Newport, a small village situated at the mouth of the Licking, which 
empties into the Ohio, and directly opposite the town of Cincinnati 
in the state of Ohio. Here we were to remain until further orders; 
while Lieutenant Hawkins was dispatched to Indiana to inform Gov- 
ernor Harrison of our arrival at Newport and to receive his command. 

The troops at this time were perfectly ignorant of their destina- 
tion, or the real object our government had in view, in sending us at 
such a distance to the westward. Many were still fearful that we were 
to be sent to New Orleans, and knowing the fate of former troops that 
had been stationed there who had been swept off by sickness, it created 
much uneasiness in the minds of New England troops, and some few 
desertions took place. We experienced some very warm, sultry weather, 
and considerable fear was entertained by Colonel Boyd for the health of 
the troops. Captain Welsh, an amiable officer, died and was buried with 
Masonic and Military honors. 

August 28th. Lieutenant Hawkins returned with orders from Gov- 
ernor Harrison for the regiment to proceed with all possible dispatch to 
Vincennes, in the Indiana Territory, where the conduct of the Indians 
on the Wabash had become very alarming. The Governor had previously 
been authorized to employ the 4th Regiment in his service, should cir- 
cumstances make it necessary. 



 

On the 31st Au^st we left Newport and proceeded down the Ohio, 
without difficulty, until we arrived at the falls or rapids, when we were 
obliged to disembark and have the baggage taken from the boats and 
conveyed round by land to the foot of the rapids, while skillful pilots 
navigated our boats through this difficult passage. 

Governor Harrison was at this place, and accompanied by Colonel 
Boyd, proceeded across the country to Vincennes, leaving the command 
of the regiment to Lieutenant Colonel Miller to continue their passage 
by water. 

September 4th. Early in the morning we left the rapids, and on 
the 9th, without any occurrence worthy of note,_ we arrived at the 
mouth of the Wabash, a distance of 1,022 miles from Pittsburgh; but 
the most disagreeable and difficult task in our navigation was yet to be 
performed. We had now 160 miles to ascend the Wabash, the current 
of which is very rapid, and at this season of the year was quite low and 
much interrupted by rocks and sand-bars. We were daily obliged to 
wade the river and haul the boats after us over the rapids, which 
occasioned many of our men, on our arrival at Vincennes, to be dis- 
ordered with that painful disease, the fever and ague. Every precau- 
tion possible was taken by the humane and generous Colonel Miller to 
presei-ve the health of the regiment; himself waded the river as well 
as every other officer; in many instances perfo lining the duties of the 
common soldier, and assisting them to haul up the boats. At the close 
of each day we brought the boats to a convenient landing; placed our 
guard for the night, while those who had obtained an evening's respite 
from the toils of this tedious and laborious passage, were suffered to 
regale their spirits over an extra glass of whiskey, bestowed by the 
liberality of our commander. The utmost hannony and good humor 
prevailed — no contention — no Murmuring — all cheerfully performed their 
duty. 

September 19, 1811. After a fatiguing passage of ten days through 
an unsettled country, which presented nothing to the view but a vsdld 
and dreai-y wilderness, our ears were cheered by a prospect of the town 
of Vincennes. It was dark before we landed and by the noise and con- 
fusion about us we concluded the town to be overrun with troops. A 
rabble soon gathered about the boats and assisted in hauling them ashore 
— their whooping and yells and their appearance caused us to doubt 
whether we had not actually landed among the savages themselves. Many 
of these militia spoke the French language; their dress was a short 
frock of deer-skin, a belt around their bodies, with a tomahawk and 
scalping knife attached to it, and were nearly as destitute of discipline 
as the savages themselves. The militia from Kentucky and a few com- 
panies of Indiana were decent soldiers, yet the large knife and hatchet 
which constituted a part of their equipment, vidth their dress, gave them 
rather a savage appearance. The hatchet, however, was found to be a 
very useful article on the march — they had no tents but with their 
hatchets would in a short time form them.«elves a shelter from the 
weather, on encamping at night. 

The Dragoons, commanded by Major Daviess, consisting of about 
120 men, were well mounted and handsomely equipped, and composed 



698 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



of some of the most respectable citizens from Kentucky and Indiana. 

The Indians who had been lurking about the town for a number of 
days suddenly disappeared, and on the 

27th September. The army was embodied, consisting of between 10 
and 1200 men; and under the immediate command of Governor Harrison, 
we took up our line of march from Vincennes, being well furnished with 
arms, ammunition and provision, advancing with but little variation in 
the follovring 

ORDER OF MARCH 
Mounted Riflemen. 



ROAD 



Guards 



Mounted Scouts- 



Mounted 



Guards 



Mounted 



Guards 



Spies far in advance 



Infantry 



Guards 



Guards 



Guards 



 

In this manner we proceeded on our march by the taps of the drums 
at the head of each column, to prevent the lines distancing each other 
too far. It was customary each morning, an hour before day-break, to 
rouse the troops from their slumbei-s, with three solitary taps of the 
drums of each line, when they turned out and formed in front of their 
tents, which was the line of battle in case of an attack; in this manner, 
they stood to their arms until the beating of the Reveille. This pre- 
caution was deemed a very necessary one, knowing it to be the time 
that the Indians generally choose to make their attacks, as the troops 
sleep more sound, and the sentinels become wearied and sleepy, and 
consequently less vigilant. 

October 3d. After a march of six days, through an uninhabited 
country, we arrived at a place on the banks of the Wabash, called 
Battelle des Illinois. Here we formed our encampment with the in- 
tention of tarrying a few weeks, to ascertain more correctly the dis- 
position of the Prophet and his warriors. A fort and Block Houses 
were ordered to be built at this place, which gave sufficient employ- 
ment to the militia. 

Some murmuring took place among them, being heartily sick of 
the camp, and desirous of returning to their homes. Many indeed, 
threatened to leave us at all hazards, which caused the Governor much 
anxiety and trouble. He appeared not disposed to detain any man 
against his inclination ; being endowed by nature with a heart as humane 
as brave; in his frequent addresses to the militia his eloquence was 
formed to persuade; appeals were made to reason as well as feeling — 
and never were they made in vain — when the militia unused to military 
restriction, threatened a desertion, his eloquence calmed their passions, 
and hushed their discontented murmurings — and in a short time all 
became tranquil, and unanimity reigned throughout the army. 

About this time many Indians came peaceably into camp, and held 
frequent Council with the Governor; but all endeavors to effect an 
accommodation with the Prophet were vain — they still continued stub- 
born and refractory — and would not listen to any terms of peace made 
them by the Governor. Their lurking Indians were nightly prowling 
about our encampment, and alarming the sentinels on their posts. On 
the 20th October in the evening, an Indian crept cautiously through the 
bushes, opposite one of the sentinels in the main guard and shot him 
through both thighs — the sentinel nearest to him, saw the flash of the 
rifle, and immediately presented his piece — snapped it twice — both times 
it missed fire! The Indian made his escape, the camp was alarmed, 
and the troops called to arms. The Dragoons were instantly formed, 
and under the command of that gallant and spirited officer. Major 
Daviess, sallied out and scoured the woods in the vicinity of the en- 
campment; but no Indians could be found. The Dragoons in passing 
the line of sentinels, were fired upon by mistake, the sentinels supposing 
them to be the enemy (it being very dark) but fortunately no one was 
injured. We stood to our arms the whole of this night, while the Gov. 
and Col. Boyd were riding down the lines animating the troops to do 
their duty in case we were attacked. 



 

Thus after a tedious course of negotiations, the fruitless endeavors 
to effect by fair means, a redress of our wrongs, and the patience of the 
Governor and of the army being nearly exhausted it was determined to 
give them some weightier reasons than had been heretofore offered, why 
peace should be concluded. Orders were therefore given for the army 
to be in readiness to march to the Prophet's town. 

October 21st. We commenced our march from Fort Han-ison, so 
called in honor of our worthy Commander; Col. Miller, the officer so 
highly esteemed by the troops of our regiment was unfortunately de- 
tained at this place by sickness. After a few days of tedious marching, 
and having crossed the Wabash, we arrived at Vermillion river — Capt. 
Baen, who had been long absent from the command of his company, 
had a day or two previous, joined us on the march, and being the oldest 
Captain in Commission, was appointed to act as Major and headed the 
left column of the army. Having a number of sick who were unable 
to proceed farther, a small blockhouse was erected for their accommoda- 
tion, and a Sergeant's guard was left for their protection. 

November 1st. We crossed the Vermillion river into the Indian 
possessions, at which time the weather became rainy and cold. Many 
Indians were discovered by our spies, lurking in the woods about us; 
supposed to be the scouts of the Prophet, watching our movements. After 
marching about fourteen miles, we crossed a small creek, and encamped 
on a high open piece of land; still rainy and cold. An alarm was here 
given by one of the sentinels, who fired on a Horse, which had strayed 
out of Camp. 

November 3d, continued on our march — came to an extensive level 
prairie, which took up the whole of this day in crossing — started up 
many deer, two of which we killed — also an animal called a prairie wolf. 
Nothing of importance transpired until — 

November 6th. When our spies, who had ventured near the Indian 
village, returned, and informed the Governor we were within a few miles 
of the Prophet's town — we were ordered to throw off our knapsacks, and 
be in preparation for an attack. We advanced about four miles to the 
edge of a piece of woods, when we were ordered to break off by com- 
panies, and advance in single lines; keeping a convenient distance from 
each other to enable us to form a line of battle, should necessity require 
it; — this was frequently done in the course of our advance toward the 
town, in consequence of the unevenness of the land, and the appearance 
of many favorable places for the enemy to attack us. In this manner we 
advanced very cautiously, until we came in sight of the Indian village, 
when we halted. The Indians appeared much surprised and terrified 
at our sudden appearance before their town; we perceived them run- 
ning in eveiy direction about the village, apparently in great confusion; 
their object however, was to regain in season their different positions 
behind a breast work of logs which encircled the town from the bank 
of the Wabash. A chief came out to the Governor, begging of him not 
to proceed to open hostilities; but to encamp \^'ith the troops for that 
night, and in the morning they solemnly promised to come into camp 
and hold a council, and they would agree to almost any tei-ms the 
Governor might propose; expressing their earnest desire for peace with- 



 

out bloodshed— but the treacherous villains merely made this promise 
to gain sufficient time to put their infernal scheme in execution. The 
Governor enquired of the chief where a situation suitable for encamping 
might be found; being informed, he dispatched three or four officers to 
examine the ground, who returned with a favorable report of the place 
— which was a piece of narrow rising ground, covered with heavy timber, 
running some length into a marshy prairie, and about three-quarters 
of a mile northwest of the town. Here we encamped for the night, as 
near the form of a hollow-square as the nature of the ground would 
admit. Being cool, cloudy weather, we built large fires in front of our 
tents, to dry our clothing, cook our provisions, etc. The signal for the 
field officers to collect at the Governors marque was given; we were 
soon after ordered to lay with our cartridge boxes on, and our guns at 
our sides — and in case of an attack (as was always the order, while on 
the march), each man stepped five paces in front of his tent, which 
formed the line of battle. 

On the morning of the 7th November, a few minutes before 4 o'clock, 
while we were enjoying the sleep so necessary to the repose of our 
wearied limbs — the attack commenced — when only a single gun was 
fired by the guard, and instantly we were aroused by the horried yells 
of the savages close upon our lines. 

The dreadful attack was received first by a company of regulars, 
under the command of Capt. Barton, and a company of militia, com- 
manded by Capt. Geiger, — their men had not the least notice of the 
approach of the Indians until they were aroused by a horrid yell and a 
discharge of rifles at the very door of their tents; considerable con- 
fusion ensued in these two companies before they could be formed in any 
regular order; but notwithstanding the disorder this sudden attack cre- 
ated, the men were not wanting in their duty — they sprang from their 
tents and discharged their pieces upon the enemy, with great execution, 
and kept their ground good until relief could be brought them. The 
attack soon extended round to the right line, where the troops were 
formed in complete order, and the assaults of the savages were returned 
in full measure. One company of Indiana militia fell back, in great 
disorder, but after some arduous exertions of their officers, they were 
again rallied and fought with a spirit that evinced a determination to 
escape the odium of cowardice. The battle had now become general, 
every musket and rifle contributed its share to the work of carnage. 
A few Indians had placed themselves in an advantageous situation on 
the left of the front line, and being screened from our fire by some large 
oak trees, did great execution in our ranks. The small company of U. S. 
Riflemen, commanded by Lieut. Hawkins, were stationed within two 
rods of these trees, and received the heaviest of their fire, but maintained 
the position in a most gallant manner, although the company of militia 
on their left were giving way in great disorder. Major Daviess, with a 
small detachment of dragoons attempted to dislodge them; but failed in 
the attempt, and was himself mortally wounded. Capt. Snelling, of 
the regulars, soon after made a desperate charge at the head of his 
company, with success, losing one man, who was tomahawked by a 
wounded Indian. The Indians fell back, and for a short time, con- 



 

tinued the action at a distance — here was some sharp shooting, as they 
had greatly the advantage, by the light afforded them from our fires, 
which could not be entirely extinguished. We were well supplied with 
buck shot cartridges, which were admirably calculated for an engage- 
ment of this nature. The savages were severely galled by the steady 
and well directed fire of the troops. When near day-break they made 
their last desperate effort to bieak our lines, when three cheers were 
given, and charge made by the 4th Regt. and a detachment of dragoons 
■ — they were completely routed and the whole put to a precipitate flight. 
They fled in all directions leaving us masters of the field which was 
strewn with the bodies of the killed and wounded. Some sharp-shooters 
of the militia, harrassed them greatly in their retreat, across the marshy 
prairie. The day was appropriated to the mournful duties of dressing 
the wounds of our unfortunate comrades, and burying the dead. To 
attempt a full and detailed account of this action, or portray to the 
imagination of the reader the horrors attendant on this sanguinary con- 
flict, far exceeds my power of description — the awful yell of the savages, 
seeming rather the shriek of despair, than the shouts of triumph — the 
tremendous roar of musquetry — the agonizing screams of the wounded 
and dying, added to the shouts of the victors, mingling in tumultuous 
uproar, formed a scene that can better be imagined than described. 

The following statements are from Sergeant Montgomery Orr, of 
Capt. Barton's Company, (one of the Companies first attacked) and that 
of William Brigham, a private of the late Captain Whitney's Company 
of Riflemen, who was on his post, in front of Barton's Company, at the 
time of the attack; the latter of whom was mortally wounded, and died 
of his wounds a few weeks afterwards at Vincennes. Their veracity is 
unquestionable, and as I had the recital from their own lips, I do not 
hesitate to declare my belief of them. 

Statement of Sergeant Orr. 
"About twenty minutes before the attack, I got up and went to the 
door of my tent (No. 1) and overheard the sentinels talking in front 
— listened, but could not distinctly hear what was said — it was rainy 
and very dark. I laid down and was partly asleep, when some person 
rushed by and touched the corner of the tent — I sprang partly up — all 
was still. I jogged Corpl. Thomas [David L. Thompson] (who slept in 
the same tent) and asked, "if he did not hear somebody run by the 
tent?" He said, "no — I've been asleep". I then laid down again, when 
something struck the top of the tent — Corpl. Thomas rose up, took his 
gun; in a moment thiee or four lifles were discharged at the very door 
of the tent, and an awful yell ensued — Thomas fell back on to me — I 
said, "Corpl. Thomas, for God's sake don't give back" — he made me no 
answer, for he was a dead man. I got out of the tent as soon as pos- 
sible — -the men were in confusion, some in front and some in the rear 
of the tents firing — the Indians within a rod of us. Capt. Barton ordered 
the men to form instantly they weie too much broken, and no regular 
line could be formed ; but they kept up a .steady fire on the Indians, 
who fell back. Capt. Geiger's company of militia, stationed near us, 
were in great confusion — they could hardly be distinguished from the 
Indians — I received a wound and was obliged to retire." 



 

Statement of William Biigham. 

"On the night of the battle, I was warned for Guard, and took post 
a little after sunset — Wm. Brown (a regular) was the sentinel on my 
left, and a militia man on my right. These three posts were directly in 
front of Capt. Barton's Company of U. S. Infantry. 

I examined the ground adjacent to my post very particularly. There 
"Was a small thicket of willows on a stream of water, about two rods in 
front of my post, and high grass between me and the willows — I observed 
it to be a favorable place for the approach of Indians and determined to 
be on the alert. Capt. Barton's Company were a few feet higher, and 
between us there were logs and some small bushes. I was relieved off 
post about 10 o'clock. At 3 o'clock I again took post; very dark and 
rainy. I had resumed my station about half an hour, when I heard a 
faint whistle, not far from Wm. Brown's post, as I supposed — he called 
to me; but I did not think it prudent to answer — however, after he had 
called several times, I answered "holloa" — says he, "look sharp"- — (the 
usual word of caution between sentinels) — I kneeled down with my gun 
on a charge. It was so very dark that no object could be discerned 
within three feet of me, and I could hear nothing except the rustling 
noise occasioned by the falling rain among the bushes. At this time, 
Brown, (being much alarmed) very imprudently left his post, and came 
towards me. I heard light footsteps — presented my gun, and should 
have fired upon him had he not that moment spoke, much agitated — 
"Brigham, let us fire and run in — you may depend on it there are In- 
dians in the bushes." I told him not to fire yet for fear we should give 
a false alarm. While we were standing together, something struck in 
the brush near us (I suppose an arrow) — we were both frightened and 
run in without fireing — the Indians close upon our heels — we passed 
swiftly by Cap. Barton's tents — I soon afterwards fell into Capt. Wilson's 
Company of militia, where I received a wound which broke my right 
arm." 

Had this attack been delayed but ten minutes longer, the troops 
would have been formed in line of battle, and in readiness to receive 
it. The General had arisen but a few minutes previous to its com- 
mencement, and in four minutes more would have ordered the usual 
signal (three taps of the drum) to be given for the troops to rise and 
stand to their arms. The orderly Musician at the same time stood in 
readiness for that purpose, awaiting the orders of the General. Some 
of the troops, were up, and sitting by the fires ; many of which had been 
furnished with fresh fuel, and the light arising from them, must have 
afforded the Indians a pretty correct view of our situation, and of the 
most proper place to make their assault. Every exertion was made to 
extinguish these fires the moment the attack commenced, which could not 
be but imperfectly accomplished as the Indian marksmen were sure to 
pick off whoever approached them. 

It was truly unfortunate that these fires were not extinguished the 
moment the troops retired to rest; for it is certain that the Indians de- 
rived a great advantage from their circumstance in the course of the 
action. 



 

The hasty charge made by Major Daviess to dislodge the Indians 
from behind the trees on the left of the front line, was made with only 
twenty of the dragoons, dismounted; and its fatal consequence to the 
Major, was in a great measure owing to his having on a white blanket 
surtout. He was easily disting:uished by the Indians, and received three 
balls in his body; he immediately fell, exclaiming, "I am a dead man;" 
he was taken up and lived, however, till the close of the action. The 
fall of this brave and amiable officer was greatly lamented by the army, 
as well as the citizens of the state of Kentucky, where he held the 
oflSce of Attorney General. He volunteered his services in the ex- 
pedition under Gen. Harrison, who, knowing his worth, appointed him 
to the command of the volunteer dragoons. 

Col. Owen, another brave officer, considerably advanced in years, 
and acting as aid-de-camp was shot from his horse by the side of the 
General and immediately expired. Judge Taylor, the other aid, had 
his horse shot under him; in their fall the horse came on top of the 
Judge, where he lay confined for some time, unable to extricate him- 
self; he was relieved from this disagreeable situation by a soldier, who 
happened to pass near him. 

Capt. Baen, who had been with us but a few days, was shockingly 
mangled with the tomahawk; — he was taken up in a delirious state, 
and died a short time afterwards. There was but one other instance of 
any person being tomahawked in this engagement; which was a private 
soldier of Capt. Snelling's company, upon a charge in the midst of the 
Indians. 

Gen. Harrison received a shot through the rim of his hat. In the 
heat of the action, his voice was frequently heard and easily dis- 
tinguished, giving his orders in the same calm, cool and collected man- 
ner with which we had been used to receive them on a drill or parade. 
The confidence of the troops in the General was unlimited, and his 
measures were well calculated to gain the particular esteem of the 4th 
Reg-t. All kinds of petty punishments, inflicted without authority for 
the most trifling errors of the private soldier, by the pompous sergeant, 
or the insignificant corporal, were at once prohibited. A prohibition of 
other grievances which had too long existed, in this regiment, at once 
fixed in the breast of every soldier, an affectionate and lasting regard for 
their general. The benefit of which was fully realized in the conduct 
of the troops in the engagement, as well as throughout the campaign. 

After the action, a soldier of the Kentucky militia, discovered an 
Indian at some distance above the encampment, leading a horse out 
of the woods, into some high grass in the prairie; he caught his rifle 
and made after him. The Indian had loaded his horse with two others 
wounded, and was returning, when the Kentuckian gave a whoop, dis- 
charged his rifle, brought the Indian down, and returned in triumph 
to the camp, leading in his horse. 

One Indian only broke through the lines into the encampment, and 
he was immediately afterwards dispatched by Capt. Adams, the pay- 
master of the regiment. 

The force of the enemy in the engagments could never be correctly 
ascertained; but from the best information that could be obtained, it 



 

was calculated to amount to between ten and twelve hundred warriors, 
headed by Winnemac, a Kickapoo Chief — and that they lost about four 
hundred in killed and wounded. Our loss amounted to forty-one killed, 
and one hundred forty-seven wounded. The names of those of the 4th 
regt. are given in the latter part of this Journal. 

A Potawatimie Chief was found severely wounded on the field, 
sometime after the action. He was brought before the General, and 
expressed the greatest sorrow at what had happened — and accused the 
Prophet of deceiving them. His wounds were dressed by the surgeon, 
and the best care taken of him while he remained with us on the 
ground. The Gen. left with him a speech to be delivered to the Indians, 
if they should return to the battle ground. 

November 8th. A small detachment of mounted men were ordered 
to advance to the Prophet's town, and see what had become of the In- 
dians. They entered the town and found an aged squaw only, who 
informed them that the Indians had left in great haste, immediately 
after the action, and had crossed the Wabash. It was a handsome little 
Indian village of between one and two hundred huts or cabins, and a 
large store house, containing about 3,000 bushels of corn and beans. 
In their hasty retreat they left many articles of value to themselves, 
which except a few were destroyed in the conflagration of the town. 

November 9th. After destroying considerable of our baggage, in 
order to make room in the waggons for the conveyance of the wounded 
we began our march on the return to Vincennes expecting the Indians 
would follow, and attack us. Such an event was greatly to be dreaded; 
as we were nearly out of provisions, and had upwards of a hundred and 
thirty wounded men to be attended to, who were painfully situated in 
the waggons, especially those who had broken limbs, by their continual 
jolting, on an unbeaten road through the wilderness. 

Having suffered severely in consequence of the light afforded the 
Indians from our fires in the late attack, we adopted another method 
on our return, by building large fires some distance beyond the line of 
sentinels, while those in the encampment were extinguished on our 
retiring to rest; which in case of an attack, would have been of much 
service by placing the enemy between us and the fires. The sentinels 
on post at night having been frequently alarmed by lurking Indians 
would place a stake in the ground about the height of a man, and hang 
their blanket and cap upon it, and retire a few paces, behind some log 
or tree; as it had become hazardous for sentinels to walk their posts 
■while the Indians were continually hovering about them. It was said 
that arrows had been found in some of the blankets put up in this 
manner, which is very probable, as they would approach within a few 
feet of a sentinel in the stillest night, without being discovered, as was 
the case at Fort Harrison, where a sentinel was shot down by an Indian, 
who had made his way through a thicket of bushes directly in front, 
and within twelve feet of the man on post. 

On the 14th we arrived at the small blockhouse on the Vermillion 
river, where we left our sick, who had looked with painful anxiety for 
our safe return. The vigilance of Sergeant Reed, who commanded at 
this place was highly applauded in the arrest of two militia men, who 

45—21182 



 

deserted us the moment the action commenced, and fled with such pre- 
cipitancy that they reached the blockliouse the night following, informing 
Sergeant Reed that the army was defeated, and nearly all were destroyed 
— advising him to leave the place and hasten back to Fort Harrison. 
Their advice was disregarded by the sergeant, who put them under 
arrest. The express on his way to Vincennes a few hours afterwards 
passed the blockhouse and informed them of the success of our engage- 
ment. 

We suffered much for the want of provisions during our march to 
this place. Many of the troops had made use of horse meat to satisfy 
their craving appetites for the last five days. Col. Miller, then at Fort 
Harrison, being apprized of our destitute situation, immediately dis- 
patched a boat with fresh provisions to our relief, which fortunately 
arrived at the blockhouse nearly at the same time with the army. 

November 15th. The wounded were placed in boats, and arrived at 
Fort Harrison on the morning of the ensuing day. Capt. Snelling with 
his company were left to garrison the Fort, and the army proceeded on 
their march. 

The author being one of the wounded, was put on board a boat with 
other disabled men and sent down the river to Vincennes. About 12 
o'clock at night the boat we were in struck on a sand bank ; which obliged 
us to lay by until the next morning. The night, as may be supposed, was 
passed in a very uncomfortable manner — the weather was freezing cold, 
and our wounds which had not been dressed for two days past, became 
stiff and extremely painful. 

November 19th. Arrived at Vincennes nearly at the same time the 
army did by land, and immediately after were placed in excellent quar- 
ters, and every possible attention paid to the sick and wounded, by Gov. 
Harrison and Col. Boyd, who always evinced the most anxious solicitude 
for the welfare of their soldiers. 

Nothing more was heard from the Indians until the latter part of 
December when a Kickapoo Chief, bearing a white flag, with a few 
others, who were desirous of concluding a peace with the United States, 
came to Vincennes with the intention of holding a council for that pur- 
pose. The Governor informed them that he did not consider them as 
qualified for making a treaty which would be binding on their leader the 
Prophet ; and therefore no treaty would be made unless the Prophet 
was present at the council, with his principal chiefs. 

They informed the Governor that the warriors of the Prophet had 
all left him; reproaching him with being the instigator of all their mis- 
fortunes, and threatened to put him to death. They were impressed with 
a belief that they could defeat us with ease; and intended to have at- 
tacked us in our camp at Fort Harrison, had we remained there a week 
longer. 

The Potawatimie chief who was taken prisoner by us and left on 
the battle ground, they said, had since died of his wounds; but that he 
faithfully delievered the speech of the Governor, to the different tribes, 
and urged them to abandon the Prophet, and agree to the terms offered 
them by the Governor. 



 

March 10, 1812. We experienced some heavy shocks of an Earth- 
quake about this time, which occasioned considerable alarm; but did no 
other damage than throwing down a few chimnies in the town. On the 
Mississippi the shocks were more severe, where considerable damage was 
done, especially to buildings. It is said the motion of the earth in that 
quarter was from six to eight inches to and fro; but at Vincennes, 250 
miles to the north, it did not exceed three inches in the heaviest shocks, 
as was ascertained with a lead ball suspended by a thread from the 
ceiling in the house. The duration of the longest shock was about three 
minutes — they continued at intervals throughout the month. 

March 29th. About 150 Indians who were said to have remained 
neutral in the late contest, came to Vincennes, and encamped about two 
miles north of the town. They were requested to deliver up their arms, 
and a guard of soldiers should be placed over them for their protection, 
and tents supplied them while they tarried with us; this they complied 
with and desired an audience of the Governor on the ensuing day, which 
was granted. 

In Council, they declared their destestation of the Prophet and his 
adherents, expressing their wishes to remain in peace and friendship 
with their father, the President of the United States. The Governor, 
in a short reply, warned them against entering into any alliance with 
the Prophet and his warriors — telling them, if he should again be dis- 
turbed and obliged to come among them, it would be out of his power 
to restrain his young warriors from destroying them all. A treaty was 
signed, and the Indians received their annual presents of blankets, broad- 
cloths, calicoes, etc., and left the town for their encampment. 

April 2d. The Indians again came in, habited in their new dresses, 
performing their dances through the town, to the great diversion of the 
regiment, who were unacquainted with their peculiarities, except their 
propensity to deception and treachery; the ill consequences of which we 
had been taught at the battle of Tippecanoe. Towards evening they re- 
tired in good order, and soon after received their arms, and returned to 
their villages up the Wabash. 

There were still remaining many refractory Indians on the Wabash, 
who would agree to no terms of peace with the United States. They 
had even opened the graves of our unfortunate comrades who fell in 
the late action — stripped and scalped them, and left their bodies above 
ground. Col. Miller was preparing to send a detachment of troops to 
the battle ground to have them again interred ; but some friendly Indians 
undertook this office and the bodies were again replaced. 

April 4th. Information was received of the murder of a family of 
seven persons on White river, and others in Indiana, besides many 
depredations on the Mississippi. The settlers were alarmed, and fled to 
the forts and the most populous towns for protection, leaving their prop- 
erty to the mercy of the savages. 

April 9th. A family on the Embaras river, only seven miles from 
Vincennes, consisting of a man, his wife and three small children, were 
massacred while in the act of leaving their home for the purpose of 
finding protection at Vincennes. A young man who had resided with the 
family escaped and fled to Vincennes, where he arrived about 12 o'clock 



 

at night, and gave the alarm; the troops were immediately called to 
arms, expecting an attack upon the town. The next day Col. Miller, 
with a small detachment from the regiment, proceeded to the river 
Embaras, where they found the bodies of the murdered family, shock- 
ingly cut up with the tomahawk and scalping knife. The man had his 
breast opened, his entrails torn out and strewn about the ground. They 
were all scalped except an infant child in the mother's arms, which 
was knocked on the head. The bodies were decently interred and the 
party returned to Vincennes without being able to discover the per- 
petrators of this horrid massacre. 

We received information soon after the above transaction that the 
famous Chief, Tecumseh, brother to the Prophet, had collected a con- 
siderable force on the Wabash with the intention of attacking the town 
of Vincennes, saying to the Governor, "You have destroyed my town in 
my absence; I shall, when the corn is two inches high destroy yours 
before your face." Tecumseh was not an enemy to be despised; and 
the information of his approach towards Vincennes created considerable 
alarm among the inhabitants. The town was filled vrith families who 
came to avoid the fury of the savages. Many of the principal dwelling 
houses were piqueted in, and the militia were called upon to be at their 
posts at a moment's warning; thus were we kept in fearful apprehension 
of an attack being made upon us by the Indians, whenever we should 
retire to rest; add to this the frequent shocks of earthquakes and the 
reader may imagine the unhappy situation in which we were placed. 

A serious misunderstanding had for some time existed between 
Gov. Harrison and Col. Boyd, the grounds of which, the author could 
never correctly ascertain ; yet was supposed to originate from some hasty 
remark of Col. Boyd upon the conduct of the militia of Indiana, during 
the campaign; and perhaps he had laid claim to a greater share of the 
laurels won in the late engagment, than the people of Indiana were 
willing to allow him; however, it is admitted by all, that the bravery 
good order and discipline of 4th Regiment secured to the army the 
victory at Tippecanoe for this Col. Boyd deserves the highest praise. 

April 12th. Col. Boyd left Vincennes for the city of Washington, 
and Col. Miller assumed the command of the regiment, when we soon 
after received orders from the Government to march to Dayton, in the 
state of Ohio, there to join the army under Brigadier Gen. Hull. The 
citizens of Vincennes sincerely lamented our departure, as there would 
be but a small force left for their protection against the savages, who 
had now assumed a formidable aspect, and threatened destruction to the 
place. Capt. Snelling, and his company arrived from Fort Harrison, 
where they had been stationed during the winter. 

May 3d. We swung our knapsacks and commenced our march for 
the falls of the Ohio. The road was so very bad that we were obliged to 
keep pioneers in advance to clear it, which greatly retarded our march. 
We observed on our route through Indiana, several houses piquetted in, 
where a number of families had collected, and formed little garrisons, to 
defend themselves against the Indians, who daily committed the most 
flagrant depredations upon the defenseless emigrant; we frequently saw 



 

men armed going to their fields to work, leaving their women and chil- 
dren to garrison their dwellings until their retuiTi in the evening. 

May 11th. We arrived on the banks of the Ohio, and immediately 
crossed the river to Louisville, Ky., where great respect was manifested 
towards us. Many of the citizens of this place had fought by our sides 
at the battle of Tippecanoe. 

List of killed and wounded of the 4th Regiment U. S. Infantry, in 
the battle of Tippecanoe. 

Late Capt. Whitney's Riflemen. 

Under the command of Lieut. Abraham Hawkins. 

Killed — Ira Browbridge. Wounded — Ensign Burchefted ; Sergeant 
Reuben Newton; Sergeant Aaron W. Forbush; Adam Walker; Ebenezer 
T. Andrews; Wm. Brigham; Samuel Briggs; Eph. Hall; Edward R. 
Tuck; Israel Newhall; Samuel Thing. Total, 12. 

Capt. Paul Wentworth's Company. 

Commanded in the action by Lieut. George P. Peters. 

Killed — Wm. H. King, private. Wounded — Lieut. George P. Peters; 
Corporal S. Johnson; Curtis Phipps; Charles Wait; Wm. Layman; Caleb 
Critchet; Jacob Kealer; Noah Furnald; Jos. Burditt, dead; Stanton 
Smiley; Nathaniel Haynes; Isaac M. Nure, dead. Total, 13. 

Capt. W. C. Baen's Company. 

Wounded — Capt. W. C. Baen, dead; Dexter Earl, dead; Sylvester 
Dean; John Donnahue; Timo. Foster; John D. Jones; Daniel Rodman; 
John Mahannon; Frank Nelson; Isaac Rathbone. Total, 10. 

Capt. Snelling's Company. 

Killed — Joseph Tibbetts. Wounded— I thiel Hathway; — 

Goodenough. Total, 3. 

The late Capt. Welch's Company. 

Killed — Corporal James Mitchell; Corporal David L. Thompson; 
Levi Cary, private. Wounded — Lieut. Geo. Gooding; Sergeant Mont- 
gomery Orr, dead; Corporal John Rice; John Crowell, dead; Daniel 
Gilman, dead; Stephen Pettis; Wm. Pomroy; Lucius Sallis; Jas. Steven- 
son, dead; Samuel Tibbetts, dangerous. Total, 10. 

Capt. Barton's Company. 

Wounded — Daniel Kearness, dead; Lewis Taylor, dead; Lemuel E. 

Welch, dead; John Clark; Robert Douglas; Wm. Foster; 

Souther; Wm. Turner. Total, 8. 

Capt. George Prescott's Company. 
Wounded — John Sandborn, dead. 

Capt. R. B. Brown's Company. 

Wounded — John Yeomans, dead; Bliss Lovell, dangerous; Augustus 
Bradford. Total, 3. 



 

Capt. Cook's Company. 

Wounded — Sergeant Henry Munn; Nathan Snow, dead; Amos Rice, 
dead; Daniel Lee, dead; Dennison Crumby, dead; Robert Thompson; 
Charles Coger, dangerous; Wm. M. Saunders; Daniel Rogers. Total, 9. 

Lt. Albright's detached 1st and 7th regiment. 

Killed — Isaac Butler. Wounded — Sergeant Walcott Babbit; Sergeant 
Nathan Fairbank; Samuel Potter, badly; Lewis Margum; Elisha Napps. 
Total, 6. 

Killed — 1 Capt, 2 Corporals, 19 privates. Wounded — 3 Subalterns, 
6 Sergeants, 2 Corporals, 1 Musician, 44 privates. Whole number killed 
and wounded of the army, 188. 



Taylor to Dawson 

Cincinnati, July 15, 1823 

Dawson, Harrison, 226 

Sir, 

Your [Mr. Dawson's] letter, which you handed to me last 
evening, containing certain queries relative to the affairs on 
the Wabash, in November, 1811, I have perused, and will 
proceed to give you concise answers to each of them, without 
going much into detail, which my recollection at this late 
period will not admit of. 

To your first question, I answer, that I was aid-de-camp to 
Governor Harrison, with the rank, pay, and emoluments of a 
major, upon the expedition on the Wabash in 1811. 

To your second, I state positively, that the Indians did not 
dictate to the Governor the position to encamp the army the 
night before the battle of Tippecanoe. When the army 
reached the Indian town in the afternoon, perhaps about sun- 
set, the Governor ordered major [Marston G.] Clark and my- 
self to proceed to the left, and endeavor to find a suitable 
place for an encampment ; we did so, and discovered the place 
upon which the battle was fought the next morning; upon 
our return to the army, we reported to the Governor our 
opinion about the place, which we stated to be favorable for 
an encampment. 

He had, at the time he despatched major Clark and myself 
upon this service, sent captain William Piatt, who was the 
chief of the quartermaster department, above the town to look 
for a suitable situation for an encampment; his report was 
unfavorable, and the Governor determined to occupy the 
ground selected by Clark and myself. 



 

To your third querie, I answer, that both major Clark and 
myself considered the ground upon which the army encamped 
to be favorable, and I believe the same opinion was enter- 
tained by every officer in the army. 

To your fourth, I answer, that the plan of preparing the 
troops to be ready upon the march or in camp, to engage the 
enemy, appeared to me to be judicious; and fifth, I under- 
stood it to be the plan of general Wayne, adopted by Governor 
Harrison, with an improvement by the latter in marching 
in single files by columns, instead of double files, as prac- 
ticed by general Wayne; of this, however, I can speak with 
no degi^ee of certainty. 

To your sixth, I answer, that the changes in the position 
of the troops during the action were made by the Governor 
himself, or by his orders, as far as my observation extended, 
or I have understood from others. 

To your seventh, I recollect only one instance in which I 
was ordered to conduct any of the changes of position, and 
that was in a detachment commanded under captain [David] 
Robb, from the right flank to the relief of [Spier] Spencer's 
on the left. 

To your eighth, I answer, that Governor Harrison on the 
march, was active, vigilant, and prudent; in the action, he 
appeared to be firm, cool, and collected, and upon the return 
of the army to Vincennes, he did every thing in his power 
for the comfort of the wounded, and to be prepared to repel 
an attack, should one be made by the Indians. 

To your ninth, I answer, that no officer was killed or 
wounded upon either of Governor Harrison's horses, he hav- 
ing two. 

To your tenth, I answer, that I understood and believe (for 
I was not present) that major [Joseph H.] Daviess was 
killed in charging the enemy with a few dismounted dragoons ; 
others can give more correct information upon this subject 
than I can, and to those I refer you. 

I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant. 

Waller Taylor 



 

Thomas Scott to Dawson 

ViNCENNES, July 25, 1823 
Dawson, Harrison, 227 

Moses Dawson, Esq. 

Sir, 

You request my opinion of General William Henry Har- 
rison, as a citizen, a soldier, and a general. 

I have had the pleasure of an acquaintance, intimately, 
for many years, with General Harrison, and ever considered 
him a man of honor, one who sought to do justice, and who 
was always willing to assist and benefit the condition of those 
with whom he was acquainted and associated ; and know him 
to be the friend of the oppressed and injured. Hospitality 
without ostentation was always to be found within his doors, 
and his household was ever ready to extend charity to the 
sick and needy. 

As a soldier and an officer, I can speak from an acquaint- 
ance formed with him as such, that I shall ever be proud of. 
I served under him in the campaign of 1811 upon the Wabash, 
as a captain, and shared with him the danger in the action 
of Tippecanoe, in the night of the 7th November, 1811; no 
one on the march, or on the return, did I hear murmur a com- 
plaint of the General's conduct; he possessed the confidence, 
and was the pride of the army ; his absence even for one day 
was felt by the army. 

I have thought, and still think, that few generals would 
have faced danger at so many points as General Harrison did 
in the action of Tippecanoe. Wherever the action was warm- 
est, was General Harrison to be found, and heard encourag- 
ing, and cheering the officers and soldiers. His humanity, 
his attention, and his care to the wounded, after the action, 
from the battle ground to the hospital in Vincennes, was that 
of a benevolent christian, and was evidence of the goodness 
of his heart. 

I cannot but say, that I consider General Harrison's con- 
duct on the campaign, and in the action of Tippecanoe un- 
exceptionable, as a soldier and officer of the United States, 
when correctly informed, who was a friend to the late war, 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 713 

an enemy to Indian warfare, and who returned from the army 
with clean garments. 
I am, sir, yours, etc. 

Thomas Scott> 

Larrabee to Dawson 

Cincinnati, Ohio, 13th October 1823 

Dawson, Harrison, 228 

Sir, 

I have a desire to place in a true light, (as far as I am able) 
several circumstances attending Tippecanoe battle, which have 
gone abroad to the people in a wrong view, and from which 
they have drawn erroneous impressions towards the conduct 
of the commanding General. 

1st. It is understood that the encampment occupied at 
Tippecanoe, was made choice of by the General from a report 
of the Indians in favor of it. 

Three officers, well able to judge, went out in search of a 
place, and they reported the one taken up. The situation was 
such, that if the army had been called upon to make choice of 
a place to fight Indians, I venture to say nine-tenths would 
have made that their selection. There was but one encamp- 
ment during the whole campaign, to which a preference could 
be given, and this was a cluster of trees, surrounded by 
prairie, while the one at Tippecanoe had only three sides 
prairie, the other being woods. 

2d. The impression prevails, generally, that the army were 
surprised in the attack. 

At the time the army left Vincennes, they were formed in 
the order of battle against the attack of Indians, and were 
never out of this situation till they returned; each one occu- 
pied the ground he would defend himself upon, whether 
marching or at rest upon it. This all-daring idea was in- 
stilled into the army collectively and individually by the Gen- 
eral, from the time we entered the wilderness, till a trial was 
had of the effect. The army was trained to be prepared to re- 
ceive that attack, and nothing but the unremitted attention of 
General Harrison to enforce the necessary discipline, could 
have brought the troops to such a state of perfection and order 
as the result of the battle proved. The fact of the army ris- 

1. Thomas Scott was appointed a lieutenant in the Knox Co. militia June 1, 1812 
he was appointed Lieut. Col. and July 9, 1813 made colonel. 



 

ing from rest, and being ready to receive the Indians in two 
minutes (of which there ought not to be a doubt) after the 
report of the first fire, is sufficient to satisfy all persons ca- 
pable of judging, as well as all unprejudiced minds, that it 
was not a surprise; the officers and soldiers slept with their 
clothes and accoutrements on, with drawn swords, muskets 
loaded, and bayonets fixed, laying by the sides of those who 
were to use them in a night attack. In this situation, on the 
morning of the 7th November, 1811, about fifteen minutes 
before the usual time of rising, the Indians attacked us by 
firing upon the guard three hundred paces from the lines; 
they then rushed upon the camp. The troops, although at rest 
at this moment, were in line and ready to receive them as they 
came up. An army marching against Indians in their coun- 
try, (the wilderness) is differently situated than when going 
against civilized enemies. The sending out scouts and spies, 
cannot be done with the most distant prospect of their return- 
ing. The army is thus compelled to keep compact, and their 
authority or knowledge of the Indians, extended no further 
than the ground they occupy ; the first that is known of them is 
the report of their fire. — Such attacks from a civilized force 
would be considered as a surprise, while by Indians it cannot, 
except the army is unprepared for them. At the battle of 
general Wayne, the Indians got the first fire ; at the battle of 
Brownstown the Indians got the first fire, and they got no 
further advantage at Tippecanoe. These battles and their re- 
sults were similar, except the Indians engaged more desper- 
ately in the later. If the army had been surprised, according 
to the general understanding upon such attacks, I may con- 
clude by saying not one would have ever returned to tell the 
tale. The mistake which is prevalent amongst the people, in 
regard to this attack, is not attributable to the General or to 
the army, but to themselves; and the cause is very obvious 
they rarely being qualified to judge of the circumstances. The 
General has been condemned for not attacking the Indians 
on the 6th; when he marched up in front of their town, his 
orders were to act on the defensive. This is enough to satisfy 
common sense, and it v^'ould be useless to multiply words with 
a view to appease stubborn prejudice upon this point. 
I am, respectfully, sir, 

your obedient servant 

C. Larrabee 



 

William Polke to National Intelligencer 

Chippewa, Fulton County Indiana, 
Feb 10, 1840 

Mss. fimtished by Mrs. Fnmuj S. Rnmely 

Gentlemen 

I observe Extracts from many of the administration papers 
in which the often Refuted slander of the Indians Selecting 
the Encampment for gen Harrison the evening previous to the 
Battle of Tippecanoe is repeated with as much Boldness as if 
it never had been proven a falsehood and as the statement will 
be published in all parts of the United States many Honest 
persons of all parties will believe it to be the fact if not con- 
tradicted. It has occured to me that my perfect knowledge of 
the whole transaction which has given rise to the slander Ren- 
ders it not more than an act of Strict Justice to gen Harrison 
to state candidly and impartially the facts of the case and leave 
the public to Draw their own Conclusions, which should you 
think of Sufficient Importance to occupy a small space in your 
Paper I have to request of you to Publish the same. 

I am gentlemen your &c. 

Wm. Polke 

ps. for my Character I Refer you to the entire Indiana Dele- 
gation both in the Senate & H R 

W. P. 

In the Campaign of 1811 under the Command of governor 
Wm. H. Harrison the Command of a Small Company of Spies 
and guides was Entrusted to Cap T. Dubois one of the oldest 
and most Respectable of the french Citizens of Vincnnes well 
acquainted with the Indian Character and customs and per- 
fectly acquainted with the Indian Country. Capt. Dubois not 
being an English Scholar at his Request I acted as his Clerk 
in making out his reports to the Commander in Chief which 
kept me constantly in his company and Near his person on the 
march and at all times while engaged in his Highly Respon- 
sible and Confidential duties which enables me to speak with 
the more certainty. On the Morning of the 6th of November 
the Day preceding the memorable Battle of Tippecanoe soon 
after the army was put in motion we discovered that the In- 
dian Spies were watching our movements the fact was com- 
municated to gen Harrison who directed Capt. Dubois to en- 
deavor to Bring the Indians to a parley as his Instructions was 



 

to make them propositions of peace and not to attack them in 
accordance with these Instructions in Company with Capt 
Dubois and the Interpretters we advanced a few hundred 
yards in front of our small Company but all attempts to bring 
them to a parley were unavailing they gradually Retiring as 
we approached them between 10 and 11 o'clock A M we ap- 
proached Burnets Creek on which was a small wet prairie 
Difficult to Cross and where Capt Dubois was of opinion if 
attacked at all that would be the place of attack Harrison put 
his army in order of Battle and directed the Spies & guides not 
to pass untill the army was near enough to support us. On 
passing the defile above named about 11 o'clock A. M. the army 
was halted and formed in order of Battle and Capt. Dubois 
directed to go on to the town (about two miles) with the gens 
proposals for a parley but to Run no Risks should there be 
an appearance of Danger on Capt Duboises advancing with a 
single Interpretter the Indian in his front on the truce Retired 
while Indians were discovered on his flanks evidently with the 
Intention of falling in his Rear and preventing his Return on 
Returning and Communicating the fact to the gen the army 
was again put in motion and the Spies and guides with the 
Interpretters were directed to march a few hundred yards in 
front and if possible to Bring them to a parley the army had 
proceeded but a short distance before several Indians halted 
untill we came up and expressed their willingness to have a 
friendly talk as they termed it with genl in a few minutes 
gen Harrison advanced with the advanced guard and the 
Spkesman who I was Informed was the White Horse a prin- 
cipal man among them agreed to have a conference the next 
morning and Expressed a wish that the army Should then 
Encamp on gen Harrison Replying to him that was no place 
for the army to Encamp the Indian pointing to a Rise not far 
off on arriving there the gen told the Interpretter to Inform 
him that was no place for an army to encamp there being no 
water near the gen then Inquired of Capt Dubois if he knew 
whether there v/as a good Situation for an Encampment above 
the town on the River who Replyed he thought there was the 
gen then directed Cap Park of the Dragoons (the late la- 
mented Judge Parke of Indiana) to take twenty five of his 
men and accompany Capt Dubois and also the Quarter master 
Cap Piatt but directed us not to approach so near the town 
as to interfere with the Indians on arriving above the town 



 

the Situation was not approved of and Majors Taylor & Clark 
having been Dispatched in another Direction reported favour- 
able and on that ground the army Encamped and on the Next 
morning was atchieved the Victory of Tippecanoe I have since 
frequently examined the ground and believe a Better selec- 
tion could not have been made and I must be permitted to say 
I have had some experience in Indian warfare having in Early 
life been taken Captive by the Indians near the conclusion of 
our Revolutionary war from Kentucky and acted as one of 
the Major Prices Battalion of Spies in the memorable Battle 
of gen Wayne on the 20th August 1794 when both gen Har- 
rison & Major Price were noticed with approbation by that 
Distinguished Commander I mention that not by way of a 
Boast but only to vindicate the character of our Beloved Com- 
mander at Tippecanoe. 

Wm. Polke^ 

Funk's Narrative, The Tippecanoe Campaign 

Draper Mss. 5 y y 16-29 

The British still retained armed possession of the posts on our 
frontier in violation of the treaty of 1783, when, Gen. Anthony Wayne 
succeeded Gen. St. Clair in the Command of the Army of the Northwest. 

Gen. Wayne passed the winter of 1793, 4 at Fort Washington;' and 
in the spring having his force nearly doubled by the accession of 1,100 
Kentucky mounted volunteer riflemen, proceeded north in pursuit of the 
savages. The enemy made a stand in August on the river Maumee, and 
met a signal defeat under the guns of the British Fort situated at the 
rapids" of that river. 

The treaties of Greenville with the Indians and of Jay in 1795 with 
Great Britian gave repose to the West — Jays treaty expired in 1805, 
and the first order in Council directed against neutral commerce was 
promulgated in the spring of 1806; in this last named year, Tecumseh' 
began his efforts to array the Northern and Southern Indians against 
the whites of the United States, but no hostilities occurred except in the 
1. Some details of the biography of William Polke may be found in the Indiana 
Magazine of History Vol IX, 95 and Vol. X. 83. Mrs. Fannie Scott Rumely of La Porte 
has kindly furnished the editor a collection of Judge Polke's papers and it is hoped 
something more may be done to preserve the biography of this worthy pioneer. 

1. Fort Washington was located within the limits of the present city of Cincinnati. 

2. Near the site of Maumee City — The Indians were apparently confident of their 
British allies arresting our force at this fort for which they retreated but were refused 
pi-otection, that a few miles only from the Battle field they had encamped their squaws, 
children, and property, a fact not then known to Gen. Wayne at the time of the en- 
gagement. 

3. There were two Tecumsehs— the prophet, who it was supposed instigated the 
attack on Harrison's force at Tippecanoe — and Tecumseh the warrior, a Brigadier gen- 
eral in the British army, killed at the battle of the Moravian Towns in 1813. 



 

campaign of 1811, until the attack on William Collins settlement at the 
Pigeon Roost, seventeen miles from Louisville, Ky., in July, 1812. 

The restlessness of the savages produced no doubt by the efforts of 
the Tecumseh engaged the attention of our Government, and William H. 
Harrison, then Governor of the North Western Territory, and subse- 
quently the President of the United States, was directed with a sufficient 
force, to penetrate if necessary to the Prophet's town, on the Wabash, 
and require of the Indians, adherence to and fulfillment of existing 
treaties. This expedition resulted in the battle of Tippecanoe. 

Our fellow citizen Major Peter Funk now aged 79 years is probably 
the only surviving officer of that campaign, then, as now he occupied his 
large and fertile farm eight miles from Louisville, and with good health, 
he still preserves a vivid recollection of the men and occurance of that 
marked event in our history. The following narrative is compiled from 
his dictation: 

In August 1811 Captain Funk was in command of a com- 
pany of militia of Cavalry. Adjutant Adams of the 4th U. 
S. Infantry waited on him and invited him to an interview 
with Gov. Harrison who was then at Louisville. Capt. Funk 
immediately sought the governor who informed him that he 
desired to increase the force then assembling at Vincennes by 
one company, of Cavalry, and one of Infantry and that he had 
been advised that, he, Capt. Funk could raise the Cavalry, and 
Capt. James Hunter^ the infantry. Capt. Funk assured him 
of his willingness to do so and desiring to have the sanction 
of the Governor of Kentucky, was furnished by Gov. Harrison 
with letters to the Executive. In such hot haste as to kill the 
fine horse on which he started, Capt. Funk presented himself 
to Gov. Scott (himself an old Indian fighter) who gave his 
immediate assent and urged the Captain to prompt action. 

Before leaving Lousiville Governor Harrison came to the 
conclusion that Funks cavalry would be a sufficient reinforce- 
ment, and therefore dispensed with the services of Capt. 
Hunter — he ordered Capt. Funk to report to Col. Bartholo- 
mew. 

In a few days the Captain raised his company and early in 
September joined Col. Bartholomew's regiment, then march- 
ing on Vincennes. 

Vincennes was the rendezvous of Governor Harrisons 
forces ; there Jo. Davis who had at one time held the commis- 
sion of Col. of Militia in Kentucky came up with the expedition 
with two volunteers James Mead and Ben Sanders who had 

Croshan at the defense of 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 719 

accompanied him from Lexington, the Col.'s then place of 
residence, and four young gentlemen from Louisville who were 
waiting there for company." The cavalry of the expedition 
consisted of Captains Baggs, Funks and Parks companies, to 
the command of this arm Col. Jo Daviess was appointed much 
to the dissatisfaction of the officers and men who being volun- 
teers, considered that they should have been consulted in the 
choice of their immediate superior officers. 

After a few days delay, the little army passed up the Wa- 
bash river to Terre Haute, the desig-n being, there to build 
a fort, but the banks of the river proving too high, a point 
four miles higher up was selected, where in 29 days was con- 
structed Fort Harrison. 

At Fort Harrison and subsequently on its route toward the 
prophet's town, the expedition was frequently visited by par- 
ties of Indians who committed no depredations and asserted 
that all difficulties and misunderstandings would be overcome 
by their chiefs. 

The troops having become sickly, the 4th Regiment suffer- 
ing the most, Gov. Harrison before leaving the Fort having 
been informed that the Indians were more numerous in his 
front than he had previously been led to expect, sent Davis 
Floyd and Geoi'ge R. C. Floyd to Kentucky to apply for a re- 
inforcement of 500 men. Consequent upon this application 
made by the two envoys to Brigadier General Samuel Wells, 
he ordered out his brigade and beat up for volunteers. The 
privates hanging back. General Wells and several of his of- 
ficers stepped out and being joined by some of the file, the 
volunteer force was swelled to 32 men, and it, electing Col. 
Frederic Geiger as their Captain proceeded to join the expedi- 
tion. 

It should be stated that Gen. Wells having called out his 
brigade without first obtaining the sanction of the Executive, 
which would have instantly been granted on application, the 
soldiers had scruples as to the propriety of volunteering that 
the Executive authority was not applyed for may have arrisen 
from the fact that Frankfort, the residence of Gov. Scott is 
250 miles from Fort Harrison, that at the time of the de- 
parture of the envoys thence Gov. Harrison expected in a few 



6. George Croghan of Louisville subsctiuently deceased as inspectoi 


• Gen. U. S. 


Ai-my; John OTallon of Louisville now the millionaire of St. Louis Missc 


>uri^O Fallon 


and Croghan nephews of Gen. George Rogers Clark; Harbin H. Moore 


of Louisville, 


subsequently Capt, U. S. Army, and Hynes of Bardstown. Ky. 





 

days, to move onward, to the goal then distant less than 100 
miles, and that the probability was, that before the force re- 
quired could be at Fort Harrison the object of the campaign 
would be accomplished, and leave no laurels to be gathered by 
the reinforcing party. 

At Fort Harrison the expedition crossed the Wabash and 
shortly after was joined by Captain Geigers company. At 
the mouth of Vermillion river, two days were occupied in 
building a block house, and there were left the water craft, 
and surplus baggage, under a guard — proceeding up the Wa- 
bash on the 6th of November about 3 P. M. the force was 
within 200 yards of the Prophet's town, and was there met 
by several indians who assured Gov. Harrison that on the 
morrow a meeting would be arranged and all difficulties ad- 
justed satisfactorily to his government, and they begged that 
the troops would be restrained from entering the town and 
frightening their women and children by occupying their 
town. Our spies" reported an eligible camping ground a mile 
distant, and the expedition was directed to it. It is a tongue 
of land jutting into the prarie (then a swamp) in the form 
of a sad iron, elevated some 8 feet on the two sides above the 
lowland and being about 200 yards across the upland at the 
base of the triangle. 

It appeared that the indians had been impressed with the 
idea that the army had cannon, but on the 6th the negro driver 
of Gen. Harrison's cart mixed among them and informed them 
that no big guns accompanied the expedition. For this treach- 
ery, the negro was by a court martial forthwith convicted and 
condemned to be shot, provided an attack from the indians 
should ensue — The sentence however was not carried into 
effect — It is supposed that had the expedition been provided 
with Cannon, the indians would have been deterred from as- 
saulting our force. 

It should be bourn in mind that Gen. Harrisons instructions 
were to insist upon the fulfilment of treaty stipulations and to 
avoid hostilities. 

The expedition having occupied the ground selected by their 
spies, threw up a breast work across the end of the encamp- 
ment where it was continued from the upland and the troops 
being shown their places of parade in case of attack, and 

6. In conjunction with Quarter Master Piatt and Marston G. Clark. 



 

ordered to show no white about their dress with sentinels 
doubled, slept upon their arms. 

Capt. Funk was arroused two hours before day on the 7th 
by the yells of the Indians, and the ringing of their fire arms ; 
the morning was dark, and drizzly, nothing could be seen but 
the flashes of the enemies guns. He immediately mounted 
his troop which had been stationed near Gov. Harrisons mar- 
quee, the occupant of which he repeatedly saw or rather heard 
during the conflict — finding that the enemies missils reached 
some of his men while they were unable to annoy their foe 
he ordered them to dismount and, with sabre and pistol in 
hand, to stand beside thier horses, ready to repel any attack, 
that should force the lines of infantry in their front. Thus 
stationed they ceased to offer objects for the Indians aim as 
the shoulder of the bluft' on which the encampment was lo- 
cated afforded protection to those who obstained from show- 
ing occupying its margin or elevating themselves on horse 
back. 

The ground occupied by the Indians was in the swamp at 
the two lower sides of the triangle heretofore described, and 
as a consequence, their missils could do but little harm ex- 
cept to such, as in most cases needlessely exposed themselves 
near or on the verge of the plateau, but on the left of the 
encampment, left as you stood with your back to the breast 
work on the upland there was some down timber on the verge 
of the plateau, which the Indians having occupied, a galling 
fire was kept up by them on our encampment. Col. Daviess 
who some time previously had selected twenty of the best 
mounted and equipped men from the Cavalry, which selec- 
tion the governor upon remonstrance from the mounted 
troops, had refused to dissalow, after the fireing had con- 
tinued about % of an hour, came to the Gov. and in the hear- 
ing of Capt. Funk asked "Will you permit me to dislodge 
those d — d — savages behind those logs", — The Governor re- 
plied denying his request — again in the hearing of Capt. 
Funk he applyed to the Governor and met a similar response. 
Subsequently (as he informed Capt. F. after the engagment) 
he obtained the Gov.'s permission. On foot, wearing a white 
Capot, he lead his 20 picked men (also on foot) toward the 
Indians masked by the down timbers; when within 30 or 40 
yards of his object he fell, shot between the right hip and 
ribs. From the position he must have occupied, the down 



 

timbers on his left his men somewhat to the right, it is fairly 
inferable that the shot proceeded from our ranks ; the attack 
failed, and the Colonel was bourn to his tent. 

Daybreak on the 7th of November in rain, come a little 
after six o'clock. As the day dawned the infantry in squads 
charged upon the savages and Funk's and Bagg's companies 
outstripping the foot men drove the Indians into the swamps 
as far as practicable for horsemen to follow; this was the 
end of the action. 

Great consternation prevailed in the little band, who had 
thus gallantly repulsed this treacherous night attack, for 10 
days it had been reduced to half rations, their few cattle had 
stampeded during the engagement while they expected from 
rummors that had obtained currancy, that the Indians would 
return to the attack, reinforced by Tecumseh the warrior at 
the head of 1000 Indians. 

About 8i/o oclock Capt. Funk w^aited on Col. Daviess and 
assisted in changing his clothes and dressing his wound. The 
colonel was in great pain and consternation fearing the ex- 
pedition would retreat abandoning its baggage and wounded 
& he exacted from the Capt. the assurance that in no event 
would he leave him behind. The Col. a distinguished lawyer 
who had joined in the campaign from a love of adventure, 
expired at 1 P. M. the same day. 

Although our troops were satisfied that they inflicted severe 
punishment upon their savage foe, They were aware that if 
Tecumseh should reinforce them, their situation would be 
eminently critical. 

The day of the 7th was devoted to the care of the wounded 
to whom all the provisions in the camp were assigned, the 
burial of our dead, and the strengthening of the encampment. 
Night found every man mounting guard, without food, fire 
or light, and in a drizzling rain. The Indian dogs during the 
dark hours produced frequent alarms by prowling in search 
of carrion about the sentinels. The 8th dawned fair, the spies 
for the first time ventured from the encampment, and visiting 
the prophets towTi found it abandoned by the Indians with 
the exception of a wounded warrior and an old squaw. Great 
was the joy in camp when they returned bearing strings of 
corn as it was evident from the Indians abondoning their 
store of food they had retreated precipitately, after being 
well whipped. The wagons and mounted men then proceeded 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 723 

to the town and after charging themselves with all the copper 
& brass kettles they could find, and all the beans and corn they 
could carry, the remaining property & town was destroyed. 
On this same day leaving the warrior and squaw at the en- 
campment with abundant store of beans & corn, the expedi- 
tion, having 22 wagons of wounded retraced its steps arriving 
at the Block house, on the Vermillion on the third day the 
troops having dra\v^l no rations since the engagement. Pro- 
ceeding thence to Fort Harrison & Vincennes & Louisville 
the Capt.'s Company was mustered out of service at the lat- 
ter place. 

The Captain says that the ground selected at Tippecanoe 
was eminently adapted for the encampment of the expedi- 
tion. That Col. Davis's horse was a roan purchased of Frank 
Moore of Louisville, that Col. Owens was shot from the back 
of his own white horse & that Gen. Harrison's white horse 
was ridden against his order by Mr. [Waller] Taylor, his aid. 
The Captain, also says that the design of Gov. Harrison was 
that in case of attack his trooi)s should not leave the stations 
assigned them so long as they could not see — had his orders 
been followed in this regard many lives would have been 
spared, as the break of the plateau sheltered our men, and 
enabled them by lying do^\^^ to return the Indians fire without 
being exposed.^ 

Bartholomew to H.^rrison 

7th March 1811 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 

To His Excellency William Henry Harrison Governor and 

Commander in chief of the Indiana Territory 
Sir 

they following gentlemen is recommended to fill the va- 
concies in the Militia of Clark County ss 

William Patrick John McCoy William Montgomery and 
James Bigger Captains — 

John Jenkins John Herrod Henry Joiles and John Chun 
Lieutenants — 

7. This was written in 1862 by D. R. Poignand of Taylovsville at the dictation of 
Captain Funk. Pirtle, Tippecanoe, 21. Lossing visited Funl< and perhaps used this 
Ms5., Lossing, Field-Book War of ISIS, 204-6. notes. The first six footnotes are by the 
author of the Mss. or by Mr. Poignand. The reference to Harbin Moore is interesting 
but it is not to the famous Indiana lawyer. 



 

Thomas Jacobs Joseph Carr Joseph Bowers and Joseph 
Stillwell Ensigns — 

Col Clark and Mr. Gwathmey will attend to the vacancy 
occasioned by the death of Capt Thompson 

I have the Honor to be very respectfully 
Sir your Humble Servant 

Joseph Bartholomew Com manding Clark Militia 

Bartholomew to Harrison 

August 11th 1811 
His Excellency William Henry Harrison 
Sir 

Inclosd you will find a general Return of the Several de- 
tachments of Militia from the 2d — 5th & 6th Regiments of In- 
diana Militia — I am sorry the are not more complete. The 
uncertainty whether we will March or not is very much in the 
way of having the companies complet in every i-espect. If 
we get a few days notice before we march I have no doubt but 
we shall appear in good order So far as Respects the Com- 
panies from my Regiment. The following gentlemen were 
Elected as Officers in the Militia of the second Regiment of 
Indiana Militia — viz William Kelly Captain Philip Boyer 
Lieut — and Daniel Stark Ensign in a new Company form-d 
in the upper part of the County— Tobias Miller Capt in the 
Jeffersonville Company — please to commission the above gen- 
tlemen — The light Company mentioned in my last is not 
completed — 

I have the Honor to be very respectfully 

Sir your Humble Servant — 
Joseph Bartholomew Lie^it. Col. 2d R. I. M. 

Petition to Harrison 

Comr 20th Augt 1811 
His Excellency William H. Harrison Esqr Governor of the 

Indiana Territory 
Sir 

We the Subscriber Inhabitents of Clarksville Township beg 
live to State to Your Exclency that we labour Under Difficul- 



 

ties for want of another Justice of The peace in This Town- 
ship in Consequence of Mr. Lemon's Declining business, 
There is Now None but Andw Gilwick Esqr Acting in The 
Township and placeing Confidence in The AbiUties of Salmon 
Fuller beg live to Recommend him to your Exelency As a fit 
person for That Office. 

Andw Gilwick 
Aron Aplegate 
Jacob S. Holt 
William Goldsby 
Richd Pile 
John A. Knight 
Waller Taylor 
James Lemon 

Genl Gibson will please to make out a commission for Martin 
Huckleberry as Coroner & Solomon Fuller as Justice of the 
peace for Clark County — 

W. H. Harrison 


Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 1st Jan, 1812 

Ha/r. Pa. 567 

Sir: 

My friend Thomas Randolph Esq. who fell in the late ac- 
tion [Tippecanoe] acted as Judge Advocate of a Gen. Court 
Martial which sat at this place last spring and from the sug- 
gestions of one of the officers he made out an account and drew 
upon you for $156 in favor of Messrs. [Peter] Jones and 
[Touissant] Dubois of this place. The Draft was protested 
but the account has since been settled by the Accountant and 
the sum of 78 Dollars allowed him which has been transmitted 
here by the Treasurer (since Randolph's death) in a treasury 
Draft payable to Mr. Randolph's order. It was his intention 
that Messrs. Jones and Dubois should receive whatever was 
allowed him (as they had actually advanced him the $150 
upon his draft) and they received authority from him to take 
out of the office and open the letter which he expected to re- 
ceive from the accountant and appropriate the money which it 
was expected to contain to their use. But as the Draft was 
payable to Mr. Randolph's order they can make no use of it. 
They have therefore applied to me as the nearest friend of Mr. 
Randolph who has for several years made a part of my family 
to devise some mode for their relief. I can think of none that 
is likely to answer the purpose but to request you to accept the 
Draft of Mr. R. to the amount of Seventy-eight Dollars and 
pay the money to the bank to which it has been assigned. 
For this purpose I have the Honor to enclose the Draft of Mr. 
Randolph on you and the Treasurers Draft for 78 Dollars. 

Mr. Randolph's affairs were so deranged and his property 
of so little value that it is not thought proper to administer 
upon it. His wife has been in a state of mental derangement 
for many months. His nearest friends have recommended to 
me to adopt the measure which I am now taking with regard 
to his claim on the War department. 

I have the Honor to be with Great Respect Your 
Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 

The Hon. William Eustis Esq. Sect, of War 

{I) 



 ^ 

_i 

Burton to Harrison 

i 

ViNCENNES Jan 5, 1812 

Har. Pa. 570-571 

Sir : 

By sentence of A [General] C. Martial in July 1810 Capt. 
[William C] Baen was suspended from ranks pay for one 
year, previous to which he was entitled to a Majority. His 
suspension in all probability prevented his being promoted the 
last session of Congress. This suspension of Capt. Baen sus- 
pended my promotion for the same time, as I should have 
succeeded to the Command of his Compy. Capt. Baen being 
unfortunate in the action of Nov. 4th 1811 [killed] leaves the 
vacancy to which he was entitled to be filled by a Capt of the 
4th Regt and of course a Subaltern of the same Regt. will fill 
the vacancy caused by the promotion of the Capt. — This Sir 
denies me of rank, pay as Capt. from May or June 1810 to 
Sept. 1811 — not through my fait (I hope) but the misfortunes 
of Capt. Baen. I have thought proper to submit the above 
statement to your consideration and should consider it as an 
unfeigned [ ?] favor if you would have the goodness to repre- 
sent the same (with your interest on the subject) to the proper 
department. 

I am with sentiments of esteem respectfully 
Sir your Humble Servt. 

0. G. Burton Lt. Uh Inft. 
Wm. H. Harrison Esq. Governor of Indiana Territory 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes, 6th Jan. 1812 

Ha/r. Pa. 568-569 

Sm: 

The ardent desire which I feel to some [of] those brave men 
who fought under my command in the late action with the 
Indians may be the occasion of my giving you more trouble 
than I ought to do, But the motive which governs me will I 
am persuaded, with you, form a sufficient appology. 

From the enclosed letter of Lieut. [Oliver G.] Burton [see 
Jan. 5, above] of the 4th Regiment it appears that he is likely 
to suffer materially in his rank by the unfortunate fall of Cap- 
tain Baen. If it were possible consistently with the rules 



 

which govern such cases to date Mr. Burton's commission as 
captain from the day that the majority became vacant to 
which Captain Baen would have succeeded it appears to me 
that it could not be considered an injustice toward any other 
person. Lieut. Burton is a sober steady industrious and 
Brave officer. 

Captain James Hunter^ who commands an uniformed Light 
Infantry Militia Company in the town of Louisville Kentucky 
v/lshes to become a captain in one oT the Infantry Regmts 
which are about to be raised. Capt. H. entered as a private 
volunteer in the company which was raised by Col. Guiger for 
the late Campaign in the neighborhood of Louisville and acted 
after he joined the army as adjutant to the Mounted Riflemen. 
I am not very well acquainted with Capt. Hunter but I have 
no doubt of his making an good officer. He behaved extremely 
well in the action & was wounded in the arm. 

I Have the Honor to be with great Respect 
Sir Your Humble Sevt. 

William H. Harrison 
Hon. Sec. William Eustis Esq. Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 7th Jan. 1812 

Har. Pa. 572-575 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favour 
of the 11th ultimo. It gives me great pleasure to find that the 
galland conduct of the troops which, fought under my com- 
mand in the action with the Indians is so justly appreciated 
by the Government. They are certainly deserving of all the 
praise which has been bestowed upon them. As I am fully 
convinced Sir that you take an interest in the fame of all the 
persons who served upon that occasion I must beg leave to call 
your attention to the enclosed declaration [Jan. 8, below] of 
a considerable majority of the officers of the 4th Regiment and 
to the separate certificates of several of them. [Dec. 21, 1811, 
above] By these it will be seen how far the late action de- 

1. James Hunter was born in Kentucky ; served as adjutant in Capt. Guiger's 
company at Tippecanoe; appointed captain in the 17th Infantry Mar. 12, 1812; dis- 
charged honorably June 1, 1814. Congress voted him a medal Feb. 13, 1835, for 
gallantry at -the Siege of Fort Stephenson. 
._ Lossing, War of 1812, 502 



 

serves the epithets of complete surprise "Horrible butcheiy". 
It will be seen also that notwithstanding the suddenness of the 
attack, the companies which were first fired on were in such 
a state of preparation that the officers were enabled almost 
to complete the fomiation of them before they sustained any 
injury and that it is a matter of gi'eat uncertainty whether 
the Indians derived the least advantage from their perfidy. 
With respect to the gi'ound upon which the troops were en- 
camped altho it was favorable to the approach of the Indians 
from the quarter upon which the attack was commenced it 
united every other advantage excepting that of a sufficient 
space of firm gi'ound for Cavalry to act upon. This was only 
to be found upon the two flanks. In fact not a single impedi- 
ment presented itself not a bush or a tree to be found for a 
very considerable distance. Covered indeed with long grass 
and too soft for cavalry to charge upon but sufficiently firm 
for any evolution of Infantry. This the Indians well knew 
and they withdrew from the front to the flanks as soon as day 
light began to shew itself. I have the Honor also to enclose 
herewith a paper containing some resolutions adopted by the 
Company of Kentucky Volunteers who served under Col. 
Guiger. This company and Captain Bartons were the two 
which received the first fire of the enemy. My reason for 
troubling you ^\^th them is to show you the opinion they enter- 
tain of the man [Judge Henry Vanderburgh] "by whose un- 
exampled imprudence their comrades were butchered." I must 
confess that I have ever believed until corrected by a late con- 
versation with Captain Barton and Lt. Gooding that their 
company suffered much more severely before they were foimed 
than I now find they did and hence the observation in my 
official account of the action that several of the men had to 
contend with the enemy in the doors of their tents. I believe 
that a solatary instance of the kind only occurred and that 
in Guiger's Company. 

Captain Snelling arrived at this place from Fort Harrison 
some days ago and shortly after him some Wea chiefs bear- 
ing a speech from the Kickapoos and Winnebagos the same 
in substance with that which I had the honor to transmit by 
the last mail. The Captain says that he was informed con- 
fidentially by a Wea Indian that the Disposition of the Kicka- 
poos and Winnebagos was by no means such as they wished 



 

us to believe. That many of them still retained their confi- 
dence in the Prophet who had assured them that his want of 
success in the late action was caused by and accident of an 
uncommon kind.^ That many of them believed that they 
would all die as soon as the Prophet was put to death. He 
further said that he had heard some of them declare that if 
their offer to make peace was not speedily accepted and them- 
selves relieved from the miserable situation in which they 
were placed that they were determined to make the white 
people suffer also by attacking the frontiers. It is but just 
however to observe that the Kickapoo Orator warned the cap- 
tain not to place entire confidence to every thing that the 
Miamis asserted whom they (the Kickapoos) believed to be 
their worst enemies. My own opinion however is that the 
repentance of the gi'eater part of them is not sincere and that 
they regret the want of success rather than the commission 
of the crime. 

I have the Honor to be Most Respectfully Sir 
Your Humble Servant. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. William Eustis Esq. Secty. of War 

[Endorsed] Vincennes 7th Jan 1812 Gov. Harrison inclosing 
sundry statements from the officers relative to the battle 
of Tippecanoe, rec. Feb 6th 1812 

Reports by Officers 

Vincennes Jan 8, 1812 

Ha/r. Pa. 576-5S2 

The Battle of Tippecanoe having terminated a campaign 
which led us to victory and honor, it is with pain we behold 
aspersions in the public prints aiming to destroy the confi- 
dence of our country in our late commander in chief. [See 
Dec. 21, 1811, above] 

Governor Harrison having relinquished the command of the 
army lately employed against the Indians and probably as an 
officer left us forever the present statement cannot be at- 
tributed to sei'vile flattering but to true and honest expression 
of our real sentiments in favor of a General whose talents, 

1. This unfortunate accident to the Prophet's plans was caused by his wife thought- 
essly touching the vessel containing his sacred beans, deer hoofs and other talismans. 



 

military science and patriotism entitle him to a high rank 
among the worthy of the Union and whom we consider in- 
jured by the gi*oss misrepresentation of the ignorant or de- 
signing who are alike inimical to the best of Goveniments and 
the best of men. 

We therefore deem it our duty to state as incontestible facts 
that the Commander in chief throughout the campaign and in 
the hour of Battle proved himself the soldier and the general ; 
that on the night of the battle by his order we slept on our 
arms, and rose on our posts, that notwithstanding the dark- 
ness of the night and the most consummate savage cunning 
of the enemy in eluding our sentries and rapidity in rushing 
through the Guards we were not found unprepared ; that few 
of them were able to enter our camp and those few doomed 
never to return; that in pursuance to his orders which were 
adapted to every emergency, the enemy were defeated with 
slaughter almost unparaleled among savages. Indeed one 
sentiment of confidence respect and affection toward the com- 
mander in chief pervaded the whole line of the army which 
any attempt to destroy we shall consider as an insult to our 
understandings and an injury to our feeling. Should our 
Countiy again require our services to oppose a civilized or 
savage foe we should march under command of Governor Har- 
rison with the most perfect confidence of victory and fame. 

ISAC Cook Capt Ath Inft. 

JosiAH Snelling Cavt Uh U. S. R. Inft. 

R. C. Barton Capt. Uh Inft 

0. G. Burton, Lieut 4th Inf. 

N. F. Adams L. M Reg. Inft 

Charles Fuller Lieut. 4 Reg. Inft 

A. Hawkins Lieut Uh Inft 

George Gooding 2d Lieut. Uh Inft. 

H. BURCHSTEAD Ensign 

JosiAH D. Foster Sergt. U In 

HosEA Blood Acting Asst Sergt of Uh Regt. 

Adams' Statement ^^I 

Har. Pa. 577, 579 

I certify on honor that on the evening on the 6th of Nover , 
ber that the field officers were assembled for orders and tl , 



 

the watch word was given as usual that it had been a standing 
order for the men to sleep on their arms with their ac- 
coutrements on, that though and attack was not expected 
proper precautions were used to prevent a surprise, that at 
the commencement of the attack I attended Governor Har- 
rison to the left of the rear line v/here the firing was heaviest, 
that Capt. Barton's Company had formed under the fire of 
enemy and Brown's Wentworth's and Cook's companies were 
formed that the Governor ordered Cooks and Wentworths 
company to form a line across the Camp and when formed 
ordered to march up to support Capt. Burton where they 
silenced the fire of the enemy, that the companies of the Front 
and Right flanks had time to fomi before the attack and those 
of the left flank though more suddenly attacked completely 
checked the progress of the enemy. That as Adjutant of the 
army I attended the Commander in Chief during the engage- 
ment except when carrying his orders or seeing them executed 
which gave me and opportunity of seeing every part of Camp 
and knowing the state thereof. 

Nath F. Adams Lt. Uh Regt. of Inft. Adj of the Army under 
Comm of Gove. Harrison 

Barton's Statement 

Fort Knox Jan. 8, 1812 

Har.Pa.578 

I certify that on the night of the action of Tippecanoe, the 
company under my command (composed of my own and late 
Welch's) lay on their arms completely prepared for battle. 
That at the moment of alarm one Sergt. and two privates were 
up renewing the fires, and that the word was instantly passed 
to turn out, which was readily obeyed. That while in the act 
of forming the Indians who had gained the brow of the hill 
about 12 to 15 paces on my right, commenced a fire upon us. 
That one Coi*poral was killed as he stepped from the right 
tent, one corporal and one private killed and one Sergt. 
\'^ounded in the act of forming. The remainder of the wounded 
: fi my company (say seveteen) occured after we were com- 
1 letely formed and had opened a heavy fire upon the Indians. 

RoBT. C. Barton Capt. U Inft. 



 

Gooding's Statement \ 

Fort Knox Jan. 8, 1812 

Har. Pa. 579 

I George Gooding Lt. of the 4th Reg and Commanding the 
late Capt. Welch's company, while in the action of the 7th of 
Nov. was attached to Capt. Barton's company do certify on 
honor that the above statement of Capt. Bartons contains 
sincerely my opinion of the situation of the company when 
the attack was made upon it. I also certify that I saw the 
first fire that was made by the Indians on Capt. Geigers Com- 
pany (which was with ours) and that the fire was immediately 
returned by that company. 

Cook's Statement 

Fort Knox Jan 8th 1812 

Har. Pa. 579 

Honored Sir: 

Agreeably to your wish and a duty I owe to my commander 
and the rest of my brother officers I shall give you a correct 
and impartial statement of the position of the company under 
my command on the night of the 6th and morning of the 7th 
of November. The situation of my company being in the 
centre of the left ling and it happened to be the most advanced 
place in the line. At or near 4 o'clock in the morning I was 
alarmed by the discharge of a gun on which I immediately 
reported to my company where I found my men all paraded 
at their posts. The position of the men during the night 
together with myself while at rest was lying on our arms 
with all our clothes on — as for myself I lay with my boots 
a great coat and accoutrements buckled to me with my rifle 
in my arms. At the report of the gun I had no more to do 
than to throw off my blanket put my hat on and go to my com- 
pany who were eight or ten steps from my tent, the time pos- 
sibly might have been one or two minutes where I found every 
man as above mentioned. In this situation I remained a few 
minutes when I received orders from the Commander in Chie, 
or one of the Aids, I am not certain, to march my company u/) , 
to the right of the left line to reinforce which I immediatel.V 
obeyed. In this position I remained be the time more or lest.1^ 
until day light when I received the second order from the \ 



 

Commander to march my company to the extreme right to 
support that place which I immediately did and on my arrival 
I found it necessary to make a charge which was done with 
success immediately after the fire ceased, three cheers were 
given by the army and that closed the battle — then received 
orders to return to the tents. 

I have the Honor to be with Great Repsect 

Your Excellency's Most Humble Servant 

ISAC Cook Capt Uth Reg. In. 
His Excy Gov. Harrison 

Snelling's Statement 

ViNCENNES, Jan, 8th 1812 

Har. Pa. 5S0-5S1 

At the close of the late campaign such a general sentiment 
of respect and confidence in the Commander in Chief pervaded 
the whole army that I did not expect any measure would be 
necessary to support his reputation or vindicate his conduct, 
but since my arrival in Town I have been informed that per- 
sons actually by sinister motives have attempted like assassins 
who walk in the dark and stab unseen, to blast his character 
and destroy the confidence placed in him by Government and 
the people. As no defense on his part can avail against ac- 
cusers who shun the light and who while they do the injury 
are studiously careful to conceal the quarter from whence it 
came it becomes the duty of every friend to Governor Har- 
rison, to honor and justice, to come forward with such state- 
ment of facts within their knowledge as will tend to make 
the truth appear and silence the tongue of slander. On the 
night of the 6th of November preceding the late action, the 
company under my command slept on their arms with their 
cartridge boxes on in obedience to a general order I had re- 
ceived some nights before and which had not been counter- 
manded. I was awakened by the firing of the first gun, seized 
my sword and ran to the door of my tent where I met the 
orderly sargeant of my company who asked me if the company 
should form in front or rear of the tents. The men were then 
in rear and recollecting that the light of the fires in front 
would expose them to the fire of the enemy and probably 
occasion some confusion, I directed them to form in rear and 
I 

4—22664 

i\ 



 j 

counter march to the front. The whole time occupied in form- 
ing could not have exceeded four minutes and I had faced to 
the right for the purpose of marching them to their place 
in the line, when Gov. Harrison rode up and ordered me to 
cover the left flank of the encampment where the Riflemen 
of Major Robb had fallen back — Not perfectly knowing the 
position 1 requested him to show me the ground he accord- 
ingly rode with the company and pointed out to me the post 
I should occupy and it was not until formed in this position 
that we received the first fire of the enemy. In this situation 
I had an opportunity of hearing the order given Major Da vies 
to charge the enemy and saw the unfortunate effect of it, the 
fire growing warmer I called to Col. Boyd who was near and 
asked his permission to charge he authorised me to do it but 
seeing the Governor approach I repeated the question to him 
and received his orders before I moved the company and I 
am fully confident that every movement of my company dur- 
ing the action was made by his orders given in person. 

Unbiassed by hope of favor and perhaps acting in a man- 
ner by some thought not so favorable to my personal interest 
I thought free to make the above statement from a sense of 
duty and love of justice and I trust that while I retain a 
consciousness of having acted from such motives it will fully 
compensate me for any personal inconvenience I may sustain. 

J. Snelling Capt. Jfth U. S, Reg Inf. 

Larrabee's Statement 

Fort Knox, Jan 8th 1812 

Har.Pa.5Sl 

Sir: 

I have the honor to state agreeably to your Excellency's re- 
quest the situation of the company under my command on the 
night of the 6th of November 1811 and at the commencement 
of the action on the morning of the 7th. 

At the commencement the Company were at rest in their 
lines with their clothes and accoutrements on their guns lying 
by their sides loaded and Baynets fixed and were by my order 
paraded in line of battle — ready to meet the enemy within 
forty seconds from the commencement of the action all of 



 

which was performed one or two minutes before a man of the 
company was wounded and am very 

respectfully your Excellency's Obt. Sevto 

C. Larrabee Lieut. M In ft Corns. Comp. 

Gov. Harrison 

I do hereby certify that the foregoing seven certificates were 
correctly copied by me from the Originals. 

H. Hurst 

Taylor on the Camp 

Feb. 22, 1817 

■ ' Dawson, Harrison, 208, 200 

The above account, taken from M'Affee's History of the War 
in the Western Country, as it relates to the situation of the 
camp occupied by the army under the command of Governor 
Harrison on the night between the 6th and 7th of November, 
1811, is entirely correct. The spot for encampment was se- 
lected by colonel Clarke, (who acted as brigade-major to the 
general Boyd) and myself. We were directed by Governor 
Harrison to examine the country up and down the creek until 
we should find a suitable place for an encampment. In a 
short time we discovered the place on which the army en- 
camped, and to which it was conducted by us. No intimation 
was given by the Indians of their wish that we should encamp 
there, nor could they possibly have known where the army 
would encamp until it took its position. The only error in 
the above extract is, in saying that major Clarke and myself 
were sent back, by which it would appear that the army 
retrograded to take up its encampment; this is not the fact; 
the army filed off in front of the town at right angles to the 
Wabash, to reach its encampment. It has ever been my be- 
lief that the position we occupied was the best that could be 
found any where near us, and I believe that ninetenths of the 
oflicers were of that opinion. We did not go on the Wabash 
'above the towTi, but I am certain that there was no position 
|below it that was eligible for an encampment. 

I Waller Taylor 



 

Snelling on the Camp 

Washington February 28, 1817 

Dawson, Harrison, 209 

My situation as a platoon officer prevented my having a 
personal knowledge of the transactions above related, so liar 
as respects the selection of the encampment of the army under 
General Harrison by his staff officers: but having carefully 
perused the extract from M'Affee's history, I have no hesita- 
tion in saying that I believe it to be substantially correct ; and 
that, in my opinion, the ground on which the army encamped 
combined the advantages of wood, water, and a defensible posi- 
tion, in a greater degree than any other ground in that section 
of the country; the ground on the Wabash was wholly unfit, 
the highland being destitute of water, and the interval (or 
bottom land as it is called) being without wood, and incapable 
of being defended. 

J. Snelling 
Lieutenant-Colonel 8th Infantry 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes, 14th Jan. 1812 

Har. Pa. 583-5SU 

Having seen a letter from Mr. [John] Johnson the late In- 
dian agent at Fort Wayne published in many of the Western 
papers^ in which he asserts that there were but 350 Indians 
in the late action and finding that it had occasioned great irri- 
tation amonst the Troops who served on the campaign I hav3 
thought proper to procure the deposition of Mr. [John 
Baptiste] LaPlante to show the number of Indians that were 
with the Prophet late in the month of August when La Plante 
left the town. It is agreed by every one that the whole of 
Wincmac's party of the Potawatomies fought against us and 
it is also equally well known that he received a considerable 
reinforcement of Kickapoos and Potawatiomies from the Illi- 
nois river a very few days before the action. The 450 which 
he had with him agreeably to the Delaware account some tim( 

1. In an Extra of the Liberty Hall, printed at Cincinnati Jan. 3, 1812, is a upoii 
by an exprcis from Fort Wayne containinR rumois from Tippecanoe. Also i(i th( 
l)hio Sentinel of Pi(iua, but most of the news came from the Louisville, Frankfort nn(i 
LcxinKton papers. 



 

before the action were those whom they saw in the principal 
Town where the Prophet lived and did not include those which 
were hunting (and Mr. LaPlante says that there were always 
fifty out) nor those which must have been left in the other 
Villages dependent upon the Prophet. Of these there are 
three and one of them fifteen miles distant. Laplante had a 
much better opportunity of ascertaining the number than the 
Delaware chief as he had for many years resided there and 
there spent the greater part of the last summer. Indeed he 
did not leave the town more than four weeks before the Troops 
marched from this place. The Delawares on the contrary 
were but a very few days at the Prophets town and had never 
been there before at least not since the Prophet's establish- 
ment commenced. Capt [Josiah] Snelling had also taken 
much pains to ascertain from the Indians he has seen at Fort 
Harrison the amount of their force he examined four or five 
different persons and marked down the numbers of each tribe 
as given by each of those persons. Upon adding them as he 
found that the accounts varied from 560 to 702. Upon ex- 
plaining this difference to the man who furnished him with 
the smaller number he observed that he had enumerated only 
the great warriors whereas the others had included some that 
were old and others that were two young to fight well. From 
the above circumstances it is impossible to believe that there 
were less than seven hundred Indians in the late action. In- 
deed the warmth of their fire and the length of their line, in- 
dicated a greater number. What could have induced Mr. 
Johnson to publish an account so false it is difficult to deter- 
mine. He seemed indeed to have been governed by a most 
singular infatuation in giving credit to everything that was 
said to him by the Indians. But the most extraordinary part 
of his conduct is that in sixteen days after action he was re- 
plenishing the powder horns and pouches of many of those 
Indians whom he knew to have been engaged in it. I sin- 
cerely believe however that his conduct proceeded from no 
bad motive or principle but from error of judgment. 

/l have the honor to be With great respect Sir 

' Your Humble Servt. 

I William Henry Harrison 

Honble. William Eustis Secty. of War 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, January 17th, 1812 

DawsoRj Harrison, 260 

Sir, 

Your Excellency's letter of the 24th December, with its en- 
closure has been received. Accounts have also been received 
from Mr, [John] Johnson and Mr. [William] Wells, which 
are contradictory in their nature, and not calculated to pro- 
duce any useful result. ^ In one thing they agree, namely, that 
the chiefs had been invited, or permitted, to meet you at Vin- 
cennes. 

As it is peculiarly desirable at the present crisis, that meas- 
ures should be adopted to re-establish the relations of peace 
and friendship with the Indians, I am instructed by the Presi- 
dent to communicate to you his intention to receive, at the 
seat of government, such of the chiefs, as, in your judgment, 
it may be expedient to send for that purpose: and that 
Tecumseh, with his brother the prophet, or either of them, 
may be among the number. The manner and the terms on 
which this is to be effected, must depend upon their situation, 
conduct, and disposition, of which, as it is impossible for the 
President, from the information before him, to form a satis- 
factory opinion, your Excellency will judge. 

It may be intimated to them, that the President is justly 
and highly offended; and that he has it in contemplation, to 
raise a large force in the spring of the year, to drive beyond 
the great waters, all those who have been or shall be found 
in arms; that in doing this the innocent may suffer as well 
as the guilty, as it may not be in the power of his officers to 
distinguish the one from the other ; that they will, in that case, 
have brought a gi-eat calamity upon themselves, which he is 
desirous they should avoid for their sakes, if it be possible; 
that he cherishes a sincere regard for his red children, and is 
willing to receive and to hear such of them as desire it, and are 
sincere in heart. 

The Winebagoes, Potawatamies, and those of the other tribes 
who joined, or have been connected with the prophet, mukt 
return to their respective tribes. The President will forgive 
them, provided they remain at home and are peaceable. I 

The President, being authorized by law to raise six corj- 
panies of rangers for the protection of the north-westein 



' '-.•',?,■ ^. -i^i 



 

frontier, will proceed to the appointment of the officers, who 
will be instructed to enlist their men, and to hold them ready 
for immediate service. One object in raising this force, is to 
admit of the removal of the 4th regiment to a scene of greater 
action, as soon as circumstances and the season will allow.^ 

Should there, at the time of receiving this letter, be suffi- 
cient cause in your judgment to require a variation or delay 
of the course herein proposed, you will be pleased to advise 
this department, and in the mean time, adopt such measures as 
the public interests may require. 

With sentiments of respect, sir, your Excellency's Ob't sv't. 

W. EUSTIS 
His Excellency Gov. W. H. Harrison, Vincennes 

Snelling to Harrison 

Fort Harrison January 18th 1812 

Har. Pa. 585, 586 

Sir: 

Peter the Indian who has for a long time been an inmate 
of this garrison returned yesterday from a hunting expedition 
he has for some time been engaged in with a party of the 
Miamis. He was accompanied by an Indian called Jem, and 
sometimes "Five" who reported that it was the determination 
of all the Indians to go to War with the United States, that 
they told him it was true the United States had a great many 
warriors, but when they were united they would also have 
many and that he might expect some hard fighting in the 
Spring. He also informed me that Stone Eater, (who prom- 
ised when he left this place that he sould return and tell me 
how your Excellencie's message was received) told the Miamis 

1. This act was sipncd Jan. 2, 1812, providinp; for not to exceed seven companies 

of about 70 men each to patrol the frontier. 

Annals, 12 Cong. It, 2228, 231,5 

, Two companies were orsanized in Ohio, Jan. 17. On Feb. 11 a company was 

formed at Vincennes, Parmenius Beckcs, Capt., Walter Wilson, Ist Lieut., Thos. Scott, 

2d I.leut., John Batthis, ensiprn. May 5, 1812 Joseph Biown, 1st Lieut., and Samuel 

Little, 2d Lieut., were added to the Indiana rangers. Apr. 12, 181.1, throe companies 

of .♦•anKcrs were provided for. In the First Williamson Dunn was Capt., Henry Bren- 

^ 1st Lieut., Henry Ristine, 2d Lieut., David Hillis, 3d Lieut., Green B. Fields, 

_ n. In the Second Pierre Andre, Capt., Hyacinth Lassolle, 1st Lieut., Homer John- 
en' 

2d Lieut., John Hadden, 3d Lieut., David Grcprp:, ensign. In the Third, appointed 

. 30, James BiKPrer was Capt., John Carr, Ist Lieut., James Curry, 2d Lieut., 

•^im P. Meredith, 3d Lieut., John Owen., Jr., ensiprn. May 20, Frederick Shoults 

appointed a captain, but of which company is not stated. These seem to be all 

i. ippointments made by the president to the ranger service in Indiana at this time. 



IG INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

if the Kickapoos and Winnebagos did not like it, he wculd 
neither return to Fort Harrison or Vincenncs and conchided 
his address to them in these words "My Brothers if the Kicka- 
poos and Winnebagos will not accept of the terms offered 
them let us fight and die altogether." Wishing to obtain all 
the information I could on the subject I called in and exam- 
ined Peter who corroberated the story told by the other, he 
said he believed their intentions were bad, but suspecting Kim 
of partiality to the Whites they were guarded in their con^'xr- 
sation before him. He added that a Pottawattamie Indian 
called the White Pidgeon, had been with the Miamis witi a 
message from Fort Maiden the purport of which he could not 
discover, that he was now gone to the other tribes and was 
coming to this garrison in about thirty days, for the purpose 
as he expressed it "of looking at us," that many of them were 
preparing for a journey to Fort Maiden where they expected 
to receive rifles and ammunition and they declared it was their 
intention to commence hostilities in the Spring when the corn 
was about two feet high, which he expressed by holding his 
hand that distance from the ground. [See Feb 10 below] 

I must confess Sir I feel myself placed in the predicament 
either of being thought too credulous and ready to give an 
ear to every idle story or on the other hand of withholding 
information of the greatest importance to my country. I have 
however determined to communicate all the information I re- 
ceive, wishing your Excellency to understand that I do not 
give implicit confidence to all the stories I hear, neither do I 
entirely discredit them. I have directed Peter to go out in 
pursuit of further intelligence and shall use all other means 
in my power to obtain correct information. Should I receive 
your Excellencie's commands to that effect I will secure the 
White Pidgeon or take such other measure as may defeat the 
object of his visit. In speaking of the Miamis I wish your 
Excellency to understand that those commonly called Eel river 
Indians are meant. 

I have the honor to be with the highest respect 
Your Excellencie Obt. Sevt. 
J. Snelling Ccqd J/th- biff. Com Ft. Harrison 
Tlis Excellency Wm. H. Harrison Governor of Indiana 

P. S. I wish in addition to infoi'm your Excellency that Pete/ 
dii-ectly charges youi- friend Mr. Mcintosh and Tom Jont« 



 

witli being engaged in a treasonable correspondence with the 
Bri Lish agent at Ft. Maiden. If I can obtain any information 
which may enable you to unmask the traitors it will be my 
ple4sure as well as duty to do it. 

Detachment Orders 

U. S. Detachment Main Quarters, 
ViNCENNES, January 21, 1812 
Burton, Historical Collection, ISO 

I{n taking leave of this command which I am authorized to 
do [by the Honorable Secretary of War, permission of the 
12t!ji ult., and to which my private concerns in New England 
compel me I cannot suppress the regret I feel in separating 
myself for a time from a Corps eminently distinguished for 
bravery in the field, for the proud honor of its officers and its 
pei-fected state of discipline. 

/Whenever it appeared consonant with the principles of duty, 
it/iias ever been my aim to make accommodation a pleasing 
P\art in the regulation of my conduct and to give satisfaction 
t(L) those who I have had the honor of commanding while a 
faithful and independent discharge of my duties has been a 
Prominent and anxious wish. 

I cannot now take leave of the Regiment and rifle company 
whose happiness is indivisibly blended with my own without 
ri^mindin them in the strongest terms of the necessity of rig- 
idly persevering in the cultivation of harmony the slightest 
relapse from which growing out of trifling differences be- 
tween members of the same Corps, indulged, producing party 
rancour, and discord too often becomes epidemic and diseases 
tiie whole, let me recommend that .Esprit de Co7'ps which 
makes a whole body tenacious of its reputation and solicitous 
[to presei^e it unsullied from the Colonel down to the Private. 
j The command of the United States troops in this Territory 
'devolves on Lieut. Col. James Miller of the 5th Regiment In- 
(fantry who will be pleased on assuming the same to report to 
^he War Department. 
■i The support and zealous cooperation of Lieut. Col. Miller 

-vhile Major in bringing the 4th Regiment to its present state 
of discipline has merited and commands applause and it would 

oe an omission of Justice not to place this testimony on rec- 

^^^- JNO. P. Boyd, Col. m Regt. Infy. 






 ] 

Detachment Order , 

ViNCENNES, January 24, 1812 

Burton, Historical Collcction\, ISl 

In obedience to Colonel [John P.] Boyd's order of the !23rd 
inst., Lt. Col. Miller assumes the command of the U. S. Trt)ops 
in the Indiana Territory, and directs the orders now in fprce 
to be strictly adhered to until further orders. j 

Signed James Miller, Lt. Col. 5th Regt. Infy. 

'' Little Turtle to Harrison i 

Fort Wayne, 25th January, 1812. 

Dawson, Harrison, 258 

Governor Harrison : \ 

My friend — I have been requested by my nation to speak 
to you, and I obey their request with pleasure, because I be- 
lieve their situation requires all the aid I can afford them. 
When your speech by Mr. [Touissant] Dubois was receiv^:d 
by the Miamies, they answered it, and I made known to you 
their opinion at that time. Your letter to William Wells of 
the 23d November last, has been explained to the Miamies, and 
Eel river tribes of Indians. 

My friend — Although neither of these tribes have had any 
thing to do with the late unfortunate affair which happened 
on the Wabash, still they all rejoice to hear you say that if 
those foolish Indians which were engaged in that action would 
return to their several homes and remain quiet, that they 
would be pardoned, and again received by the President as his 
children. We believe there is none of them that will be so 
foolish, as not to accept of this friendly offer; whilst, at the 
same time, I assure you, that nothing shall be wanting on my 
part, to prevail on them to accept it. i 

All the prophet's followers have left him, (with the excep- 
tion of two camps of his own tribe) Tecumseh has just joined 
him with eight men only. No danger can be apprf^hended 
from them at present. Our eyes will be constantly kept ^- 
them, and should they attempt to gather strength again, w^e 
will do all in our power to prevent it; and at the same time 
give you immediate information of their intentions. 



 

[e are sorry that that peace and friendship which has so 
longj existed between the red and white people, could not be 
presierved, without the loss of so many good men as fell on 
both sides, in the late action on the Wabash ; but we are satis- 
fied hat it will be the means of making that peace which ought 
to e:dst between us, more respected, both by the red and the 
white people. 

We have been lately told, by different Indians from that 
quaJ-ter, that you wished the Indians from this country to visit 
you'; this they will do with pleasure when you give them in- 
formation of it in writing. 

My friend — The clouds appear to be rising in a different 
quarter, which threatens to turn our light into darkness. To 
prevent this, it may require the united efforts of us all. We 
hope that none of us will be found to shrink from the storm 
that threatens to burst on our nations. - 

'■ ;: Your friend, - V-^ 

; ./' ,^ • V ^ MiSCHECQUOCQUAH, or LITTLE TURTLE 

' For the Miami and Eel river tribes of Indians 

Witness: '. ,,..^:, ^.., 

;Wm Turner >?,..; 

i Surgeon's Mate, U. S. Army . " '■- • - ;. 



'/ 



certify that the above is a true translation. 

, . : .. W. Wells 

Petition from Madison 

January 28, 1812 

•' Mss. Indiana State Library 

I To his Excellency william henoery harrison Governor of the 
Indiana teritory, the citizens of the town of Madeson humbly 
yhueth unto your Excellencey that theay haive Graite neede of 
a notht-^ Magustrate in this plaice for to Discharge the ordi- 
Iry bu ness of this town and a Greeable to owr request we 
lie unde, seigners Do recommend our Worthey friend Abra- 
jjam T. fisk to your Excellencey to sarve us as a magustrate 
lif you Excellencey will Gratify your patitioners request in 



 

this purticular thcay will feall them selves in duty Bound to 
pray 

Patitioncrs Names 
this 28th Day of January 1812 

Charles Eastin 

David Vancleave 

Phil Eastin 

William Downey 

Abraham Smocke 

Jacob Smock Senr 

Jacob Smock Junr 

Jacob Yunt 

Tno Ryker 

Gevardus R. Robbins \ 

Jacob kelly | 

John Storm ^ 

Lewis Waggener ^ 

Leonard Barnes 

Samuel Hensley 

benjanen Devason 

Robert Marchus 
[date written on outside, Feb. 23.] 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



( 

ViNCENNES 29th Jan. I8I2 

Har. Pa. 587, S\S8 

Sir: ( 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favoui-s 
of the 25th and 26th Ult. with their enclosures. 

The Honorable mention which the President has beei 
pleased to make of my own, and the conduct of the Troops 
commanded in the late action amply consoles me for all the) 
falsehoods and calumnies of hireling and party writers. Mj^ 
warmest thanks are due to the President for the good opinioi 
of me which he has been pleased to express and to you Sir, fol 
the polite manner in which it has been communicated. [Dcj 
cembcr 18 and 19, 1811, above] 

The Presidents approbation of and his thanks for their goo'i 
conduct have been communicated to the several corps whiclk 
served upon the campaign in a general order. 



 

I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter latolj^ received 
from Capt. Snelling. [Jan. 18, above] It is almost impos- 
sible to select the truth from tha mass of falshood and in- 
consistency with which information derived from Indians 
always abounds. I know the Peter mentioned by the Capt. 
and I do not think that implicit credit is due to what he says. 
— However he has always been on our side. 

The people whose horses were stolen last Spring, and in the 
spring of 1810 by the Potawatomies, and Kickapoos, who were 
attached to the Prophet are very clamorous for compensation. 
Permit me to recommend that $500 be stoped f^ut of the an- 
nuity of each of those Tribes to satisfy t^^Ode claims. I also 
beg leave to recommend that half of the Piankeshaws and as 
much of the Kickapoos annuity be confiscated by the Govern- 
ment in consequence of their having permitted their warriors 
to join the Prophet and make war upon us. Considerably 
more than half the Kickapoos were with him and nearly half 
of the Piankeshav:^. The Potawatimies, ought also to be made 
to suffer for tVieir conduct — but that tribe is so large that the 
annuity which they now receive is not sufficient for them. 

I am. with great respect Sir 

, Your Humble Servant. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honorable Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 

I 

\ William Wells to Secretary of War 

i Fort Wayne, 10th February, 1812 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 805 

i At the request of the Little Turtle, I enclose you his speech 
to Governor Harrison, of the 25th ultimo. [See Jan. 25 
Jiibove] 

I On the 12th ult. two British emissaries passed through this 
ilieighborhood, on their way to see the Prophet. On the 21st 
I 'mo. they called at my house, on their return to Maiden ; 
tl y were two Munsey Indians. It appears that their busi- 
: -ss was to invite all the Indians to meet at Maiden very early 
i . the spring. What took place between them and the 
lr,rophet, I have not as yet learnt. [See Jan. 18 above] 

i The Pattawatamy chief, Marpack, has been in the neighbor- 
hood of Maiden since August last; he now is near the white 



 I 

settlement on the river Raisin, in Michigan territory, and 
visits Maiden every eight or ten days. He has about one liun- 
dred and twenty of the best warriors in this country with him, 
stationed in such a manner as to be unobserved by the whites; 
that is to say, eight or ten in one place, fifteen or twenty in 
another, and so on; but within such distance of each other, 
as to enable him to collect them all in twenty-four hours. I 
know this chief is hostile inclined towards the United States, 
and have no hesitation in saying, that he is kept at that place 
by the British agents at Maiden ; and in case the United States 
have war with that Pov/cr, this chief will attack our settle- 
ments immediattV, I believe many of the warriors that 
fought Governor Harrison, have, and are now about to join 
him. [Extract] William Wells 

Charles Mehl to Martin Mehl, Tippecanoe 

ViNCENNES Knox County Indiana Teritory 
Febuary the : 10 : 1812 

Mss. in State Library 

Dear Uncle I take this opertunity to inform you That My 
father Received your leter of the twenty Fourth of July : 1S09 
and to let you know that We are all in good health and I hope 
these few Lines will find you and your famely in the same 
State of health and we are extremely sorry to Here of the 
death of our friends and Relations And to inform you of the 
time that my Uncle Charles Mehl left this place is almost Im- 
posable to me at this time but I believe that [mutilated] time 
in March 1808 and the [mutilated] he was then in was nothing 
perticu — [mutilated] he had money when he left this place 
[mutilated] to bear his expense but he had not [mutilated] 
Journey until he got in a [mutilated] money v/as stolen fronrj 
him [mutilated] some men that ware going to Kentucky and 
met with an oppertunity of Working at his trade he was there 
some time and in what Situation he left that I Cannot info i 
you I now undertake to infoiTn you of the battle that \ " 
fought on the seventh of November 1811 Between the Whi riv 
people of this place and the Neighbouing indians, Consistir in 
of Shawaynoes Potawatamies Pyankcshasos Kickapoos an/* 
Winebagoes Which Was Commanded by the Shawaynoes 
Prophet And which bandity Consisting of from six to seven 



 

Hundred which had combined on the Wabash river And have 
been here too or thre different times to Take the town But 
on there aproach to this place The people knowing there in- 
tentions the militia Were Called together and stationed in the 
town Which prevented any hostilaties from taking place It 
being agreate injury to our Country the People resolved to 
disband them from that Place We Randavozed on the sev- 
enteenth of September last and marched the twenty third 
With about nine hundred men Commanded by Governor 
Harison preceded about sixty miles Up the wabash and built 
[mutilated] Purpose of leaving the sick & preceded ab [mu- 
tilated] thirty Miles farther & built a Block house [mutilated] 
the purpose of protecting our boats [mutilated] sick Then 
preceded to the proph [mutilated] of November past the 
[mutilated] A mile from the [mutilated] of Holding a con- 
ference the next morning but in vain the next morning at 
fourocloc to our Surprise the Indians began to play on our 
sentinals The Battle Comecid the Indians v/ere in the Camps 
as soon as our men the guard on the Left flank not doing there 
duty the indian^ Were in the lines before the men were formed 
in A line of battle But nevertheless they sustained But little 
dammage before they were formed The fireing Continued 
for too houc's and fifteen Minutes without intermision During 
Which tinre we lost many of our dearest Friends and best 
Citezens the number of whites That fought in the battle did 
not excede seven Hundred and fifty the loss sustained was one 
Hundred and eighty eight kiled and wounded Of white people 
the loss of indians is said to be Upwards of too hundred the In- 
dians defeated and Left the ground we did not pursue them 
until the Next morning we went to the town and found it 
Avacuated and we burnt there town and Returned Home with- 
out further interuption [mutilated] 

My best Respects to you and your famely and Relations 1 
shall expect an answer as soon as time will permit and only 
add that I Am your ever well wisher 

Charles Mehl 
To Mr. Martin Mehl 



 

Snelling to Harrison 

Fort Harrison, February 17th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 591, 502 

Sir: 

On the afternoon of the day I last WTote you [See Jan. 18, 
above] Little Eyes accompanied by Laprousier came to the 
Garrison, returned me the enclosed package and said that the 
young man whom he sent the Second time met some Indians 
who told him it was not necessary to cany it, that there was 
to be a general peace and of course it would be of no sei*\'ice ; 
he therefore had brought it to me, that I might deliver it to 
your Excellency. They informed me that the Indians were 
about to assemble in the neighbourhood of Tiermans [Creek] 
from whence they would proceed to Vincennes. 

They staid in the Garrison that night and in the evening 
Laprousier told Mons. Broullette the Indians were well assured 
that the President disapproved of your Excellencies conduct 
towards them, and as soon as they have settled the terms of 
an and accomodation a deputation of two from each tribe, 
would start for Washington to seek redress of their great 
Father. 

In addition to this Peter who has been with the.n some time 
informs me he learned that when Laprousier, White Pidgeon, 
and some others were at Vincennes last Spring they had a 
Council at midnight in the house of Joseph Basidon where 
IMcIntosh and Thomas Jones attended, and an Indian called 
Piankeshaw Dick^ acted as Intei-preter. That the Wea Chiefs 
at the instigation of Mcintosh signed a Declaration setting 
forth that their lands had been taken from them without their 
consent, which declaration has been prewarded [ ?] to the In- 
diana delegate [Jennings] to be made use of as occasion re- 
quired. Mcintosh told them he had been a great sufferer 
having lost Four Thousand dollars for speaking in their behalf 
and they promised to indemnify him should they recover their 
lands. Jones was also to be rewarded with a tract three miles 
square bounding on Raccoon Creek. They were to have a new 

1. Piankeshaw Dick or Pop-in-Dick was an Indian who had been reared by Thoraas 
Jones, the gunsmith for the Indians at Vincennes. John McGowan, a young man fiom 
Pennsylvania, also worked at the shop. Pop-in-Dick burned his foot on a piece of aot 
iron for which he blamed McGowan. Later, May 1812, he killed McGowan at his hoine 
at the ferry over White river at Hindostan. 

MsB. by Dr. Wm. McGowan, OaktoWTi 



 

Governor and this was to be (in Indiana) the Golden Age. I 
cannot but be diverted at these Indian stories and communi- 
cate them to your Excellency rather to be laughed at, than 
treated seriously. 

I have the honor to be with the Highest Respect 
Your Excellencies Obt. Servt. 

(Signed) J. Snelling 
His Ex. Wm. H. Harrison 

The packet mentioned in this letter was a dispatch for the 
agents at Fort Wayne which the Wea Chiefs promised to have 
carried to them. 

W. H. H. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, 19th February 1812 

- Ha/r. Pa. 590, 591 

Sm: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter 
of the 17th Ultimo, [above] 

I have been in expectation of the arrival of some of the 
Kickapoo, Winebago and Miami Indians for some time past 
at this place. I apprehend that they have been stoped by the 
severity of the weather. When they do arrive I shall take 
measures for making a proper selection of Chiefs for the pro- 
posed visit to the Seat of Government. If they accept the 
invitation it will be conclusive evidence of their peacable dis- 
position. I do not believe however, that either the Prophet 
or Tecumseh can be prevailed upon to go, not at any rate with- 
out our giving a hostage for their safety. Shall this be done? 
I could perhaps get M. Laplante to take upon himself that 
character. The information received from Governors Howard 
[Mo.] and Edwards [111.] does not indicate a peacable disposi- 
tion amongst the Indians of that quarter. There is no certain 
mode of obliging them to remain quiet but by intimidating 
them. 

The collection or the appearance of a collection of Volun- 
teers or Militia would answer this purpose. But it is vain to 
threaten them unless they see something of the danger. I 
think it is probable that the Prophet will wait until he hears 

6—22664 



 

what success Tecumseh has met -with in raising the other 
Tribes before he will submit. It is my fixed opinion *ihat if 
the Regular Troops are withdrawn without being replaced by 
other troops the Indians will again commence Hostilities, un- 
less we can prevail upon some of the Influential Chiefs to set 
out to Washington before the Troops move. 
I have the honor to be with gi'eat Respect 
Sir Your Humb. Sevt. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Esq. Secy of War - 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES February 26th, 1812 

Hot. Pa. 593, 59^ 

Sm: 

I have the honor to enclose you the copy of a letter received 
last week by express from Capt. Snelling [Feb 17, above], 
on the 25th Inst, another express arrived from him which 
brought the information of the arrival at his post of Eighty 
Indians, deputies from all the late hostile tribes [are] (the 
Shawanoes excepted) on their way to this place. They have 
not yet arrived being detained as I imagine by High Waters. 
I have sent up [Joseph] Barron the Interpreter to meet them 
on the Frontiers to learn the number of each particular tribe, 
to know of the Chiefs why they have brought so large a num- 
ber of their warriors and to propose to them either to send 
back to Fort Harrison all but a few Chiefs from each tribe or 
that the whole of them should deliver up their arms. Pru- 
dence required that something of this kind should be done, 
particularly as I have received a hint from a young man of 
the Delaware tribe to be on my guard against them. The 
anecdote of the meeting mentioned in Capt. Snelling's letter 
is no doubt founded on fact. 

Finding that there was very little lead at Fort Knox and 
being desirous to have a quanity of fixed amuniuon prepared, 
I purchased about ten days ago 1,000 lbs. and drew on in 
favour of Messrs. Jones & Dubois for one Hundred Dollars 



 

the amount of the purchase. The lead has been dehvered to 
the (Quarter master of the 4th Regiment. 
I have the honor to be with great respect 
Sir your Humble Sevt. 

William Henry Harrison 

The Honble Wm. Eustis Secretary of War 

P. S. I have this moment received a dispatch from Gov. Ed- 
wards covering extracts of letters from Gov. Howard and from 
[Nicholas] Boilvin and [Maurice] Blondeau Indian Agents on 
the Mississippi all of whom appear to be appehensive that the 
Winnebagoes intend to attack our settlements. They have no 
doubt written to you on the subject. If the party which 
is now on its way from Fort Harrison have no treacherous 
intention the Winnebagoes will certainly make no trouble until 
their friends are there. 

W. H. H. 

Wells to Secretary of War 

Fort Wayne, 1st March 1812 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 806 

In my letter of the 10th ultimo, I informed you that the 
Indian chief Tecumseh, had arrived on the Wabash. I have 
now to state to you, that it appears that he has determined 
to raise all the Indians he can, immediately, with an intention, 
no doubt, to attack our frontiers. He has sent runners to 
raise the Indians on the Illinois, and the upper Mississippi; 
and I am told has gone himself, to hurry on the aid he was 
promised by the Cherokees and Creeks. 

The Prophet's orator, who is considered the third man in 
this hostile band, passed within twelve miles of this place, on 
the 23d ultimo, with eight Shawanese, eight Winnebagoes, and 
seven Kickapoos, in all twenty-four, on their way as they say 
to Sandusky; where they expected to receive a quantity of 
powder and lead, from their father. the British. [Extract] 

WILLLA.M Wells 



 



Jennings to 



Washington City 6th of March 1812 

Mss. in State Library 

Dr. Sir 

We have been so long in a state of uncertainty as it respects • 
Peace and War, that I have scarcely any thing new to give you. 
Measures preparatory to War still occupy the attention of Con- 
gress almost entirely, insomuch at least that the Territories 
appear to be almost forgotten — But I shall do every thing in 
my power and I hope something of advantage for the Terri- 
tory before this Session rises. Only let our friends hang to- 
gether and the day is ours. 

I have many assurances that we shall get rid of Harrison 
by some means or other, but keep this to yourself by all means, 
although I shall be very much deceived if you do not find it 
true, before nine months — on this subject you shall hear from 
me again after a little while — 

I enclose you a map of the Territory from which you will be 

able to discover the inginuity of H n to keep the seat of 

Government at Vincennes by making very small purchases of 
the Indians on the Eastern part of the Territory and very 
large purchases on the Western part — in order to get the great 
body of population on the Wabash River and its waters- 
Keep [James] Dill out of the Legislature if possible — 
I am your friend unchangably 

Jonathan Jennings 

George Hunt to Harrison 
Wayiie County (I. T.) Near Salisbury March 17 1812 

Mss, in State Library 

Most Excellent Sir — Since I received your friendly and 
interesting letter dated 17 of December last I have wrote but 
as our letters are generally intercepted a repetition I hope you 
will excuse — I obeyed your Order Respecting the Second 
Major in the 8th Regt. James Brown was re-elected altho' 
it was with some persuasion that his name cou'd run He is a 
decent young Man I commissioned him immediately — We want 
a number of Commissions Still for the Regt. Observing the 
provision in the late act for a Colo — I ordered an Election — 
I send you enclosed the Certificate we want a Commission for 



 

John Smith and one for Absalom Harvey Ensign — A Captains 
Commission for John Ireland — In the course of the summer 
we shall probably want commissions for a Battallion on the 
west fork of White Water The above Named Oflicers His 
Excellency will please to Commission as they are Now in Serv- 
ice Majr Hanna will be a safe hand to bring them together 
with any Commands he may send me 

We have had some Stir here about the remonstrance handed 
in to Congress by my friend Jonathan [Jennings] against 
Govr. Harrison.^ some of the party have denied assigning 
it, therefore I have wrote on to my friends in Congress to 
send me a Certified Copy with all the names annexed intend- 
ing to publish it as soon as it reaches me I assure you Sir, I 
want to know the enemies of my country, for God knows we 
have hard rubbing here but I hope the worst is over, the sons 
of 76 (or rather those in that Spirit) Still have the ascendency 
and I think our side is growing while I hope we may safely 
Compare the party of Honest Jonathan to the House of Saul — 
We here are waiting to know who will be our candidate for 
Congress in the Next election, we are looking toward Knox — 
Jennings is Very busy sending letters here but I see none of 
them but he has lately wrote that you were "anxious to have 
a command in the Army & if so you must resign your ap- 
pointment as Govr." &c &c. &c. A number of things beneath 
my notice — & certainly — your — I will only observe that from 
the Treatment you have received since the Battle we should 

1. Jennings seems to have been unusually active during this session. A large part 
of his work pertained to relief for debtors in the land department. Practically nothing 
was accomplished beyond the extension of time of payment three years. Act of Apr, 
23, 1812. 

Dec. 24, 1811, he moved to request the President to lay before the House any 
information he may have had verbal or otherwise relative to the situation in In- 
diana. This was read and laid on the table. Dec. 24, 1811, the petition of the 
soldiers was presented by the speaker. This was referred to a general committee on 
the Tippecanoe campaign, Jennings is not mentioned in connection with this business. 
Jan. 1, 1812, Jennings presented a petition for statehood. This was referred to a 
Bclcct committee of which he was chairman. Jan. 13 the speaker presented a petition 
from James Dill and Peter Jones of the Indiana legislature opposing statehood. This 
was referred to the same committee. On the same day Jennings moved that the Com- 
mittee on Public Lands consider a donation of land for the county seat of a new 
county to be made out of Knox. Jan. 20, Jennings presented a petition complaining of 
the arbitrary conduct of Gov. Harrison — vetoing a bill for the removal of the capital. 
March 31 Jennings reported in favor of admitting Indiana. Apr. 23 Burwell Bassett, 
a congressman from Virginia, read a letter from Harrison defending himself. Thfs 
with the petitions on motion of Jennings was referred to the Secretary of State. May 
27 on his own motion Jennings headed a committee to consider dividing Indiana into 
two states. This committee reported by bill. May 28, in favor of division which passed 
the House June 1. Nothing seems to have come of all this bickering. 



 

not have been surprised if your Excellency had resided — But 
for Gods Sake leave us not if you can possibly Bear with us, 
we know Jonathans drift — I have no foreign News I am 
seriously afraid that our Government will not attend to the 
Widow and Orphan as well as the Officers & Soldiers under 
your Command, and if Neglected I certainly shall feel Cool 
myself — I Do not know whether jMajr. [Joseph] Hanna or Mr 
Neely will Bear this to you — But as Mr. Neely has been with 
us. You will please inquire of him for particulars — please to 
give My Compliments to ]\Irs Harrison, Judge [Benjamin] 
Park & family Capt T. Jones & Family — with the friends of 
the Territory While yourself Sir shall receive my warmest 
acknowledgements for j^our favours & c &c I am yours at 
Command 

George Hunt^ 
Govt. W. H. Harrison 

George Beck to Harrison 

Harrison County April 13th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 596 

Dear Sir: 

I conceive it my duty to inform you of a late murder com- 
mitted on Driftwood on one Hinton supposed to be done by 
the Indians. Hinton went out to hunt his horses up Drift 
into the New purchase and stayed longer tham was expected 
the neighbours went to search for him and came on his trail 
and followed on to where they supposed he was killed, where 
they found a small piece of blue cloth and some pieces of rope 
they followed the trail on the bank of Driftwood where they 
threw him do\vn the Bank. Just in the edge of the water he 
was stripped and scalped. He was found on Saturday last 
they supposed there were four men by their trails, they took 
off four horses with them, two men followed the trail to 
Sandy where they parted. They followed on one of their 
trails near two miles where they fournd that two of them came 
together. They thought it not safe to follow any further — 
Also two yound men are missing since Sunday week they were 

2. George Hunt was a North Carolina Quaker. He came with his father and 
family to Wayne Co. in 1807. settling on Elkhorn and building a grist mill. In 1810 
he was appointed Clerk of Franklin Co., and in 1814 Clerk of Wayne. He had early 
made the acquaintance of Jennings and his political methods. 

Young, History of Wayne Co., H9 



 

the sons of Rodgers. They went out to hunt horses without 
guns, and has not been heard of since. I am about to raise 
a few men to go out and see if I can find where they have gone. 
Capt John Beck^ is the bearer of this letter. 
I am with respect your friend 

& Humble Sei-vt. 

(Signed) George Beck^ 
[Endorsed] 
W. H. Harrison 

Copy of a letter from ^Major G. Beck to Gov. Harrison. 

Snelling to Harrison 

Fort Harrison, April 14th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 601, 602 

Sm, 

I have this moment arrived and I find the aspect of aifairs 
so serious that I deem it necessary to advise you of it by ex- 
press. The Miamis have abandoned their camp and gone off 
after robbing the Settlers of every movable article they 
posessed. They have previously in several instances been very 
insolent and their going off leads to strong presumption that 
they were accessoiy to the murders on the other side. Capt. 
[PaiTnenius] Beckes requests me to inform you that in obedi- 
ence to your orders he followed the path to the house of Hut- 
son where he ascertained that the murders had been 
perpetrated as reported, that he should have gone farther out 
but found that Capt. [Toussaint] Dubois had preceded him 
and therefore took his course to this place through the river 
bottom. The aspect of affairs on this side is so alarming that 
Captain Beckes has thought it proper with the advice of the 
officers at this post to wait further orders from you before he 
proceeds on his rout homeward. Stone Eater has recently 
been here and reported that many of the Indians, the Potta- 
wattomies in particular are disaffected but let the resultof their 
council be what it may he promised to give the earliest possible 
information. I pray you Excellency to pardon the stile of my 

1. John and George Beck were early settlers of Harrison county, finally locating 
in what is now Washington county. They came from North Carolina, Jan. 17, 1809. 
John was appointed a captain and George an ensign in the Harrison county militia. 
Both perhaps served on the Tippecanoe campaign, John, with Berry's riflemen and 
George under Guiger with the Louisville mounted riflemen. 



 

writing, the haste which is necessary renders it impossible to 
revise, correct and amend it. 

With the highest respect, I have the honor to be your 
Excelly's 

Most obt. Sevt. 

(Signed) J. Snelling, Capt. 

P. S. Monsieur [Michel] Broulett had been sent to the upper 
camp about five miles from this by Lieut. [John] Smith pre- 
vious to my arrival, he has just retuiTied and reports that 
Laprousier and Negro Legs are there and profess total igno- 
rance of the matter. It appears the party who committed the 
robberies on this side were headed by Little Eyes who went 
away four days since. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 14th April, 1812 

Ha/r. Pa. 597-599 

Sir: 

The persons for whom Commissions were forwarded as offi- 
cers of the company of Rangers assigned to this territory were 
duly notified of their appointments. — Capt. [Parmenius] 
Beckes has accepted, but all the subalterns have declined. 
[Walter Wilson, Thomas Scott, John Batthis] I beg leave to 
recommend Joseph Brown as 1st Lieut and Samuel Little as 
Ensign. I have not yet selected a proper person to recom- 
mend for 2nd Lieut. [They were appointed May 5] 

From the general aspect of Indian affairs I thought it proper 
to direct Capt. Beckes to complete his company as soon as pos- 
sible and to call the whole of them into service. The 30 as- 
signed to this county are enlisted. The remaining 30 were 
directed to be recruited in another part of the Territory and 
will be up in a few days under Messrs. Little and Brown, who 
will serve as Sergants until their commissions can be sent on. 

It is with great regret that I inform you Sir that the hopes 
which I had entertained of our being able to avoid a war with 
the Indians are entirely dissipated. — The Prophet and his 
Brother were either altogether insincere in the professions 
which they made in February or they had been induced to 
adopt other politics in consequence of the probability of War 
between the United States and Great Britain. Messrs [John] 



 

Shaw and [William] Wells have I presume informed you of 
the Grounds which they have for believing that they are again 
organizing a force for hostile purposes and I have now to com- 
municate a most distressing and unequivocal proof of the exist- 
ence of this disposition. On Saturday evening last a Mrs. 
Hutsons family consisting of his wife four small children and 
a hired man residing in the Illinois Territoiy about 35 miles 
above this place, was most cruelly murdered. The house was 
set on fire with the bodies of the woman and children in it 
and the young man whose body was most shockingly mangled 
left in the yard. There were only three Indians in the party. 
A detacliment of Rangers are in pursuit of them but there is 
little probability of their being overtaken. I shall endeavour 
to asscertain the tribe to which these scoundrels belong but 
I have no hopes of their being delivered up. One of the most 
mischievious and successful of the Prophets schemes is that 
of destroying the influence of the Chiefs amongst the Potto- 
wattimies and Kickapoos particularly. The young men are 
under no kind of control, each man does as he pleases, and we 
have in my opinion no alternative but War. The propriety of 
its being undertaken immediately and prosecuted with vigor 
is an opinion which pervades I believe the whole Western 
Country. In Kentucky and in this Territory I know that it 
does. The circumstance of some of the tribes being friendly 
and others not so will occasion great embarressment, 

I hope to receive instructions upon this subject and the 
course that is to be pursued as early as possible. I shall pro- 
ceed to put the frontiers in the best possible state of defence 
but no defensive measures can possibly be effectual against 
Indians. I observe that the President is authorized^to call out 
any number of Militia but I suppose that ordinary Militia is 
meant. For such expeditions as an Indian War calls for (un- 
less it is intended to take possession of any particular point 
or to occupy the county by a chain of posts) mounted men are 
absolutely necessary, of these I am authorized to say that as 
many as may be wanted could be procured in Kentucky and 
Tennessee in three weeks notice. 

I shall execute your wishes with regard to the removal of 
Wells as soon as possible. At present he is engaged in effect- 
ing a meeting of the Indians at Mississineway under the 
auspices of the Turtle and the Five Medals. As these two 



 

chiefs are particularly friendly to Wells and are certainly and 
unequivocally on our side it would I imagine be bad policy to 
remove him at this moment. 

I have the honor to be Sir With great respect you 
Most Obt. Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. The captain of the Rangers or some other person there 
should be authorized to discharge men of that corps who are 
unfit for the service. It requires the best men and for the 
price that is given the best can be got. In spite of the 
vigilance of the officers some of a contrary description will be 
enlisted. 

Honble. Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 15th April, 1812 

„ Ha/r. Pa. 603, 60^ 

olR, 

Last evening an Express arrived here with the letter of 
which the enclosed is a copy, [April 13 above] — the Driftwood 
Settlement [Vallonia] ^ mentioned in it, is upon the South East 
Branch of the white river about 75 miles nearly due East 
from this place; the object of the Hostile Indians in commit- 
ting murders in that direction is beyond all doubt to impli- 
cate the Delawares. I am really much embarrassed to know 
what steps it would be proper to take, to preserve the neutral- 
ity of that tribe and the Miamis. The one which appears to 
me most practicable is to get them to occupy the whole coun- 
try, from the main branch of White River to the Boundary 
established by the Grouseland Treaty and oblige them to un- 
dertake to prevent the hostile Indians from committing any 
depredations in that direction. Something like this must be 
done or they must be entirely withdrawn from their present 
position. 

I take the liberty to assure you, Sir, that there is not the 
least necessity for two companies of Rangers in the state of 

1. Vallonia was settled by Kentuckians and Burr refuKees in 1810. There were 
between 30 and 40 families in the settlement by 1812. For details of the Indian fight- 
ing on this frontier see Ind. Mag. of Hist. X, 256; Brownstown Banner Aug. 26, 1874; 
History of Jackson County, 316; and best, John Ketcham, Autobiography. Ketchara 
was one of the first settlers and writes from personal knowledge. [See end of 1812 
below.] 



 

Ohio, only a small point of their Frontier (in the neighbor- 
hood of Greenville) is approachable by the hostile Indians. 
No just apprehensions can be entertained of the Shawanoes 
on the Auglaize or the Wyandots of Sandusky — 

I have the honor to be with great respect . ^^ ., ^ _ 

Sir, your humble Servant, ■'' "' ' <-y = > 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. 9 o'clock. An express has this moment arrived from 
Fort Harrison w^ith the letter of which the enclosed is a copy. 
[April 14 above] There is no doubt but the Little Eyes 
therein mentioned was in the action and has long been in the 
interest of the prophet. His object is to force his tribe (the 
Miamis) to take a decided part on the same side. 

Honorable William Eustis, Esqr. Secretary of War 

Harrison General Orders 
Headquarters, Vincennes 16th April, 1812 

Ind. Mag. of History II, 185 

As the late murders upon the frontiers of this and the 
neighboring Territories leave us little to hope of our being able 
to avoid a war with the neighboring tribes of Indians, the 
commander-in-chief directs that the colonels and other com- 
mandants of corps should take immediate measures to put 
their commands in the best possible state for active service. 
The field officers who command battalions will visit and crit- 
ically inspect the several companies which compose them and 
make a report in detail of their situation, particularly noting 
the deficiencies in arms, ammunition and accoutrements, and 
such measures as the laws authorize must be immediately 
taken to remedy those deficiencies. The commander-in-chief 
informs the officers that the most prompt obedience and the 
most unremitting attention to their duty will be required of 
them — the situation of the country calls for exertion on the 
part of the militia, and the officers must set the example to 
their men. If there are amongst them any who have accepted 
appointments for the mere motive of gratifying their vanity 
by the possession of a commission to which a title is annexed, 
without having the ability or the inclination to encounter 
arduous service, in justice to their country and to their own 
fame they should now retire and not stand in the way of 



 

those who are more able or more willing to encounter the 
fatigue and danger incident to actual service in the Indian 
war. From the specimen which the commander-in-chief has 
had of their conduct in the field he has every reason to be 
proud of them, nor does he believe that there are better militia 
officers to be found anywhere than those of Indiana, but in a 
crisis like the present they should be all good. 

The field officers are to see that proper places are appointed 
for the rendezvous of the companies upon an alarm or the 
appearance of danger, and will give orders relatively to the 
mode of their proceeding in such exigencies as the situation 
of the companies respectively call for. When mischief is done 
by the Indians in any of the settlements, they must be pur- 
sued, and^the officer nearest to the spot, if the number of men 
under his command is not inferior to the supposed number of 
the enemy, is to commence it as soon as he can collect his men. 
If his force should be too small he is to send for aid to the 
next officer to him, and in the meantime take a position capa- 
ble of being defended, or watch the motions of the enemy, 
as circumstances require. The pursuit must be conducted 
with vigor, and the officer commanding will be held respon- 
sible for making every exertion in his power to overtake the 
enemy. Upon his return, whether successful or not, a partic- 
ular account of his proceedings must be transmitted to the 
commander-in-chief and a copy of it to the colonel of the regi- 
ment. 

The commander-in-chief recommends it to the citizen on the 
frontiers of Knox county, from the Wabash eastwardly across 
the two branches of the White river, those on the northwest 
of the Wabash and those in the Driftwood settlement in Har- 
rison, to erect blocked houses or picketed forts. It will depend 
upon the disposition of the Delawares whether measures of 
this kind will be necessary or not upon the frontiers of Clark, 
Jefferson, Dearborn, Franklin or Wayne. Means will be taken 
to ascertain this as soon as possible and the result communi- 
cated. The Indians who profess to be friendly have been 
warned to keep clear of the settlements, and the commander- 
in-chief is far from wishing that the citizens should run any 
risk by admitting any Indians to come amongst them whose 
designs are in the least equivocal. He recommends, however 
to those settlements which the Delawares have frequented as 



 

much forbearance as possible towards that tribe, because they 
have ever performed with punctuality and good faith their 
engagements with the United States, and as yet there is not 
the least reason to doubt their fidelity. It is also certain that 
if they should be forced to join the other tribes in war, from 
their intimate knowledge of the settlements upon the frontiers 
they would be enabled to do more mischief than any other 
tribe. 

By the commander-in-chief 

A. Hurst, Aid-de-camp 

Snelling to Harrison 

Fort Harrison, April 16, 1812 

Ha/r. Pa. 608, 610 

Sm, 

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Ex- 
cellencies letter of yesterday. You must. Sir, have misunder- 
stood me if you conceived I thought it necessaiy for Capt. 
[Parmenius] Beckes to stay at the post, my reason for advis- 
ing his waiting your orders here was, I imagined from the 
alarming reports I heard on my arrival, that you might think 
it necessary to detach him in a different direction from his 
original destination, this opinion was afterwards confirmed by 
a report of Negro Legs who informed me that the night before 
he was continually disturbed by the barking of dogs round 
his camp and in the morning he discovered a large trail going 
towards the settlements. Sergt. [Daniel] Baldwin who ar- 
rived the evening of the 13th also reported that he saw on the 
lower prairie three Indians who fled at the approach of his 
party and concealed themselves in the woods. In the after- 
noon of the 16th [?] I sent for the Wea Chiefs who were em- 
camped on the creek five miles above, informed them of the 
murders committed on the other side and required that they 
should take such measures as were in their power to discover 
the murderers which they promised to do. I then spoke to them 
of the depredations on this side, affected to believe they were 
committed by the young men without their knowledge, repre- 
sented the absolute necessity of restraining them, told them 
that next to murder the white people considered a violation 
of their property the greatest crime and that should they per- 



 

sist in such practices they would inevitably be killed. They 
seemed to agree in opinion that the robberies were committed 
by Little Eyes and a party which went off with him a few days 
since but I am sorry to say that although my speech was de- 
livered with all the gi*avity the occasion required it was treated 
by them with levity I never before witnessed. Laprousier 
particularly affected to ridicule the idea of killing them for 
stealing and frequently interrupted INIonsieur Broulette with 
bursts of laughter. Negro Legs was much disturbed but 
spoke little and appeared to be veiy ill. Yesterday morning 
they came in great numbers to the garrison bringing appar- 
ently the proceeds of their whole winters hunt which they 
bartered with Broulette for such articles as he had for sale. 
The Squaw of Negi'o Legs told Broulette she was sorry to see 
him leave because she liked him very much and did not w^ant 
the Crows to eat him which she thought would soon be the 
case, he was also told by Jem to be on his guard for the 
Shawanos would soon be after him. In the afternoon they 
generally went off but a few of them lingered about the gate 
and one attempting to pass in was stopped by the sentinel 
whose gun he seized but the sentinel instantly recovered it and 
gave him a severe cut across the face with the bayonet, his 
comrades were much enraged and expressed their determina- 
tion to have revenge saying in a few days they would return 
with a great force and take the garrison, this day not an In- 
dian has been seen. I have now Sir given you a minute de- 
tail of the incidents which have occurred since my arrival and 
your Excellency may be assured that every circumstance even 
the most trifling shall be communicated to you and I shall be 
extremely careful to guard against, surprises. I have the 
honour to be with the highest respect Your Obt. Sen^ant 

J. Snelling, Captain 
His Ex. Wm. H. Harrison. 

P. S. I had entirely forgotten to mention that when I in- 
formed them your Excellency would pay for as many rails as 
they wanted Lapresieur replied he thought they should not 
want any for he believed they would not plant any this season. 



 

Harrison to Davis Floyd 

ViNCENNES 17th April 1812 

Har. Pa. 615-617 

Sir: 

Conceiving it to be a matter of great importance to keep 
the Delaware Tribe faithful to the United States I have 
thought it proper to send some person to them to ascertain 
their present disposition and to endeavour'to arrange with the 
chiefs some plan to prevent them from being forced into war 
which it appears but too probable we are about to be engaged 
in with most of the other tribes. I have selected you for the 
purpose, the first and most desirable plan that has occurred 
to my mind is that the Delawares should unite with the 
Miamis, and any other of the tribes which remain faithful to 
us to drive off the Prophet and his party from the Wabash and 
to declare to the hostile tribes that they will not permit them 
to make war on this side of the Wabash. If the disaffection 
amongst the Miamis should be such as to render this plan 
impracticable, or the strength of the hostile confederacy so 
formidable as to render them unable to prevent them from 
crossing the Wabash, it would be desirable that they should 
occupy the country between the White River and the boundary 
of the Grouseland treaty and undertake to prevent any depre- 
dations from being committed in that quarter whilst the 
Sha^vnese of the Auglaize and the Wyandots of Sandusky 
should enter into the same engagements for the frontiers of 
Ohio adjacent to them. There is no other mode that I can 
think of which would effectually preserve their neutrality but 
that of removing to their friends on the Mississippi or joining 
the Sha^\^lese of the Auglaize. You will be pleased to repre- 
sent to them in the strongest teiTns the anxiety of the govern- 
ment to keep them clear of that ruin and destruction which 
the folly and \\ickedness of the other tribes will bring upon 
themselves. Their situation will however require the greatest 
care and circumspection and it is particularly necessary that 
they explain their intentions with the utmost frankness and 
truth and that they scrupulously perfonn what they promise. 
The strength of the United States particularly of the western 
part of it is such that they stand in need of no assistance to 
crush any combination that the Indians can form. But the 
situation of the Delawares and Miamies is such that it is ab- 



j 



 

solutely necessary that they should adopt some plan similar to 
those I have mentd. for if the hostile Indians are permitted 
to pass through their country to strike our settlements, in the 
pursuit of them our warriors will be unable to discriminate 
and our friends will in many instances suffer for the crimes 
of others at any rate our citizens who suffer from war parties 
which pass in the direction of the Delawares, and Miamis 
towns will become jealous of their fidelity and in all probabil- 
ity will attribute depredations to them of which they may be 
innocent. It is probable also that the hostile tribes will strike 
our settlements in that direction for the purpose of implicat- 
ing our friends and I strongly suspect that the murder lately 
committed [Hinton] in the Driftwood settlement was intended 
to produce that effect. [April 13, above] 

You will get all the information in your power, with respect 
to the designs of the Hostile tribes, and will endeavour to 
make an arrangement to have information of their movements 
regularly conveyed to me through some channel or other. 

You will be allowed three dollars a day from the day of your 
departure from home until your retura. 

I am respectfully your Humbl. Servt. 

Wm. H. Harrison 
Major Davis Floyd 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, 22nd April, 1812 
Har. Pa. 607 

Sir, 

The letter from Capt. Snelling which is- herewith enclosed 
[April 16, above] contains the only information of conse- 
quence that I have received upon Indian affairs since my let- 
ter of the fifteenth was written. 

Mr. Newton E. WestfaP declines the appointment of Ensign 
in the 2nd Regt. and I take the liberty to ask it for Mr. 
Thomas Lawrence, a grand son of Gen. St. Clair's. I have 
seen this young gentleman but once but I have sufficient 
authority for saying that he is a genteel young man, intelli- 

1. Newton Edward Westfall was appointed coroner of Knox county Apr. 13, 1810; 
Jan. 6, 1813, he waa superseded as he had left the county. The family has been well 
known about Vincennes since about 1800. 



r .<../.^^ 
















Facsimile of one of Iljinison's letters. Original is on file in 
the archives of the War Dei)artment. 



 

gent, sober and correct in his conduct. Mr. Lawrence resides 
at Lawrenceburgh a post town in this territory. 
I have the honor to be with great respects, Sir, 
Your Humble Servant, 

William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. Wm. Eustis, Esqr., Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 22nd, April 1812 
10 O'clock p. m. 

Har. Pa. 605, 606 

Sir, 

A colonel [John] Small has just arrived from the Settle- 
ment on the Embarras River five miles west of this place Avith 
the information of the murder of another family by the In- 
dians about 8 o'clock this evening. A gentleman who arrived 
last evening informs me that a number of Winebagos, Sacs, 
Kickapoos etc. are now with Governor Edwards [of 111.] in 
council at Cahokia. What faith in future can be placed in the 
promises of these scoundrels or what other course is there left 
for us to pursue but to make a war of exterpation upon them? 
If some offensive operations are not soon commenced against 
them we shall loose more of our citizens than the most bloody 
battle would cost us. 

I have dispatched a party of Rangers and militia in pursuit 
of the Indians and I think there is a great probability that 
they will be overtaken. 

I send this letter after the mail carrier by a special Express. 

And am with great respect 

your Humble Servant 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
The Hon.ble. William Eustis, Esqr. Secy of War 

Rec'd. May 9, 1812 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 29th April 1812 

Har. Pa. 811-813 

Sir: 

In a letter which I had the honor to write to you in the 
night of the 22nd inst. I communicated the information which 

6—22664 



 i 

I had just then received of the murder of a family upon the 
Embarras River about 5 miles from this place. The report 
proved but too true. On the succeeding day Col. [James] 
Miller went to the spot with a detachment of the regular 
troops and buried the bodies of Mr. and Mrs. Hariyman and 
five small children. A violent rain which fell the night after 
these murders were committed rendered it impossible for the 
detachment of mounted men which were sent in pursuit of the 
Indians to discover the route they had taken.^ 

On the 11th inst. another family was attacked by the In- 
dians a few miles from the Ohio, about 10 miles below the 
yellow banks [opposite Owensboro, Ky.] and about 75 from 
this place, the owner of the house [Atha Meeks] was killed 
and one of his sons badly wounded. Another son however 
with the assistance of the women of the family killed one of 
the 3 Indians and drove off the others. I have not been able 
to ascertain the Tribes to which the parties belong which have 
committed any of the late murders. It appears to me how- 
ever to be very evident that their design is to distract and di- 
vide our attention to prevent the militia from embodying and 
certainly no plan could be more successful than that which 
they have fallen upon.- The murder committed near the Ohio 
where I supposed that there would be no danger even in the 
midst of an Indian war has so alarmed the people in that quar- 
ter that it would be impossible to make the militia turn out to 
march to the protection of any other place. The killing of the 
men upon the Driftwood fork of White River has produced 
similar affects in all the settlements eastwardly and south- 
wardly of that place. 

It is impossible Sir to give you an adequate Idea of the 
alarm and distress which these murders have produced. The 
account transmitted to you by Governor Edwards of the situa- 
tion of the Illinois territory after the murders were committed 
there last year affords a better picture than I can draw of the 
scenes which are daily exhibited here. Families, abandoning 
their homes and flying they know not whither and many of 
them without any means of support, are seen in every direc- 
tion. Nor is the situation of this town by any means such as 
offers security to the fugitives. The expected departure of 

1. For a further account of this tragedy see Adam Walker's Journal above. 

2. For the details of the Meeks tragedy see Ind. Mag. of Hist. XIV, SOU and refer- 
ences there given. 



 

the regular troops and the revival of the design by the Prophet 
and his Party (as communicated by Mr. Shaw) to surprise it 
by a water expedition caused it to be viewed as a place of 
greater danger than any other and the fugitives pass through 
it as expeditiously as possible. I have formerly described to 
you its situation and the impossibility of defending it with its 
own militia and under the present alarm it is impossible to 
get a single company nearer than the neighbourhood of the 
falls of the Ohio. For offensive operations I believe the men 
would turn out willingly and I understand that the People of 
Kentucky and Tennessee are anxiously waiting for an order 
to that effect. 

The company of Rangers have been so much employed in 
detachments for some time past as to allow no opportunity for 
mustering them. It was however done yesterday and I have 
made such a distribution of them, as appeared to me to be best 
calculated to secure the settlements from surprise, I have so 
placed them that the countiy to the northwest north and east 
of this place in advance of all the settlements will be recon- 
noitered daily for nearly one hundred and fifty miles. If they 
do their duty it will be impossible for any large number of 
Indians to pass them unobserved and very difficult for a small 
party but there is still a considerable frontier below us and 
above (through the Delaware country) that is entirely ex- 
posed nor can the Rangers give us here timely notice of the 
approach of an enemy by water as they can descend the Wa- 
bash much faster at this season in their canoes than a horse 
can travel. Conformably to the idea suggested in my letter 
of the 15th inst. [see above] I have thought it proper to send 
a special messenger to the Delawares I selected for the pur- 
pose Major Davis Floyd who is well acquainted with the chief s 
and I do myself the honor to enclose you a copy of his instruc- 
tions [April 17 above] which were accidentally omitted to 
be sent by the last mail. Since his departure a man of the 
tribe has arrived here with letters from Connor and Capt. 
Hendricks and a speech from the chiefs, the object of all these 
was to assure me that the Delawares had no hand in the late 
murders; that that committed on Driftwood was intended to 
implicate them, and induce us to take satisfaction of them 
which would be the means (as the hostile Indians expected) 
to force the Delawares to take part with them in the War — 



 

the murderers as the Delawares say were Potawatomies. On 
their return they passed near to the lower town of the former 
on White River and were seen by some of the women and they 
were tracked in that direction by some of our people and it will 
take proof equal to that of holy writ to convince them that 
they were not Delaware; I have and shall continue to do every- 
thing in my power to prevent this impression from becoming 
General. There are two veiy powerful considerations for 
preserving the neutrality of the Delawares if it be possible. 
In the first place the uncommon faithfulness with which they 
have [remainder of letter lost] 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 6th May 1812 

^ ■ , Har, Pa. 618-620 

On Sunday evening last a party of Indians attacked a house 
on White River [Hindostan] about 35 miles from this place 
killed the owner (Mr. John McGowan) but were driven off 
without doing any further injuiy.^ Most of the citizens in 
this country have abandoned their farms and taken refuge in 
such temporary forts as they have been able to construct. 
Nothing can exhibit more distress than those wretched people 
crowded together in places almost destitute of every necessary 
accomodation. Unless something can be done soon to enable 
the people to return to their farms I fear that there will be 
little or no com planted this season. On the 2nd Inst. I re- 
ceived a letter from Mr. [Benjamin F] Stickney" containing 
the result of the Council lately held at Fort Wayne which has 
no doubt been communicated to you. This letter was brought 
to Fort Harrison by an Indian who was employed by Mr. 
Stickney for the purpose. On his way he was joined by the 
Chief Winemac with nine other Potawatomies. They were 
very desirous of coming here but were very properly detained 
by Captn. Snelling [at Fort Harrison]. .<...._. 

1. John McGowan, with his parents, came to Vinccnnes from Washinprton county 
Penn. in 1787. With William and Jonathan Purcell and their families they came from 
Pittsburg in boats to the falls and thence overland. The story of the McGowan murder 
was written up by Dr. William McGowan, no doubt as he had it from his mother, and 
read at an old settlers' meetinK in Vinccnnes May 27, 1874. See Ind. Mag, of Hist. 
XV 111. No. e. 

2. Benjamin F. Stickney succeeded John Johnson about this time as Indian agent 
at Fort Wayne. He served till 1820, when he located at Toledo, O. 

Griswold, Fort Wayne, index 



 

I have refused to suffer them to come further because I am 
convinced they would be killed in despite of any endeavours of 
mine to prevent it. I also suspect that there are spies amongst 
them sent by the Prophet. Those people were at Fort Har- 
rison when the murder was committed on McGowan and very 
probably by a part of the same tribe. It is thus that we are 
served by these scoundrels Whilst some of them are making 
warm professions of friendship and enjoying our hospitality 
others are murdering our citizens. The people of this town 
and neighbourhood are in great alarm and consternation since 
the arrival of the order for Col. [James] Miller to march and 
they expect with great anxiety the adoption of some measure 
by the government for their protection. 

There is no artillery of any description in this Territory. 
A few of those small pieces which were cast for Genl. Wayne's 
army a number of which must be at Massac or Newport and 
which are fit for nothing else would be serviceable in defend- 
ing the forts against the attacks of Indians. 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect. 
Sir Yr. Humbl. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secty. of War 

James Noble to Harrison 

Brookville, May 6th 1812 

Har. Pa. 625-629 

To his Excellency William Henry Harrison Governor of the 

Indiana Territory 
Sir: 

I send you a copy of the speech made by the Dellaware 
chiefs at White river and a copy of Jno. Conner's letter, which 
reached me shortly after I received the general orders for 
the militia. The minds of the people are much agitated ; upon 
the reports of the different murders, committed on the fron- 
tiers of our Territory by the Indians together with the news 
contained in the speech of the Dellawares and Conner's letter, 
as it respects the pottawattomies, and the Dellawares I sup- 
pose or some other tribes of Indians now and then on our 
frontiers also the raising of the militia in the state of Ohio 
to march to the north, has created such alann, that a number 



 

of families have left the county and in order to prevent the 
whole of the inhabitants on the west fork of White Water, 
from moving away, and to quiet the minds of the people, to- 
morrow morning thirty men of the rifle company under the 
cominand of Capt. Herndon will march up the west fork of 
White Water and act as rangers, stationed at two block-houses 
fifteen a.^ each where they will be supported, and remain until 
I hear from you. In some part of the county five and six fam- 
ilies have come together given up all pretensions of making 
a crop on their own farms. If those men are to be kept out 
in service, you will be good enough to chalk out the method 
by which they are to be supported and paid. I hope the minds 
of the people will soon be at rest, everything has been done 
in my power to reconcile the people. Upon the receipt of 
Conner's letter I wrote him, advising the Dellawares to keep 
clear of our settlements. They might be injured through mis- 
take, and at the same time observed that confidence was placed 
in them by you sir. Doctor Eastman just arrived in their 
place states that a man was killed and sculped near Eaton 
State of Ohio about forty miles from this place, a party had 
gone out in pursuit of the Indians that had done it. I have 
raised detachments from my Regt. sixty men and four 
sergeants from each Battalion and designated by whom to be 
commanded and to be in readiness together with the rifle com- 
pany also appd. the places for rendezvous, block houses are 
erecting in the bounds of each company district and two or 
three men of each company, are ranging as far as the com- 
pany extends; I send sir, a rough return of the strength of 
my Regt. you will readily see the deficiency of arms and am- 
munition which is the only difliculty with me. I am placed in 
a very unpleasant situation. A number of the inhabitants 
offended with me for not ordering out a larger body of the 
militia. I am sorry to see the country depopulating, most dis- 
tant idea with me that the difficulty will be great with the 
Indians if the Dellawares remain friendly. Please to give me 
the particulars, as to the prospect of arms, etc. 
I am sir with sentiments of respect your fd. 

In haste &c. j^^^^s Noble^ 

1. James Noble was a VirKinian by birth, and a Kentucklian by training. Al- 
though prominently and honorably connected with the first 25 years of our state his- 
tory there is not sufficient biographical details of his life in print to justify a refer- 
ence. He was a member of the Constitutional Convention at Corydon 1816 and then 
entered the U. S. Senate where he remained till his death at Washington, Feb. 26, 1831. 



 

A Brief return of the Strength of the 7th Regt. I. Fy. M. 
(commd. by Lieut. Col. Commd. James Noble,) to the Com- 
mander in chief of the Militia of Indiana Territory. 

Privates 540, Rifles 214, pounds of powder 68%, Balls 1212, 
pounds of lead 55, Flints 337, Powder horns & shot pouches 
198, Companies 9. 

The above number of privates exclusive of noncommissd. 
officers. 

James Noble to Harrison 

May 7, 1812 

Har. Pa. 629 

To his Excellency William H. Harrison, Governor of the 
Indiana Territory: 
Sir: 

You discover that I have not named the number of officers 
in my Regt. the reason of it, but four commissd. in it. I hope 
you will excuse me, until I can if ever, have it full of officers, 
there will be a district formed on the west fork White Water 
for a company to be consid. as infantry, and so soon as offi- 
cers can be elected, will call for commissions. Please to send 
a commission for Thos. Clark, Lieut.- and Wm. Morgan En- 
sign.2 If you should deem it proper it might save you trouble, 
send a parcel of blanks I will attend strictly to them, the 
bearer Mr. J. W. Morrison^ formerly commd. a rifle company 
previous to the division of Dearborn, but some time ago re- 
signed it in consequence [stead] of it, a light company, was 
raised, in that Batt. Morrison residing therein. I think proper 
to mention the circumstances. If you have concluded to send 
the commissions I wrote for some time ago please to let the 
bearer have them. 

I am Dear Sir Your sincere frd. 

James Noble 

2. Thomas Clark and "William MorRan received their commissions May 24, 1812. 
The blanks were sent as requested but the Executive Journal does not make it clear 
that they were ever returned. There is evident confusion alonp; here in the Journal. 

3. Joseph Washington Morrison was commissioned captain in the Dearborn militia 
Aug. 22, 1810. The Morrison family is one of the oldest in Dearborn county, Ephraim 
Morrison, a Revolutionary soldier, having settled there with his family in 1797, 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES May 13th 1812 

Har. Pa. 621-62^ 

Sir: 

An express has just arrived from the county of Franklin 
in this territory, by which I have received a speech made by 
the Delaware Chiefs to [John] Conner the Interpretor of that 
Tribe and a letter from Conner to a Col. [James] Noble of 
the militia informing him that a party of Potawatomies hav- 
ing passed their to^^^l and taken the direction of our settle- 
ments, with an intention as the Delawares supposed of com- 
mitting hostilities. Their opinion happens to be but too well 
founded, as it appears from the letter of Col. [James] Noble, 
which I do myself the honor to enclose, [May 6, above] that a 
citizen of the State of Ohio was killed about the 1st of this 
month near Eaton about forty miles from the Colonels resi- 
dence. 

I am perfectly at a loss as to the orders proper to be given 
in the present state of the countiy. I do not conceive myself 
authorized to order out any militia at the expense of the 
United States. I had hoped that the Eastern settlements 
would have escaped the Indian Depredations, but it appears 
that they are determined to diffuse their favours as widely as 
possible — from the motive no doubt which was suggested in 
a fonner letter, viz. that of distracting our attention, and 
thereby preventing the Militia from embodying. Altho the 
people of this part of the Territoiy are generally in Forts 
it is impossible to make any disposition of a company of 
Rangers to prevent small parties of Indians from penetrating 
the settlements to do mischief, and our line of frontier is so 
extensive that even the kind of protection which the Rangers 
do afford, cannot be extended to more than one fourth of it 
I must beg leave to call your attention to the enclosed state- 
ment of the deficiency of anus in Col. [James] Noble's regi- 
ment. Great as it is I believe that there are more arms re- 
ported in it than in any of the 8 Regiments in the Territoiy, 
excepting the two in this county, amongst whom the 500 
muskets which were forwarded to me have been distributed. 
Numbers of the Militia would purchase guns but they are not 
to be had in the western country and our sole dependance is 



 

upon the publick arsenals. A few days ago two Wea Chiefs 
arrived here, being dispatched as they said by the Winebagos 
to inform me that several chiefs of that Tribe had arrived on 
the Wabash with the intention of going to visit the President, 
but that they were apprehensive that the late murders com- 
mitted, as they said, entirely by the Potawatomies, would pre- 
vent them from being permitted to proceed. I have no idea 
of the least sincerity in this declaration — and I am also 
persuaded that the Weas were sent in as spies. I gave them 
assurances however of their being well received and committed 
to them a letter to the agent at Fort Wayne directing him to 
provide the means of sending them on should they apply to 
him for that purpose. 

The Territory is depopulating very fast and will no doubt 
continue to do so untill effectual measures are taken for its 
protection. 

There is some great deficiency in the Mail between this and 
the seat of Government proceeding I suppose from a part of 
it being retained at some of the offices in consequence of its 
being too heavy for the ordinary conveyance. The envelope 
which covered the appointments of Captain Chunn and his 
subalterns had the Washington post mark of the 16th Ultimo, 
but it did not reach this place untill yesterday. [May 12]^ 

I have the Honor to be with groat respect 
Sir your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis, Secy, of War 

P. S. The information given by the party of Potawatamies 
mentioned in my last to Captain [Zachary] Taylor at Fort 
Harrison was that the Prophet was in the neighbourhood of 
his former residence with about 300 winebagoes and about 200 
of other Tribes and that he was daily gaining strength, ^ 

1. John T. Chunn was commissioned caiitain of infantry Apr. 14, 1812, and as- 
sifcned to the 19th Regt. He served till June 1, 1821. His subalterns were Robert M. 
Evans, 1st Lieut., and Robert Buntin, Jr., 2d Lieut. The latter served through the 
war in the 24th Inf. 

2. Col. John P. Boyd left Vincennes for Washington Apr. 12. No doubt his 
report on the situation at Vincennes was contiadictoiy to that of Harrison. Col. James 
Miller who was left in charge was ordered to report with all regulars at Newport and 
on May 3 started, leaving the frontier on the Wabash entirely uncovered. 



 

Speeches of Indians at Massassinway^ 

By the Wyandots : 

May 15, 1812 

Dawson, Harnson, 2GC, seq. 

Younger brothers, you that reside on the Wabash, listen 
to what we say; and in order that you may distinctly hear 
and clearly understand our words, we now open your ears and 
place your hearts in the same position that it was placed by 
the Great spirit when he created you. 

Younger brothers, we are sorry to see your path filled with 
thorns and briers, and your land covered with blood ; our love 
for you has caused us to come and clean your paths and wipe 
the blood off your land, and take the weapons that have spilled 
this blood from you, and put them where you can never reach 
them again. 

Younger brothers, this is done by the united voice of all 
your elder brothers, that you now see present, who are de- 
termined to not be disobeyed. The deteiTnination of your 
elder brothers, to put an entire stop to the effusion of blood, 
has met with the approbation of our fathers, the British, who 
have advised all the red people to be quiet and not meddle in 
quarrels that may take place between the white people. 

1. "It appears that the mission of major Floyde had a most salutary effect upon 
all the tribes with whom he communicated, except the adherents of the prophet and 
Tecuraseh. 

"A grand council, it seems, was held at Mississinway, and twelve tribes were there 
represented. They all seemed heartily in favour of peace being made, and continued 
with the white people, and they all but Tecumsch reprobated the murders and depreda- 
tions which had been committed on them, particularly since the battle of Tippecanoe, 
and they as unanimously denied having sanctioned them. Tecumseh's speeches, how- 
ever, were of a different complexion ; he hypocritically professed himself the friend of 
peace, avowed the attack on his people in his absence as unprovoked, and still con- 
tinued to harp upon the old string, the impropriety of any of the tribes selling lands 
to the United States ; he carefully kept out of view the foul aggressions committed 
by his people, and if he admitted that any such had been committed, it was by the 
Potawatamies, and when retorted on by the latter, who disowned those of their tribe 
who had by the evil counsels of the prophet committed those enormities, and declared 
themselves willing to have them put to death, he dexterously evaded the point, and 
said, that the good advice they gave their brothers was misrepresented, and openly 
defied any one to say that they had directly or indiiectly advised any living creature 
to make war upon their white brothers: but he carefully evaded touching upon the 
point of the frequent demands which had been made for the murderers being given 
up, and the stolen horses restored, and the uniform refusals which had been made to 
comply with those demands: and in order the better to elude the strong observations 
made by the other chiefs, he again reverts to the sale of the lands by those who he 
pretended had no right to sell' them." Dawson, Harrison, 265 

There were represented at the council Wyandots, Chippewas, Ottawas, Potawatomies, 
Delawares, Miamis, Eel Rivers, Weas, Piankeshaws, Shawanoes, Kickapoos and Win- 
nebagoes. 



 

Tecumseh, the prophet's brother, replied: 

Elder brothers, we have hstcd with attention to what you 
have said to us. We thank the Great Spirit for inchning your 
hearts to pity us ; we now pity ourselves ; our hearts are good, 
they never were bad. Governor Harrison made war on my 
people in my absence : it was the will of God that he should 
do so. We hope it will please God that the white people may 
let us live in peace; we will not disturb them, neither have we 
done it, except when they come to our village with the inten- 
tion of destroying us. We are happy to state to our brothers 
present, that the unfortunate transaction that took place be- 
tween the white people and a few of our younger men at our 
village, has been settled between us and" Governor Harrison ; 
and I will further state, that had I been at home, there would 
have been no blood shed at that time. 

We are sorry to find that the same respect has not been paid 
to the agreement between us and Governor Harrison, by our 
brothers, the Potawatamies ; however, we are not accountable 
for the conduct of those over whom we have no control; let 
the chiefs of that nation exert themselves, and cause their 
warriors to behave themselves, as we have and will continue 
to do ours. 

Should the bad acts of our brothers, the Potawatamies, draw 
on us the ill will of our white brothers, and they should come 
again and make an unprovoked attack on us at our village, 
we will die like men, but we will never strike the first blow. 

The Potawatamies spoke: 

We are glad that it should please the Great Spirit for us 
to meet to-day, and incline all our hearts for peace. 

Some of the foolish young men of our tribe, that have for 
some winters past ceased to listen to the voice of their chiefs, 
and followed the counsel of the Shawanoe, that pretended to 
be a prophet, have killed some of our white brothers this 
spring, at different places. We have believed that they were 
encouraged in this mischief by this pretended prophet, who, 
we know, has taken great pains to detach them from their 
own chiefs and attach them to himself. We have no control 
over these few vagabonds, and consider them not belonging 
to our nation ; and will be thankful to any people that will put 
them to death, wherever they are found. As they are bad 



 

people, and have learnt to be so from the pretended prophet, 
and as he has been the cause of setting those people on our 
white brother, we hope he will be active in reconciling them. 
As we all hear him say, his heart is inclined for peace, we hope 
we may all see that declaration supported by his future con- 
duct and that all our women, and children may lay down to 
sleep without fear. The future conduct of the Potawatamies 
will evince the great desire they have to effect tliis desirable 
object. 

Tecumseh replied: 

It is true, we have endeavored to give all our brothers good 
advice ; and if they have not listened to it, we are soriy for it. 
We defy a living creature to say we ever advised any one, 
directly or indirectly, to make war on our white brothers. It 
has constantly been our misfortune to have our views mis- 
represented to our white brethren ; this has been done by pre- 
tended chiefs of the Potawatamies and others, that have been 
in the habit of selling land to the white people that did not 
belong to them. 

Tecumseh was then called to order by the Dela wares, who 

said: 

We have not met at this place to listen to such words. The 
red people have been killing the whites, the just resentment 
of the latter is raised against the former. Our white brethren 
are on their feet, their guns in their hands ; there is no time 
for us to tell each other you have done this, and you have done 
that; if there was, we would tell the prophet that both the 
red and white people had felt the bad effect of his counsels. 
Let us all join our heaiis and hands together, and proclaim 
peace through the land of the red people. Let us make our 
voices be heard and respected, and rely on the justice of our 
white brethren. 

The MiAMis spoke as follows:. 

We feel happy that we all appear of one mind, that we all 
appear to be inclined for peace ; that we all see that it would 
be our immediate ruin to go to war with the white people. 

We, the Miamis, have not hurt our white brethren since the 
treaty of Greenville. We would be glad if all of the other 
nations present could say the same; we will cheerfully join 



 

our brethren for peace, but we will not join you for war 
against the white people. 

We hope our brothers, the Potawatamies, Shawanoes, 
Kickapoos, and Winebagoes, will keep their warriors in good 
order, and learn them to pay more respect to their women 
and children than they have done by going and murdering the 
innocent white people. The white people are entitled to satis- 
faction ; it is the interest of the Indians to give it to them im- 
mediately. Let us do justice to our white brethren and expect 
justice from them; by doing this, we shall insure the future 
peace and happiness of our women, and children. 

Then the Kickapoos spoke: 

Elder brothers, we, your younger brothers, have listened to 
all you have said with attention. It only remains for us to 
say, that we are glad to hear you say you have pity on our 
women and children and wish to stop the eifusion of our blood. 
We have settled our disputes with Governor Harrison, and 
are sorry the Potawatamies have not acted more like men than 
they have done, by killing the white people after we had made 
peace with them. 

We have not two faces, and despise the people that have. 
The peace we have made with Governor Harrison we will 
strictly adhere to, and trouble no person and hope none will 
trouble us. 

The foregoing is a true translation. 

William Wells 
May 24th, 1812 



B. F. Stickney to Governor Hull 

Fort Wayne, May 25, 1812 

Am. St a. Pa. Indian Affairs I, SIO 

Sir: 

The time appears to have arrived, when it is necessary, if 
possible, to cut off the communication between the Indians 
within the territory of the United States and Canada. But I 
do not know how far it would meet the views of the Govern- 
ment, at the present moment. ]\Iany circumstances having 
come to my knowledge upon this subject, I will give you an 
outline of them now, and more particular when I have more 



 

time ; considering you the most proper person to give the im- 
mediate information to. [Cf. July 8, below] 

It has for some time been well understood, that the British 
Government has agents among the Indians within the United 
States ; but has been almost impossible to distinguish them. 

There is a man here now, who is called Shetoon, [Esidore 
Chaine] who represents himself to be a Wyandot chief from 
Brownstown. His mother is said to have been a Wyandot 
squaw, and his father a Frenchman. He appears to be more 
of a Frenchman than an Indian. He came here last Febru- 
ary, and brought a letter of introduction from Mr. [Reuben] 
Atwater^ (your Secretary) to this agency. He remained near 
here (with the Little Turtle) till April. The first of my see- 
ing him was at a conference I held with the Indians, soon after 
I came here, about the 16th or 17th of April. His conduct 
appeared to me rather suspicious then; and I mentioned my 
suspicion, in writing to Governor Harrison. Since then he 
has called a general council of Indians on the Wabash, at 
Massasinaway, where twelve tribes were represented. They 
broke up their council at Massasinaway about twelve days ago, 
to meet here to inform me what they had been doing. When 
they met here, he took the lead ; and it is said he took the lead 
at Massasinaway; when he returned here, with full evidence, 
having the confidence of the Miamies and Delawares, my 
suspicions were much abated. But at length, by the observa- 
tion of interpreters in my absence, of friendly Indians, and 
my own observation, the matter is put beyond all doubt with 
me, that he is an emissary employed by [Matthew] Elliot, al- 
though the evidence is not of that kind that would convict 
him in a court of law. 

, Whether this business is fully known to his nation or not, 
does not appear. But it appears from the collected mass of 
circumstances, that he has been sent by his nation to preach 
peace to the rest, and that he has been employed by Elliot to 
preach peace in general, and tell the real views of the British 
Government to a few. He carries many speeches of war, as 
well as peace. Black wampum and white wampum. He told 
to one Indian, where he though he was safe, that he was em- 
ployed by the British Indian agent to go and advise all the 
Indians of this western country to be at peace with the United 

1, Reuben Atwater was secretary to Governor Hull, later acting governor and col- 
lector of the port of Detroit. 

Mich, Hist, and Pioneer Col. Index 



 

States : and to form a system, by which they may all be united 
as one nation. And the agent told him that he was going 
away off, where a greater agent (or chief) lived, where he 
was to have all the tribes ready to send each of them one 
chief, and one war chief, to the agent in Canada, where they 
would receive instructions what to do. This was told by 
Shetoon between here and Detroit, on his way coming here. 
His conduct has corresponded with this: but I believe he has 
been cunning enough to conceal his views from nearly all the 
Indians who are sincere friends to the United States ; nor do 
the white people here suspect him of any improper views. 
Since he has returned from Massasinaway, he has told in his 
public speeches, and in public generally, that Tecumseh, the 
Kickapoos, and Winnebagoes, all acknowledge the peace with 
Governor Harrison, and were really disposed for peace. But 
at length he let it out to a Shawanee chief, with whom he was 
not so well acquainted as he supposed himself to be, that 
Tecumseh was going home to plant corn for himself, and 
should send his young men again to Canada, to get more 
powder and lead. (There were twenty four of Tecumseh's 
men passed here on their way from Canada, the 1st of April, 
loaded with ammunition) . Shetton asked the Shawanee if he 
thought it was likely Tecumseh's men would be permitted to 
pass unmolested. Shetoon, in all his communications to me, 
or the Indians, appeared to be anxious to have everything left 
loose and uncertain. I had at length to fetch the matter to 
this point : that as they had told me many fine things, that they 
meant to try to do, I would give them one moon to give up 
their murderers, and make the other necessary restitutions. 
I pledged myself to them, that the army would not strike upon 
them to destroy them, in less than a moon ; if the restitution 
was not made within that time, I would not hold myself ac- 
countable any longer for what the warriors might do to them. 
The army was ready and at hand to strike when our Great 
Father should give the word. 

They have dispersed, with the appearance of a full deter- 
mination to apprehend the murderers, and fetch them to 
justice. 

I have the honor to be, your humble servant. 

B. F. Stickney, Indian Agent 

P. S. I shall keep Shetton amused here as long as I can, 
hoping to obtain more from him. 



 

Stickney to' Secretary of War 

Fort Wayne, May 25, 1812 

Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 810 

My last was on the 15th instant. I told you then of the 
measures I had taken to make peace with the relations of the 
two Indians who were killed at Greenville. Before receiving 
this, you will undoubtedly have received more correct informa- 
tion of the circumstances than I could give you. The women 
and child who were taken prisoners, were sent to me by ]\Ir. 
[John] Johnson, with three or four horses, and as much of 
the other propertj' that was taken, as he could obtain, under 
the care and protection of two Shawanee chiefs and ten war- 
riors. Thej^ arrived four days ago, when there was a general 
collection of Indians forming, to inform me what had been 
doing at a grand council they had been holding on the Wabash, 
where twelve tribes were represented, consisting of the Wyan- 
dots, Chippewas, Ottawas, Pattawatamies, Delawares, IMiam- 
ies. Eel River IMamies, Weas, Piankoshaws, Shawanese, Kicka- 
poos, and Winnebagoes. [I\Iay 15 above] The council here 
continued two days and amounted to but very little more than 
that they had united to secure and maintain peace. I cannot 
explain the whole better than by enclosing you a copy of my 
letter [May 25, above] to Governor Hull. [Extract] 

B. F. Stickney 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Vincennes May 27th 1812 

Har. Pa. 631 

Sm: 

Since I had the honor to "\^T:ite to you on the 13th inst. no 
further mischief has been done by the Indians that has come 
to my knowledge. There have however been several parties 
within the settlements and a detachment of Militia are now 
in pursuit of four that were discovered about 7 miles from 
this place the evening before last. The Indians are much 
favoured in their situation from the unusual wetness of this 
season which enables them to travel for miles in ponds or 
overflowed low gi'ounds. 

Yesterday evening I received a dispatch from Captain 
[Zachaiy] Taylor containing the speeches of Lapousier and 



 

Stone Eater, who have just arrived as they say from I\Iississin- 
way by the way of the Prophets Town. They assert that the 
Council at the former place terminated in an unanimous reso- 
lution upon the part of the tribes who vrere present to remain 
at peace with the United States. Their speeches contain 
much profession of friendship, but not one word upon the sub- 
ject of the Chiefs going on to Washington or the delivery of 
the murderers — one or both of which was required by me as 
the only evidence that could be relied upon of their disposition 
to remain at peace with us. 

I daily expect more correct information from Fort Wayne. 
I have heard nothing of My. [Davis] Floyd since the 2nd 
Inst. He was then at the Delaware Towti. I am a little ap- 
prehensive for his personal safety, as a man of the Delaware 
Tribe was very unnecessarily and improperly killed near the 
Ohio in this County since Floyds departure, [in connection 
with the Meeks tragedy] 

I have the honor to be, with gi'eat respect 
Sir your humble Sei-vt. 

William Henry Harrison 
Hon. William Eustis, Sec. of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES June 3rd, 1812 

Har. Pa. 636, 637 

Sir: 

I had the honor this daj'' to receive your favor of the 13 & 
14th Ultimo by the same conveyance. I also heard from Col. 
[William] Russell^ who is gone to the Red banks [Henderson 
Ky.] to march across a company of Rangers whom he expects 
to meet at that place. The Col. in his letter to me says "My 
csvn opinion has always been to defend the frontier in the best 
manner for the safety of the inhabitants is always to cany 
the war into their own country. Should you sir be able to 
ascertain the To^vns that are unfriendly I would without being 
better informed deem it my duty to embody the Rangers and 
one company of the troops and move against them and burn 
and destroy any such town". 

1. William Russell was of Va. parentaKC. He was a Lieut, in the Rev. Later 
he came to Ky. where he became a Lieut. Co\. of Vols. 1792; Col. 7th Inf. May 3, 
1808. He served through the War of 1812. Died July 3, 1825. 

7—22664 



 

If Col. Russell has any instructions to commence offensive 
operations I should be thankful to be informed how far it is 
expected that my opinions and advice are to govern or control 
his measures. 

I do not by any means wish to shun any responsibility that 
the Government should think proper to impose upon me. But 
it appears to me that unless the Col. possesses instructions 
that are very different from those which I have had the honor 
to receive (which refer altogether to defensive measures) I 
should not sanction or can permit so decisive a step as he 
speaks of. But if any advice or assistance of mine shall be 
deemed of importance to the Colonel or to any other person 
to whom may be committed the task of repelling or chastising 
the aggressions of the Indians I beg leave to assure you Sir 
that it shall be afforded with frankness and candor. 

I have the Honor to be with Great Respect 
Sir Your Humble Servant 

Will. Henry Harrison 
Hon. Wm. Eustis Esq. Secty of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES 3rd June, 1812 

Har. Pa. 632-635 

Sir: 

I have no information of any recent depredations committed 
by the Indians and you will have been informed by the agents 
at Fort Wayne that the council at Mississinway resulted in 
a determination by a large majority to remain at peace. In- 
deed that all professed that intention. There is however noth- 
ing but these professions to evince the existence of any such 
disposition upon the part of the heretofore hostile bands. The 
only proofs of their sincerity which they could give or we 
could accept after being so repeatedly deceived — viz the going 
on of the Chiefs to the seat of Government or the delivei'y 
of the murderers have been entirely evaded, altho the former 
constituted the basis of the agreement made with me on the 
first of March last. The information received within a few 
days from Gov. Edwards (and he has better means of acquir- 
ing it than I have from the intercourse that is kept up between 
the Tippecanoe & the Illinois River) confirms that which I 
have previously received from a principal Potawatimee Chief 
— viz that the major part of the Winnebago Tribe are at 



 

Tippecanoe with the Prophet and Tecumseh and that they have 
also been joined by many small bands from the Illinois River 
and the east of lake Michigan — making a force at least equal 
to that which they commanded last summer and that their 
intentions were entirely hostile. The Gov. [Edwards] also 
says that there are at this time nearly eight hundred Warriors 
embodied at Peoria. That the British agents were endeavor- 
ing to effect a peace between the Sioux and Chippewas for the 
pui-pose of uniting both those Tribes in the War against us 
and that they were making large deposits of Indian goods at 
their establishments on Lake Michigan and other convenient 
locations between that lake and Lake Superior. 

Major [Davis] Floyd has returned from the Delaware 
towns. He was detained by the Chiefs until they could learn 
the result of the Council at Mississinway. This tribe is en- 
tirely to be depended on. They have determined to follow the 
Wishes and Directions of the President implicitly. 

Upon the whole Sir there is nothing in the suspension of 
Indian aggression for the last three weeks to induce a belief 
that the present is any other than one of those deceitful calms 
which frequently occur in Indian Warfare and which are al- 
ways succeeded by increased activity in their depredations. 

I have heard nothing from Col. Russell but on Friday last 
a company of mounted volunteers arrived hear from Frank- 
fort Kentucky.^ The information of the danger to which we 
were exposed induced these patriots to come on without the 
hope of pay and at their own expense. I have however offered 
them such provisions as the contractors Stores would supply. 
Two other companies have organised themselves and have ten- 
dered their services to come on at any time that I should send 
for them. But as the object of all of them is to be actively 
employed I shall not send for either of the others and shall 
dismiss the one that is now here unless the face of affairs 
should change in a few days or I should receive some orders 
from you to justify their detention. 

With gi*eat Respect I am sir your 

Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. William Eustis Esq. Sccty. of War 

1. This company was comma nJod by Capts. John Arnold and Anthony Crocket 
who had served with Harrison under Wayne. The company consisted of 70 men and 
remained 20 days. 

McAfee, The Late War, 110 



 

Tecumseh to Elliott 

Amherstsburg June 8, 1812 

Wood, Canadian War of 1812, 812 

Father & Brothers Hurons ; 

Brother Hurons, [see June 16 below] 

You [Chettoon or Chaine] say you were employed by our 
Father and Your own Chiefs to come and have some conver- 
sation with us, and we are happy to see You and to hear Your 
and our Father's Speech. V/e heartily thank you both for 
having taken the condition of our poor Women and children 
to Your Considerations: We plainly see that You pity us 
by the concern You shew for our welfare ; and we should deem 
ourselves much to blame if we did not listen to the Counsel 
of Our Father and our Brothers the Hurons. 

Father and Brothers! We have not brought these mis- 
fortunes on ourselves; We have done nothing wrong, but we 
will now point out to You those who have occasioned all the 
mischief. 

Our Younger Brothers the Putewatemies (pointmg to 
them) in spite of our repeated counsel to them to remain quiet 
and live in peace with the Big Knives, would not listen to us 
— When I left home last Year to go to the Creek Nation, I 
passed at Post Vincennes and was stopped by the Big Knives> 
and did not immediately know the reason, but I was soon 
informed that the Putewatemies had killed some of their peo- 
ple; I told the Big Knives to remain quiet until my return, 
when I should make peace and quietness prevail — On my re- 
turn I found my Village reduced to ashes by the Big Knives — 
You cannot blame Your Younger Brothers the Shawanoes for 
what has happened: the Putewatemies occasioned the mis- 
fortune. Had I been at home and heard of the advance of the 
American Troops towards our Village, I should have gone to 
meet them and shaking them by the hand, have asked them 
the reason of their appearance in such hostile guise — 

Father & Brothers! You tell us to retreat or turn to one 
side should the Big Knives come against us; had I been at 
home in the late unfortunate affair I should have done so, but 
those I left at home were (I cannot call them men) a poor 
set of people, and their scuffle with the Big Knives I compare 
to a struggle between little children who only scratch each 



 

others faces — the Kickapoos and Winibiegoes have since been 
at Post Vincennes and settled that matter amicably. 

Father & Brothei^s. The Putewatemies hearing that our 
Father and You were on the way here for peaceable purposes, 
grew veiy angry all at once, and killed Twenty-seven of the 
Big Knives. 

Brothers! We Shawanoes, Kickapoos and Winibiegoes, 
hope You will not find fault with us for having detained You 
so long here; We were happy to see You and to hear Your 
and Our Father's words; and it would surely be strange if 
we did not listen to our Father and our eldest Brothers. 

Father & Brothers! We will now in a few words declare 
to You our whole hearts — If we hear of the Big Knives com- 
ing towards our villages to speak peace, we will receive them ; 
but If We hear of any of our people being hurt by them, or 
if they unprovokedly advance against us in a hostile manner, 
be assured we will defend ourselves like men. And if we 
hear of any of our people having been killed. We will immedi- 
ately send to all the Nations on or towards the Mississippi, 
and all this Island will rise as one man — Then Father and 
Brothers it will be impossible for Your or either of You to 
restore peace between us. 

William Glaus to Brock 

Amherstburg 16th June 1812 

Wood, Canadian War of IS 12, 310 

Sir, 

On my arrival at this Post two days ago, the enclosed 
Speech [See June 8, above] from Teekumthie, in answer to 
the Message sent to him by the Superintendent of Indian af- 
fairs [Matthew Elliott] by your order, was put into my hands. 
I immediately sent to the standing stone [Near Gadiz, 0.] for 
Esidore Ghaine,^ a Huron, who was the bearer of the message 
and received from him the following information. 

Teekumthie on hearing of Ghaine being on the way with a 
Message advanced to Machekethe [Mississinewa] about Sixty 
miles West of Kickayuga, or Fort Wayne, with twelve differ- 
ent Nations, amounting to about Six hundred men, two leading 

1. Isidore Chaine or Chene was one of the most famous British piirlisans around 
Detroit. From the attaclc on Boonesboro to the end of the War of 1812 he was an 
Indian leader. He was kept on the British pay roll as an interpreter. He is the one 
referred to by Stickney as "Shettoon". 



 

Chiefs of each Nation ; they had plenty of Com ^^dth the ex- 
ception of the Shawonoes, who lost fheir's after the engage- 
ment with Governor Harrison — Teekumthie left at his Village 
three hundred men when he advanced to meet Chaine; they 
have been constantl}' employed in making Bows and Arrows, 
not having any ammunition ; Teekumthie was much dissatis- 
fied \vith liis Brother for engaging Governor Harrison, last 
fall, as their plans were not sufficiently matured — he further 
states, that Governor Harrison held a General Council about 
the Full I\Ioon in May, and called on the different Nations to 
deliver up their men who had conmiitted murder on the Big- 
Knives, (meaning the Americans) the Potowatamies being 
particularly pointed at, replied, that before they could give an 
answer they must consult their Nation and that at the next 
full-moon they would give him an answer — he replied that it 
was very well, and that he would wait with patience, but if 
he did not hear from them by that time, he would march 
against that nation and cut them off. Chaine mentioned to me 
that the Indians knew the Americans too well, to believe that 
their intention was to attack only the one nation, and if they 
struck a blow, it would be against the whole, and that they 
would not be asleep — That all the Nations are aware of the 
desire the Americans have of destroying the Red people and 
taking their Countiy from them. 

On examining the issues of Ammunition to Indians at 
Amherstburg, for the last six months, I find that in Powder 
that they have received only 1,200 pounds, making a difference 
of nineteen hundred and twenty-one pounds less than at for- 
mer periods — of Lead, not one ounce has been issued to them 
since last December, which will account for the increased con- 
sumption of provisions. 

I have the honor to be Sir Your Most Obedient An Very 
Humble Sei-vant. ^ Claus D. S. G. 

John Tipton, Journal 

CORYDON June 30, 1812 

Tipton Collection in the Indiana State Library 

On the 30 day of June 1812 Capt. [Jacob] Zenor^ and my- 
self Received Letters from a number of Citizens on the drift- 

1. Jacob Zenor served under Spencer in the Tippecanoe campaign and for many 
years thereafter in the Harrison county militia. As a representative of Harrison 
county he sat in the 1, 2, 4 and 5 General Assemblies. 



 

wood fork of Wliite river Requesting us to come out and fetch 
a Company to gueard them again the Indians and to Pertake 
of a diner on the fourth day of Jul3\ 

On the Second day the Capt. marchd vrith 9 men Myself 
and some others ware to follow on the fifth. 

I accordingly started Sunday the fifth in Company with 
one of the rangers. Went to where we were to meet our 
Company found they had left us. Rained hard wether wett, 
I killed a deer. We went to ]\Iayjr Harber^ and took dinner 
thence on to Blue river and staid all night at a house had some 
whisk5^ 

Monday the Sixth the day Cloudj^ We moved early 10 
miles overtook hour company, thence on to Wm. Hoggeths^ 
to Beckfast moved on to Prices lick Stopt had our horses 
fed thence on to a Mr. [William] Logans* took diner and had 
our horses fed and mooved Coss [cross] Muscak-I-tuch thence 
on to fort Pleasant found towo of our Company who infonned 
us that the Capt. was at fort difiance. I then went on to fort 
difiance Late at night found all well the Capt informed me 
thee [they] had a fine dinner on the fourth of July. 

Tuesday the Seventh we divided our Company being thii-teen 
in Num Sent three to fort Pleasant Sent three to fort Alex- 
ander and mj'-self with two others staid at ft. difiance. One 
of the citizens of ft. difiance mooved home and Capt Zenor 
with four men went with him. 

Wednesday the 8th a Cloudy day myself and some of the 
rangers went to shooting then I went with Lt. [Alexander] 
Littele^ to the Plaice where Capt. Zenor was stationd found 
that called their ft fort Recovery took som whiskey then re- 
tumd home in the time of a hard wind one of my men killed 2 
Deer. 

Thursday the 9 My two men and the citizens Went to pull 
flax and I started to town towt met our men comeing up turad 
back with them went to ft. recoveiy then went to shooting 
then to other amusement hard rain at twelve took some 
whisky went home in the evening 

2. John Harbison was appointed a major in the militia of Clark Co., then includ- 
ing Harrison, 

3. William Hoggatt was the first sherifT of Washington Co., appointed Jan. 7, 
1814. He was in what is now Orange Co., of which he was later clerk. 

4. William Logan came to Washington County in the spring of 1809, settling on 
the walnut hills overlooking Muscatituck. E. D. Logan was a colonel in the militia 
and was in the pursuit of the Indians from the Pigeon Roost massacre. 

B. Alexander Little was one of the early settlers of Hendricks Co., where his 
descendants still live. 



 

f riday the 10 the day very hot. I went with one of my men 
and Littell to gueard hour flax pullers We all work hard till 
late then went to shooting rain in the evening 

Saturday the 11 the day clar and verry hot we all went to 
Valonia and mustered went to Shooting then returned home 
took dinner and I wrote this Journal wile I am ritting our fort 
people returned and told me that they ware done pulling flax 

Sunday the 12 The day Clier and hot I staid all day in 
fort 

•Monday the 13 a Clier warm day in the morning Went 
to shooting and then to pulling flax. 

Tuesday the 14 The morning Clier I went with one of 
our men to help the Citizens to Lift flax hard rain at one 
clock returned home 

Wednesday the 15 The day Cloudy and warm my mare lost 
in the morning all our men met at fort difiance to muster in 
the evening I went to to^vn and found my mare went hirty, 
[warnt.hurt] 

Thursday the 16 the day Clier I went with another man 
to hunt I killed a deer at twelve returned at twelve found the 
men had went to draw a sain I went no fish caught 

friday the 17th the day cloudy we went to the river to gigg 
fish. Caught some Returned went to pulling flax heard the 
armey was defeated [perhaps Hull at Detroit surrendered 
Aug. 16. such reports were continually spread among 
Indians] 

Saturday the 18 in the morning went to Valonia then came 
Back thence to ft. Recovery to muster after muster to shoot 
Then returned home then went to fishing in Company with Lt. 
Litle and others Caught some fish and killed a Squirrel and 
returned home 

Sunday the 19 the morning Clier and hot I staid in foii; 
and was riting at three P. M. very hard thunder and raind 
and is now raining. It continued raining untill late at night 
most tremendious hard 

Monday the 20th the morning Cloudy we maid Preparation 
to start home Capt. Zenor came on with his men from ft. 
Recovery and told us they had to swin a Creek on the way 
at 7 We set out for home came to Vallonia thence on to ft. 
Pleasant drank some whisky then mooved on Cosst Miscaki- 
tuck then on two miles got some whisky thence on four miles 



 

got half bushel of rotton Corn for 25 cents thence on Six 
men all merry shooting and hallowing one of our men Lost 
a blanket women went to find it three of the men came up 
Could not find the Blanket We stopt and got more whisky 
thence passt Prices lick thence on to hoggatts mill Staid all 
night 

tuesday 21st the morning Cloudy we moovd at day light on 
to Will Coxes took breckfast and some whisky mooved again 
got to shooting one of our horses run off and throo the rider 
and hurt him verry much came — Stopt where one of our 
men took dinner mooved on Shieldses One of our men and 
myself left the Company and came home — at dark after being 
out 20 days and doing no good after indians 

July the 22d 1812 

(not signed G. P.) 

Harrison to Hargrove 

ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory 
Sunday, July 5, 1812 

Cockrimi, Poaneer History of Indiana, 348 

Captain Hargrove: 
- Dear Sir: 

This letter will be handed you by interpreter John Severns, 
Jr.^ The times are so full of threatenings that it is thought 
best to reorganize a ranger service which you proved j^ourself 
so competent in commanding during the year 1807, and with 
a view to that end, I now invite you to come to these head- 
quarters for consultation. I would suggest that you come as 
soon as convenient for you to do so. The Indians are much 
better than the British and if they were not constantly urged 
to take up the tomahawk against the Americans there would 
be no trouble in keeping peace along the border; but from 
this on, as long as the war continues, there will be much 
trouble with all the tribes in the northwest and along the 
Wabash. John Gibson, Acting Governor 

Indiana Territory in absence of Governor Harrison. [Har- 
rison was on a tour of eastern Indiana] 

1. John Severns Jr. was a son of the old settler at Severn bridj,'e over the Patoka 

in Gibson county. lie spoke the Indian lanRuaL'e and was a scout and interpreter on 

the Tippecanoe campaign. _,. , ^., ^ , ^ 

Stonnont, Gibson County, iO 



 

force at Vincennes as forming a very useful diversion in favor 
of Gen. [William] Hull.^ A company of United States in- 
fantry and another of Rangers are now here on their way 
to Vincennes, by order of Col. [William] Russell.^ In addi- 
tion to the force which the Col. has under his immediate com- 
mand, I have directed the Colonel, commanding the regiments 
of Militia in the vicinity of Vincennes to furnish him with any 
number of men he may call for. As my family are at this 
place and there appears to be no immediate necessity for my 
being at Vincennes I shall not return until towards the last 
of the present month, employing myself in the meantime in 
assisting to discipline the tree regiments of Militia which 
border on this state, the fartherest of which is not more than 
sixty miles from this place. Should you have any orders for 
me in that time I must request them to be sent to the office 
here; but as it is possible that some event may precipitately 
recall me to Vincennes I must ask the favor of having a dupli- 
cate sent there. 

I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir 
Your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 

Hon. Wm. Eustis Esq. Sect, of War 

• Harrison to Secretary of War 

Cincinnati, July 8th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 6JtO-6^3 

Sm: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your circular 
letter of the 11th ultimo & have dispatched a speech to the 
chiefs of the several tribes within the Indiana Territory re- 
quiring them to meet the commissioners at the appointed time 
and place. I fear however that an arrangement which has 
been made by Gen. [William] Hull to assemble them at 
Brownsto^vn near Detroit, on the 18th inst. will prevent their 
attendance at Piqua at the time proposed. The invitation to 

1. William Hull was a native of Mass., served in the Continental line 1776-1783. 
U. S. Army Apr. 1812— Apr. 25. 1814, cashiered. Died Nov. 29, 1825. 

2. Shortly after the Fourth regiment left Vincennes the Sec. of War counter- 
manded the order, but the reKiment was already too far on its way. In its place Col. 
William Russell of Ky. was to assemble some rangers and regular recruits. Harrison 
had great confidence in Russell and left the situation in his charge while he visited 
the eastern countiesj and Cincinnati where his family was on a visit. 



 

the chiefs given by Gen. Hull came to mj' knowledge inci- 
dentally only a few days ago. Having been informed by Col. 
[Frederick] Geiger, Capt. [William] Well's father in law, that 
he (Wells) intended shortly to resign his appointment and re- 
tire into Kentucky, and believing that in the present critical 
state of our Indian affairs that the public sei*vice sound be 
benefitted by his remaining some time longer at Fort Wayne 
and thinking also that it would be pro])cr that he should be 
under the controle of Mr. [B. F.] Stickney whilst he was 
there; I wrote to the latter and informed him that he must 
consider Wells under his immediate orders and that he should 
employ him in any manner in which his services might be 
useful. I have just received an answer from M. Stickney in 
which is the following curious paragraph — "With respect to 
what you say respecting my employing of Capt. Wells. In 
all my instructions from the secretary of war, both written 
and verbal, he has not given me the least intimation that I 
was to consider myself under the direction of any other officer 
than himself. And as I received my appointment from the 
secretary of War by the approbation of the President it ap- 
pears to be a dictate of common sense that I should consider 
his instructions as the rule of my conduct. And he has in- 
structed me to have nothing to do with Wells and that Wells 
is to have nothing to do with Indian affairs at Fort Wayne, 
Nevertheless every commiunication from you shall be attended 
to by me with the greatest cheerfullness and conformed to as 
far as my instructions with the War Department will permit". 
I am convinced Sir, that if M. Stickney's statement that he has 
not been informed that he was to receive orders from any other 
officer than yourself be correct, it has been occasioned by the 
extraordinary press of business in your office at the time that 
his instructions were composed. The general regulations for 
the government of the Indian Department published in the 
year 1802 or 3 by the immediate directions of the President, 
which have never been rescinded that I Imow of, prescribed: 
"That the superintendants in their several territories should 
be responsible for the conduct of Indian affairs in the same 
and that the agents and subagents should from them receive 
their instructions & through them correspond with the De- 
partment of War." And it was thought so important to pre- 
serve a proper subordination in the Indian Department that 



 

at a subsequent period when the then agent at Fort Wayne 
manifested some disposition of hostility against me, he was 
made to understand by the Secy, of War that the President 
would retain no one in that office whose conduct was in the 
least disrespectful towards his superior and his then continu- 
ance in office was made to depend upon my forgivness. 

The above regulations have indeed been but partially ob- 
served. The agents have generally corresponded immediately 
with the war office. They have all however heretofore ac- 
knowledged their obligation to obey the orders of the superin- 
tendant, and it has been reserved for the "common sense" of 
Mr. Stickney to discover that no such obligation existed be- 
cause he derived his appointment immediately from you. The 
present situation of Indian affairs calling in my opinion, not 
only for the utmost vigilance from the officers in that 
department, but for harmony and concert in their measures, 
I directed Mr. Stickney, conformably to the ancient regulations 
of the Department, to correspond regularly and constantly 
with me; but in order that you might be informed without 
delay of every event of importance, he was directed to forward 
immediately to you copies of all letters and reports containing 
such information. The advantages attending this plan are too 
obvious to require enumeration, and provided you are 
promptly and correctly informed of the events passing at Fort 
Wayne it must certainly be very immaterial whether they come 
in a letter addressed immediately to yourself, or in the shape 
of a copy of one directed to me. It is this order that has 
wounded the pride of Mr. Sticloiey. His delicacy is offended 
by the idea of receiving orders from any other source than 
one of the principal departments of the Government. It ap- 
pears to me to be essential to the public interests that his error 
should be immediately corrected and although Mr. Stickney 
has kindly offered to attend to any communication which I 
shall make him not inconsistent with his orders from the War 
Department, yet as he evidently assumes to stand upon ground 
independent of me, his measures may be in contradiction to 
mine and our interpretation of instructions so different as to 
produce a jarring and discord more fatal to the public inter- 
ests than even the intrigues of the enemy. Indeed I have 
every reason to believe that the construction given by Mr. 
Stickney to his powers has already produced mischief. A Wea 



 

Chief immediately from Fort Wajme told Capt. [Zachaiy] 
Taylor a few weeks ago at Fort Harrison that he had been 
informed that I was shortly to be deprived of my office. I 
have no idea that Mr. Stickney authorized such a report but I 
am convinced it had its origin in his assertion of Independence 
in a station which the Indians well knew had been entirely 
under my control. With regard to Wells it is scarcely neces- 
sary that I should observe to you Sir that I could have no 
motive but a regard to the public interests to keep him at 
Fort Wayne. I have before explained to you the particular 
circumstances which made his presence important, at that 
place. Hated & feared as he is by a great majority of the 
surrounding Indians, he is nevertheless able from his influ- 
ence over a few chiefs of great ability to effect more than any 
other person particularly with regard to the now all important 
point of obtaining information. Indeed he deserves some 
credit from the circumstances that the line that separates his 
friends amongst the chiefs from his enemies being precisely 
such as I should designate to separate those who are sincere 
friends to the U. States from those who are so in profession 
only. Such however is the way^vard disposition of the man 
that he began to affect an independence of ]\Ir. Stickney, to 
send dispatches to me without his knowledge and to transmit 
information which had not previously been cominunicated to 
Mr. Stickney. This was the cause of my order to the latter 
to take Wells under his direction & to Wells to receive and 
obey instuctions & through him only communicate with me 
and it was my intention upon the first discovery of any im- 
proper conduct to Sticlmey to have requested his immediate 
removal from office. 

I shall probably see the commissioners on their way to 
Piqua & shall cheerfully give them any infoiTnation in my 
power. 

I have the honor to be with gi'eat 

Respect Sir Your Humble Sevt. , „, ,. 

William Henry Harrison 

Hon. William Eustis, Esq. Sec. of War 



 

Secretary op War to Harrison 

War Department, July 9th, 1812 

_ Dawson, Harrison, 272 

Sir, 

By letter from Governor Edwards [111.] it appears that the 
Indians are again collecting. Should the regular troops and 
rangers under colonel [William] Russell, with the reinforce- 
ments ordered to be funiished on your requisition, be inade- 
quate to the protection of the frontier, your Excellency will 
please to consult with governor Edwards, and to request from 
the governor of Kentucky, such detacliments from the militia 
of that state, as emergencies may require. 

The Governor of Kentuclvj^ will be advised of this instruc- 
tion to your Excellency, and no doubt can be entertained of 
his cheerful co-operation. 

Should ojffensive measures become necessary, the command 
within the Indiana territoiy vdW devolve upon you ; and v\dth 
the consent of governor Edwards your military command may 
be extended in the Illinois territoiy. 

With gi'eat respect, etc. 

W. Eustis 

Gibson to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, July 11, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, SlfS 

It is hereby ordered that on and from this date, William 
Hargrove shall be in command of the rangers in Indiana Ter- 
ritory and to all whom it may concern, he is duly authorized 
to so act with the rank of Lieut. Col. commanding the rangers 
who will be stationed at diiferent points in this Territory and 
will be so obeyed by the militia and all other troops enlisted 
for the defense of the Territoiy. 

John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Per J. T. D., Clerk. 

Instructions for the Guidance of Lieut. Col, William 
Hargrove Commanding Rangers in Indiana Territory 

1. The object in placing a mounted corps of rangers on 
duty is that they can with celerity go over the various routes 
which you will select for them to operate on. 



 

2. You will accept none but the best mounts for the men as 
speed in this service will be the object to gain. The men must 
be good horsemen and if possible, men who have had practice 
in shooting from horseback. 

3. The most inportant point to guard will be the country 
east of this for twenty miles up to sixty or seventy miles east ; 
and, that you may be able to have your men well in hand, it is 
thought best that you have a permanent stockade station be- 
tween the White Oak Springs blockhouse [Petersburg] and 
the Mudholes. At this station you will keep a platoon of men 
and four sergeants to rank as first, second, third and fourth 
sergeants, to be men in every way competent to take charge 
of a squad of troops in any emergency. The next station will 
be at a point about ten miles east of Blue river and to be far 
enough to the north to furnish protection to the few settlers 
who have advanced beyond the line of safety in that direction. 
It will be necessary to have twenty men at this station, with 
three sergeants to rank as first, second and third sergeants. 

4. The sections of country about Robb's Fort [Hazelton] 
and to the southwest of it are amply able to take care of them- 
selves and furnish you all the men that j^ou will want. It is 
thought best to locate a post at a point northwest of [Jesse] 
Kimble's mill on the foothills of the Wabash river [South West 
of Princeton] . The need of this station is, that there will be 
a large territory east and west of the Wabash river which is 
a dense wilderness and a large body of Indians could concen- 
trate there and successfully raid any of the settlements in that 
section. Twenty men, with three sergeants, should be sta- 
tioned at this point. 

5. It is thought best that a station with ten men be at a 
point about twenty-five miles north of the mouth of the Wa- 
bash river, to be established under the command of two 
sergeants. All these stations should have a strong stockade 
that incloses all the ground that will be needed for the horses 
when inside and for barracks for the men. A strong, small 
house should be erected to hold the rations and ammunition. 

7. The territory around all the stations from whence the 
Indians are most likely to come, should be closely watched, 
and a vidette station as far front as it is practicable to place 
it. This should be done every day. At night two men should 
be selected to act as advance sentinels. These men should be 



 

placed at points where they can see the surrounding country 
with as Httle exposure to themselves as possible. 

8. The arms should be of the best that can be secured, not 
of the army musket, as that is too heavy, but of the regular 
hunting rifle, with the caliber of a size that would make fortj' 
balls to the pound. For convenience in carrying, if the bar- 
rels could be cut down to about three feet and a half in length, 
it would be better. For the rest of the armament, the usual 
hunting outfit will be all sufficient. 

9. The stations on the north frontier of Harrison County 
should patrol the section in their front to the north as far as 
they are safe to go, and to the northwest and northeast. The 
central and southern portion of Harrison County can take care 
of any raids that may come to them. They have a company 
called "Minute Rangers," that is commanded by Captain John 
Tipton, that patrol all the country as far south as the Ohio 
river and some miles west of Blue river and east until it 
touches with guards from Clark's Grant or Jeffersonville. 

10. If you think best you can detail one man at each sta- 
tion for hunting game. In that way there will be no need of 
meat rations being drawn from the Commissary at this post. 

11. You will have a platoon of not less than fifteen men 
with you at the place which you shall choose for the head- 
quarters. As a suggestion, this, headquarters would recom- 
mend that you have such a station at or near the White Oak 
Springs Fort. From there it will be easy to visit any of 
the stations and you will be near where it is thought the most 
likely place for the Indians to attempt to come into the set- 
tlements and near these headquarters. 

Done at Vincennes, Indiana Territory, July 11, 1812. 

Harrison to Scott 

Cincinnati, 14th, July, 1812 

Penn. Mag, of History, XXXII, 116 

Dear Governor : 

The President has lately sent a message to Congress recom- 
mending that he may be authorized to appoint an additional 
number of general officers. I have i-eceived a letter from an 
officer of the army at Washington in which he says that it 
was intended to give me one of those appointments and the 

8—22664 



 

command in this department. The bill however which was 
brought in consequence of the President's message has been 
rejected, but as a substitute for it another has been introduced 
authorizing him to appoint the officers of the volunteer corps. 
Now the object of this letter is to request you to write to the 
President and state to him (if such in your opinion should be 
the fact) that the volunteers from your state would serve 
under me as well as under any other person. I have been vain 
enough to think that there is no doubt of this fact — it has 
been declared to me by innumerable letters & by the declara- 
tions of almost all the officers whom I met with in passing 
through your State. However, I have no doubt of your being 
perfectl}^ acquainted \Wth the inclinations of your warriors & 
what would or would not please them. 

When I passed through Georgetown the citizens who were 
assembled (& I was told that it was the most respectable meet- 
ing that they have ever held there) appeared warmly to resent 
the neglect with which it was said I have been treated by the 
Government and one of their number Gen. Henry or Gen. 
[John] Paiyme was requested to speak to me on the subject to 
know if I could infomi them the reason of it. 

The officer whom I mentioned to have received a letter from 
informs me that the Sec'y of War is really friendly to me— 
I have however reason to doubt this, I had rather if you should 
think proper to do it that you would write a letter directly to 
the President. 

You see My Dear Sir that I trust you mthout reserve — use 
the same freedom with me & if there is anything improper in 
my request do not hesitate to say so. I shall write to Col. 
[William] Allen & Dr. [John] Scott on the subject. If the 
volunteer were generally to express their sentiments the prob- 
ability is that they would be successful — I calculate that there 
will be at least a Division in Ky. Ohio & Ind. I shall remain 
here for several weeks, a letter will of course find me. 

Present Mrs. Harrisons best Regards to the ladies as well 
as those of Dr. Sir. 

Your hum. Servt. 

WiLLM. H. Harrison 
His Excellency Gov. ScoTT 



JOHN GIBSOX 

John Gibson was born at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, ]\Iay 
23, 1740. His early life was spent in this frontier settle- 
ment. He received some education, perhaps as good as could 
be obtained at that place. He was attracted to the Indian 
trade and in 1758 took advantage of the opportunity oifered 
by General Forbes' expedition against Du Quesne to go to 
the most remote post on the border. After the capture of 
Du Quesne, Gibson remained there and engaged in the In- 
dian trade. He spent several years as a captive among the 
Mingoes, during which time he married the sister of Logan, 
the Mingo chief. By 1774 he had returned to Pittsburgh 
and was engaged in the Indian trade there when Dunmore's 
war broke out. He served in this war and a short time 
later raised a regiment and joined Washington at New 
York. After the retreat through New Jersey, in which he 
participated, he was sent west to command at Pittsburgh. 
After the war he resumed his trading business, serving his 
state occasionally in a political capacity. In 1800 he was 
appointed secretary of Indiana territory. He arrived at 
Vincennes in July, 1800, about six months ahead of the gov- 
ernor. When Governor Harrison took charge of the western 
troops in the war of 1812 Gibson became acting-governor 
and so continued until May, 1813, when he was relieved by 
General Thomas Posey, who had been appointed governor. 
Colonel Gibson lived for a few years afterward at Vin- 
cennes and then joined his son-in-law, George Wallace, at 
Braddock's Field, near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Here he 
died April 10, 1822. 



 

Gibson to the President 

ViNCENNES 15th July 1812 

Har. Pa. Ul, U2 

Sm : 

I have the honor of inclosing to your Excellency the Re- 
solves of a INIeeting of a number of the citizens of Vincennes 
and its Vicinity. 

I have the honor to be \\'ith sentiment of high consideration 
your obdt. Sen^t. 

Jno. Gibson 
James Madison Esqr. President of U. S. 

Resolutions on War with England 

At a meeting of a number of the Inhabitants of Vincennes 
and its Vicinity, on the 9th July 1812, Genl. John Gibson being 
called to the chair, and William Jones appointed as Secretary, 
the following Resolutions were moved and unanimously 
adopted viz. 

Resolved that we do highly approve of the declaration of 
War against Great Britain, and pledge ourselves that we ^vill 
exert all the means in our power in support of a measure so 
just and honourable. 

Resolved that we have entire confidence in the Executive 
and Congi-ess of the United States. 

Ordered that the foregoing Resolutions be published in the 
Western Sim and a Copy thereof forwarded by the Chairman 
to the President of the United St-ates. 

Jno. Gibson, Chairman 
Will Jones, Secty. 

Gibson to Hargrove 

Headquarters, Indiana Territory, 
Vincennes, July 20, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, S51 

Col. Wm. Hargrove, Commanding the Mounted Rangers of 

Indiana Territory 

This will be handed you by a Piankashaw Indian named 

Minto. Yesterday (Sunday) morning a French boy and his 

mother were out to the east in a cart, eight or nine miles from 



76 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECT 

this post, when they were met by eight Indians and robbed of 
their horse and cart. The woman thinks they were Shawnees. 
She says that she was on the old Delaware trace and was then 
some four or five miles north of White river. There was a 
cavalry company sent out from here to try to intercept them. 
The reason for reporting this to you is that the eight Indians 
seen may be only a small band of a much larger one that may 
be hovering on the frontier, with the hope that they may find 
an opportunity to raid some of the settlements. You had bet- 
ter send some of your men to several of the new settlements 
on the border and notify them of this, and inform the people 
that they must at once prepare to go into the fort at the first 
note of alarm. 

The British will cause the Indians to do all the harm that it 
is possible for them to do. I have just had an intei'view with 
the French woman who was robbed. I asked here why they 
did not take her and her boy prisoners. She says they seemed 
to want to be friendly and only wanted the loan of the cart to 
haul several deer into their camp and in less than one-half 
moon, they said, they would. bring it back to her at Vincennes. 
This, of course, was only a pretense hoping that she would 
report to this post that they were friendly Indians. 

The reports from difl'erent points of the Territory indicate 
that the Indians are concentrating at various places on the 
northern frontier. It will be best to keep a vigilant lookout, 
for we cannot steer clear of trouble if the war continues, and 
it is much better to be prepared for trouble, if it is a little 
inconvenient to do so, than to wish that we had been, when it 
is too late. 

John Gibson, Acting Governor 

Wells to Harrison 

Fort Wayne 22d July 1812 

Har. Pa. 650-653 

Sir: 

I consider it a duty that I owe to my country and particu- 
larly the inhabitants of Vincennes to make the following state- 
ment to you. On the 17th June, Tecumseh arrived at this 
place and said he was on his way to IMalden to receive from 
the British government 12 horse loads of ammunition for the 
use of his people at Tippecanoe. 



 

He went on to Maiden and arrived at that place a few days 
before Genl. [William] Hull with his army arrived at Detroit 
and immediately declared that he would join the British 
against the United States. 

On the 12th instant his brother the prophet arrived at this 
place with nearly 100 Winabagoes and Kickapoos who have 
been ever since amusing the Indian agent at this place with 
professions of friendship and it is now evident that he has 
completely duped the agent [Stickney] who has suffered him 
to take the lead in all his councils with the Indians, given 
him ammunition and etc. to support his followers, until they 
can receive a supply from Tccumseh. On the 19th Inst, an 
express arrived in the prophet's camp from Tecumseh in order 
that it should make the better speed the express stole a horse 
from some of the inhabitants at the river Raisin and rode 
night and day. The horse gave out within 20 miles of this 
place. This express was directed by Tecumseh to tell the 
Prophet to unite the Indians immediately and send their 
women and children towards the Mississippi while the war- 
riors should strike a heavy blow at the inhabitants of Vin- 
cennes, that he Tecumseh if he lived would join him in the 
country of the Winabagoes. 

The Prophet found no difficulty in keeping this information 
to himself and one or two of his confidential followers and 
forming a stoiy to suit the palate of the agent here and on 
the 20th inst. dispatched two confidential Kickapoos to effect 
the objects Tecumseh has in view. In order that these two 
Indians might make the better speed they stole my two riding 
horses and have gone to the westward at the rate of 100 miles 
in 24 hours at least. To keep the agent blind to his move- 
ments the prophet went early in the morning yesterday and 
told the agent that two or his bad young men was missing and 
that he feared they had stole some horses, the agent found 
no difficulty in swallowing the bait offered him and applauded 
the prophet for his honesty in telling of his bad young men as 
he called them stealing my horses. To keep up appearances 
the prophet has this morning dispatched 2 men on foot as he 
tells the agent to bring back my horses & that he and all his 
party will certainly attend the commissioners of the United 
States next month at Piqua. This he will do if he finds he 
cannot raise the western Indians against the United States 
jbut if he finds they will join him you may rely on it he will 



 

strike a heavy blow as Tecumseh says against the whites in 
that quarter. You may rely on the correctness of this state- 
ment as I received information relative to the view of 
Tecumseh last night from a quarter that cannot be doubted. 
The conduct of the agent towards the prophet I have been an 
eye witness to. 

I send this letter by an Indian to Fort Harrison and hope 
you will authorize me to pay him 12 dollars. Genl. Hull is 
now at Sandwich with his army. I heard from him last night, 
it is believed that the British will make little or no defence 
in Maiden. The Indians have all with the exception of Te- 
cumseh and about 100 abandoned the British. It is supposed 
that Maiden has surrendered to General Hull before this time. 
[Compare July 8, above] 

I have the honor to be Sir 

respectfully your most Obt. 

William Wells 
His Excellency Governor Harrison 

P. S. The Prophet and his party leaves this place today for 
the Kith Tippecanoe. I have no reason to believe he has sent 
after my horses. He will remain at his village until he knows 
the intentions of the Western Indians if they wont join him 
he will endeavour to save himself by professions of peace to 
the commissioners at Piqua. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES July 28th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 6hU-Qh7 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor 
of the 18th inst. together with the inclosed duplicate of the 
9th. I have lately received some information through [John] 
Conner, the Delaware Interpreter, which induces me to believe 
that the Indians who were assembled on the Illinois River 
had dispersed from the want of provisions. Yet as the Green 
Corn will soon be in a state to supply them it is more than 
probable that they will collect again unless they should be 
deterred by the impressions which our army may make on 
Canada and even in the event of our complete success in that 
Country it is probable that the followers of the Prophet may 
make a desperate effort previously to their returning to the 



 

country between Lake's Michigan and Superior and the Mis- 
sissippi where it is said the British have made deposits for 
supplying them. In your letter of the 9th inst you observe 
that should offensive measures become necessary the command 
within the Indiana territory will devolve on me & with the 
consent of Gov. [Ninian] Edwards may be extended to the 
Illinois territory. In the present situation of our country I 
should think myself highly censurable if I suffered any indi- 
vidual opinions & feelings to counteract the intentions of the 
Government and I certainly shall endeavour most zealously to 
discharge any duty which the President may think proper to 
assign me. That candor however with which I have been 
permitted to express my sentiments induces me to say that if 
a military expedition is carried on against the Indian tribes 
composed of Regular Troops and Militia it appears to me that 
it is important that it should be commanded by a regular offi- 
cer. That kind of Military rank which the Governor of a Ter- 
ritoiy acquires by being designated to command in a letter 
is submitted to with reluctance by many of the Regular Offi- 
cers ; and indeed I have been told that some of them who are 
most respectable for military information have ventured to 
doubt its legality. An authority which is thus questioned is 
by no means sufficient to support that rigid subordination 
which is so essential in an army. And experience has con- 
vinced me that under such circumstances a single mischievious 
individual may jeopardize the safety of an army & defeat the 
object of a campaign. To the employment of a regular officer 
there can be but two objections, the one derived from his want 
of local information & the other arising perhaps from a regard 
to my feelings. If the latter has had any effect in inducing 
my nomination to command in case of offensive operations I 
must request that it should no longer stand in opposition to 
what I consider the public interest & I beg you to believe Sir, 
that my communications with any officer who may be employed 
near me shall be as frank and all the information I possess 
as faithfully communicated "as I would purge me of my sins 
to Heaven." The multiplicity of your duties and the absolute 
impossibility of your being able to complete every arrange- 
ment emboldens me to observe that as it is probable that an 
expedition may be necessary from the Wabash as soon as the 
season will permit, the person who is intended to command it 
should be immediately authorised to make the necessary ar- 



 

rangements which must necessarily be incomplete if they are 
postponed until the event shall happen which will call the 
troops immediately to the field. 

In the arsenal at New Port there are but a few hundred 
Cartouch boxes and no rifles or rifle equipments. Supposing 
that the Kentucky volunteers would want all that are there, 
I would not take but a small part of those which were wanted 
for the Indiana Militia. It is necessary also that the contin- 
gencies which would justify offensive measures should be de- 
fined and to what extent those measures should be carried, 
whether they are to be desultory expeditions or whether the 
country under certain circumstances is to be taken possession 
of. I do not wish, Sir, by any means to avoid any respon- 
sibility which the Government may think proper to impose as 
far as I am to be concerned. But I wish to know how far 1 
am to take upon myself the responsibility of acting and in 
what cases I am to wait for definite and positive instructions. 

From the information lately received from Governor Hull's 
army I hope and expect that he will succeed in reducing 
Maiden, but it is said that he is not well supplied with provi- 
sions and I fear that the small convoys which are sent from 
the frontiers of this state will be not only inadequate, but that 
they may be cut off from the smallness of the escorts. In- 
deed nothing but the ignorance of the British as to their move- 
ments can save them. With proper information upon this 
subject they can send across the lake in six hours a force suffi- 
cient to take the block house erected at the rapids of Miami, 
intercept the convoy & return before a possibility of their 
being counteracted. [Exactly what happened] 

I have the honor to be with great 

respect Sir, your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
Hon. Wm. Eustis Secretury of War 

Gibson to Hargrove 

ViNCENNES, Indian Territory, 
July 29, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 352 

Col. Wm. Hargrove, Commanding Mounted Rangers: 

For about ten days a man has been around this post claim- 
ing to be an expert engineer and that he has built many forts 



 

for the mounting of heavy ordinances in the states east of the 
Alleghanies. He had such good papers of recommendation 
that he was permitted to go where he pleased and was all 
through the fort and barracks. Last night he disappeared. 
He took with him a veiy fine saddle horse which belonged to 
Col. Luke Decker, together with a fine saddle and a pair of 
heavy pistols in the holsters. It was thought he went toward 
the Ohio river and may come near some of your stations. You 
had better inform your men by a courier. There is no doubt 
that he is a British spy and it is very desirable to capture him. 
A description of him given by those with whom he was, is: 
A heavy man, five feet ten in height : would weight about one 
hundred and eighty pounds ; dark hair, black eyes, and he wore 
a fine velvet vest and a dark blue long-tailed coat both orna- 
mented with silver buttons. A pair of fine white dressed 
buckskin knee breeches with silver buckles at his knee ; a pair 
of fine leather shoes with silver buckles ; a swiveled hat, made 
out of beaver skin. Have your men keep a good lookout for 
him. 

I wdll here again inform you that in the near future there 
is danger ahead if the war lasts any length of time. This lull 
is only the forerunner of certain stirring times. Be sure that 
everything is in readiness for what may come. 

John Gibson 

By the hand of a friendly Delaware Indian. Return him in 
two days with anything that you wish to say. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Cincinnati 6th August 1812 

i 

Har. Pa. 6It8, 6^9 

Sir: • • 

I have this day received by express from Gov. [Charles] 
Scott the enclosed letter and I shall immediately obey the sum- 
mons. The information received a day or two ago from De- 
troit is of the most unpleasant nature. The loss of Michil- 
amacinack will be probably followed by the capture of Fort 
Dearborne and the suspension of ofi'ensive measures by Gov- 
ernor [William] Hull's army will I fear give great strength 
to the British party amongst the Indians. The assemblage of 
Indians mentioned by Governor [Ninian] Edwards upon the 
Illinois river is also calculated to excite apprehensions for 



 

the safety of the settlements of Kaskaskias or Vincennes. It 
is however my opinion that it will be the object of the British 
to draw as many of the Indians as possible towards INIalden 
to cut off the supplies from and ultimately to capture Gov- 
ernor Hull's army. To prevent this even if there should be 
no real intention of carrying on offensive operations from Vin- 
cennes or Kaskaskias feints from either or both would be 
highly useful to keep the Indians at home. I shall do myself 
the honor to write to you from Frankfort and communicate 
the result of the interview with Governor [Charles] Scott. 
The camp equipage, quarter master's stores, rifles, cavalry 
arms and equipments, which were ordered to New Port, have 
not arrived nor have they been heard of by Major [Thomas] 
Martin. 

The difficulty of selling drafts for small sums with an ac- 
count annexed as has been my practice for contingencies has 
induced me to draw upon you in favor of the cashier of the 
Miami Exporting Company for one hundred dollars to pay 
express and other expenses of the kind. There is indeed so 
little demad for drafts at this time that there is a great prob- 
ability that money will be wanted for the Public Service in 
the Western Country unless it is sent from the Atlantic States. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect sir 
your humble servant 

William Henry Harrison 
The honble. 

William Eustis Esq. Secretarij of War 

Taylor to Harrison 

Fort Harrison August 9th 1812 

Har. Pa. 659-661 

Dear Sir : 

I have been informed in the course of 2 or 3 days last past 
by three different Indians that Tecumseh was preparing con- 
siderable force to strike an important blow somewhere against 
the white people and the full of this moon was the time fixed 
for his commencing hostilities. It is possible his first attempt 
will be against this post or Vincennes. They all agree that 
his present force is much larger than it was last fall and one 
of them says that he expects a large reinforcement about the 
time he has fixed on for commencing his operations, prin- 



 

cipally of Kickapoos and wliat he has with him at present 
was composed of the same tribes that were with him last fall, 
and that the prophet had held a council for some time past 
with a number of chiefs of different tribes and that there was 
no dependance to be placed in anything Laprusier or Stone 
Eater told me, for that they were in the prophets interest. 
Laprusier has been here frequently since my last communica- 
tion for the purpose of drawing provisions but I do not com- 
ply with his requests as your instructions to the commdg. 
officer is to furnish those only with provisions that come on 
business and then sparingly which instructions I have strictly 
complied with. He did not appear to be very much pleased 
with my refusing him and sayd you told him last spring that 
whenever he visited the garrison he would receive provisions. 
if those are your wishes you have only to let me know them 
and they will be complied with. There is a subject I ^vish 
your opinion on viz. The cattle that is at this place which be- 
longs to the citizens and contractor which would feed a con- 
siderable body of Indians for a month should it meet with 
your approbation in case the hostile intentions of the Indians 
are confirmed I will have the whole of them driven down to 
the settlement. I trust Sir I shall be pardoned for giving the 
above information even should it not be eventually found to be 
correct nor should I have troubled you on the subject if infor- 
mation to the same effect had not been given from a source 
that was more to be depended on. 

I remain Dear Sir with the Greatest Respect your friend 

and Obt. Sei-vt. rz m . ... ^„ z-r j. r^ , 

Z. Taylor Ca%>t. Comdg. 

His Excy. Go. Harrison 

Gibson to Hargrove 

ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, 
August 10, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioyieer History, 353 

Col. Wm. Hargrove Commanding Mounted Rangers: 

The new men can be mustered in and the two young boys 

will be returned to their homes. 

Two scouts from this post were at a point at the forks 

[White river] and saw two old Delaware Indian men who 

have a lone wig^vam at that place. These Indians were 



 

friendly and have been for a long time. They said that sev- 
eral Pottawattamies had recently been at that point and told 
them — 'Soon ^^'e will go to the Ohio river — get heap horses — 
maybe get scalps — the British drive Americans away soon.' 
The scouts report that there is a general movement among 
the Indians, a sort of nervous unrest that forebodes trouble 
and that the Indians did not seem to show that hearty friend- 
ship as formerly. One friendly Indian was ^\ith the scouts 
pretending to be a hunter, and said that if an opportunity of- 
fered, the Indians would strike our people soon. 

John Gibson Acting Governor 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Lexington I^nty. August 12th 1S12 

^ Har. Pa. 65:,-C>.5S 

Sir: 

Upon my arrival at Frankfort on Saturday last I was fa- 
vored by Gov. [Charles] Scott [Ky.] ^^ith the perusal of a 
late Communication from Gov. Edwards [111.] covering a num- 
ber of documents which unequivocally prove the existance of 
a combination amongst the Indian Tribes more formidable 
than any previous one. And as the only obstacle to the com- 
mencement of offensive operations on their part (the want of 
ammunition) has been removed by the taking of IMacinac I 
have ordered some companies of the Indiana j\Iilitia to march 
from the counties bordering on the Ohio to Vincennes and they 
will soon be followed by a Regiment from this state. I have 
also informed Gov. Scott, that all the remaining quota of this 
state will be required for active service northwest of the Ohio. 
Previously to the taking of any other steps, however I have 
thought it proper to recur to you for further instructions and 
most respectfully to offer you the result of my reflections on 
the subject of the employment of the disposable force in this 
quarter of our country. As it appears from your letter of the 
9th ultimo that the Govt, had determined upon offensive meas- 
ures against the belligerent Indians, the first thing to be con- 
sidered is the nature and extent of those measures. T^'o 
species of warfare have been used by the United States in 
three contests with the Tribes upon the northwestern frontier 
viz. rapid and desultory expeditions by mounted men having 
for their object the surprise and destruction of particular 



 

villages, or the more tardj' but more effectual operations of 
an army composed principally of Infantry penetrating the 
country of the enmy and securing the possession by a chain 
of posts. In the war which was terminated by the peace of 
Greenville both of these plans were used but the former as 
auxiliary only to the latter, which was regarded as the ef- 
fectual means for procuring and preserving peace. If under 
present circumstances the Govt, should think proper to rely 
upon desultory expeditions only they would naturally be di- 
rected against those villages of the enemy which are nearest 
and which of course would most annoy our settlements. But 
the direction to be given to the efforts of an army of the other 
description requires more attentive consideration. In the 
present posture of affairs it appears to me that one of two 
plans which I have the honor to submit might be adopted with 
advantage. The first is to establish a chain of posts upon 
the Illinois River from the ]\Iississippi to Chicago, and the 
other to march immediately a considerable body of troops to 
Fort Wajme. If it were certain that Genl. Hull would be 
able, even with the reinforcement, which is now about to be 
sent to him, to reduce ]\Ialden and retake Macinac there would 
be no necessity for sending other troops in that direction. 
But I greatly fear that the capture of Macinac will give such 
eclat to the British and Indian arms that the northern Tribes 
will pour do\^ni in swarms upon Detroit oblige Genl. Hull to 
act entirely upon the defensive and meet and perhaps over- 
power the convoys and reinforcements which may be sent 
him. It appears to me indeed highly probable that the large 
detachment which is now destined for his relief under Genl. 
Col. [Samuel] Wells will have to fight its way. I rely greatly 
upon the valour of these troops but it is possible that the 
event may be adverse to us and if it is, Detroit must fall, 
and with it every hope of reestablishing our aft'airs in that 
quarter untill the next year. I am also apprehensive that the 
provisions which are to be sent with Col. Wells are by no 
means equal to the supply of the army, for any length of 
time, encreased as it will be by his detachment, they must 
then depend upon smaller convoys which can never i*each 
their destination in safety, if the British and Indians think 
proper to prevent it. Commanding as they do the navigation 
of the Lake, the British can with the utmost facility transfer 
their force from one side to the other, meet our Detachments 



 

and overpower them if they are small, whilst performing a 
labourious and circuitous march through a swampy country, 
at any point they think proper. To prevent these disasters 
or to remedy them should they occur, a considerable cover- 
ing army appears to me to be the only alternative. For should 
any of my apprehensions be realized it is out of the question 
to suppose that troops could be collected in time to render them 
any essential sei*vice. There is another consideration which 
strongly recommends the adoption of this measure. I mean 
the situation of Chicago which must be in danger, and if it is 
not well supplied \vith provisions the danger must be immi- 
nent. It is possible Sir that everything may yet go on well 
that no considerable number of Indians may^ be collected at 
Maiden and that our Detachments and convoys may reach 
their destination in safety, the reverse however appears to me, 
to be the most proabable, and I am fully persuaded, that the 
opinions and wishes of the people in the western country are 
unanimously in favour of the most vigourous and effectual 
measures. In this state particularly the spirit of the people is 
aroused to the highest pitch and the Govt, may rely upon the 
utmost efforts. To be furnished with arms and to be allowed 
to exert their energies, to establish our affairs upon the north 
western frontier is extremely desired by every description of 
persons. Our army going in the proposed direction particu- 
larly if it was sent to Fort Wayne, would serve as a consid- 
erable check upon the tribes of the Wabash and those to the 
west and south of Lake Michigan. Supplies could be easily 
procured in the highly cultivated part of Ohio between, the 
Miami and Scioto Rivers. If the plan here proposed should 
be adopted, some display of military force by way of feint 
would be highly useful, both at Vincennes and in the neigh- 
bourhood of Cahokia or St. Louis, Indeed some troops are nec- 
essary for the defense of those places and the adjacent set- 
tlement. 

The only objection to the scheme of erecting a chain of Posts 
from the Mississippi to Chicago arises from the lateness of the 
season, which would perhaps render it impossible to collect the 
supplies, which are necessary for the very large force that 
this expedition would require. It cannot be undertaken with 
a probability of success with less than 5000 men. Moving in 
the manner proposed the Indians would be apprised of the ob- 



 

ject and there can be no douht tliat every effort would be 
made to defeat it and as little, that they would be enabled to 
collect a force at least equal to that Vvhich I have stated as the 
necessary amt. of ours. If the advanced season should pre- 
vent the plan from being completed it might at least be so far 
effected as to occupy Peoria (an important point) erect an 
intermediate post between it arid the mouth of the Illinois 
River. A slight inspection of the map of that country and a 
reference to the position of the several tribes will at once 
explain the great advantages to bo derived from the prosecu- 
tion of this plan. It would as completely cover our settle- 
ments as a chain of posts could cover them, and it would have 
the effect so highly desirable of bringing the Indian tribes to 
a general and decisive action. 

From the inclosed letter Capt. [William] Wells [July 22, 
above] it appears that the Prophet had abandonned all Idea 
of remaining upon the Wabash and that it was his intention 
to retire after making a stroke at our settlements to the coun- 
try of the Winebagoes. As the orders of Tecumseh were 
given however under the impression that Maiden would 
shortly fall into our haiids it is highly probable that the pro- 
crastination of that event, and the suspension of offensive 
operations upon the part of Genl. Hull's army has inspired 
them with other hopes, and given rise to other schemes. If 
this should be the case and he remains upon the Wabash 
and neither of the othei' plans which I have recommended 
are adopted, a second expedition against him, might be under- 
taken from Vincennes, or the driving him off might form 
a part of the plan to be executed by the army proposed to 
be collected at Fort Wayne. With the opinion which I en- 
tertain of the situation of affairs at Detroit I give a decided 
preference to the Fort Wayne expedition. I do think it highly 
probable that the Indians have been collected in very consid- 
erable numbers to relieve their friend at Maiden. But I have 
no farther evidence of it nor indeed of the extensive combi- 
nation which I supposed to exist among the Indian Tribes, 
than what is or will be before you at the time you receive this. 

Your favour of the 9th Inst. I have submitted to Gov. Scott, 
Mr. [Henry] Clay Mr. Bledsoe^ and other conspicuous friends 

1. Jesse Bledsoe was born Apr. C, 1776, in Culpepper Co., Va. Came as a hoy fo 
LcxinRton, Ky. Graduated from Tran.-.ylvania. Sec. of Slate under Gov. Scott at this 
time. Later, professor of law at Trmisylvania. Collins, Kentucky, SOS 



 

of the administration and they have all recommended that I 
should not put any other part of the troops in motion untill 
I hear from you excepting the few companies that have been 
ordered for the protection of Vincennes. Should the Govt, 
think proper to authorize the employment of a larger force 
than the amt. of the quota ordered from this State no fears 
need be entertained of its not being obtained. I will pledge 
myself to raise in ten days two thousand men for any expedi- 
tion which may be authorized totally independent of the Regu- 
lar Militia or of the quota which has been organized. I am 
constantly solicited to suffer independent companies to be 
raised of both horse and infantry. I should be thankful to be 
informed of the proportion of cavalry that will be allowed for 
any expedition which I may command. It is a description of 
force to which I am very partial in Indian warfare. If a 
sufficiency of swords and pistols cannot be procured I would 
recommend that some of the Dragoon Companies be armed 
with the small rifles now used by the United States Rifle Corps. 
I have the honor to be with great respect Sir yr. Humb. 

Svt 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. I set out today for Louisville but shall not return to 
Vincennes unless I receive positive information which may 
make my presence there necessary until I receive an answer 
to this letter. Any communication for me had parhaps better 
be directed to the postmaster here who will forward it to me 
if I should not return before it arrives. 

W. H. H. 
The Honble. WiLLM. EUSTIS Esqr. Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Louisville Ky. 18th Augt. 1812 

Har. Pa. 662-G66 

Sir: 

The Regiment of the Kentucky volunteers [Wilcox, Miller 
and Barbour] destined for Vincennes Rendezvoused at this 
place yesterday. The pressing engagements of Gov. Scott 
previously to his leaving his office which takes place in a few 
days and the occupation of Genl. [Zachary] Taylor's agent 
(the pay master of the District) at the Rendezvous of the 
Detachment destined for Detroit induced the Governor to put 



 

this Regiment entirely under my control and to leave to me 
the preparations necessary for the prosecution of their march. 
Amongst the most difficult of these is the procuring the means 
and making them an advance of two months pay. The first 
has been gotten over by the offer of the Bank here to advance 
the necessary sum. But as we have no correct information 
as to the precise amount of the two months allowance of cloth- 
ing it has been determined to pay the men ten dollars apiece 
only. The paymaster of the Regiment is now making the esti- 
mate which will be forwarded by this or the ensuing mail and 
the money will be procured by drafts drawn by him and en- 
dorsed by me. I have the Honor to enclose his Bond for the 
faithful discharge of the duties of his office. He is personally 
a stranger to me but is highly spoken of and either of his 
securities are equal to the payment of the penalty of the Bond. 
I have the Honor to enclose you an original letter from 
Capt. Taylor the Commandant of Fort Harrison which was 
sent to me by Express. [August 9 above] A gentleman im- 
mediately from Vincennes infonns me that the citizens there 
are under great alarm and that information received from 
every quarter corroborates the account of the intended attack. 
I have sent off one company from the Indiana Regiment of 
Militia adjacent to this place and have agreed to dismiss them 
in a month on condition of providing themselves with horses. 
When the Reg'iment now here marches to Vincennes it will, 
with the militia of the Territoiy already ordered out, be amply 
sufficient for the defence of that settlement. But I fear that 
Col. [Joseph] Wilcox^ will not be able to leave Jeffersonville 
until the 20th Inst. I have not been able to procure any tents 
for the troops the country being entirely exhausted of mate- 
rials for making them by furnishing the Regiments destined 
for Detroit. They are also entirely destitute of canteens all 
these articles are understood to be on the way from Pittsburg 
but they had not arrived at New Port on the 15th Inst. I have 
directed Lieut. [James W.] Bryson- to forward a proper pro- 
portion of the Equipments and Camp equipages as soon as he 
receives them and I shall have them escorted to Vincennes by 

1. Joseph Wilcox was born and reared in Du)>lin, Ireland. On account of political 
troubles he left Ireland and came to America; enteiinp; the army in time to take part 
in the War of 1812. lie was killed leading a charKo at Fort Erie, Auj,'. i, 1814. 

Niks' Rcf/istcr VII, A pp. S5 

2. James Washington Bi-yson enlisted from Pa. Apr. 23, 1808, as cnsinn in the 
First Inf. After servinp; through the War of 1812 he was discharKcd June 15, 1815. 

»— 22664 



 

a company of militia to be left for that purpose. As there 
was not more powder in the arsenal of New Port than the 
quantity necessary to supply Gcnl. Hulls order I have caused 
1000 lbs. to be purchased here. In my letter of the 10th inst. 
I observed "that it has been determined in a consultation with 
the friends of the administration that it would be better to 
suspend the marching of any more of the militia of the Ken- 
tucky Quota until your further directions should be received 
or some further indications of hostility on the part of the 
Indians should make it necessary". Upon my return to 
Frankfort however a further consultation with Genl. Scott 
took place and upon a representation being made by one of 
the Colonels in vrriting stating that it would be utterly impos- 
sible to collect the Troops time enough for any offensive oper- 
ations this fall unless the order for their assembling should 
be soon given we both united in opinion that it would be 
neecesary upon the uncertainty of their being wanted that a 
distant da\' should be appointed for their Rendezvous at their 
different posts. They day fixed upon is the first September 
and the places designated are Frankfort, Louisville and 
Henderson (Red Banks) the former for the Cavalry and two 
regiments of infantry and at each of the other one regiment 
of infantry. If none or a part only of those troops should be 
wanted they can be disbanded and the only consequences will 
be some disappointment in the men but if they had not been 
ordered to assemble and there should be occasion for their 
services some time in September it would have been found to 
be almost impossible to get them to any distant scene of action 
until the season for such operations v/ould have been too far 
advanced. Should the hopes which have been formed of the 
favourable effects of the Council of Piqua not be realized the 
government at the moment which shall ascertain its failure 
will have at its disposal a formidable force ready to take the 
Field. And the points of Rendezvous have been so fixed as to 
give as great a choice as was possible as to the direction in 
which it may be needed. These were my motives Sir for call- 
ing upon Gov. Scott under the authority of your letter of the 
9th ultimo requesting him to cause the remaining part of the 
militia quota of this state to be in readiness to march and 
rendezvous as above mentioned. 

Genl. Winchester has accepted of a troop of twelve months 
volunteer Dragoons from this st<^te. There are two others 



 

of that description that have tendered themselves to me under 
Captains Quarles and [David] Tremble. Having no author- 
ity to accept them I have turned them over to Gov. Scott who 
will send on their Polls and the names of the officers for com- 
missions. I have assured these gentlemen however that they 
will certainly be employed. They will serve either as the 
Dragoons or as Mounted Riflemen. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir your Obt. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. Willm. Eustis Esqr. Secty of tvar 

Gibson to Hargrove 

ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, 
August 20, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioneer History, 359 

Colonel Wm. Hargrove, Commanding Mounted Rangers: 

General Harrison has been commissioned Major General by 
the Governor of Kentucky and placed in command of the 
militia of that state, who are ordered to report to him in this 
territory.^ There will soon be a large number of troops cross- 
ing the Ohio river into this Territory. This apparent security 
will not in the least change your duties. The men under your 
command will still keep up the same vigilance. The militia of 
this Territory will in a great measure leave for the north. 
Then our force of able-bodied men will be much reduced and 
it will be necessaiy to carefully watch every point of our 
frontier. 

John Gibson, Acting Governor 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department August 22d, 1812 

Har. Pa. 20, 21 

Br. General W. H. Harrison Sir : 

Your letters of July 28th & 12th [see above] Instant have 
been received. 

Herewith inclosed you will receive the appointment of 

1. News of the surrender of Hull and tlie approach of a crisis induced this move 
by the Kentucky Kovcrnor. Governor Scott's temi of office lacked only a few days of 
expirins but the appt)intmcnt was made not only with Governor Shelby's consent but 
after calling a caucus of the leading men of the state including; Henry Clay, federal 
judge Thomas Todd and others. The commission is dated Aut^st 26. 



 

Brigadier General. A commission cannot be forwarded until 
the meeting of Congress, when the appointment will be laid 
before the Senate for their confirmation. [Confirmed Dec. 2, 
1812] 

The western frontier of Indiana and Illinois will be em- 
braced in your Command, extending to a cooperation \^ith 
General Hull [Hull had surrendered 6 days before] in Canada 
& with Governor [Benjamin] Howard in the jMissouri Terri- 
torj^ at such points as in your opinion the public Service may 
require. It is desirable that you should correspond & consult 
with the Governors of Illinois & IMissouri, relative to military 
operations within their Territories. 

The Governors of Kentucky, Tennessee, Ohio, Illinois and 
Indiana, will be directed to funiish Volunteers & militia, on 
your requisition, in such numbers as the Service may in your 
judgment require. 

The Regular Troops, Rangers & Recruits in those Terri- 
tories are subject to such disposition as you may please to 
direct. 

Should you accept the command you will enter immediately 
upon the duties of the office and accept & organize Volunteers 
& militia. You will be governed by the movements of the 
Indians, & the operations of the Enemy in the Vicinity, ac- 
cording to your own discretion & the ordei-s you may hereafter 
receive. ; 

Thomas Buford Esq. Depy. Commissary at Lancaster Kyi 
[2] has been furnished with funds & will be directed to make 
such purchases as you may order. ]\Iajor [Thomas] ]Maii;en, 
Military Storekeeper, & Lieut. [James W.] Bryson, Asst. 
Depr. Qr. ]\Iaster at Newport will be notified of your appoint- 
ment & made subject to your orders. Copies of the contracts 
within your command are herewith inclosed. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department August 22d, 1812 

Har. Pa. 22 

Br. General Wm. Harrison Sir 

I have the honor to inform you that the President has been 
pleased to appoint you a Brigadier General in the Army of the 
United States. 



 

Chambers to Proctor 

Detroit 24th August 1812 

Wood, Canadian War of 1812, 498 

Sir 

In conformity to your Orders I on the 19th Instant pro- 
ceeded in a Batteau to the River au Raisins at which place I 
arrived on the following day. on my arrival I met with Cap- 
tain [Matthew] Elliott of the Essex Militia, who had collected 
and Embarked all the Arms, and secured such Stores as re- 
mained in the House of Mr. Lascelles, I then Effectually de- 
stroyed the Tv/o Block Houses, which were surrounded by a 
Strong Stoccade and capable of Making a vigorous Resistance : 
this with my Instructions assured the Inhabitants of the Ef- 
fectual Protection of his Majestys Government. But it is 
with Extreme Mortification I feel myself compelled to state, 
that notwithstanding every Effort on my Part, to Insure it to 
them so strong was the disposition on the part of the Indians 
in Particular the Wyandotts, to Pillage Ravage and destroy, 
that I could not Succeed, scarcely a House in that Settlement 
having escaped Pillage. 

Indeed it was an Universal scene of desolation. 

You may Easily conceive Sir with what repugnance to my 
feelings, I was constrained to Witness Scenes so disgraceful 
to Humanity and which I do not Hesitate to say might have 
been in a great Measure prevented had the Proper officers 
Exerted the Necessary Controul, but I am Compelled by a 
Sense of duty to state that it was with the Utmost difficultj% 
I could prevail on any of them to interfere and when they did 
it was with so little Interest it v/as of no avail. I must how- 
ever in Justice to Major [Alexander] McKee say that He 
exerted himself to put a Stop to scenes so shocking and dis- 
gusting. 

The Next Morning I proceeded to the Foot of the Rapids 
of the Miamis to accomplish the Object of my Mission. I then 
saw the Block House destroyed and Embarked the Public 
property found. 

I am sorry to say the same Ravages took place there as at 
the River au Raisins notwithstanding my utmost Efforts to 
prevent it. It affords me great pleasure to say that the Con- 
duct of Tecumthe the Shawanoe Warior and Round Head of 
the Wyandotts, was such as to reflect on them the Highest 



 

Honor. I enclose a retuni of the property found. I omitted 
to mention that the Indians nuirdcred and Scalped one of the 
Canadians who belonged to the Gun Boat Commanded by Lt. 
Bender and fired three Shots at another. 
I have the Honor to be Sir, 

Your ]\Iost Obedient, Humble Servant 

Peter Latouche Chambers Major & Capt. 41st Rt. 

To General Proctor 

General Orders 

Headquarters, August 28, 1812 

McAfee, The Late War, 118 

The troops \\\\\ continue their march in the direction of 
Dayton by the way of Lebanon, at an early hour on to-morrow 
morning. 

The commandants of the several corps will at every conveni- 
ent opportunity commence drilling their men to the perform- 
ance of the evolutions, contemplated by the commander in 
chief for the order of march and battle. The principal feature 
in all these evolutions, is that of a battalion changing its di- 
rection, by swinging round on its centre. This however is 
not to be done by wheeling, which by a large body in the 
woods, is impracticable. It is to be performed thus: the 
battalion being on its march in a single rank, and its centre 
being ascertained, the front division, comes to the right about, 
excepting the men in the rear of that division, who steps two 
feet to the right ; at the same time the front man of the second 
division, takes a position about six feet to the left of the man 
in the rear of the front division, and dresses with him in a 
line at right angles to the line of march. These two men 
acting as markers or guides for the formation of the new 
alignment, at the word "form the new alignment — march," 
the men of the front, file round their guide and form in suc- 
cession on his right. At the same time the men of the rear 
division, file up in succession to the left of the guide, and dress 
in a line with him and the guide of the front division. This 
manoeuvre may be performed by any number of men — by com- 
pany and platoon as well as by battalion. 

Wm. H. Harrison, Maj. Gen. Commanding 



 

Gibson to HARGROMi: 

ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, 
August 28, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioneer Hisionj, o59 

Colonel Wm. Hargrove,' 

Commanding INIounted Ranger of Indiana Territory: 
General Hull ingloriously and cowardly surrendered Detroit 
and two thousand troops to the British on the 15th inst. It 
is feared that this success on the part of the Biitish will cause 
the Indians who have been apparently friendly to go to their 
standard. There is no doubt of the ultimate outcome of this 
war, but there seems to be much incompetency in high places. 

John Gibson, Acting Governor 

Shelby to Haerison 

Frankfort, Ky., Aug. 28, 1812 

From Govoiwr Isaac Shclbi/'s "Letter Book A'\ page 1 

His Excellency, 

William H. Harrison 
Dear Sir: 

Since you left here and my having given orders for the 
rendezvous of the two regiments under the command of Col. 
Jennings and Barbee to be at Ne\^^3ort, from an inspection of 
Gov. Edward's letter, together with some information com- 
municated from Vincennes, published in yesterday's jyciUadium, 
giving an account of a strong force of Indians who meditate 
a blow on that quarter, and having been credibly informed 
that 1,500 Ohio Volunteers have proceeded from Urbana 
toward Detroit, I have concluded to change the rendezvous of 
those two regiments, to this place and retain them here until 
further information shall be received from the government 
or the territories showing how thej'- should be employed. I 
have been influenced also to adopt this course from the con- 

1. The following incident may refer to Captain Ilarfirove: 

In the month of December, 1780, a hotly of Indians defeated a small party of whites, 
at the mouth of Buck creek, under the command of Captain llariirove. The Indians 
made their attack in the niyht, killed one inan, and severely wounded Harfrrove. An 
Indian, who had probably fiied his rifle, made an onset on • Captain HarKrove with his 
tomahawk, and a fierce encounter ensued. Each party exerted himself to the utmost. 
Hargrove finally succoeded in wresting the tomahawk fi-om the hand of the Indian, and 
bore it ofif. 

Collins, Kentucky, iS$ 



 

sideration that these troops can not possibly arrive in time to 
join your detachment or afford relief to Detroit, if it has not 
fallen, or if it has, as is rumored, but which there is great 
reason to disbelieve, it does not appear to me likely they can 
be marched there in time for any other operation. And this 
point should they be ordered on as part of a reserve toward 
that quarter, is but little out of their way. Should they be 
required to march toward the Wabash or Illinois it is also 
nearly in their route. 

Indeed it would seem to me that a pretty strong movement 
in one of the latter directions will become necessary, whether 
Detroit has fallen or not, to make a diversion and protect the 
territories. 

But it is not my intention to proceed to any definite measure 
without some authority on the subject, which is expected will 
soon be received by mail in the dispatches to you or the orders 
to the Governor of this State. And should these troops with 
others be needed to carry on offensive operations against the 
Indians under j^our directions, it does not appear to me how 
they could be employed without such direction. You will, of 
course, perceive th<^ necessity of an early attention to this sub- 
ject as well for their destination as equipment and subsistence. 
To that end I shall endeavor to give you the earliest possible 
information received by me from the Secretary of War. 

With, &c., &c., 

Isaac Shelby 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, August 28th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 23, 2U 

Br. General Wm. H. Harrison 

Lexington, Ky. 

Sir: 

The objects of your command and of the force authorized 
in my Letter of the 22d Instant are to restore peace with the 
Indians, afford effectual protection to the whole of our North- 
western frontier, to disperse any combination of a hostile na- 
ture, to demand of the Pottawattomies, Winnebagoes, 
Shawoenesc, & Kickapoos the murderers of our citizens and 
in case of refusal or longer delay in delivering them up, to 
punish the Tribes to which they belong, and to aid & cooperate 



 

as far as may be practicable, with our other forces, particu- 
larly those under General [William] Hull. [The latter had 
surrendered two weeks before] 

You may find it necessary to move a force of Fifteen hun- 
dred men from the mouth of Kentucky in a dii-oction for the 
Wabash and another force of an equal number from the neigh- 
borhood of St. Louis in the direction for the Illinois. These 
forces may form a junction, or be otherwise disposed of as 
circumstances may require. Such part of the Troops will be 
mounted as you shall determine to be necessary. As the num- 
ber and disposition of the Savages will be best known to you, 
and as the force required to act against them must depend on 
these circumstances, the foregoing outline is suggested solely 
for your consideration. The numbers, description & disposi- 
tion of your force, including the disposable Rangers & Regu- 
lar Troops, will be determined by you and directed to such 
points, as in your judgment shall be best calculated to effect 
the objects of your Command. 

The proceedings of the Council at Piqua^ are not yet known 
to this Department — it will be necessary you should inform 
yourself of the Result, as your arrangements and operations 
will probably be governed in some degree by the Report of the 
Commissioners. 

No time is to be lost, and as it is presumed you have already 
on the authority before given, made your arrangements, it 
remains to execute them with that promptness and Vigor 
which the occasion requires. 

1. "The various tribes of Indians bordering on our frontiers, were invited to a 
general council to be held at Pigua on the 1 5th of August. They were requested to 
bring their families, and kindle a great council fire ; and the most beneficial results 
were anticipated. Governor Meigs, Thomas Worthington and .lercmiah Morrow esqrs. 
were appointed commissioners. They repaired to Piqua at the time appointed ; but 
our disasters and the intiigues of the British completely defeated the plans of the 
government. The Shawanoesc brought their families ; the Wyandots of Sandusky, tho 
Mingoes, some Delawares and Ottawas, and a few Miamies attended. A large body of 
Miamies came 5 miles on this (south) side of Fort Wayne, where they halted till they 
received information of the massacre of the garrison of Chicago, and the surrender 
of Macinaw and Detroit, when they returned and aided the Potawatamies in the siege 
of Fort Wayne. Tho.se who attended professed great friendship ; but little reliance 
however was placed on any of them, except the Shawanoese and Wyandots, who still 
possessed some integrity. They had been induced to believe, that the Americans by 
inviting them to bring their women and children, intended to get them all in their 
power, and then massacre the whole." McAfee, Histoi-y of the Late War in the 
Western Country, 111, 112. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Cincinnati 2Sth Aug. 1812 

Har. Pa. 667-071 

Sir: 

Before this reaches you a dispatch from the Governor of 
Kentucky to yourself and another from the Honble JMr. 
[Henry] Clay to the Secretary of State will have arrived at 
Washington communicating the circumst-ances which occasion 
my having the honor to address you from this place. Being 
at Frankfort on the 24th inst. making arrangements for the 
eventual march of the residue of the Kentucky quota to the 
Indiana and Michigan territories an express arrived at that 
place with dispatches for Governor [Charles] Scott containing 
information of Gov. Hull's being shut up in Detroit and the 
probability of his being obliged to surrender unless immedi- 
ately relieved. Upon a consultation with Governor Scott it 
was thought advisable as he was the next day to go out of 
office, to wait the arrival of his successor Gov. [Isaac] Shelby'^ 
and to request the advice and assistance of all the principal 
public characters of the state within reach, and expresses were 
sent to solicit their attendance on the next day. The meeting 
accordingly took place, consisting of Gov. Shelby, the former 
Governor [Christopher] Greenup,- the speaker of the house 
of representatives of the U. States, [Clay] several other mem- 
bers of Congress, the Judges of the United States and of the 
Supreme courts of the State, General [Samuel] Hopkins, the 
Major General of the Kentucky Quota, and it was unan^nously 
recommended to Governor Scott to order another detacliment 
of the state quota to follow the one which had marched under 
General [John] Payne to request me to take the command of 
the whole and for the pui-pose of removing all difficulties to 
give me a commission of I\Iajor General by Brevet of the 
Kentucky militia. I could not permit myself to hesitate when 
urged by an authority so highly respectable especially when 

1. Isaac Shelby was of Welch descent, born near Haserstown, Md., Dec. 11, 1730. 
He served at Point Pleasant October 10, 1774, where his father. Gen. Evan Shelby, 
commanded, lie served throughout the Revolution, especially at King's Mountain. He 
was in Ky. 1775 surveyor for Henderson. He aided Harrison in every way and at the 
critical moment joined him at the front. Their friendship and co-operation is one of 
the most beautiful incidents of the war. Con:j:ress voted him a medal for the battle 
of the Thames. He died July 18, 1826. 

Collins, Kentucky, 523. Lewis Collins, the historian, served under him. 

2. For a biography of Gov. Christopher Greenup see Collins, Kentucky, 33i. 



 

assured by the lai'ge concourse of citizens from all parts of 
the state, who had collected on account of the inauguration of 
the new Governor that it was the unanimous wish of the people 
of Kentucky that I should do so. Before I left Frankfort Gov. 
Shelby urged the propriety of sending one regiment more to 
Newport than was at first intended, And fearing of the fall 
of Detroit, a few miles from that place (Frankfort) sent back 
and recommended still another. My command then consists 
of three regiments of Kentucky troops Col. [Samuel] Wells' 
detachment and a troop of twelve months' volunteers making 
an aggregate of about two thousand one hundred men at this 
place, and three regiments of Infantry, five troops of Dra- 
goons, and five hundred mounted volunteer riflemen on their 
way to join me. Those that first arrive will not however 
be here before the 30th inst. and it will be impossible to get 
them from here for some days after. Until this day I had 
some hope that the account of the fall of Detroit was not true. 
But a letter which was received a few hours ago from Messrs. 
[Thomas] Worthington^ and [Return J.] Meigs* by Col. Wells 
leaves no longer room for doubt. Three persons of the quar- 
termaster department have returned to Piqua who were in 
Detroit when it was surrendered. The object of the letter 
from Messrs. Worthington and Meigs w^as to request Col. Wells 
to hasten his march and to take the route by Dayton and 
Piqua rather than the direct one to Urbanna, for the pur- 
pose of relieving Fort Wayne, which was said to be in danger 
of an immediate attack. 

By a gentleman who has this moment arrived from Piqua 
the taking of Chicago and the massacre of the garrison is also 
put beyond doubt. Poor [William] Wells has also perished in 
endeavouring to save Capt. [Nathaniel] Heald with his com- 
pany. I shall march tomorrow moniing with the troop that 
I have here taking the route of [ ?] and Piqua. The relief of 
Fort Wayne will be my first object and my after operations 
will be governed by circumstances until I receive your direc- 
tions. 

Considering my command as merely provisional, I shall 
cheerfully conform to any other arrangement which the Gov- 
ernment may think proper to make. The troops which I have 

3. Thomas WortliiriKton, seo Randall, History of Ohio, Index. 

4. Return Jonathan McIks, trovemor of Ohio at the time ; sec Randall, History oj 
Ohio, Index. 



 

with me and those wliich are coming on from Kentucky arc 
perhaps the best materials for foiTning an army that the world 
has produced. But no equal number of men were ever col- 
lected who knew so little of military discipline. Nor have I 
any assistant who can give me the least aid in training them 
(if even there were time for it) but Capt. [Nathaniel F.] 
Adams of the 4th Regiment who was left here sick and whom 
I have appointed Deputy Adjutant General until the pleasure 
of the President can be known. He is well qualified and I 
hope the appointment will be confiiTned. You may rely Sir 
on my utmost exertions. But the confusion which exists in 
every Department connected with the army is such as can only 
be expected from men who are perfectly new to the business 
they are engaged in. No arms for cavalry have yet arrived 
at New Port and I shall be forced to put muskets in the hands 
of all the dragoons. I have written to the quarter-master at 
Pittsburgh to request him to forward all the supplies of arms, 
equipments and quartermasters' stores as soon as possible. I 
have also requested him to send do^\^l four or five pieces of 
artillery without waiting for your orders and expect your in- 
structions as to further number. There is but one piece of 
artillery an iron four pounder anywhere that I can hear of in 
this country. If it is intended to retake the Posts we have 
lost and reduce Maiden this season the artillery must be sent 
on as soon as possible. There is no longer a possibility of get- 
ting money for drafts in this country. The paymaster (Genl. 
[James] Taylor's deputy) still continues to act. I have been 
obliged to agree with the bank here (called the Miami Export- 
ing Company) that the U. States shall be at the expence and 
risk of sending on the specie for the drafts that are now given 
for the pay of the troops that are coming on and for the quar- 
ter master's department. I think it proper however to state 
that until very lately General Taylor has made the bank pay 
a premium of one and one and a half per centum on all his 
bills. I will obtain a particular statement from the bank in 
order that he may be charged with it. Permit me to recom- 
mend that the monies received here by the Receiver of the 
Land office be deposited in the bank of the Miami Exporting 
Company. It is now sent to Lexington and the bank here is 
quite as safe as that of Lexington. I herewith enclose a re- 
ceipt of the Surgeon and another of the quarter master of the 
regiment which is gone to Vincennes for supplies furnished 



 

them. The bonds given by the paymaster and quarter master 
were found after they came into my possession not to have 
been witnessed. They were sent on to Vincennes to have the 
mistake rectified and will be forwarded to the war office. I 
write this, Sir, under the inconvenience of considerable inter- 
ruptions. When I advance a few days I will do myself the 
honor to communicate all the information which I receive, my 
opinion of the state of affairs, and submit the result of my 
reflections. as to the course to be pursued. 

With sentiments of Respect I have the honor to be Sir, Yr. 

Obt. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. William Eustis esqr. Secretary of War 

John Gibson Alien Residents 

Territory op Indiana Secretaries Office, 
Vincennes, August 28, 1812 

Western Sun, Oct. 20, 1812 

For the information of those concerned, I publish, subjoined 
hereto, in obedience to orders received from the department 
of state, two acts of Congress, the one entitled "An act re- 
specting alien enemies" approved sixth July, one thousand 
seven hundred and ninety eight — the other "An act supple- 
mentary to the act entitled 'An act, respecting alien enemies' " 
approved sixth July, eighteen hundred and twelve. 

It is moreover required by these orders that all British sub- 
jects within this territory make forthwith, to the undersigned, 
their respective reports in writing, in which shall be truly 
stated: their age; the time they have been in the United 
States or in this territory; the persons composing their fam- 
ilies ; the places of their residence, and their occupations and 
pursuits ; and at what time, if ever, they applied to the courts 
preparatory^ to their natui'alization. 

For the county of Knox, these reports must be made per- 
sonally to the undersigned ; but for the accommodation of those 
who reside at a distance, I have appointed the following per- 
sons to receive them : 

For the county of Harrison, John Plurst. 

For the county of Clark, James Lemon. ^ 

1. James Lcrnon was a soldier under Geo. RoKors Clar!:. Settled in ClarV;'s Grant 
Jan. 25, 1806, he was appointed justice of the peace; Auk. 1G a second Lieut, in the 
militia; July 10, 1811, KlierifT. seivinR till Dec. 20, 1813. 



 

For the county of Jefferson, John Pauh 

For the county of Dearborn, James Dill. 

For the county of Franklin, Jas. Noble. 

For the county of Wayne, Geo. Hunt. 

These gentlemen will please transmit to this office, every 
week by mail, the reports which they may receive, carefully 
retaining copies thereof. 

John Gibson, Acting Governor 

Brock to Lord Liverpool 

Upper York, Canada, 
Aug. 29, 1812 

Wood, Canadian War of 18r2, 508 

[To Lord Liverpool] 

Among the Indians whom I found at Amherstburg, and who 
had arrived from distant parts of the country, I found some 
extraordinary characters. He who attracted most my atten- 
tion was a Shawnee chief, Tecumset, brother to the Prophet, 
who for the last two years has carried on (contrary to our 
remonstrances) an Active Warfare against the United States 
— a more sagacious or a more gallant Warrior does 
not I believe exist. He was the admiration of every 
one who conversed with him: from a life of dis- 
sipation he is not only become, in every respect, ab- 
stemious but has likewise prevailed on all his nation 
and many of other Tribes to follow his example. They appear 
determined to continue the contest until they obtain the Ohio 
for a boundary. The United States Government is accused, 
and I believe justly, of having corrupted a few dissolute char- 
acters w^hom they pretended to consider as chiefs and with 
whom they contracted engagements and concluded Treaties, 
which they have attempted to impose on the whole Indian race. 
Their determined opposition to such ficticious and ruinous 
pretensions, which if admitted would soon oblige the Indians 
to remove beyond the Mississippi, is the true ground of their 
enmity against the Americans. The jealousy with which they 
view the British Merchants continue their commercial inter- 
course with the Indians has likewise been attended with seri- 
ous inconvenience. Under the difficulty the Merchant expe- 
rienced few goods could bo introduced into the interior, and 
their own measures, the operation of the non intercourse, pre- 



 

eluded even their own people from furnishing the Indians with 
clothing of the first necessity'-. The consequence has been fatal 
to many. Deprived of amnmnition the poor Indian vi^as un- 
able to provide the necessary quantity of food or even cover 
his nakedness with the skins of animals. The Armistice con- 
cluded between His Excellency L. Gen. Sir George Prevost and 
General Dearborne, has suspended all active operations. How- 
ever wise and politic the measure must be admitted to be, the 
Indians who cannot enter into our viev/s Vvdll naturally feel 
disheartened and suspicious of our intentions. Should hos- 
tilities recommence I much fear the influence the British 
posses over them will be found diminished : no efl;ort however 
of mine shall be wanting to keep them attached to our cause. 
If the condition of this people could be considered in any fu- 
ture negotiation for peace, it would attach them, to us forever. 
The reinforcements lately arrived from the Lower Province 
places this portion of the country beyond the likelihood of an 
attack. The enemy must encrease his present force consid- 
erable before he can hazard an Invasion with a view of keep- 
ing possession of the country. [Extract] 
I have the honor to be, My Lord &. & 

(Signed) Isaac Brock M. C. & President 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Cincinnati Opiio 29th August 1812 

Har. Pa. 872-S75 

Sir: 

I did myself the honor to write to you yesterday and dis- 
patch the letter [see above] by an express hoping that he 
would be able to overtake the mail at Chilicothe. The troops 
marched this morning for Piqua. I shall follow and overtake 
them tomorrow. Another letter was received from Genl. 
[Thomas] Worthing-ton last night covering one from Capt. 
[James] Rhea^ of Fort Wayne stating that a large body of 

1. James Rhea of New Jersey joined the army as a Lieut, in 1791 ; promoted to 
captaincy in 1807 and resigned by re<iuest Dec. 31, 1812. He toolc command at Fort 
Wayne in 1810, succocding Nathaniel Heald who was transferred to Fort Dearborn. 
He was accused of drunkenness and seems to have been a poor soldier. Harrison ar- 
rested him but permitted him to resi^jn and escape a couit-maitial. 

Griswold, Fort Waipic, Index 

Indians were thci-e and he expected to be attacked that night. 
I shall lose not a moment in marching to his relief and I think 



 

it more than pro1)able that we shall have to encounter all the 
Indians who assisted at the taking of Detroit, those to whom 
Chicago was surrendered and a veiy large number of others 
who will be induced by the same fame of these exploits to 
join the hostile party. 

Permit me to recommend that a considerable supply of tents, 
swords and pistols, camp kettles, cartridge boxes, rifles, flints, 
and artificers tools of every description be fonvarded immedi- 
ately as well as the artillery and eveiy species of ordnance 
stores. Medicine, instruments and hospital stores of every 
description will also be wanted for the large force which it 
will require to reinstate our affairs upon the northwestern 
fronter. It is impoilant I think that some disciplined troops 
should also be sent here. A company or two of aililleiy and 
an experienced engineer will be indispensible. 

I have caused a traveling forge to be purchased and ammu- 
nition waggons are now building. It appeared to me Sir, nec- 
essary that some one should undertake the general direction 
of affairs here and I have done it. The critical situation in 
this country in my opinion, authorized a departure from the 
conmion line of proceedure (to wait for orders) and should it 
be considered by the Government to have been improper I 
shall I hope be pardoned for the purity of my motives. 

You may rely upon it Sir that the western country was never 
so agitated by alarm and mortification as at this time. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir, Yr. Humb. 
SeiTt. 

William Henry Harrison 

The Honble William Eustis Esqr. Secretary of War 

P. S. I must again obsei'\^e that considering my situation pro- 
visional only I shall cheerfully acquiesce in any arrangement 
which the President may make and shall not think that I have 
the least right to complain at being removed from it. There 
is no direct mail from Chilicothe to Piqua. Letters to me 
therefore should be sent from the former by express. 
Received Louisville 21st August 1812. of Gov. William Henry 
Harrison nineteen kegs gun powder containing one thousand 
pounds and thirty camp kettles for which I have signed dupU- 
cate receipts. 

Tho. S. Wingate Quartermaster 8th Regt. 
Kentucky Vol. . 



 

Received Louisville 22d August 1812 of Govern. William 
Henry Harrison three casks and a box containing the follow- 
ing articles viz. 10 gallons vinegar 101" sugar 20 chocolate 
1" gingers 1" allspice 5" tea and 13-'^,4 Gallons French Brandy 
for which I have sigTied duplicate receipts. 

J. A. Wright 
Thomas B. Charlton Surgeon 8th Regt. Kentucky M. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department August 30th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 25, 26 

Sir: 

Since my Letters of the 22d & 28th Listant inofficial ac- 
counts have been received of the defeat of General Hull & of 
the surrender of the important post of Detroit. This disaster 
opens a new scene and may require a change in your opera- 
tions. 

Fort Dearborn with our other Posts, will claim your atten- 
tion. 

You will extend your eye over all the circumstances, & com- 
municate with General [James] Winchester, or officer 
commanding the Troops from Kentucky. It is left to your 
discretion to join him with any part of the force under your 
Command, and to afford such other aid and cooperation as 
may be in your power. 
Br. General 
Wm. H. Harrison 
Lexington, Ky. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Sept. 1, 1812 

Har. Pa. 27 

Sir: 

It is the determination of the President to regain the ground 
which has been lost by the Surrender of Detroit & the army 
under General Hull, and to prosecute with increased vigor the 
important object of the campaign. The protection of the 
Frontier claims a primary attention. After having provided 
effectually for the security of the frontier of the Territories, 
and provided a competent officer can be found to execute the 

10— 2266i 



 

command lately designated for you, it is extremely desirable 
that you should join General Winchester, commanding the 
Troops destined to reinforce General Hull, with a force 
from Kentucky, as large as circumstances may permit. In 
case you shall not be able to join him, you will by your move- 
ments cooperate with him as far as may be in your power. 
A field Officer of the Artillery is dispatched to Pittsburg to 
forward ammunition and other supplies. A Reinforcement of 
Fifteen hundred men from the State of Pennsylvania, and of 
the same number from Virginia has been ordered to join Gen- 
eral Winchester. Efforts are also making to obtain the com- 
mand of the Lakes. By the mail of this Evening I have time 
only to add the Respect with which I am &c. 

Br. General, Wm. H. Harrison 

Proclamation Call for Volunteers 

PiQUA, September 2d, 1812 

Har. Pa. 680 

Fellow-Citizens 

At a moment like this I appeal to your valor and patriotism. 
Maj. Gen. Harrison will rendezvous a respectable force of 
Kentucky Volunteers at Dayton on tlie 15th inst. for a short 
expedition. Genl. Harrison desires to add to his troops any 
number of Volunteers from the state of Ohio who will serve 
on an expedition not exceeding thirty days. All those who 
will embrace this favorable opportunity of distinguishing 
themselves under an able commander, and of rendering to the 
state of Ohio a valuable service, will in their equipments and 
movements follow the directions of General Harrison hereto 
subjoined. 

R. J. Meigs Gov. Ohio 

Volunteers Wanted 

Any number of volunteers, mounted and prepared for active 
service to continue for twenty-five or thirty days, will be ac- 
cepted to rendezvous at the towns of Dayton, on the Big 
Miami on the 15th inst. It is expected that the Volunteers 
will provide themselves with salt provisions and a proportion 
of biscuits. Those brave men who may give their sei-vices on 
this occasion may be assured that an opportunity of distin- 



 

guishing themselves will be afforded. I shall command the 
expedition in person ; and the number of troops employed will 
be entirely adequate to the object proposed. 

I wish also to hire a number of substantial horses. Fifty 
cents per day will be allowed for each horse which is provided 
with saddle and bridle. Those patriotic citizens who are un- 
able to afford their personal subsistance, will render essential 
service to their country by furnishing the horses, which must 
be delivered in Dayton on the 14th inst. to a person who will 
be authorized to receive and receipt for them. 

William Henry Harrison 

McJuNKiN Ferriage 

September 1812 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 

The Genl Government Dr to John McJunkin for ferriage of 
120 men called into actual service by Genl Gibson on the 9th 
day of Sept 1812 $15-00 

The above acct is Due to John McJunkin 

Certified By RoBT. M. Evans Col 4th Regt I. M. 

September 11 1812 

Thi is too seryfy that John McJonkin has Freid my Company 

Concinting of Eighteen Men and horse given onder my hand 

Thos Spencer C'pt^ 
September the 03 

This is to certify that Jhon McJunkin at a nother time ferried 
all men more of My men and horses on thare way to the army 
at vincins givin under my hand this day and date above 
mentined 

Thos Spencer Cpt 

Crosed at Mr John McJunkin ferry Twelve Melition men 
under my Command on a tower of Duety in Pesuance to an 
order to me Directed for Which I Sartify that no Ferage was 
Paid in Testimony Where of I have hercun to Set my hand and 
Seal this 13th Day of Sept 1812 

Samuel R. Morris Capt 3th B Wi R I. S. M. 

1. Thomas Spencer was appointed coroner of Gibson county May 12, 181D. Mc- 
Junkin's ferry was on lower White river. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

PiQUA (On the Big Miami) 3d Sept. 1812 

Har. Pa. 676-679 

Sir: 

Your favor of the 22d ultimo [see above] with the accom- 
panying packets reached me yesterday by an express from 
Lexington. 

I am honored and gi'atified by the appointement which the 
President has confered upon me and I must request you, Sir, 
to present to him my sincere aclaiowledgements for this re- 
newed instance of his confidence in my zeal and patriotism. 
Under present circumstances however, I trust I shall be for- 
given for postponing my decision as to the acceptance of the 
appointment until I receive your further instructions. I\Iy let- 
ter to you from Cincinnati ^^ill have explained my situation 
here, and the information of the fall of Detroit will no doubt, 
have caused other arrangements than those which were in 
contemplation when your letter was written. I have there- 
fore thought it advisable not to vary the destination of that 
part of the Kentucky troops which you were informed was 
coming on in aid of the detachment which marched under 
Genh [John] Pa\me, which appears from a letter received 
from Genl. [James] Winchester to be consigned to him. 

I arrived here on the 1st inst. I found the whole country in 
dreadful alami on account of the fall of Detroit and Chicago 
and the supposed investiture of Fort Wayne by the Indians. 
Seven hundred mounted volunteers had been assembled for the 
purpose of relieving it and had advanced as far as the St. 
IMary's twenty five miles from this, but they have after several 
ineffectual attempts by the commissioners [R. J. I\Ieigs, Thom- 
as Worthington, Jeremiah ]\Iorrov/] to get them in ad- 
vance, at length declined it until they could be reinforced. As 
soon as this was ascertained I dispatched an express for [Col. 
John] Allen's^ select rifle regiment (one of Payne's brigade) 
and it has this moment arrived. I have given Col. Allen (one 
of the most distinguished citizens of Kentucky) orders to take 
the command of the Volunteers and [William] Garrard's 

1. John Allen was born in RockbridRe Co., Va., Dec. 30, 1772. Came with his 
parents to Ky. and settled near Danville, 17S0. Educated at Bardstown and in 1S12 
was practicini? law at Shelbyville. He was one of the leading men of Ky. when he was 
killed at the Raisin. 

Collins, Kentucky, ICS 



 

troop of Dragoons, and endeavour to force his way to Ft. 
Wayne. His force will amount to jfifteen hundred men, and I 
hope will be fully equal to the dispersion of the Indians. It is 
however impossible to ascertain their force. Every attempt 
which has been made to reach Fort Wayne by the Commission- 
ers for some days past has been ineffectual even with the as- 
sistance of the friendly Indians at this place. I should have 
increased Allen's force with another regiment at least, but for 
the want of fixed ammunition. Upon my arrival at Cincin- 
nati I found but 12,000 cartriges and the troops had been put 
in motion without any means being adopted to procure a sup- 
ply other than that of the arsenal which yielded from 1000 to 
1500 per diem only. On Sunday last, however, the citizens 
of Cincinnati offered me their service to make cartridges and 
I left them progressing rapidly. On Monday evening last I 
am informed 12,000 set out as I had directed in a light 
waggon. They have however not yet arrived. When they do 
arrive another detachment will be sent after Col. Allen and 
the remaining part of Payne's brigade will follow on the same 
route as far as the St. Mary's I have ordered Allen to recon- 
noitre to a considerable distance in his front with mounted 
men and should he discover that the enemy are superior in 
number to his troops to fortify a camp and send back to ap- 
prise Genl. Payne or Winchester (who will be here tomorrov/) 
of his situation. Upon a reference to the Commissioners to 
ascertain the disposition of the Indians towards us I am in- 
formed that all but these who are here must be considered 
hostile excepting the Miamis who are still wavering. I have 
therefore determined to commence offensive operations 
against them immediately and to make a sweeping blow at 
them beginning with the prophet at Tippecanoe and extending 
it up that river to the villages of the Potawatimies upon it and 
the head waters of the Illinois. The lateness of the season 
makes it necessary that it should be done by mounted men, un- 
incumbered with any other baggage than what they carry 
upon their horses. I calculate upon a sufficiency of men being 
obtained of that desciiption who will serve thirty days with 
no other reliance for pay than the bounty of the Government. 
I am unable, at this moment to give you the particulars of 
my plan for this expedition and the arrangements for the 
other pai't of the frontiers. My rendezvous is fixed at Dayton 
on the 15th instant and my route such an one as gives me great 



 

hopes of effecting a complete surprise which could not be ex- 
pected either down the Wabash from Fort Wayne or up it 
from Vincennes. With regard to my own situation, Sir, I as- 
sure you the rank of Brigadier is highly gratifying to me, but 
as the object for which Genl. Winchester was ordered to take 
the command of this detachment is now unattainable and as 
my judgment points out the propriety of commencing my oper- 
ations from this quarter I wish to know how far I am to be 
subordinate to him in the main design of regaining our lost 
territory and retaking Maiden. There is in my opinion a 
necessity of having one head in the western country to direct 
all the military movements. It might perhaps be presump- 
tion in me to compare my military information with that of 
Genl. Winchester and his extreme amiableness of character 
will insure him respect and esteem where he is known. But 
that happens not to be the case either in this state or Ken- 
tucky. The backwoodsmen are a singular people. They are 
susceptible of the most heroic achievements but they must be 
taken in their own way. From their affection and attachment 
everything may be expected but I will venture to say they 
never did nor never will perform anything brilliant under a 
stranger. I will venture to add another thing also. No gen- 
eral can act in this country without a personal knowledge of 
the country. Beyond the survey there is no map that can at 
all be relied upon. I acknowledge that I have no other claim 
to the command beyond that of other brigadiers but what may 
be supposed to arise from personal influence in the states 
which are to supply the troops, and knowledge of the country 
in which I have risen from the youngest ensign in my regt. 
to the command of an army. 

I wait for your further orders, those which the state of 
things so different from what was supposed when your last 
letter was written requires. 

It is unnecessary to state to you Sir, that with General 
Hull's army were captured all the heavy artillery and almost 
all the ordnance stores in the western country and that the 
arsenal at Newport is entirely deficient in many essential 
equipments. 

I am with great respect Sir your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. Wm. Eustis Esqr. Secretary of War 



 

Shelby to Secretary of War 

Frankfort Ky. September 5tli, 1812 

McAfee, The Late War, 112-117 

Sir— 

In a government possessing the same extent of territory as 
that of the United States, with her inhabitants scattered and 
detached, and organized as it is, that energy cannot be exer- 
cised as in governments more compact. 

Impressed with the truth of the preceding fact, and being 
called by my fellow citizens to fill the executive department 
of the government of this state, and having entered on the 
duties of the important station, I feel it a duty incumbent on 
me, to state to you, sir, my ideas on the subject of war meas- 
ures northwest of the Ohio river. 

When the northwestern army, commanded by general Hull, 
marched, all western America were flattered with the hope of 
success ; too soon have we experienced a reverse, and that hope 
which beamed in every countenance a few days since, is now 
followed by astonishment, by mortification and anxiety, aris- 
ing from a rapid succession of misfortunes, unknown in the 
annals of our historical events. The surrender of the foii; of 
Michilimacanac and its garrison — Detroit and the army com- 
manded by general Hull — the evacuation of Chicago, and the 
murder of the garrison, on the way from thence to fort Wayne 
by the Indians, are distressing facts. 

The Indians, thus elated with success, encouraged and 
supported by the British from Canada, will now endeavour 
to extend their savage and barbarous devastations, along the 
extensive frontier of the state of Ohio, and the several terri- 
tories, unless checked by the detachment of militia lately or- 
dered from this state by my predecessor, and the regular 
troops who have marched under colonel [Samuel] Wells. It 
is believed from information received from various sources, 
that the Indians are collecting in force, at several points from 
Lake Michigan to the Mississippi river, with intent to make 
vigorous attacks on both the Indiana and Illinois territories; 
and should they be successful in a direction toward Vincennes, 
we shall, I fear, for a time have the Ohio river for a barrier, 
from the mouth of Kentucky to the junction of Ohio and the 
Mississippi. 

To regain possession of the posts on the waters of the Lakes 



 

will require time; but in the mean while, to sto]) the invasion 
of the enemy is all important to the welfare of our common 
country. It is expected that the troops which have jnarched, 
and are now marching from this state, the state of Ohio and 
Indiana territoiy, will be so arranged by governor Harrison, 
in whom they have great confidence, as to protect the great 
extent of frontier, and to act offensively likewise, if properly 
supplied with provisions and other necessaries. 

It is not to be expected from the success our Indian enemy 
have met with, and the aid they will receive from the British, 
that they will be subdued this campaign; they are elated and 
will act with more vigor, and be more determined than usual. 
To subdue them is the important question. The time of the 
present detachment of militia now in service, will expire next 
February; to keep the enemy in check, it is conjectured their 
places will be supplied by troops of a similar description, 
ready to take the field next spring at as early a period as the 
nature of the country in which they will have to act, and other 
circumstances will justify the measure. 

To march an army at a critical moment to act offensively, 
is an object ever to be desired, and on such movements the 
success of the campaign often depends. So remote is the 
scene of war in western America from the seat of the general 
government, and so various are the measures to be pursued, 
which are to guide an army to honor and success, against a 
subtle wary enemy; it appears to mo impossible for the 
President to adopt with certainty, a line of operations to be 
observed by any officer, appointed to command in this sec- 
tion of the United States: however skilful the commander, 
and however judicious the arrangements may be at the mo- 
ment when made, circumstances often occur which render a 
change necessary. On an emergency of this kind, to be com- 
pelled to have recourse to the war department, forward a 
statement of facts, and receive an answer, will not only 
greatly retard the movements of an army, but may wholly 
defeat the desired object. 

From the same source other causes may arise, which will 
often delay the marching of an army, perplex both oflicers 
and soldiers, have a tendency to disgust men with the serv- 
ice, and in a long tedious war render it difilcult for govern- 
ment to call forth those resources, which the exigency of the 
case may require. 



 

The cases here alluded lo, will arise from occurrences which 
it will be impossible for you to correct in due time; and which 
have come "within n\y own observation in times past. Inat- 
tention, or any other mi,:conduct, in quarter masters, con- 
tractors, commissai'ios and paymasters, or either of them, in 
the western country, so distant from you, may produced ir- 
remediable misfortune. 

The circumstances which lead me to these reflections, arise 
from the delay Avhich took place in marching the first detach- 
ment of the militia from this state, under general [John] 
Payne. Notwithstanding- the emergency of the case required 
the utmost promptitude, being intended to succour general 
Hull ; yet every thing nccessarj'- for their equipment, except 
arms and ammunition, was purchased and prepared after 
marching orders were issued ; and the dispatch at last is 
greatly to be attributed to the exertion of individuals; nay, 
even the patriotic spirit of the ladies in making markees and 
tents. Although it would have been impossible for this army, 
under any arrangements to have reached Detroit in time to 
have relieved gcnei-al Hull — yet, if it had not been detained 
at Georgetown and Nev/port, waiting for the necessary sup- 
plies at both places, possibly by forced marches the garrison 
at Chicago might have been saved. 

I am not disposed to find fault with any arrangement which 
has been made, nor with any officer of any department of the 
government; yet, when important facts occur they ought to 
be made knov/n, and the evil in future prevented. When the 
orders issued for calling into actual service, three regiments 
of this state's quota of the 100,000 militia, they were prom- 
ised two months pay at the place of rendezvous. This I am 
informed was complied with. In two or three days after these 
regiments marched from Georgetown, a requisition was made 
for the residue of this state's quota : Three regiments of in- 
fantry and about 300 cavalry have marched to join general 
Payne; and three otiier regiments have crossed the Ohio below 
into the Indiana and Illinois Territories. These troops are 
certainly entitled to every compensation and equipment, which 
those first ordered into se)'vice received ; — yet, I am induced 
to believe, they have not received the two months pay in ad- 
vance, nor scarcely any other article of equipment to make 
them comfortable, and protect them from the inclemency of 
the weather, nor hospital stores. Such is the fact as respected 



 

two regiments, and the cavalry, that passed this place. ]\Ien 
who engage for so long a tour as six months, arc compelled to 
expend money for necessary articles of clothing, and the cav- 
alry in considerable addition to that of the infantry. Many 
thousand dollars of debts have been contracted, under a con- 
fidence that tvv^o months pay in advance would be made to the 
whole of the militia, when called into actual service. Both 
debtors and creditors have been disappointed, except as to the 
three first regiments; which has occasioned murmurings and 
discontent — a circumstance to be regretted, not only as it re- 
spects the soldiers and their creditors, but as to the effect it 
may have on a future call of the militia. 

To aid the great objects of the government in arranging 
and carrying on the necessary v\^ar measures, is the duty of 
every American citizen ; but more especially is it the duty of 
those characters who are selected in the several states, to 
carrj'- into eft'ect the executive departments thereof. Since 
coming to my present office, I have seriously reflected on the 
present situation of our northwestern frontiers, and am in- 
duced to believe, that unless some change of measures is 
adopted, the objects of the President as contemplated at pres- 
ent, will be defeated, however wisely planned, much blood be 
spilt unnecessarily, immense sums of money improperly spent 
and, what I most apprehend and dread, a dissatisfaction 
among our citizens to the great cause, from some of the rea- 
sons heretofore assigned. 

To remedy the mischiefs apprehended, I will take the liberty 
of suggesting to the President, the propriety of appointing a 
board of respectable characters, resident in the western coun- 
try, responsible to him, in any way which it shall be his pleas- 
ure to direct, with power to call into service, under the laws 
of Congress, the militia which may be required, from time to 
time, from the states of Kentucky, Ohio, and the territories of 
Indiana and Illinois, to direct their operations either of offence 
or defence, to require from the war department all the muni- 
tions of war necessary for the supply of the troops, and all 
necessary equipments, to have the controul over the subordi- 
nate agents of the war department, within the district as- 
signed and to make it the duty of the boai'd to report to the 
departments of v/ar, from time to time, the measures by them 
adopted. 



 

A board thus organized vrould not fail of success in all the 
war measures in this section of the Iniited States : characters 
properly selected to such an office, would feel a prompt desire 
to promote our connnon cause; from their knowledge of the 
countrj', they would be able to direct the necessary operations 
against the enemy, and v%'henever necessary, being in the vi- 
cinity of the army, give their advice to the officer commanding, 
and order out detaclmients to his aid, or divert the enemy so 
as certainly to insure success in the main enterprize, and se- 
cure our frontiers from savage cruely and devastation. 

If such a board was now organized, and had the controul of 
the present armament, I would pledge myself the Indians 
would have to lament this campaign, and their temerity in 
joining the Bi'itish and deserting the friendship of the United 
States. This is not a singular or novel idea — it is one for- 
merly entertained and practised by general Washington, when 
President of the United States, and still adhered to by all men 
of experience in this country. 

While I am writing this letter, I have received a dispatch 
from governor Harrison, dated at Piqua, of the second instant, 
in which he informs me that General Winchester is ordered on 
to take the command of the detachment sent from this state 
for the relief of general Hull. This arrangement at once di- 
vides the army under governor Harrison, and renders either 
part unequal to any object of importance, and ruins the fair- 
est prospects of the expedition. It shews, however, in the 
strongest point of view, the utility of the plan that I propose, 
of forming a board of war measures in the v/estern country, 
who would have a clear knowledge of the whole ground before 
them, and could project plans against the enemy, which might 
with certainty be carried into complete effect. Notwithstand- 
ing our late ill fortune on the lakes, I made great calculations 
upon the army under governor Harrison. Had they proceeded 
rapidly on, it is more than probable he could, with the force 
he had, have retaken Detroit with very little loss. In his 
army, were many of the niost influential and respectable citi- 
zens of this state, from whom every thing was to be expected, 
which possibly could be achieved by any set of men on earth. 
And I believe had his march not been interrupted, in a very 
short time, we should have seen the flag of the United States, 
again waving on the bank of lake Erie. 



 

Before I had conclucd this Icttor, information was received 
that a number of faraihes had been killed by the Indians, on 
the waters of White river, t\vclve or fifteen miles from the 
Ohio, in the Indiana teri'itorj^; and that the inhabitants 
thereof, are crossing to this state by hundreds. [Pigeon Roost 
massacre] Should the Indians attack the territories of In- 
diana and Illinois, in that force which the present situation 
of our affairs, as relates to the war against Canada, seems 
almost to invite them to, there is no power here to order men 
out of this state to their assistance, nor is there the smallest 
provision made of arms or ammunition for an expedition 
should it be expedient to carry one into the Indian towns, to 
draw them from our frontiers into their own country. 

I have written you a long letter ; the happiness and welfare 
of my country have prompted me to it, and will, I trust, be a 
sufficient apology. [See Sept. 17 below] 

I have the honor to be, 

Sir, your most obedient servant 

Isaac Shelby 

Call for Volunteers 

Headquarters, Piqua 
September 5, 1812, 4 o'clock, A.M. 

,, ^T . Har. Pa. 681 

Mounted Volunteers ! 

I requested you, in my late address [Sept. 2 above] to 
rendezvous at Dayton on the 15th instant. I have now a more 
pressing call for your services ! The British and Indians have 
invaded our country and are now besieging (perhaps have 
taken) Fort Wayne. Every friend to his country, who is 
able to do so, will join me as soon as possible, well mounted, 
with a good rifle and twenty or thirty days provision. Am- 
munition will be furnished at Cincinnati and at Dayton — and 
the Volunteers will draw provisions (to save their salted 
meat) at all the public deposites: the Quartermasters and 
Commissaries will see that this order is executed. 

William Henry Harrison 

Proclamation 

Har. Pa. 682 

Whereas the United States are now at War with Great 
Britain whose forces are aided by savages of the most 



 

ferocious nature and the frontiers of the state of Ohio are 
exposed to their cruelties and dopivdations as well as to the 
machinations of Traitors and Spies — creating discontent 
among our citizens and giving to our enemies information 
of our situation, forces and movements. 

In order therefore (as far as lays m our power) to prevent 
such Cruelties, machinations, treachery and spying — I issue 
this proclamation, EXHORTING all the citizens and inhabi- 
tants of the state of Ohio to the strict olxservance of all their 
duties as such; requiring all militaiy ollicers according to their 
rank to be strict, in their attention to the Discipline, Arms and 
Order of all those under their command, and to hold them- 
selves in constant readiness for active service. 

Also requiring all magistrates, conservators of the peace, 
and all civil officers and others, to be vigilant in the apprehen- 
sion examination, and commitment of all such traitors or 
spies, in order that they may be dealt with according to law. 

R. J. Meigs Governor of Ohio 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

PiQUA 5th Sept. 1812 

Har. Pa. 6S3, 68A 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that I received information 
last night that a British [illegible] on the 18th ultimo for the 
purpose of attacking Fort Wayne and if successful Fort Har- 
rison and Vincennes. I had yesterday dispatched a detach- 
ment of 900 choice men to join the mounted men of this state 
which are in advance and proceed to relieve Fort Wayne from 
the attack of the neighbouring Indians. I am now engaged in 
preparing cartridges and boring touch holes of the muskets all 
of which are too small and to some guns there are none. I 
shall set out early by tomorrow and bj^ forced marches over- 
take the detachment. I had intended to have given up this 
command to General Winchester and have written to him to 
that effect. The situation of Fort Wayne however admits of 
no alternative. I have invited him to join me or to bring up 
the troops in the rear. From the information received since 
I wrote you there is little doubt but all the Indians (JMiamis 
included) will participate in the attack of Fort Wayne. Hav- 
ing succeeded in relieving it, I shall be governed by circum- 



 

stances. I have conveyed the above Intelhgence by express to 
Vincennes and requested the Governor of Kentucky to send 
mounted volunteers there to reinforce the two Regiments now 
there. I have also requested a Reinforcement to be sent to 
Kaskaskias. 

I have the Honor to be with much Respect your obt. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secty. of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Sept. 6th 1812 (At Piqua) 

Har. Pa, 685 

Sir: 

I have this day drawn upon you in favor of Mr. John H. 
Piatt^ purchasing commissary appointed by Genl. Hull five 
bills of one thousand dollars each for which I have taken dupli- 
cate receipt for the purpose of completing the purchase of sup- 
plies and transporting them to the army. One of the dupli- 
cate receipts enclosed. 

I am respectfully, WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 

H. Qrts. Piqua 6th Sept. 1812 

Har. Pa. 6S6 

Reed, from Genl. Willm. H. Harrison five drafts of one 
thousand dollars each bearing date herewith on the Secy, of 
War for the purchase of supplies for the N. Western Army. 
John H. Piatt Purchasing Commissary 

Hd. Qrts. Piqua Sept. 7th 1812 

Har. Pa. 687 

Received from Genl. Wm. H. Harrison a draft in my favor 
for one thousand dollars for the purpose of procuring equip- 
ment &c. for the public service. 

Jesse Hunt [See next letter] 

1. John H. Piatt was a ilcsccnclant of a Huguenot family which came to America 
about 1740. Four of them served in the Revolution from N. J. Capt. William Piatt 
was killed at St. Clair's Defeat. Two other sons of the cmiKrant came with Symmes to 
North Bend. John H. Piatt was a younger brother. He was one of the wealthiest 
men of Cincinnati at the time and became a contractor for the army. He lost his 
entire foitune and died a pau))cr. His lonjc struRKle with the government to recover 
his losses are recorded in the Annals of Congress. 

,^ Howe, Hist. Col. of Ohio 11, 05 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

PiQUA 7th Sept. 1812 

Har. Pa. 688 

Sir: 

As it is supposed from the situation in which Genl. [James] 
Taylor^ is placed that he can no longer act as agent and pay- 
master in the district of Cincinnati I beg leave to recommend 
for that appointment Mr. Jesse Hunt of Cincinnati who has 
been a resident and merchant of that place for twenty years. 
He possesses a very large property and has as extensive credit 
as any merchant of that flourishing towTi. I am persuaded 
that the appointment of Mr. Hunt will be very advantageous 
to the public interests. I have employed him to hire a num- 
ber of horses for an expedition and have drawn in his favour 
for one thousand dollars to procure the equipment. [See 
above] 

I am respectfully Sir, with great regard Yr. Humble. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

P. S. Govr. Meiggs recommended Mr. Hunt to me (Before I 
thought of him) as the most proper person in the state for 
the appointment above mentioned. 
The Honble The Secretary of War 

Shelby to Thomas Buford 

Frankfort, Ky., September 7, 1812 

Reg. of Ky. State Hist. Soc, VIII, 15 

oiR : 

I am requested by Governor Harrison to direct you to for- 
ward supplies of provisions of every kind that compose the 
ration, to Vincennes for two regiments of the Kentucky De- 
tached Militia ; and all the supplies in the upper part of the 
State to Cincinnati, and provide also the means of transport 
from thence to the head of the settlements in the direction of 
Fort Wayne, of which you will govern yourself accordingly. 

Y. Mo. Ob., 

Isaac Shelby 

1. Gen. James Taylor was born in Carolina Co., Va., Aiir. 19, 1769. Came to 
Ky. 1781. His home was at Nowi)ort. He was <iuartcrmastcr Kcnoial under Hull and 
surrcntlcrcd at Detioit. When asked to help make out the capitulation i)apci.s he 
refused. He had not been jjarokd when this letter was written. He was one of the 
wealthiest men in the west. 

Collins, Kcntuckii, 227 



 

Shelby to Hopkins 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 8th, 1812 

_ _ Reg. Ky. St a. Hist. Soc. VIII, 15 

Dear General: 

It appears from the enclosed copy of a letter which I have 
just received from Gen. Harrison, that great danger is appre- 
hended from, the attack of the British and Indians upon the 
weak and defenseless settlements of Indiana and Illinois Terri- 
tories, and particularly as to the safetj^ of Fort Harrison and 
Vincennes. [See Sept. 5 above] 

I have in consequence of this information, and the requisi- 
iton of Governor Harrison, thought it proper to invite as 
many of my fellow citizens to volunteer their services for a 
short period, as will be sufficient to afford relief to that fron- 
tier, and if deemed necessary to follow the enemy to their 
country and lay it waste. 

To this end I have addressed my countrymen in a hand bill 
which is circulated for that purpose through all the lower 
and southern counties of this State, sundry copies of which are 
forwarded to you to disperse. 

From what passed between you and myself when I had the 
honour to see you here, I have thought proper to name you 
as the officer to command the expedition, which I hope, my 
good sir, will be agreeable to you. The situation of our coun- 
tiy at this momentous crisis calls for the service of her most 
experienced military characters, and although this is not just 
such a command as I should be pleased to see you at the head 
of it, it is perhaps the only one in which you can serve your 
country this present season; but should you decline this com- 
mand, be so good as to appraise General Winlock of your de- 
termination by the earliest opportunity. 

Should you on reflection think it most advisable to direct 
the rendezvous of the volunteers of the lower counties to as- 
semble at any other place than that of Louisville and so form 
a union at Vincennes, you can use your own discretion, as I 
am not so well acquainted with the geography of the lower 
counties to advise you. 

It appears to be the wish of General Harrison that Col. 
[Philip] Barbour's' regiment should be followed by some 

1. Philip Barljour was liorn in Culpepper Co., Va., June 27, 1770. While young 
he located noar Louisville, bi<HlKr-in-law of Picsidcnt Taylor. After the death of hi.s 
first wife married the dauKhlor of Ccii. lloid.ins and moved to Henderson. He died 



 

mounted men to Kaskaskia ; you can direct as many that way 
from the lower counties as you may deem expedient for the 
security of that territory. 

I enclose you a hand bill just circulated through the upper 
counties by Governor Harrison to collect volunteers to join 
him; he has some object in view which I am not yet apprised 
of. You will have heard before this reaches you that he has 
been appointed a brigadier in the U. S. Army, and that Gen. 
Winchester is appointed to command the detachment ordered 
on from this State to reinforce General Hull, to wit: Payne's 
and Well's corps. He has left Lexington on his way to join 
the army. I don't know what effect this arrangement may 
have on the success of the expedition. 

I am. Etc. 

Isaac Shelby 



Gov. Shelby to Citizens of Kentucky 

Frankfort, September, 8, 1812 

McAfee, Histonj, 156 

Fellow-Citizens of Kentucky ! 

I have received information from his excellency governor 
Harrison commanding the army northwest of the Ohio, dated 
the 5th inst. at Piqua, tliat the British and Indians had be- 
sieged fort Wayne and perhaps had taken it; [see Sept. 5 
above] that it was the object of the enemy to push on to fort 
Harrison and Vincennes and he has required of me to leave 
nothing undone to relieve those places. In addition to this, 
information is also received, that the Indians have murdered 
twenty-one persons not more than twenty miles north of the 
Ohio [Pigeon Roost] and that a very extensive combination 
of savages, aided by the British from Canada, are momently 
expected on the frontier of Indiana and Illinois territories. 

With this information before us and the requisition of gov- 
ernor Harrison, that a number of mounted volunteers be re- 
quested to march to the aid of our suffering fellow-citizens, 
it is hoped that it will rouse tlie spirit and indignation of the 
freemen of Kentucky and induce a sufficient number of them 

while on a visit to Coryiion, Iml., Oct. 6, 1818, and is buiicil there. His son Philip 
N. Barbour was killed in the battle of Monterey, >Sei)t. 19, ISlfi. 

YouHK, Battle of the Thames, H9 

11—22664 



 

to give their senices to their countiy for a short period on 
this interesting occasion. 

It is proposed to accept the service of such a number of 
mounted vohmteers as may be adequate to the defence of the 
said territories and if necessary, follov/ the enemy, and carry 
olTensive war into their country, and lay waste their towns. 

Tlie vohmteers Vv'ill rendez\ous at Louisville on the 18th 
daj"" of this month, with at least thirty days provisions. The 
whole will be commanded by major general Samuel Hopkins, 
an officer of great merit and experience. Should any com- 
pany of volunteers not be able to rendezvous on the day 
appointed, they can follow on and join the army on their 
march. 

Kentuckians! ever pre-eminent for their patriotism, bravery 
and good conduct will, I am persuaded, on this occasion give 
to the world a new evidence of their love for their country, 
and a determination, at every hazard, to rescue their fellow- 
men from the murders and devastations of a cruel and 
barbarous enemy. 

Isaac Shelby 

WiNLOCK TO Gibson 

Bear Grass Camp near Louisville 
September 8th 1812 

Mss. hid. State Libranj 

Sir, 

I have just received yours of the 5th Inst, by express — I 
was ordered to rendezvous at this place on the 1st Inst, with 
two regiments of the Kentucky i\Iilitia, but Governor Har- 
rison has taken one of those regiments on towards Fort 
Wayne — 

I arrived here on the 1st with Col. Miller's regiment and 
expected to have found the necessary equipage for the men, 
and have marched on immediately' — but there was only 300 
muskets — 200 pounds of powder — 20 Camp Kettles and 300 
flints for upwards of Six Hundred men, which there is in this 
regiment, (including officers) — I have been busily engaged 
since my arrival, in procuring what articles were deficient — 
but having no public money at my command, I found great 
difficulty in procuring them — We have had 300 Cartridge 
boxes &, Cartridges for them to make. 



 

I think we can be ready to march on the 10th Inst. — Yon 
may be assured I will be at Vincenncs as soon as possible — A 
great many of the men say they will not cross the river unless 
they receive the same pay in advance that the other troops 
received who march'd from this State — but I am in hopes very 
few will be unwilling when we are ready to march 

Since writing the above I have reed, a copy of a letter from 
Govr. Harrison to Govr. Shelby a copy of which I herewith 
enclose you — 

I have the honor to be 

your Obt. Servt. 

I. WiNLOCK B. G. Comd.t. 
The Honble John Gibson 

Shelby to Gen. Hopkins 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 9th, 1812 

Reg. Ky. Sia. Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 

Dear Sir: 

I have received a letter from Governor Harrison of the 4th 
inst. stating that Major George R. Floyd was anxious to raise 
a battallion of mounted riflemen to march immediately to Vin- 
cennes, and the Governor requests that I would confer on the 
Major the necessary power to carry his wishes into effect. I 
do not consider myself as invested with power to issue com- 
missions, only in the line of the militia of this State. 

But I very highly approve of Major Floyd's pretentions to 
command a battalion of the mounted volunteers that are ex- 
pected to serve under you on the contemplated enterprise for 
the defense of the Indiana territory, etc, etc. And when the 
volunteers shall assemble at the place of rendezvous, you have 
my most cordial consent to appoint Major Floyd to command 
in any station under you that you deem proper. The Major 
is an officer whose military character and prowess in the field 
entitles him to great confidence and I feel no doubt but any of 
the volunteers will be glad to be attached to his command. 

I am, etc., 

Isaac Shelby 
Major General Samuel Hopkins 



 

General Orders 
H. Q. Second Crossinc, of St. Marys, Sept. 10, 1812 

McAfee, History, 12 U 

The signal for a general charge will be beating the roll. At 
night the officers and men will lie upon their arms and their 
clothes. Two or more guns firing in succession will consti- 
tute an alarm, at which the whole army will parade in the 
order of the encampment, which will be a hollow square, unless 
otherwise directed. When a sentinel discharges his gun in the 
night, the officer of the guard to whom he belongs, will imme- 
diately ascertain the cause; and should he have sufficient rea- 
son to believe on examination, that an enemy is near, he will 
cause two guns to be fired in quick succession. Should the 
firing proceed from an insufficient cause to give an alarm, the 
officer will immediately call out "all is well", which will be 
repeated through the army. The same shall take place upon 
an accidental firing in the day time. The order of battle, for 
a rear attack in the day time, while the army are on the march, 
will be so far attended to, with respect to the rear line, that 
the rear battalions of colonels Lewis and Allen's regiments 
only are to turn upon their centres, while the heads of the 
front battalions are to close up to the front lines, then facing 
from the centre, march out until they respectively gain the 
flanks of the front line. Should the attack be in front, the 
senior officer nearest the flank battalion, will judge of the pro- 
priety of bringing up that battalion to form on the flank of 
the front line. The 2nd battalions of colonels Lewis and 
Allen's regiments, will in all cases close up, as the leading 
battalions shall advance and make room for them. Captain 
Garrard's troop forming guard will also close up and act as 
circumstances may require. 

Wm. H. Harrison Miij Gen Comvianding 

Taylor to Harrison 

Fort Harrison, September 10. 1812 

Historical Register H, 129, Ap. 

Dear sir, 

On Thursday evening the 3d instant, after retreat beating, 
four guns were heard to fire in the direction where two young 
men (citizens who resided hero) v/ere making hay, about 400 



 

yards distance from the fort. I was immediately impressed 
with an idea that they were killed by the Indians, as the 
Miamies or Weas had that day informed me that the prophet's 
party would soon be here for the purpose of commencing hos- 
tilities; and that they had been directed to leave this place, 
which they were about to do. I did not think it prudent to 
send out at that late hour of the night to see what had become 
of them; and their not coming in convinced me that I was 
right in my conjecture. I waited until 8 o'clock next morn- 
ing, when I sent out a corporal with a small party to find them, 
if it could be done without running too much risk of being 
drawn into an ambuscade. He soon sent back to inform me, 
that he had found them both killed, and wished to know my 
further orders; I sent the cart and oxen, and had them 
brought in and buried ; they had been each shot with two balls, 
scalped, and cut in the most shocking manner. Late in the 
evening of the 4th instant, old Joseph Lenar, [Renard] and 
between 30 or 40 Indians arrived from the prophet's to^nl, 
with a white flag; among whom were about 10 women, and 
the men were composed of chiefs of the different tribes that 
compose the prophet's party. A Shawanoe man, that spoke 
good English, informed me that old Lenar intended to speak 
to me next morning, and try to get something to eat. At 
retreat beating I examined the men's arms, and found them 
all in good order, and completed their cartridges to 16 rounds 
per man. As I had not been able to mount a guard of more 
than six privates and two non-commissioned officers, for some 
time past, and sometimes part of them every other day, from 
the unhealthiness of the company, I had not conceived ni}^ 
force adequate to the defence of this post should it be vigor- 
ously attacked, for some time past. As I had just recovered 
from a very severe attack of the fever, I was not able to be up 
much through the night. After tatoo I cautioned the guard to 
be vigilant, and ordered one of the non-commissioned officers, 
as the sentinels could not sec every part of the garrison, to 
walk round the inside during the whole night, to prevent the 
Indians taking any advantage of us, provided they had any 
intention of attacking us. About 11 o'clock I was awakened 
by the fii'ing of one of ''he sentinels; I sprung up, ran out, and 
ordered the men to tl 'i' posts; when my oi'derly serjeant 
(who had command of ^ ' ^pper block-house) called out that 
the Indians had fired th '•er block-house which contained 



 

the property of the contractor, which was deposited in the 
lower part, the upper having been assigned to a corpoal and 
10 privates, as an alarm post. The guns had begun to fire 
pretty smartly from both sides. I directed the buckets to be 
got ready, and w^ater brought from the well, iuid the fir.- ex- 
tinguished immediately, as it was hardly perceivable at that 
time; but from debility or some other cause, the men were 
very slow in executing my orders. The word fire appeared 
to throw the whole of them in confusion ; and by the time ihcy 
had got the water and broken open the door, the fire had un- 
fortunately communicated to a quantity of whi^k':'y (the ctock 
having licked several holes through the lower part of the 
building, after the salt that was stored there, througli v.hich 
they had introduced the fire without being discovered, as the 
night was very dark), and in spite of every exertion we could 
make use of, in less than a moment it ascended to the roof, 
and baffled every effort we could make to extinguisli it. As 
that block-house adjoined the barracks that make part of the 
fortifications most of the men immediately gave themselves 
up for lost, and I had the greatest difficulty in getting any of 
my orders executed and, sir, what from the raging of the fire, 
the yelling and howling of several hundred Indians, the cries 
of nine women and children (a part of soldiers' and a part of 
citizens' wives, who had taken shelter in the fort) and the 
desponding of so many of the men, which was worse than all, 
I can assure you that my feelings were very unpleasant and 
indeed there were not more than 10 or 15 men able to do a 
great deal, the others being either sick or convalescent and to 
add to our other misfortunes, two of the stoutest men in the 
fort, and that I had every confidence in, jumped the picket and 
left us. But my presence of mind did not for a moment for- 
sake me. I saw, by throwing off part of the roof tliat joiricd 
the block-house that was on fire, and keeping the end per- 
fectly wet, the whole row of buildings might be saved, and 
leave only an entrance of 18 or 20 feet for the Indians to ento" 
after the house was consumed; and that a tem])orary breast- 
work might be erected to prevent their even entering there I 
convinced the men that this could be accomplished, and it a])- 
Pf^ared to inspire them with new life, and never did men act 
^vlth more firmness and despei-ation. Those that were able 
(wliile the others kept up a consta^fire from the other block- 
house and the two bastions) mou»d the roofs of the houses, 




 

witli Dr. Clarlc at their head (who acted with the greatest 
firiniiess and presence of mind the whole tiiue the attack 
lasted, Vv'liJch was seven hours) under a shower of bullets, and 
in less than a moment threw off as much of the roof as was 
necessary. This was done only with the loss of one man 
killed, arid two wounded, and I am in hopes neither of thsnii 
dangerously. The man that was killed was a little df^rangod, 
and did not get off the house as soon as directed, or he would 
not have been hurt and although the barracks were several 
times in a blaze, and an immense quantity of fire against them 
the men used such exertions that they kept it under, and before 
day raised a temporary breastwork as high as a man's head, 
although the Indians continued to pour in a heavy fire of ball 
and an innumerable quantity of arrows during the whole time 
the attack lasted, in every part of the parade. I had but one 
man Idlled, nor any other wounded inside the fort, and lie lost 
his life by being too anxious. He got into one of the gallies 
in the bastions, and fired over the pickets, and called out to his 
comrades that he had killed an Indian, and neglecting to stoop 
down, in an instant was shot dead. One of the men that 
jumped the pickets, returned an hour before day, and running 
up toward the gate begged for God's sake for it to be opened. 
I suspected it to be a stratagem of the Indians to get in, as I 
did not recollect the voice. I directed the men in the bastion, 
where I happened to be, to shoot him let him be who he would, 
and one of them fired at him, but fortunately he ran up to the 
other bastion, where they knew his voice, and Dr. Clark di- 
rected him to lie down close to the pickets behind an empty 
barrel that happened to be there, and at day-light I let him 
in. His arm was broke in a most shocking manner; which 
he said was done by the Indians which I suppose v., .s the 
cause of his returning. I think it probable he will not re- 
cover. The other the.y caught about 120 yards from tlic gar- 
rison, and cut him all to pieces. After keeping up a constant 
fire until about 6 o'clock the next morning, which we began 
to return with some efi'ect after day-light, they removed out 
of the reach of our guns. A party of them drove up the 
horses that belonged to the citizens here, and as they could 
not catch them very readily, shot the whole of them in our 
sight, as well as a number of hogs. They drove off the v/h(;le 
of the cattle, which amounted to 65 head, as well as the public 
oxen. I had the vacancy filled up before night (which was 



 

made b,v the burning of the block-house) with a strong rov/ 
of pickets, which I got by pulHng down the guard house. We 
lost the whole of our provisions, but must make out to live 
upon green corn until wo can get a supply, which I am in 
hopes will not be long. I believe the vdiole of the Miamies or 
Weas were among the prophet's party, as one chief gave his 
orders in that language, which resembled Stone Eater's voice; 
and I believe Negro Legs was there likewise. A Frenchman 
here understands their different languages, and several of the 
Miamies or Weas, that have been frequently here, were recog- 
nized by the Frenchman and soldiers, next morning. The 
Indians suffered smartly, but were so numerous as to take off 
all that were shot. They continued with us until the next 
morning, but made no further attempt on the fort, nor have 
we seen any thing more of them since. I have delayed m- 
forming you of my situation, as I did not like to weaken the 
garrison, and I looked for some person from Vincennes, and 
none of my men were acquainted with the woods, and there- 
fore would either have to take the road or river, which I was 
fearful was guarded by small parties of Indians that would 
not dare attack a company of rangers that was on a scout; 
but being disappointed, I have at length determined to send a 
couple of men by water, and am in hopes they will arrive safe. 
I think it would be best to send the provisions under a pretty 
strong escoit, as the Indians may attempt to prevent their 
coming. If you carry on an expedition against the prophet 
this fall, you ought to be well provided with everything as you 
may calculate on having every inch of ground disputed be- 
tween this and there that they can defend with advantage. 

Wishing &c. &c. „ „ 

^ Z. Taylor 

Ilis Excellency Governor Harrison 

Secretary of War to Johnson 

War Department Sept. 10, 1812 

gjj,. Har. Pa. 28 

You will comply with the Requisitions of Brig. General Wil- 
liam H. Harrison. 
D. II. Johnson, 
AhsU D. Q. M. 
Pittsburg Pa. 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Sept. 10th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 28 

Sir: 

Your letters of August 28th & 29th [see above] have been 
received. You will perceive by my communications of Au- 
gust 22d and 28th [see above] that you have anticipated the 
wishes of the President. In addition to the Instructions to 
Mr. [Thomas] Buford Deputy Commissary and to the assist- 
ant Deputy Quarter Master at Newport to furnish whatever 
you might require, the Asst. D. Q. Master at Pittsburg has 
been directed to forward with all possible expedition, arms, 
ammunition equipment, tents and other camp equipage. Ar- 
rangements have been made for increasing those supplies and 
Major [Amos] Stoddard of the Artillei-y is now at Pittsburg, 
to give additional enei'gy to those mcasui'cs, to pi'epare ar- 
tillery & other necessary munitions for that sei'vice, & cor- 
respond with the Commanding General relative to the same. 
You must be sensible that to make carriages & get up a Train 
of Artillery will require time. You will perceive by the Act 
to Establish the Quarter Master's Department &c. the Officers 
recognized in that Act are subject to the Orders of the Com- 
manding General for all necessary supplies, and every possible 
facility will be rendered by placing money in the Bank of the 
Miami Exporting Company, and at such other Convenient 
Points as may be found practicable. 

The President is expected to return to this place from Vir- 
ginia in a few days when I shall have the honor to conmiuni- 
cate to you his fuilher instructions & determinations respect- 
ing the Connnand of the Forces of the Northwestern armj^, 
which in addition to the Regulars, Rangers, Volunteers & 
Militia of Kentucky & Ohio will immediately be reinforced 
with 1500 militia from Virginia & 1500 from Pennsylvania, 
in addition to se\'eral companies of mounted Volunteers from 
those states. 

Brig. General Wm. H. Harrison 
Chilicothe 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters 17 miles from Fort Wayne 
Sept. 11th 1812, 9 o'clock P. M. 

Har. Pa. 689 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of 
the 30th ultimo which was brought me this moment by ex- 
press. The necessary arrangements for the procuring of pro- 
vision and ammunition added to the trouble of establishing 
an issuing commissary department in consequence of the fail- 
ure of our contractor has prevented me from reaching Fort 
Wayne as soon by one day as expected. I shall however 
reach it tomorrow. I have every reason to believe that it will 
not be without a severe contest. No information has been re- 
ceived from the Fort since the 3rd Inst, and should the Indians 
have been assisted by the British detachment I fear it would 
not have been able to hold out. A small detachment which I 
sent to endeavour to penetrate to the fort has just returned 
without being able to accomplish their object altho they en- 
countered and defeated a small party of the enemy. You need 
not fear Sir the issues of the action which I expect will take 
place tomorrow, my troops are in high spirits and will I am 
persuaded do honor to themselves and their country. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr. Humb. 
Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble Willm. Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 

Philip Bardour to Gibson 

Head Quarters. Town Henderson 
Sept 11th. 1812 

Mss. hid. State Library 

Sir 

I have dispatched Major Wm. R McGary with 211 men to 
your relief and in obedience to your order to me, armed as well 
as the nature of the case wou'd admit of. Considtn-iug your 
situation I have thought expedient to procure arms and amuni- 
tion by impresment, having as yet not been furnished with 
them by the Government. I am in dayly expectation of re- 
ceiving them and so soon as I do I will march the Balance of 



HARRISON: MESSACxES AND LETTERS 131 

the Regiment under my Command to your relcif Majr 
JMcGaiy will receive your Ordcr.s untill I arrive at Vincennes, 
The major is Brave firm and determined, and I doubt not will 
g-ive you as good account of any Command you may be pleased 
to order him on 

Accept Sir assurance of the high respect with which I have 
the honour to be 

Your Obt Servt 

Philip Barbour Lt Col Gth Regt. K. M. 

Shelby to Hopkins 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 12th, 1812 

Beg. Ky. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 

Dear Sir: 

I have received your favor by Mr. [Robert] Latham to 
whom I have given a positive order upon the quarter master 
at Newport for all the articles which Col. [Philip] Barbour's 
Regt. are deficient in, and directed the paymaster to contrive 
that they receive their two months' pay in advance before 
they march from their present encampment. I flatter myself 
that this requisition can be complied with, as I am informed 
Cols. [Philip] Barbour's and [William] Jennings' Regts. have 
received their advance pay at Newport. I flatter myself that 
Mr. Latham will receive great part of the articles I have or- 
dered, it is said a fresh supply of some of them had reached 
Newport some days ago. Tents especially, I am told, are in 
abundance. 

You will before this have received my dispatch by Mr. 
Quarles, I am taking every step in my power to induce the 
volunteers to turn out. I hope you will have a respectable 
command, and believe you will have much to do in the quarter 
to which you are destined. I have wrote to General Hai-rison 
fully on the subject and feel no doubt but he will sanction 
every step I have taken, indeed, I thi)ik his letter of the 5th, 
of which I sent you a copy, fully justifies all I have done. He 
writes me that the Government has invested him with ex- 
tcMisive powei's as to the defence of the frontiers of the two 
territories, and no step is yet taken but v/hat is indispensable. 

In my letter of the 8th by Mr. Quarles, I did not say any 
thing respecting your taking command of Col. [John] ]\Iillcr's, 



132 INDIANA HISTORTCAL COLLECTIONS 

Wilcox's and [Philip] Barbour's Rgls., in the event of their 
forming a junction with the volunteers, as this would be a 
matter of course while you acted together, and as such I wish 
you to understand me. I have recommended to Govei'noi- Har- 
rison to push hard for Detroit, and leave the Indians on Wa- 
bash and Illinois for you to settle with. I feel no doubt that 
you will have a force equal to the object. Whatever I hear 
from him shall be communicated by express to you. I said 
something to you about sending on some of the mounted vol- 
unteei's to Kaskaskia. I wish you to govern your decisions 
on that point according to the emergencies which may present 
themselves to your mind. 

I am, etc. etc. 

Isaac Shelby 
I\Iajor General Samuel Hopkins 

Shelby to the Quarterisiaster at Newport 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 12th, 1812 

Reg. Kij. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 

Sirs: 

I have just now received information by express from Lieut. 
Col. Philip Barbour, commanding the Sixth Regt., of the De- 
tached Kentucky Militia, that his regiment had been at the 
point of rendexvous since the first day of this month, ready 
to proceed to their destination as ordered by Governor Har- 
rison, but that for the want of the necessary supplies, they 
were unable to proceed. 

This will be handed to you by Mr. Robert Latham, an offi- 
cer and adjutant of the said Regt., to whom you will please 
deliver the following supplies for that corps of militia, to-wit: 
500 lbs. gunpowder, 600 lbs. lead, 100 tents, 1,000 Hints, 100 
knapsacks, 200 cartridge boxes, 100 muskets, 60 axes, and 60 
camp kettles (one-half for Col. [John] jMiller at Louisville), 
and fui'nish him with the means of transporting them to the 
ti'oops at Henderson town. It is hoped that if in your power 
you will issue the above articles immediately, as the service 
of that Regt. is now required by the acting Governor at Vin- 
cennes, who informs that the Indians in great force have at- 
tacked Fort Harrison, and they are wanted for the relief of 
that place. It is also indispensably necessary that the two 
months' pay duo to these men should be sent on and paid to 



 

them before they march from their present encampment. It 
is therefore expected th;M you will attend to this point also. 

I am Sir, etc., 

Isaac Shelby 
To the Acting Q. Master, Newport, Kentucky 

Shelby to Paymaster at Newport 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 12th, 1812 

Reg. K7J. Stale Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 

Sir: 

I have written to the Q. Master at Newport to forward on 
sundry supplies for the use of Col. Miller's and Barbour's 
Regts. You will please to forward on the two months' pay in 
advance to those Regts. if in your power. The Quarter 
Master will furnish you with the means of conveyance. Mil- 
ler's Reg. is about 690 and Barbour's 656 as detached. This 
is judged indispensable as it is believed they will be unable to 
go on without an advance. 

I am, sir, etc., 

Isaac Shelby 
The Paymaster, Kentucky Detached Militia, NewiDort 

Gibson to Hargrove 

Vincennes, Indiana Territory, 
September 12, 1812 

Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, 360 

Col. Hargrove, Commanding Rangers ; 

The brave defense made by Captain [Zachary] Taylor at 
Ft. Harrison is one bright ray amid the gloom of incompetency 
which has been shown in so many places. [September 10, 
above] 

Your force east of Blue river was not expected to do anj^- 
thing toward guarding the countrj^ for several miles this side 
of the frontier where the twenty-four foolish people were mur- 
dered. [Pigeon Roost] The militia of Clark county are sup- 
posed to be on duty in that direction and were not to blame. 
The venturesome people who are in all sections of the coun- 
try cause their own destruction and keep the country in a 
gi'cat turmoil. The orders in regard to people moving beyond 
the line of protection from this date shall be obeyed and the 



 

venturesome people who are continually wanting to go too 
near the front, shall go into forts in touch with our guards 
or be brought back inside of the line. 

There is great need of vigilant watch being kept. The In- 
dians will attempt in many ways to wreak vengeance on the 
white people. 

John Gibson Acting Governor 

, Taylor to Harrison 

Fort Harrison, Sept. 13, 1812 

Kliles Register HI, 91 

Dear Sir 

I wrote you on the 10th instant, giving you an account of 
the attack on this place, as well as my situation, which ac- 
count I attempted to send by water, but the two men whom 
I dispatched in a canoe after night, found the river so well 
guarded, that they were obliged to return. The Indians had 
built a fire on the bank of the river, a short distance below 
the garrison, which gave them an opportunity of seeing any 
craft that might attempt to pass, and were waiting with a 
canoe ready to intercept it, I expect the fort, as well as the 
road to Vincennes, is as well or better watched than the river. 
But my situation compels me to make one other attempt by 
land, and my orderly sergeant, with one other man sets out to 
night with strict orders to avoid the road in the day time, 
and depend entirely on the woods, although neither of them 
have ever been in Vincennes by land, nor do they know any 
thing of the country, but I am in hopes they will reach you 
in safety. I send them with great reluctance from their ig- 
norance of the woods. I think it very probable there is a large 
party of Indians waylaying the road between this and Vin- 
cennes, likeb'^ about the Narrows, for the purpose of interce])t- 
ing any party that may be coming to this place, as the cattle 
they got here will supply them plentifully with provisions for 
some time to come. 

Please &c. &c. 

Z. Taylor 
His Excellency Gov. Harrison 



 

Governor Shelby to Clay and South 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 16th, 1812 

Reg. Ky. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 18 

Sir: 

I have received your favor of the 14th inst. I am glad to 
learn that the citizens of Madison seem so hearty in the de- 
fence of their country, but I presume the spirit and meaning 
of my address to my countrymen is not entirely understood. 
It was not intended as a call upon the militia in the ordinary 
way, but it' was an appeal on the present emergency to the 
spirit and patriotism of my fellow citizens to volunteer their 
services for a short period for the defence of the frontier of 
Indiana and Illinois territories, which seem to be invaded by 
the savages. 

No man need offer his services on this occasion who cannot 
mount and arm himself equipped with everything necessary 
for his support at least thirty days, for there is not a single 
stand of public arms at my disposal, nor any kind of camp 
equipage, blankets, etc., which you inquire for, nor is there 
any means in my power to procure them. 

I am, Etc., 

Isaac Shelby 

N. B. — This is considered as an answer to Gen. G. Clay^ 
and Saml. South. 

Secretary of War to Shelby 

War Department, September 17, 1812 

McAfee, History of the Late War, 117 

Sir— 

Your excellency's letter of the 5th inst. has been received 
and laid before the president. [See Sept 5 above] The in- 
telligence and patriotism which have dicated the useful infor- 
mation which you have been pleased to communicate is duly 
appreciated. 

The embarrassments attending the organization, direction, 
and supplies of any force, with the dilliculty of determining 
the amount fi*om the seat of government, have been sensibly 

1. Green Clay was born in Powlmtan Co., Va., Aug. 14, 1757. While a boy he 
came to Ky. where he became a surveyor. After the War of 1812 he returned to his 
farm in Madison Co., ICy., where he died Oct. 31, 1826. 

Collins, Kcnturly, lii 



 

felt. To find an adequate remedy, has engaged much of the 
attention of the executive. 

From a board of intelhgent, influential, and patriotic citi- 
zens much useful information, and other essential advantages 
might be derived. Whether they could be clothed with the 
powers suggested, is a question requiring consideration. To 
meet existing emergencies after consulting the lawful author- 
ity vested in the president it has been determined to vest the 
command of all the forces on the western and northwestern 
frontier in an officer, whose military character and knowledge 
of the country, appear to be combined with the public confi- 
dence. General Harrison has accordingly been appointed to 
the chief command, with authority to employ oflicers, and to 
draw from the public stores, and every other practical source, 
all the means of effecting the object of his command. 

In the great and unexpected demands created by the late dis- 
asters, it will necessarily happen that deficiencies in the sup- 
plies will be experienced. Every exertion, however, is mak- 
ing to provide for the troops, the munitions which they re- 
quire. 

I have the honor to enclose a copy of a requisition made on 
governor Scott Should requisitions be made beyond the quota 
assigned to the state of Kentucky, the president is assured of 
a prompt co-operation on the part of the executive, under the 
act of February, 1795. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully 
Sir, Your obedient Servant. 
His Excellency Gov. Shelby Wm Eustis 

P. S. In addition to the supplies ordered from Pittsburgh, 
ten thousand pair of shoes, five thousand blankets, tents, camp 
equipage and quarter master's stores, are on their way from 
Philadelphia for the northwestern army. A part of them at 
least are on their way, and will be followed by the remainder 
without loss of time. 

• Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Sepr. 17th 1812 

Sir: Har. Pa. 29 

The President is pleased to assign to you the command of 

the Northwestern Army, which in addition to the Regular 



 

Troops & Rangers in that Quarter, will consist of the Volun- 
teers & militia of Kentucky Ohio Three Thousand detached 
Militia from Virginia & Pennsylvania, and making your whole 
force of Ten Thousand men. 

Having provided for the protection of the Western frontier, 
you will retake Detroit; and with a view to the Conquest of 
Upper Canada, you will penetrate that country as far as the 
force under your Command will in your judgment justify. 
Everj^ exertion is making to give you a Train of Artillery from 
Pittsburg — to effect which you must be sensible requires time. 
Major [Amos] Stoddard the Senior Officer of Artillery at that 
place will advise you of his arrangements and progress & re- 
ceive your instructions. 

Captain [Charles] Gratiot^ of the Engineers will report 
himself to you from Pittsburg He will receive your Orders 
& join you with the first pieces of Artillery which can be pre- 
pared or receive such Orders as you may direct. 

Major [James V.] Ball- of the 2d Regiment of Dragoons 
will also report himself and join you immediately. Such 
Staff Officers as you may appoint conformably to Law, will 
be approved by the President. Copies of all the contracts for 
supplying provisions have been transmitted. Mr, [Ebenezer] 
Denny the Contractor at Pittsburg is instructed to furnish 
magazines of provisions at such points as you may direct. 
The Deputy Quarter Master at Pittsburg will continue to for- 
ward sto]'es and munitions of every kind, and will meet your 
requisitions. [?] draw and sell bills on this department. 

Genl. Wm. Henry 
Harrison, Commd. 
The N. IF. Army V. S, 



Harrison to Shelby 
Head Quarters, Fort Wayne 18th Sept., 1812 

Histoncul Regisier II, 133 

I arrived here with the troops on Saturday last; the Indians 
had closely invested the fort for several days, and burnt the 

1. Charles Giotiol of St. Louis joined the army July 1-1, 1804, and served con- 
tinuously till Doc. 6, 183S, when he retired as a brevet Drifj. Gen. He died May 18, 
18.").'). For a history of the Grotiot family see Scharf, IJiilory of St. Louis, index. 

2. J.-irnea Vincent Hall of Va. served in the army from May 1, 17i)'l, till 1802; and 
from 1812 till his death Feh. 21, 1818. 

12— 220Gi 



 

Uiiited States' factory, and many other valual^le houses. But 
three of our people were killed: they (the Indians) raised the 
siopfe the day before we reached here, and retreated pre- 
cipilately. 

Not l)eing able to move on tovv'ards Detroit immediately, on 
account of the want of proper supplies, I determined to em- 
ploy the intermediate time in destroying the touiis within two 
days march of this place. The whole force was accordingly 
divided and placed under the command of general [John] 
Payne and colonel [Samuel] Wells. The fonner was directed 
to dostj'oy the IMiami towns at the forks of the Wabash; and 
the latter directed to go against the potawat^mie villages at 
VAk Hart. 

I acconi])anied general Payne on the expedition; four of the 
Miruni villages wore burnt (three of them remarkably flourish- 
ing) and all their corn was cut up and piled, under the ex- 
pectation that it would rot before the Indians could do 
anything to prevent it. I have this moment heard from 
colonel Wells: he has been equally successful, and has met 
witli no enemy who dared to oppose them. 

It is impossible to fmd language to convey my sense of the 
merits of the troops under my command from your state. Yes, 
n\v dear sir, I anticipated in this campaign a glorious triumph 
to our arms, and an ecpially glorious triumph to republicanism, 
.^ince it will prove the falsity of the theory which proclaims 
the necessity of standing armies, or, in other words, that a 
man must become a slave before he can be made a warrior. 

Gibson to Hargrove 

ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, 
September 18, '12 

Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, S59, 360 

CoixxNT.L Hargrove, Commanding the Mounted Ranger Serv- 
ice: 

On^ last Thursday, the 3d inst., there were twenty-four peo- 
ple killed at a i)oint north of Louisville, some thirty or forty 
nu\v.<. [Pio-con lloost] The Indians who committed this 
murder came fi-om the north beyond White river. These fool- 
hardy inoplo had moved away from all others and made no 
attenijjt at pi-eparing a place fore defense. 



 

You will go over your territory and at each post ascertain 
if there are people who are out beyond the line that you are 
protecting. If you should find such to be the case, then order 
thorn to prepare a fort and see that they do it, where there 
are as many as three families. If you should find less than 
three families at any isolated point, have them and their ef- 
fects moved to a place where they can be protected and where 
the men of these families can help protect others. See that 
this order is carried out in the earliest possible time. 

John Gibson, Acting Governor 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Sept. 18th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 30 

Sir: 

The President has this day appointed James Morrison^ Esq. 
of Kentucky, Deputy Quarter Master General to the army 
under your command, which it is hoped will be agreeable to 
you. 
Genl. W. Henry Harrison, Com. the N. W. Army 

S. W. Culbertson to Mr. Chambers, editor of the Zanesville 

Messenger, 

1812 

Dawson Harrison, 289 

Mr. Chambers, 

I have just returned from Urbanna, where governor [Re- 
turn J.] Meigs is at present with about 1000 soldiers. 
Brigadier-general Harrison is at Piqua with 2000 Kentucky 
soldiers, and 2000 more in his rear. Harrison's presence ap- 
l)cars to inspire every person v/ith courage, and makes even 
cowards brave. His present conduct evinces a determination 
to reti'ieve the injured reputation of our country. He has 
made a most animated speech to the friendly natives at Piqua, 
who are numerous and sueing for a continuation of peace. 
He has promised them protection, at the same time assuring 

1. Jjimos Mon ison was born in Cuniherlaiul Co., ]\'nn., ITSG. He whh an Irish- 
man, Forvcd six yiaia undrr Daniel Morgan in the Rev. Ijocalcd in Pittsburg where 
he remained till 1792 when he went to l.oxinKton, Ky. Here he was a leading bu.sincss 
man, land (■(iinniirsiniicr, n venue collector, piesident of I-exinKton Rranch bank of 
U. S. contraiUir for army, and r4UHrtermaslcr Kencral till his death Apr. 23, 1823. 

Collins, Kentucky, 277 



 

them in terrific languag'e which struck terror to all hearts, 
that the name of an Indian foe should not long be lal0^^^l 
among us — that the American army will no longer be com- 
manded by an old woman. 

Govei-nor Meig's late patriotic conduct and exertions ap- 
pear to be rewarded only with ingratitude. He has ordered 
the 2d detachment of militia, which marched from this place 
under the command of colonel IM'Connell, to be dismissed, hav- 
ing been called out contrary to his instructions and intentions, 
which must have been misunderstood. 

s. w. culbertsox 

Harrison to Winchester , 

Fort Wayne, 19th September, 1812 

Dawson, Harrison, 295 

Sir, 

Having, by my general order of this day, relinquished the 
conmiand of the army, consisting of the detachment of colonel 
[Samuel] Well's regiment under that officer, captain [Wil- 
liam] Garrard's troop of dragoons, and the three regiments of 
Kentucky infantry under general [John] Payne; I have now 
the honor to inform you, that any other part of the infantry 
under my command ^^^ll be made subject to your orders, that 
you may think necessa}'y to carry the directions you have re- 
ceived from the government into effect. The supplies which 
have been reported to me, or ordered by me, are as follows: 
400,000 rations of beef, and 150,000 of flour, purchased by Mr. 
John H. Piatt under the authority of general Hull. A part 
of this flour, and about 50,000 lbs, of beef has been brought 
on and consumed by the army. The balance of the flour is 
cither on the way hither or to St. IMary's where it was directed 
to be deposited. I also directed Mr. Piatt to purchase and 
send on to St. Mary's, whiskey, and other component parts of 
the ration to make the 150,000 lbs. flour complete i-ations. 
Mr. [Thomas] IJuford, the purcliasing commissary in Ken- 
tucky, has also been directed to forv/ard to St. Mary's 300,000 
complete rations; and major White, the contractor to the list 
degree of latitude, to deposit at St Mary's 100,000 complete 
rations, besides the daily issues that may be wanted there; 
at Piqua, 30,000 rations besides the daily issues; and at 
Dayton, 50,000 rations besides the daily issues. The means 



 

of transportation are hired wagons, which may, with exertion, 
be procured to any amount ; between 3 and 400 pack horses in 
the hands of Mr. Piatt, and 300 others which Mr. Buford was 
directed to purchase. All these, sir, are made subject to your 
orders, together with the provisions above reported. 

I must request you to state to me what force you wish left 
at St. Mary's; the officer commanding which, will be directed 
to wait your orders. There is nothin more wanting to the 
army than a principal commissary to receive and superintend 
the issues of provisions. That department exhibits nothing 
at present but confusion. I had designated major Vooshees, 
[Peter Gordon Vorhees] of colonel [John] Allen's regiment, 
to that office ; ho is, I believe, eminently qualified for it, and 
he has been in the execution of the duties for some days. 

Any other explanations or assistance which I can give you 
will be afforded with pleasure. [Harrison had not yet re- 
ceived the letter from the Sec. of war, Sept. 17, above] 

I am, very sincerely. 

Your humble servant. 

William Henry Harrison 

Harrison General Orders 

Head Quarters Fort Wayne 19th Sept. 1812 

Har. Pa. COO, 691 

The President of the United States having designated Brig- 
adier General James Winchester to the Command of the army 
originally destined to relieve General Hull and that officer hav- 
ing arrived at this place, the command is accordingly relin- 
quished to him. Brigadier Genl. [John] Payne, Colonel 
[Samuel] Wells and Capt. [William] Garrard conmianding 
the several corps composing the army will accordingly report 
themselves to General Winchester and i-eccive his orders. H 
anything could soften the regret which the General feels at 
parting with Troops v/hich have so entirely won his confidence 
and affection it is the circumstance of his committing them to 
the chai'ge of one of the Heroes of our glorious Revolution a 
man distinguished as well for the services he has rendered his 
country as for the iiossession of every qualification which con- 
stitutes the Gentleman. The General cannot take leave of this 
gallant army v/hich he has commanded with so much satisfac- 



 

tion without expressing the high sence Avhich he entertains of 
thcii' conduct. For ton days past they have performed severe 
duty with scarcely a sufficiency of food to sustain them and 
cnliroI.\' witliout some of the articles vhich constitutes the ra- 
tion. They have done it too without a murmur and vrith an 
alacrity which could only have been expected from Veteran 
Troops. 

The General requests Brigadier Genl. Payne and every other 
officer and soldier of the army to accept his thanks for the 
support they have given hi]]i upon every occasion and for the 
proinj-)titude and alacrity with which his orders have been 
obe>'ed. He has taken care to communicate to the governor of 
Kentuck>- and through him to the people of that State his 
ojiinion of their distinguished merits and his entire confidence 
in their perseverance in the path of Gloiy and Patriotism. 
The General feels equal pride and pleasure in acknowledging 
the i"»ei\sonal attachment which the army has manifested 
towards him and he assures them that their welfare and glory 
is the first object of his wishes, and as a means of securing 
both he most earnestly recommends and entreats that the con- 
fidence which they have so often expressed in him may be 
transferred to his worthy successors. 

As governor and commander in chief of the Indiana Terri- 
tory the general assumes the command of the ti-oops in that 
Territory by virtue of an authority received from the Iloble. 
the Secretaiy of War and as a major general of the Kentucky 
(luota ho takes the command of all the Troops of that state 
north of the Ohio excepting the army of Genl. Winchester. 

Harrison to Winchester 

St diary's, 21st September, 1812 

Slli Dawson, Harrison, 296 

Colonel [William] Jennings' regiment is now^ here. I shall 
innn('diately set it to open the road from hence to fort De- 
fiance, and will direct the contractor and commissary to push 
on theii- provisions. The secretary of war, in a letter re- 
ceived fi'om him since I saw you, urges me to join you, (sup- 
posing that I was then in Kentucky) with a reinforcement of 
the troops subject to my orders. As I have declined the ap- 
pointment tendei-ed me of brigadier, I cannot comply with his 
rerpiest, as the commission which I have is of higher grade 



 

lliaii yours. I must, therefore, carry the v/ishes of the Presi- 
dent into effect, so far as to place at your disposal the 
regiments of [Joshua] Barbee and [William] Jennings, and 
the quota of this state, which I have heretofore required of 
governor Meigs. The officers commanding these corps will be 
directed to report to you, and receive your orders. I shall 
retain the separate command of the mounted men and 
[Robert] Rogue's regiment, and will communicate to you by 
an express the particular object at v/hich I shall aim. Be so 
obliging as to send orders to colonels Barbee and Jennings. 
The former is at Piqua, and the latter I shall place on the road 
to Defiance, as I have above intimated. 
I am, very respectfully. 

Your humble servant 

William Henry Harrison 
Brig. Gen. James Winchester 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
St. Marys 30 miles advanced of Piqua 21st Sept. 1812 

q Har. Pa. 69J-60G 

When I had last the honor to address you I was advancing 
to the relief of Fort Wayne, I reached it with the ai'my on the 
12th Inst. A considerable body of Indians had besieged it 
closely for several days but retreated with precipitation upon 
our advance having previously consumed the factory and all 
the other buildings without the fort. Having allowed the 
troops one day to repose and being unable to pursue the route 
to fort Defiance until a convoy of provisions should arrive, I 
determined to employ them a few days in destroying the corn 
and other provisions at the Potawatomie and Miami towns of 
Elkhart and the forks of the Wabash. The participation of 
the Chiefs of both of those villages in the attack upon Fort 
Wayne having been ascertained by satisfactory testimony ad- 
duced to a council of war composed of all the field officers left 
me no room to hesitate upon the subject. Accordingly upon 
the Idth the troops were divided into two detachments the 
fu'st composed of the 4 companies of the 17th U. States Reg-t. 
[Dr. John M.] Scotts^ Regt. of Kenty. militia, 3 companies of 

1. "Colonel John M. Scott, who cominamlnl the Ist joi-dnicnt oC Ivtiitucky volun- 
t(•(■|^;, was born in Pcnnsylv:ini;i, .ninl stiuliid jihysic in Now Jci.-cy, utukr an nnrlo. 
>wi(ii (iu;ili(k'(l for (lie !))'orc.ssion, lie icoi'ived the aiijioinf nient of suij;con'.s mate, in 



 

Kentuckj^ mounted riflemen under the Ilonble Richd. M. John- 
son- and about 100 Ohio Riflemen under Col. [James] Dunlap 
the whole under the command of Col. [Samuel] Wells directed 
against the Potawatomie village of Elkhart. 

The second detachment under the immediate command of 
Bi'igd. Genl. [John] Payne was composed of [William] 
Lewis's and [John] Allen's Regmts. of Kentucky militia and_ 
[William] Garrai-ds troop of Dragoons. I accompanied that 
detachment and we reached the To^yns at the forks of the 

the rcKimcnt then commanded by Kcncral Ilaimar, on the wostci n frontiers. Vv'hen 
Kt-ncral Wayne took the command of the vixstcin army, Scott was iiromoted to bo 
Eurpcon of the 2d United States regiment. It was in this cai)aeity that General Har- 
rison, who was the aid-dc-camp of Wayne, first became intimate with him ; an at- 
tachment of more than brotherly love was formed between them. Some time after the 
l)cace of Greenville, they both leturned from the army. Scott married, and settled in 
Frankfot, Ky., in the practice of his profession. In both lie was very successful. In- 
deed, there never was a man more universally beloved than Dr. Scott. His uncommon 
wit, vivacity, and humour made him everywhere sou.uht for by the youn.y and lively, 
while his Kood sense, his professional skill, and his incorrui>tible honor and integrity 
procured him the esteem of the wise and Kood. His exticmcly chivalious siiirit, and 
his acquaintance with militaiy duty early pointed him crut to the youn;v men about 
Frankfort, and being first appointed to the command of an independent company, ho 
soon rose to the command of the regiment. Before wo proceed to mention the catas- 
trojihe of this gentleman's fate, evincing his extreme devotion to his country's cause, 
we shall relate an instance of a different character, shewing the strength of his friend- 
ship no less than the tenderness of his nature. During the whole time that Governor 
Hariison remained at Vincrnncs, Dr. Scott I'esidcd at Franl-:foit ; the distance is one 
hundred and seventy miles, and at that time two-thirds of the way was unsettled, and 
yet this generous friend, U)ion every occasion of Mrs. Harrison's illness, left his p;ac- 
tice, his family, and his business to administer relief to the wife of his fiiend. For 
some time before the war broke out in 1812, Dr. Scott was in such bad health (hat 
it was not supposed he coidd recover. It was, therefore, not the intention of governor 
Scott to apiKiint him to the command of one of the rep:imen1s which was to he sent 
to the relief of Hull. The colonel insisted upon his right, regardless of the conse- 
iiucnces, and was accordingly appointed to the command of the Ist legiment of volun- 
teers, to the deep regret of all his friends, who never cxiiecled his letuin. The jo- 
newal of old scenes, however, in the army, and the exercise, without a great deal of 
fatigue, had obviously a good effect upon him, and by the time he reached Foil \Va>ne, 
he was evidently better. His regiment here, as above stated, was ordered on the com- 
mand to destroy the Indian villages at Elk Hart. His officers, who were much at- 
tached to him, ur.ged him to remain behind on account of the great fatigue he would 
have to undergo. As he i>aid no attention to their remonstrances, the general inter- 
fered, and assured the colonel that there would be no fi.uhting in that direction, before 
the return of the troops. The colonel made no answer, but when he was rnounlin!': his 
horse which stood by, he observed, as if to the horse— 'As long as I am able to mount 
you, none but myself shall lead my regiment, either to fi;:ht or not to fight.' Ui)on the 
return of the troops from the cxiicdition, it was very apparent that the apprehensions 
of colonel Scott's friends won- well founded. The detachment had undergone great 
fatigue in a protracted march of nearly thiec days and niivhts. The colonel was 
scarcely ablo to reach the cami). Ho continued, ho\\ever, with the army until it 
reached fort Defiance, at the mouUi of the Auglaize, from which ))lace lie was sent to 
Frankfort in a litter, but died on the second day after his arrival, a victim to his 
ardent zeal for his country." Dav.son, Ilarrhnii, SOC-S. 

2. Richard M. .Johnson was a native of Kentucky, born 1781 at Floyd'.s Station 
near Louisville. Excellent liiograjihies arc found in Collins. Krnlurkif, ;!77, and Yoimg, 
Baltic of the Thuincs, ]S7. Harrison iilaced grr^at reliance on .Tohnson and was not 
disajipoiiited. Unfortunately they became somewhat cslianrx'd later. 



HARRISON: IMESSAGES AND LETTERS 145 

Wabash on the evening of the 15th they had been abandoned 
by the inhabitants several days about 1500 bushells of corn 
were cut up and destroyed as completely as the state it was in 
would permit. I returned to Fort Wayne on the 15th and the 
day after tlie detachment under Col. Wells returned also hav- 
ing succeeded in destroying the corn and the village at Elk- 
Hart v/hicli had also been several days abandoned by its in- 
habitants vrith every mark of precipitancy. Col. Wells 
Detachment performed the march to the village (GO miles) 
and back to Fort Wayne in 4 days and a half upon a very 
scanty allov/ance of food. The Col. had been ordered to take 
the late Turtles tovv'n in his way and destroy the corn there 
also, but he was not enabled to accomplish it from the want 
of provisions. Col. [James] SimralP v/ho had arrived at Fort 
Wayne during our absence with 4 troops of Kentucky Dra- 
goons (armed wiih muskets) was accordingly sent the next 
day on that service and accomplished it. I had no evidence 
of the inhabitants of that Town having joined in the hostilities 
against Fort Wayne but as they had fled from it, and the corn 
would support the hostile Indians in a second attempt upon 
fort V/ayne, it became necessary for the safety of that place 
that it should be destroyed. I have however no doubt of the 
hostile disposition of the Miami generally. Many of the 
chiefs are no doubt desirous of preserving their friendly rela- 
tions with us, but as they are unable to control the licentious 
part of their tribe it is impossible to discriminate. If we 
have no alternative but operating upon their fears by severe 
chastisement I am convinced that the appearance of so large 
a force at Fort Wayne and the desti'uction of the Indian vil- 
lages and property will be of considerable service to our future 
operations. Genl. Winchester arrived at Fort Wayne on the 
18th. On the 19th the enclosed order v\'as issued surrcndei-ing 
to him the command. [See Sept. 19 above] In my letter of 
the od inst. 1 took the liberty of requesting you to permit me 
to suspend my decision as to the acceptance of the connnission 
of Brig, which the President was pleased to confer upon me. 
I should not have done so if I were not fully convinced that it 
was the almost unanimous wish of the people of the western 

3. Jjimt's Simiall was born March 18, 1781, Jit West ChcsU'r. Pa. He moved to 
Va. and by 1792 was wilh his raicnU; at Shelbyville, Ky. When his fust roKiinont was 
disbamled he raised another in 181 1!. He was at the Inittle of the 'J'hames atid tool; 
charge of the IJiitish in isonois. He died Se|il. !), 182:'., while at the lead mines of 
Galena, 111., on busiiKss. 

YounK, Baltic of the Thames, 15S 



1 IC, INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

country that 1 should not accept of an appointment which 
would place mo in a subordinate situation in this army. Be- 
for(' Cenl. Winchester left Lexingion to come on hither he w^as 
spokeji to by several members of Congress and others who 
w.'re appreliensivr of some collision betvreen us. He was 
understood to say that he would make no difficulty in giving 
nie tlio command, the Genl. however said nothing to me upon 
Ui!' subject and I was obliged to propose that we should divide 
tiie force and act in support of each other. Vfhen I left him 
it was my intention to have resumed the plan formerly com- 
municated of an expedition against the Prophet's establish- 
ment 0)1 Tippecanoe and the Potawatimie Villages between 
that place and Lake IMichigan. Upon the way however I had 
the honor to receive your letter of the 1st inst. urging me to 
contribute towards the main object of the campaig-n by my 
personal assistance. It required but a moments reflection to 
deto'mine upon the course I was to pursue. From Fort 
Wayne there is a path which has been sometimes used by the 
French traders in their journeys to Detroit leading up the St. 
Josei)hs Piver and from thence across by the head waters of 
the Piver Pesin to Detroit. It appears to me highly prac- 
ticable with the mounted force by this route to surprise and 
retake Detroit. The force which I was preparing for the 
Wal)ash expedition v^^ould answer for the purpose. Upon my 
an-i\-al ho'e hovrever I found that the agent whom I had em- 
ployed to hire horses had not been so successful as was ex- 
pected not more than 140 having been procured and the day 
of PiCndczvous having unfortunately been fixed too early, sev- 
eral co!ni)anies which were raised in Kentucky to join me for 
the expedition finding they would bo too late turned their 
course to Vincennes. I have however about 1100 mounted 
men and I have resolved to Avait here for some days until I 
ean make them 1800. This delay inconvenient from the inac- 
tion which it occasions to the troops already assembled is not 
without its advantages. If I should succeed in the surprise 
of Dot)'oit before the main army shall arrive at least as far 
as the Papids, it may be necessary to abandon it for the want 
f>r pj-ovisions and such is the state of the supplies for the anny 
that it will require all my exertions for 7 or 8 days to place 
them upon a footing which will give security to our future 
operations and which the rapidity of my movements hereto- 



 

fore would not permit me to attend. I have noted your obser- 
vation upon the subject of the appointment of an officer to 
comjnand on the frontiers of the Territories. With respect 
to my appointment as a Brigd. I should certainly not think 
that I had a right to complain if the public service should 
make it necessary for the President to bestow it elsewhere nor 
indeed with any other arrangements but that which would 
reduce me from tiie chief to the second in command, an event 
which has perhaps never before occurred in any army, 
I have the honor to be Sir with great respect Yr. Hbl. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble. Wm. Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 

Mounted Voujnteers 

(The following has been distributed through the county in 
handbills) (Circular) .^ 

St Mary's, Sept. 21, 1812 

: , ^ Cindimati Liberty Hall, Sept, 25, 1812 

Sir: As the force which I have collected at this place (of 
mounted men) is not sufficient to accomplish the object of the 
expedition which it was proposed to set out from hence — ^you 
are hereby authorized to circulate through the country my 
wishes to be joined by any number of mounted men (corps 
organized will be preferred) under the authority heretofore 
given by governor Meigs. Companies may join me to serve 
on the expedition, and which will furnish their own horses, 
will have credit for a tour of duty and the expedition is not 
expected to continue more than 30 days and at any rate not 
extend beyond 40. 

I am 

William Henry Harrison 

P. S. The men must bring as much bacon as possible and 
any of them that will bring on a spare horse, with a saddle 
and bridle shall be allowed fifty cents per day for the use of 
them. The bearer is authorized to hire horses and give cer- 
tificates which will be taken up and paid for by the quarter- 
master. 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Sept. 23, 1812 

Har. Pa. SI 

Sm: 

Your letter of the 5th Instant [see above] has been received. 
As the difficulty of obtaining supplies particularly of provi- 
sions, through the wilderness, appears to be one of the greatest 
obstacles with which you will have to contend, which difficulty 
it is well known increases as the season advances, your own 
judgment, the information you possess and will acquire on 
this subject, will enable you to determine how far it may be 
practicable to advance and what posts or stations it may be 
expedient to maintain during the winter. You are already 
apprised of the solicitude of the Government that every thing 
that can be done should be done towards recovering the ground 
lost and extending successful operations into Canada. 

The Contractors, Commissaries and quarter masters De- 
partments are subject to your Orders, and will be further 
urged to make every effort to comply with your Requisitions. 
B. General, Wm. H. Harrison, Comd. the N. W. army 

Harrison to Jennings 
Head Quarters, St. Mary's, 24th September, 1812 

Dawson, Harrison, 297 

Sm, 

It has become necessary to open a road from this place to 
fort Defiance by the way of Tawa town, [Putnam Co. 0.] and 
to build a block house in the intermediate, as nearly central 
as a good situation can be had. You will, with your regiment, 
proceed to this duty immediately. Some of the friendly In- 
dians will be employed as guides, and Mr. William Conner will 
attend you and act as interpreter. A number of wagons and 
pack horses will set out from this place to-morrow morning; 
it will be proper to send two companies to escort them, with 
directions to open the road only wide enough to allow the 
, wagons to pass, and direct them to proceed with the utmost 
expedition. 

It will be proper, also, that the pack horses should be de- 
tached ahead as soon as they arrive within 25 or 30 miles of 
Defiance, under an escort of thirty men; the remaining part 



HAUUISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 149 

of the regiment will follow the wagons, and open the road, so 
M to have all the small timber removed, at least to the dis- 
Uncc of 30 feet; upon your arrival at the spot upon which 
you may think proper to erect the block house, you will im- 
mediately clear a place, and proceed to build it. It should be 
of the largest size of such buildings— not less than 25 feet in 
the bottom stor>\ 

You will be reinforced or relieved by colonel [Robert] 
Poaguc or colonel [Joshua] Barbee's regiments, if there should 
Ik? occasion for it before the work is completed. I am, very 
roniHH-tfully, your humble servant. 

Col. WM. Jennings, comtnanding 2d regt. Kentucky quota 
militia 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Piqua Sept. 24th 1812 

Har. Pa, 697-702 

Sir: 

1 arrived here late this evening for the purpose of expedit- 
ing the supplies for the army where I had the honor of re- 
ceiving your favor of the 17th Inst. [Command of the 
Northwestern army. See Sept 17 above] The important 
command which the President has been pleased to confer upon 
me, will call forth everjr faculty of my mind, for the service 
of my country, as it has every feeling of gratitude towards 
himself. ■''^^M^'^''^^'^^hWm$r^i;'- ■ 

The situation of the troops in advance of this is three Ken- 
tucky Regiments of Infantry. Capt. [William] Garrard 
troop of twelve months Dragoons and Col. [Samuel] Wells de- 
tachment of Regulars making something above 2000 are 
manthing from Fort Wayne to the site of old Fort Defiance 
under Genl. Winchester; one other Regt. [Jennings] of Ken- 
tucky troops employed in cutting a road from St. Marys (des- 
ignated on the map "Girtys town") to Fort Defiance and erect- 
ing an intermediate blockhouse; one Regt. compleating the 
Fort at St. Maiys and another will march from this place 
tomorrow morning; four troops of Dragoons (armed with 
muskets) and Major Richard M. Johnson's Battalion of 
mounted riflemen were at Fort Wayne a few days ago. 1 
authorized their return to St. Marys after they had consumed 
the com at the Turtles town. Before I set out this morning 



 

from St. Marys I directed Col. [James] Finley^ (an old Revo- 
lutionary Virg. Col. of mine) to move with his Regt. of 
mounted men 350 strong to destroy an Ottawa town on the 
waters of the AuGlaize about 40 miles distant ; their tribe are 
at war with us they furnished a large portion of the Indian 
force which assisted in capturing Genl. Hull and some of the 
same village are now known to be at Maiden. There are be- 
sides on St. Marys about 200 Kentucky mounted riflemen, and 
a troop (40 strong) of Dragoons, I accepted them for six 
months because they are the only corps in the whole army that 
were armed with swords and pistols. I expect an additional 
force in a few days of several hundred mounted volunteers, 
and should I not be able to take command of them myself, I 
will select an officer to execute with them (if not the sur- 
prise of Detroit) some achievement to give eclat to our arms. 

I have with me a servant of Genl. [James] Taylor's who 
made his escape from Maiden two weeks ago this day. He 
informs me that the Indians at and near Maiden had increased 
to a prodigious number and that they daily arrived in birch 
bark canoes from the north. A considerable number of them 
are encamped at Brownstown, a situation very favourable for 
surprising them, which shall certainly be attempted. 

Being fully persuaded that provision for the army may be 
obtained here much cheaper than at Pittsburgh, I have written 
to Major [Ebenezer] Denny not to purchase more than four 
hundred thousand rations until he should receive further in- 
structions from you. There is an a"bundance of beef, flour 
and whisky to be procured here ; and unless it is expected to 
control the navigation of Lake Erie and send the provisions 
which Major Denny may purchase by that route to Detroit I 
am confident it would be better and safer to procure them 
here. I recollect that the army was several times during Genl. 
Waynes command upon the point of being starved from the 
difficulty of getting provisions down the Ohio in the fall sea- 
son after they had been procured at Pittsburgh. I have put 
in requisition about five hundred and fifty thousand rations 
to be deposited at St. Mai^s and Urbana ; three hundred thou- 

1. Gen. James Flndlay was bom in Franklin Co., Pa., 1770. Came to Cincinnati 
about 1795, having first moved to Va. and then to Ky. He toolc a prominent part in 
the early history of Ohio, was associated with Harrison and Jacob Burnet and others 
In business. Died at Cincinnati, 1835. 

Howe, Hiat. Coll. II, H9 



HARRISON; MESSAGES AND LETTERS 151 

sand will be at the former place by tomorrow evening ; and I 
shall forthwith direct a purchase of Four hundred thousand 
and shall then wait your decision as to the Pittsburgh Order. 
The road from Urbana to the Miami rapids will not answer 
for wheel carriages, it will do however for Packhorses, I shall 
consult with some inteligent persons from that quarter and 
determine upon the propriety of extending my base further 
Eastwardly and having a deposit towards Sandusky. I have 
had no return of the Ohio troops but believe them to be about 
nine hundred, they will take the Urbana route. 

I have provided for vigorous operations on the Wabash and 
hope to be able to extend them to the Illinois river. 

Upon my arrival at Fort Wayne charges of so serious a 
nature were exhibited against Capt. [James] Rhea that I ar- 
rested him ; He agreed to resign and I have given him until 
the 80th of December to return home, at which time his pay 
& emoluments will cease. Upon examining the valuation of 
tho horses which were hired for mounting the Infantry for 
the Expedition they were found to be valued so low and the 
delay in returning them likely to be so great, that it was 
thought best to purchase them at the valuation, for this pur- 
pose I drew on you in favor of Mr. Jesse Hunt whom I em- 
ployed in this business for Six thousand Dollars on the 22 
Inst and on the 21st for four thousand Dollars in favor of 
Mr. John H. Piatt, Dy. to Col. [Thomas] Buford to purchase 
nnd equip Packhorses, and on the 23 in favor of Maj. T. 
Bodley Q. Master Genl. of the Kenty quota a set of bills for 
One thousand Dollars, another set for two thousand Dollars 
and a third for three thousand Dollars, being for the general 
expenccs of the Quarter Master department. 

A detachment of Artillerists are much wanted from the Old 
Corps, I cannot suppose that the Offices of the newly raised 
Heift, of which there is a Capt. in this State understand much 
of Oicir duty 

1 have the honor to be with great respect 
Yr. hb. Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Tho Honble William Eustis, Esq. Sec. of war 
(Rccd Oct. 6, 1812) 



 

Harrison to Winchester 

Sept. 25, 1812 
, . Dawson, Harrison, 301 

Dear Sir, 

I arrived here [Piqua] yesterday, for the purpose of making 
some arrangements in the commissary's department. After 
night, an express arrived, with a packet of letters from the 
office at Chillicothe, directed to me. Upon opening it, and 
breaking the seals, one after the other, I incautiously broke 
that of the enclosed letter, which I soon discovered was for 
you. The same express brought me another letter from the 
war department, announcing my appointment to the command 
of the north-western army. Need I add, that it would give me 
the most heartfelt pleasure if you could determine to remain 
with us. The secretary informs me, that the army is to be 
ten thousand strong, artillery is providing at Pittsburgh, an 
engineer is coming on, a major's command of cavalry, and 
every necessary power given. 

I shall necessarily be detained here for some days, expect- 
ing to see governor Meigs and general [Edward] Tupper.^ 
I hope at least that you will continue in command until my 
arrival. I have written to general [John] Payne, but have 
said nothing about my resumming the command, choosing that 
you should announce it in the manner you thought best. 

Jennings TO Harrison 

Tawa Town,^ September 26, 1812 
Sir, 

My highest pride as a soldier is to be obedient to my supe- 
riors, and thereby render to my country all that she ought to 
expect. I may not be a judge of what a regiment in the woods 
can do, but my opinion clearly is, that more is imposed on me 
than can be well done. I have now under my cover near 300 
bullocks and nearly 200 pack horses, besides a number of 
wagons. To say nothing about an enemy, I deem it imprac- 
ticable to take care of the cattle upon a march and have to 

1. Edward W. Tupper lived in Gallipolis. He raised his regiment from Gallia, 
Jackson and Lawrence counties. 

Howe, Hist. Col. I, 680 

1. Tawa was an abbreviation of Ottawa. There were two Ottawa villages about 
two miles apart on Blanchard fork of the Auglaize. Tawa town was the lower vil- 
lage, near Ottawa. 



 

open the road. I am here in the situation above described 
and rest assured that nothing shall be wanting on my part to 
take care of the public property, and facilitate my movements 
towards fort Defiance as fast as possible, considering the 
duties I have to perform on my march. 

I am, dear sir, with sentiments of high respect, 
Your obedient servant 

William Jennings, L. C. C. 2d regt. Ky. vol. 

Major General Harrison 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 26th, 1812 

Isaac Shelby's Letter Book, A, 2lt 

Dear Sir: 

I was honored last evening with the receipt of your Ex- 
cellency's favor of the 18th inst. [see above] which is the first 
intimation we have had of your position for twenty days. 

I assure you, my dear sir, that it affords me the highest 
gratification to learn from you that my fellow citizens of Ken- 
tucky under your command have conducted themselves so 
much to your satisfaction, and I feel an entire confidence that 
the Mounted Volunteers who are now on their march under 
your last requisition will do honour to themselves and to the 
country from which they are drawn should an opportunity 
offer by which they can signalize themselves. 

You state that you were about to surrender up the com- 
mand of a part of the army to Gen. Winchester in consequence 
of an arrangement of the War Office and that you should set 
out on that day or the next to take command of the troops 
which you were collecting in the rear for an expedition from 
which you anticipated the most beneficial results, &c. Having 
received this information from you I deem it highly proper and 
expedient to appraise you as early as possible of the force and 
movements of Gen. [Samuel] Hopkins with his Mounted Vol- 
unteers, that you may be able to take your measures in that 
quarter with more effect and certainty. 

General Hopkins rendezvoused at Vincennes on the 24th 
inst. His whole force in my opinion would not be less than 
two thousand or upwards of mounted Volunteers of the most 
respectable citizens that perhaps ever were embodied from 

13—22664 



 

this or any other State in the Union. I went to Louisville 
myself to forward them on by companies and detachments as 
they came up, and readily confess I have never seen such a 
body of men in the Western country, or anywhere else. 

I hope most sincerely that no difficulty will arise between 
you and General Hopkins respecting command. The Laws of 
the United States and the powers invested in you by the Presi- 
dent, will, I assume, be a certain criterion and guide in this 
particular case. The Mounted Volunteers were called into 
service under your requisition. I cannot for a moment sup- 
pose that General Hopkins will attempt anything that is not 
strictly military, at the same time I believe he would assert 
his just right. I trust no difference of opinion will arise. 
The General had been requested to go on by Mr. [John] Gib- 
son, the Acting Governor of Indiana, shortly before he re- 
ceived my instructions to do so. 

Your Excellency will at once see with me the necessity and 
propriety of opening a correspondence with General Hopkins, 
to appraise him of your movements, and of the route by which 
he could render most service to his country without interfering 
with your objects, or whether from anything you know that 
a junction of the two armies would redound most to the in- 
terest of our country; and it will be highly proper, my dear 
sir, that you should invest General Hopkins with power to 
direct the purchase of beef cattle where they are to be had to 
follow him on in case he should fail of a full supply in the 
enemy's country. 

I expect that on tomorrow or the next day he will move on 
from Vincennes against the nearest point of the enemy. 

I have no doubt but a few men could make their way from 
where you are to strike the trail of General Hopkins' amiy 
somewhere above Vincennes or as high as Foii; Harrison. 
Your whole force acting in concert would strike a fatal blow 
to the Indians and crush them at a moment when they little 
expect to see a force of any description in their land. 

I have deemed it so important to the public interest to ap- 
praise you of the force under General Hopkins, as to judge 
it necessary to send this express at public expense to you, 
which Your Excellency will be pleased to cover by your order 
to the proper officer if it should strike you in the same light. 

I have forwarded by mail this morning to General Hopkins 



 

a copy of your letter of the 16th inst. and herewith enclose you 
a paper which contains the latest accounts from Fort Har- 
rison, and may be relied on as respects that place and the 
march of Col. [William] Russell, who I hope will give a good 
account of those fellows who infested that garrison so long. 
I have the honour, &c., 

Isaac Shelby 
His Excellency, Wm. H. Harrison ' - 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Sept. 26, 1812 

Har. Pa. S2 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inclose for your information Lists of 
Ordnance and Military Stores which have been ordered from 
Philadelphia and this place to Pittsburg since the 1st. Instant 
in addition to those at that place and coming in under con- 
tracts from that vicinity. The cannons, ammunition, shoes, 
blankets, and part of the other Stores are on the way, and most 
of them will probably reach that place before the 5th of Oc- 
tober. Major [Amos] Stoddard the Department Quarter 
Master will continue to forward supplies to you and will ad- 
vise you of all his issues to the Troops, as well as those sent 
forward to the Army, and keep you informed of all the re- 
sources at Pittsburg. 

The best information of our forces on the Lower Lakes is 
contained in the inclosed Extracts of a Letter from General 
Dearborn of the 14th Instant. Two thousand Militia from 
Pennsylvania, making part of this force, and destined for 
Niagara, were ordered by the Governor of that State to 
rendezvous at Meadsville on the 20th Instant, about 50 miles 
from Presque Isle, from whence they will continue their march 
and join the Regulars and other Troops assembling at Niag- 
ara. From these statements you will perceive that it is im- 
possible for me to determine the precise time at which of- 
fensive operations will be commenced at that point, and it is 
desirable that you should communicate with the Commanding 
Officer at Niagara who will be able to inform you of the move- 
ments of the Troops under Command'of General Dearborn. 
Br. General Wm. H. Harrison Comd. the N. W. Armij 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Piqua Sept. 27, 1812 

Har. Pa. 703-7G9 

Sir, 

The final arrangements for the march of the Army toward 
Detroit is as follows. The right collumn composed of the 
Pennsylvania & Virginia Troops are directed to rendezvous 
at Wooster a To\vn upon the Head Waters of Moheccon John's 
Creek^ 35 miles north of Mount Vernon and 45 west of Canton 
and proceed from thence by the upper Sandusky to the Rapids 
of I\Iiami. The middle collumns consisting of twelve hundred 
Ohio ]\Iilitia will March from Urbana where they now are 
along Genl Hull's trace to the Rapids and the left column com- 
posed of the detachment of Regular troops under Col. 
[Samuel] Wells and four Kentucky Regiments will proceed 
from Fort Defiance down the Miami to the Rapids. The 
mounted force under an officer whom I shall sellect for the 
puiT)ose will take the route mentioned in my former letter 
from Fort Wayne up the Saint Josephs and across to the 
waters of the River Raisin. 

upon reflection I am induced to abandon the scheme of at- 
tacking Detroit for should it be successful as the infantiy will 
not be in readiness to support them it must necessarily be 
abandoned and the inhabitants be more exposed to the depre- 
dations of the Indians than they now are. A more useful em- 
ployment will be to sweep the hither side of the straight and 
Lake of the Indians, who are scattered from Bro^^Tlsto^^^l to 
the Rapids rioting upon the plunder of the farms wiiich have 
been abandoned. I expect to have near Three hundred thou- 
sand Rations (purchased by the Commissaiy) at Fort De- 
fiance in the course of the present week and two hundred thou- 
sand at Urbana, the latter to be taken upon Pack Horses, both 
these Deposits will be taken at two trips to the Rapids. I 
have directed the Contractor Wliite to deposit 200,000 Rations 
at the second Block House 42 miles beyond Urbana, 200,000 
at a Block House which is now building between Saint INIaiys 
and Defiance and the like quantity at Wooster. At the latter 
place also Mr. John H. Piatt is about to deposit 500,000. Ra- 
tions and to procure the means of transporting it to Detroit. 

1. Wooster, in Wayne Co. is on the old trail from Fort Ehiciuesne (Pittsburgh) 
to Sandusky. In Wayne Co. it crossed a Mohican hunting trail. The road crossed the 
Mohican at Mohican John's Town or Mohican Johnstown. 



 

I have also directed IMajor [Ebonezer] Denny to send to the 
same place the 400,000 Rations which he has been directed to 
purchase at Pittsburgh. I am confirmed in the opinion which 
I before gave that supplies of provisions can be obtained in 
this state. However I shall take measures to ascertain it and 
^^'Tite to Major Denny if there should be a necessity for pro- 
gressing in the purchase of the 1,980,000 Rations. I have 
dispatched an express this day to Pittsburgh to direct that the 
Artillery and all the supplies for the N. W. Army should be 
sent to George To^\'n upon the Ohio and from thence by New 
• Lisbon & Canton to Wooster. 

In consequence of my application to the Governor of Ken- 
tucky I have understood that 1600 mounted men have gone 
from that State to Vincennes. I have directed them to be em- 
ployed against Tippecanoe and Peoria on the Ilinois River 
with the addition of the Rangers & some other companies in 
the Territories they will form a force of 2400 men. 

Agi'eeably to the authority given me by your letter of the 
17th I have appointed Mr. John H. Piatt Deputy Commissary. 
He is the same person that was employed by Genl. Hull and 
\\ill I think make a most excellent officer. 

There is nothing that gives me more apprehension than the 
destitute condition of many of my men in the article of cloth- 
ing and Blankets. It appears to me that it is impossible that 
they can act in such a Climate as that of Canada without 
warm clothing. I have applied to the Governor of Kentucky 
and have addressed the Citizens of that state on the subject 
myself. Great exertions will I am persuaded be made to re- 
lieve them but I must beg leave to recommend that some as- 
sistance if possible be afforded by the government. I have put 
in requisition all the woolens that have been sent on for the 
Indians and will have them distributed and accounts kept 
against the men who receive them that the price may be de- 
ducted from their pay. 

I have the honor to be with very great respect Sir. 
Your mo. ob. se. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Secy of War 

P. S. I fear the Western Country cannot furnish shoes and 
Blankets for the Troops. 



 

PeiTnit me to recommend that a supply of those articles and 
if possible Woolen Jackets & Overals be sent on from Pitts- 
burgh to Wooster by land to be disposed of to the Militia in 
the same manner that the surplus clothing is to the Regular 
Troops. It appears to me proper also that the Government 
should furnish Watch Coats for the ^Militia Centinels. From 
the short period of their service they cannot purchase those 
things out of their own pay. I have therefore taken upon 
myself the responsibility of directing them to be procured. I 
fear however that materials cannot be found below Pittsburgh 
— Lieut Johnson has orders to furnish 150 from thence. It is 
fortunate that there is with the Army many members of Con- 
gi*ess [John Simpson, Samuel IMcKee, Thomas INIontgomery, 
Richard M. Johnson, George Madison & perhaps others] who 
will be enabled to give testimony that will not be questioned 
upon the floor of that body as to the propriety and necessity 
of many alterations in our military arrangements. I have 
no less than seven members Elect of the next Congi'ess under 
my command and two of them Messrs. [Richard ]\I.] Johnson 
& [Samuel] McKee belong to the present House of Repre- 
sentitives. - tt^ -rr tt 

w. 11. 11. 

Shelby to James Blair 

Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 28th, 1812 

gjj^ . Kif. Reg. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 20 

I submit the inquiries contained in the enclosed letter from 
S. J. Dawson, Comdt. of the 14th Regt. of the State INIilitia 
for your opinion thereon. 

A question has arose whether the Volunteers who first en- 
rolled their names under the Act of Congress of the 10th of 
April, 1812 as part of the Detached Militia of this State's 
quota of 100,000 men, and afterwards failed to march with 
their respective companies, are to be considered as deserters, 
or are those men who were afterwards drafted to make up 
such deficiency and also failed to march to be considered as 
such, and if they are, what is the punishment or fine which 
they are liable to, and can they be proceeded against before 
the captain to whose company they belonged returns from the 
expedition and reports them as deserters to the Col. of the 14th 
Regiment. 



 

As this is a case that may arise in various regiments, be so 
good as to examine the laws in force on these points and give 
me your opinion thereon as soon as convenient, and obHge, 
sir, etc. 

Isaac Shelby 
James Blair, Esq., Attij. Gen. of Kentucky 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters St. IMarys 29th Sept. 1812 

Har. Pa. 710 

Sir: 

I have thought it proper to appoint ]\Ir. Thos. Butler^ to act 
as Quarter Master for the troops under Genl. [Samuel] Hop- 
kins in the Indiana Territoiy until the decision of the Presi- 
dent can be known. Mr. Butler was many years an officer 
in the Army and when he resigned (a year ago) was perhaps 
the oldest Lt. in his Regt. he has experience & capacity to 
qualify him for the appointment he ^vill accept of the commis- 
sion of Ensign in any of the Regiments. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect. 
Yr. Hbe. Ser\i;. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secy of War 

Harrison to the People of Kentucky 

about Oct. 1812 

Dawson, Harrison, JOS 

Fellow Citizens, 

The executive of your state acting, as it was believed, in 
unison with your wishes, have conferred on me the command 
of that part of the state quota of militia, which was destined 
to relieve Detroit. The general government has confirmed 
and extended my command to all the troops which have been 
called into service from the western states. Upon the point 
of leading these brave men into a rigorous northern climate, 
I discover that many of them are without blankets, and much 
the greater part of them totally destitute of every article of 

1. Thomas L. Butler of Ky. was a captain in the Rev. He joined the Art. Apr. 
13, 1809, but resigned Sept. 1, 1811. June 30, 1813, he was made capt. in the 28th 
U. S. Inf. Brev. Major for gallantry at New Orleans. Died Oct. 21, 1880. 



 

winter clothing. It is impracticable to procure the supplies 
necessary for them from the public stores, and there is no 
alternative but in your feeling and patriotism. A contribu- 
tion of articles which ^\ill not be felt by you, will enable your 
soldiers to withstand the keen northern blasts with as much 
fortitude as they will the assaults of the enemy. Can any pa- 
triot sleep easy in his bed of down when he reflects upon the 
situation of a centinel exposed to the cold of a winter night 
in Canada, in a linen hunting shirt? Will the amiable fair 
sex suffer their brave defenders to be mutilated by the frost 
for the want of the mittens and socks which they can with 
little exertion procure for them ? I trust that I know my fair 
countrywomen too well not to believe that this appeal to their 
patriotism and liberality will be effectual. 

Blankets, overalls, roundabout jackets, shoes, socks, and 
mittens are the articles most wanted. Colonel Thomas 
Buford, the deputy commissary-general, will provide for the 
transportation of the articles, and will pay for the blankets 
and shoes, if required. 

Winchester General Orders 

Camp at Defiance, October 3, 1812 

Dawson, Harrison, 308 

I have the honor of announcing to this army the arrival 
of General Harrison, who is duly authorized by the executive 
of the federal government, to take the command of the north- 
western aiTny. 

This officer, enjoying the implicit confidence of the states 
from whose citizens this army is and will be collected, and pos- 
sessing himself great militaiy skill and reputation, the gen- 
eral is confident in the belief that his presence in this army, 
in the character of its chief, will be hailed with universal 
approbations 

J. Winchester, Brigadier-general U. States anfiy 

Harrison to Winchester 
Head Quarters, Fort Defiance, 4th Oct. 1812 

Dawson, Hanison, SO 9 

Sir, 

Being obliged to repair to Wooster, the rendezvous of the 
right wing of the ai-my, the whole arrangement for the sup- 



 

ply and march of the left wing is committed to you. The 
means and situation of the troops are as follows: There are 
now at St. INIary's nearly three hundred thousand rations of 
flour and whiskey, and the greater part of the small com- 
ponent parts, and 15 or 20,000 rations of biscuit and bacon ; 
at Jennings' block-house [S. W. Corner Putnam Co. 0.] there 
were, on the 1st inst. 240 beeves, supposed to average 400 lbs. 
and about 100 packs loaded with flour; 35 or 40 wagons loaded 
with flour and biscuit were to leave St. Mary's on the 2d in- 
stant for the said block-house; and upwards of 200 beeves 
were ordered on to the former place, (St. Mary's.) from the 
neighborhood of Hamilton. All these articles above enumer- 
ated have been purchased by the deputy commissaries, and 
are exclusive of the supplies provided by the contractor, who 
has been instructed to deposit 200,000 complete rations at 
fort Jennings, which is understood to be the last place upon 
this route within his contract. He has been further directed 
to provide for all the troops at and in the rear of that place. 
Of the three regiments belonging to your command which are 
in the rear, [Robert] Pogue's is employed cutting the road 
from Jennings' block-house to this place, [William] Jennings' 
is at the block-house, and [Joshua] Barbee's, and a battalion 
of Ohio troops under major [Joseph] Jenkinson, (which will 
continue under your command until the arrival of the army at 
the general rendezvous), have been ordered back to St. Mary's. 
The reasons for the latter arrangement were to afford the 
means of escort to the provisions between St. Mary's and fort 
Jennings, and to spare the provisions which have been pur- 
chased for the use of the army in advance of the district of 
major White. I have directed the commissary, Mr. [John H.] 
Piatt, to procure all the wagons in his power for transporting 
the provisions from St. IMary's to this place. Major [Thomas] 
Bodley, the quarter-master for the Kentucky quota, will also 
remain at St. Mary's \vith a deputy commissary, to superin- 
tend the transportation, and will attend to any orders you 
may give them. Major Bodley will also attend to the for- 
warding of the artilleiy and all the stores of the quarter- 
master's and ordnance department. He will be instructed to 
provide, under your order, for any deficiencies which may 
exist. With respect to your movements in advance, I must 
observe, that it is extremely desirable that you should occupy 



 

the rapids of Miami as speedily as possible, for the purpose 
of securing the corn which is growing there, and which is be- 
lieved to amount to several hundred acres, an object of no 
little importance to the future movements of the army. The 
number of troops which it will be proper to leave in your rear 
to bring up the provisions, aiid other necessares, which you 
may be unable to take with you, is left to your discretion, and 
must depend, in a great measure, upon the quantity of them 
that may be left, the number of trips which it may require 
to bring them to the rapids, and the size of the escort which 
you may deem necessary to protect them. 

I will communicate with you frequently, and from St. 
Mary's will inform you of everything which I may think ma- 
terial to your operations. 

With great respect and consideration. 
Your humble servant, 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
Brig. Gen. Winchester 

Commanding Left iving of army 

Hopkins to Harrison 
^^^^^^ Camp Bussaron Oct. 6th 1812 

Har. Pa. 731, 732 

Dear Sir 

Dispatches were received by me last evening containing 
yours made thro' the Governor of that State enlarging my 
power here. I am just on the eve of marching from this place 
with about two thousand mounted Volunteers. Those men 
have come on to this Country, unorganised and were arriving 
at Vincennes for eight or ten days, to organise them and make 
out such details as I conceived Necessary for their rights, was 
a labour of considerable magnitude added to this the dificulty 
of procuring provisions for so large an army the quantity for 
compleating the campaign being necessary to be in advance 
or nearly so, as we shall have no mode of transportation ex- 
cept on our horses, has detained us from the 25th. ult. until 
the present, we shall leave this tomorrow-morning tollerably 
provided for. 

My object certainly will be to break up and do as much dam- 
age as possible to all the hostile tribes on the Illinois & Wabash 
rivers as well as those between the Rivers. 



 

I do not understand the Secretary of War requiring explana- 
tions from several of those tribes, they are all considered hos- 
tile and will be dealt with accordingly. 

This army will probable cross the River at Ft. Harrisson 
and make the first stroke at Pioria, and proceed up that River 
as far as circumstances shall dictate best, and recross the 
Country to the Wabash, chastissing as many of the tribes on 
that river as we can meet with, and every exertion shall be 
used to make our campaign as extensive in its effects as pos- 
sible. 

I have placed on the Frontier between Vincennes & Louis- 
ville about One hundred & fifty men well officered and ar- 
ranged at different Situations with directions to range that 
Country so as completely to protect the citizens and the road. 

Col. [William] Russell this day receives orders to repair to 
the Camp on the Illinois, and as soon as possible prepare and 
commence a Campaign with all the force he can raise up that 
river so that he may probably meet us at Pioria, he thinks he 
can raise eight hundred men, that force it is presumed will 
be sufficient for that purpose. 

As the term of service for which the mounted men engaged 
is short, and part of that exhausted, I shall certainly persue 
the objects of my present expedition with vigour. The Bri- 
gade of six Months Infantry now under the command of Gen- 
eral Wilcox will be prepared for operations which will com- 
mence after the mounted men are discharged. I have the 
honor Sir to be 

Yrs Mt Respectfully. 
. ^-^ ;-.. ■^K.H Saml. Hopkins 

P. S. I shall embrace every means to keep you advised of our 
operations & will be thankful for your cummunications 
Gov. Harrison 

Truly Copied George Trotters Junr. 

1. William Russell was bom in Culpepper Co., Va., 1758. In 1774 he joined 
Boone and by 1780 after serving in the Rev. was in Ky. having fought Indians in 
Tenn. He fought at King's Mountain and Guilford C. H. Later he was with both 
Scott and Wilkinson in their raids on the Wabash ; commanded a Ky. regiment under 
Wayne. He died at his home in Fayette Co., Ky., 1825. Collins, Kentucky, 503 

2. George Trotter was of Irish family which came to Ky. via Philadelphia and 
Augusta Co., Va. He was born in Augusta Co., Nov. 8, 1778. After serving through 
the war he died suddenly at his home in Lexington, Oct. 13, 1815. 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department October 7, 1812 

Sir, ^«'"- ^''' '' 

Your letters of Sept. 24th and 27th [see above] have been 
received. It appears by the Report of INIajor [Ebenezer] 
Denny that a proportion of Flour Whiskej", and Salt necessaiy 
for the 1,098,000 Rations ordered by my letter of Sept. 1st, 
a copy of which was inclosed to you & by your letter of the 
27th seems to have []\Iissing] 
Br. General Wm. H. Harrison, Piqua 

Meigs to Harrison 

Urban A Oct 11 

gjj^ . Har. Pa. 72U 

Gen [Edward] Tupper & the Ohio Volunteers have this mo- 
ment returned — It appears to be by Gen: Tupper acct that 
Gen Winchester has played the Devil — You will have soon an 
Acct — R. J. Meigs 

Stickney to Harrison 

PiQUA Octr. 11th 1812 

SIR nar.Fa.723 

John Conner arrived here from the Delawares Yesterday 
and informs that the Miamis have sent them nine messages to 
invite them to go to War with the U. States in the short time 
of eighteen days and that the 2 last of them were while he 
was there on the 1st & 3d. inst. The one that arrived on the 
1st left Mississinaway at the same time that the Messengers 
did to beg peace of you at St. Mary's. Connor says he was 
present when the Messengers delivered his message to the 
Delawares on the 1st and he says the ]\Iessenger pre?<'nted a 
large belt of Wampum painted red and urged very strongly 
the necessity of the Delawares joining in the War against the 
U. S. Altho the Delawares rejected firmly all the proposals of 
the Miamis to take part in the War, yet, they say they have so 
many sick that they cannot come to Piqua. 

I have the honor to be 

Yr. Obt. Servt. stickney 

Exy. WM. H. Harrison ^' ^' ^^ickney 

I certify the above to be a true copy 

Wm. p. Hunter A. D. C. 



 

W. K. Jordan to His Wife 

Fort Wayne October 12th, 1812 

Betsey : I now lift my pen to inform you that I am in a good 
state of health, after a long and sore journey through the 
Indian country. I started from Ft. Wayne on the 1st of Au- 
gust with Cap. [William] Wells, and 100 pretended Indian 
friends, to go to Foii: Dearborn, on Lake IMichigan, which is 
200 miles from Fort Wayne. For guarding Cap. Heald and 
his company as he was in danger of being taken by the Brit- 
ish, and had recieved orders to evacuate that Fort and march 
to Fort Wajnie. We got to Fort Dearborn on the 10th of 
August unmolested, destroyed all that we could not fetch with 
us and prepared for a March on the Morning of the 15th. 
The morning of tlie 15th now arrives, the most lamentable day 
I ever saw. Hold's men consisted of 100 men, 10 women, and 
20 children, total amounting to 130. Wells and myself and 
our 100 pretended Indian friends making in all 232. 

Now we leave Fort Dearborn, about 8 o'clock in the morn- 
ing, bound for Fort Wajme, and marched about one mile when 
we were attacked with 500 Kickapoos and Winebago Indians 
and our pretended friends joined them. Our engagement lasted 
about 10 minutes, when there was eveiy man, woman and 
child killed but 15, and, thanks be to God, I was- one of them. 
The first shot took the feather out of my cap, the next shot 
the epulett off my shoulder, and the third broke the handle 
of my sword. I had to surrender myself to four dammed 
yellow Indians. They marched up to where Wells lay, and 
one of them spoke English and said, "Jordan, I know you, 
you gave me some tobacco at Fort. Wayne. You shant be 
killed. "But see what I will do with your Captain." He then 
cut off his head and stuck it on a pole, while another took 
out his heart and divided it among the chiefs, and they ate it 
up raw. When they gulped all they gathered in around ring, 
with us poor devils in the middle, and had like to fall out who 
should have the prisoners. But my old chief. The White 
Raccoon, held me by the hand. They stripped all of us of 
our shirts and trousers, and every family took one as long 
as we lasted, and then started for their towns. Every man 
to his tent, Isreal. But I will just inform you when I got 
to my strange lodging I looked like a cat in a strange garret. 
But I made myself as comfortable as possible under my pres- 



 

eiit circumstances. Night came on, they tied me hard and 
fast and placed a guard over me. I laid do^^^l and slept 
soundb^ till morning, for I was tired. They untied me in the 
morning and set me to parching corn. I worked all day very 
attentively. At night my old chief told me that if I would 
stay and not run away that I would be chief, but if I at- 
tempted to run away they would catch me and bum me alive. 
I told him a fine story, so they did not tie me that night. As 
for the particulars I haven't time to write them, but I made 
my escape on the 19th, and stole one of their horses and came 
to Fort WajTie on the 26th, (being seven days in the wilder- 
ness) where I was recieved joyfully. On the 26th the In- 
dians attacked Fort Wayne, so they cut off all intercourse. 
They thought to starve us out, but one friend Indian came in 
and we sent him to Governor Harrison, which came to our 
relief on the 16th of September with 3,000 volunteers. When 
the Gov. came on he broke our Captain [Rhea] for cowardice. 
I just mention this that if it should be my lot to fall that 
you may know how to come to my right. I belong to Captain 
Jas. Rha, in the 1st regiment of Infantry. Our paymaster 
was Idlled, or taken, at Detroit, so I have not recieved one cent 
of pay, and but half of my bounty, which was 8 dollars. 1 
now am sargent, my pay is 7 dollars a month, I only sei*\'ed 
15 days as a private. 

What spare time I have I assist the comasary, so that keeps 
me tea, sugar, and so forth. After all my fun I weigh 190. 

One word to you Betsey, for if I was now speaking to you 
it would be my own language. I have two letters of yours 
before me, and some of the soft hair of your head, and some 
in a small plait around my neck. I must say that I am sorry 
to see your pen breathe ridicule, for if I deserve it, it wont 
cure it. Don't conclude from these words that I am tired of 
your letters, but tell me how you are, and how the children 
are, and for God's sake try to send Mountford to school. It 
ain't one time in ten that I can write to you, but you can write 
when you please. I gave 50 cents for this paper. Direct your 
letters to the care of Lieutenant [Philip] Ostrander, for we 
have no cap. now. Tell me if the men is drafted in your 
country. 

You will do W. K. Jordan a favor if you send Hunter a copy 
of this letter. So give my comps to all inquiring friends. 



 

Give my best respects to your father and mother and all your 

brothers, and this line of kisses to my hearts delight , 

and the boys tell them what you please, and these for your- 
self . 

So I conclude with my best respects to you till death, or till 
I see you. So I subscribe by name this 12th night of October, 
1812. 

W. K. Jordan/ Seargent 

TuppER TO Harrison 

Urbana, Oct. 12th, 1812 

Niles Register III, 167-169 

Sir— 

On receiving your orders of the 4th inst. to proceed to the 
Rapids with the whole force of mounted men under my com- 
mand, whose horses were in a condition to perform the serv- 
ice ; I caused an examination to be immediately had ; and found 
that there still remained 960 men including officers, in a condi- 
tion to march, including also capt. Bacon, and one other com- 
pany which left us the morning following. 

The beeves expected at Gen. Winchester's camp, did not ar- 
rive so as to enable us to draw, till the morning of the 5th: 
A good number of the men were destitute of provision the 
day you left Defiance. There being no flour to be issued to 
the mounted men, I ordered that eight days rations of beef 
should be drawn and immediately jerked, so as to lighten and 
prepare it for the expedition, intending to move off on the 
evening of the 5th. On examining our ammunition it had 
been found that during the excessive rains which fell, while 
you was marching us from St. Mary's to Defiance, it had be- 
come so damaged as to be entirely useless; not two rounds 
of sound cartridges were left to a man. I ordered returns 
made, so that each man should be furnished with 12 rounds. 
This retui'n amounted to 4500 cartridges for the musket men, 
exclusive of major Roper's battalion: the ammunition of the 

1. This letter is included here more to illustrate the general conditions than for 
any connection with Gen. Harrison. Waller K. Jordan lived in Morgan Co., Pa. He 
died at Fort Wayne. His family subsequently came to Jackson Co., Ind. Mrs. L. C. 
Mathers of Bloomington, Ind., who has the original of the letter, is a Kreat-Rrand- 
dauKhter. The letter as published in Niics is considerably mutilated in translation, 
Jordan was a bar-icant under Rhea at Fort Wayne. The letter contains several errors 
of fact and has been severely criticised. The lettiMS were perhaps dictated. The Niles 
letter may be the copy sent to "Hunter". Either this is the case or one similar U 
referred to by John Johnston in his letter of Oct. 23, below.'* 



 

riflemen having received very little damage. Quarter-master 
Basey called on the quarter-master in Gen. Winchester's camp 
and returned without a supply. About 1 o'clock tliis day, a 
man belonging to [Capt. James] IManary's company of Ran- 
gers was killed and scalped across the ]\Iiami, within two 
hundred yards of our canip. I gave immediate orders to 
arms, and in five minutes to horse, but owing to our being 
compelled to confine our horses during the night, and graze 
them by day for want of forage ; the gi-eater part at this mo- 
ment were under keepers nearly one mile from our camp up 
the Auglaise. conceiving from the bold manner in which the 
Indians had approached our camp, that it was possible a con- 
siderable body was not distant, I wished to form the men 
and proceed over the river, by which we should be in a situa- 
tion to contend with a considerable force, or pursue to effect a 
small one. In the meantime I permitted major [Heniy] 
Brush to cross over with about 50 foot, to examine the bank, 
and see in what direction the Indians had retired, but before 
he reached the opposite shore every horseman whose horse 
was in camp was mounted to follow over. It was in vain that 
I made an attempt to keep them back till they were formed; 
they broke off in numbers from 20 to 30, mostly without their 
officers, and crossed the woods, in every direction ; a party of 
15 fell on the trail of the Indians and at seven or eight miles 
distance overtook them; but as the Indians were superior 
to them, and formed, our men without waiting for a discharge 
from the enemy, returned to camp. Logan, and the other 
Indians in our camp, were of the opinion that there was a 
considerable force of the enemy lying dovm. the river and of- 
fered to spy down. Early on the following morning they left 
our camp with instructions to proceed four miles below the 
Little Rapids, a distance of 14 miles. They returned at even- 
ing, having found no trail of any size, excepting the party 
which had been pursued and those they computed at about 40 ; 
that they had proceeded on towards the waters of Lake I\Iichi' 
gan, and not on the direction to the Rapids. That the Brit' 
ish and Indians which had fled before general Winchester, had 
retreated, with apparent precipitancy, driving their carriages 
over large logs, and tearing down every sapling that stood in 
their way. 

Scarcely had this scout left our camp, when I received the 
following order from general Winchester: 



 

Camp Ne.\r Defiance, October 6, 1812 
Sir, BelievinfT it to be essential, that the Indians who committed 
the mui-der yesterday near your camp should be pursued and routed, or 
tlicir strength and situation ascertained, and as that duty can be best 
and most expeditiously done with mounted men, you will this morning 
pursue their trail with a part or the whole of your force, and dislodge, 
kill, and destroy them if in your power. This duty performed you can 
take the course directed by general Harrison. The attitude of the 
enemy requires this change in your destination, and, as commanding 
oflicer of the north-western army, I have deemed it my duty to make it; 
if you do not return to report, you will send an officer for that purpose. 

J. WiNXHESTER, Brig-Gen. com. left ^ving N. W. Anyiy. 
General Tupper 

I waited on general Winchester immediately on receipt of 
the foregoing order, informing him of having previously sent 
out a scout, and the object of it; that the Indians had the 
evening before been overtaken seven or eight miles from our 
camp; and their number computed at from 20 to 40. That 
in all probability they had then advanced too far to be over- 
taken without a long pursuit; that our horses were feeble, 
and that I wished to preserve as much of their strength as 
possible for the general object of the expedition ; and that if 
it was agreeable to him we would wait the return of the scout, 
to take such measures as were deemed proper on their return. 
General Winchester made no objections to this arrangement; 
at the same time I informed him that we had not three rounds 
of ammunition to a man, and requested of him to order me a 
supply. He replied to me that he would order his ammuni- 
tion examined, and would endeavor to furnish me a part of 
what was required to complete the 12 rounds. My brigade 
quarter-master attended this day and returned this evening 
with information that no ammunition could be had. Early 
the following moniing I ordered the horses for a march and 
repaired to gen, Winchester's quarters and again requested a 
supply of two thousand cartridges, being about one third of 
the quantity required; without which I could not feel myself 
justifiable in proceeding on the expedition. In answer he 
stated to me, that he had but six thousand cartridges not is- 
sued ; that his men had but verj'- few in their boxes ; that he 
had a good supply of powder and ball, but no paper; the latter 
was in the waggons and expected to arrive that or the day 
follo\\ing — and then directed me to return to my camp and 

14-22G64 . . I . ■■ ; , ,. .;J -jj 



 

make report of the actual quantity on hand, and he would 
then inform me whether he would deliver the two thousand 
cartridges. I hastened back to my camp, and gave the nec- 
essary orders for furnishing the return ; but in a few minutes 
after, received from general Winchester the following order: 

General Tupper — Longer delay consistent with strict military prin- 
ciples cannot be indulged; you will therefore proceed immediately on the 
reconnoitring duty ordered yesterday with the troops under your com- 
mand, except col. [James] Simral's corps who shall return without delay 
to the settlement, to recruit their horses, agreeable to general Harrison's 
orders. 

J. Winchester, Brig. Gen. 

Wlien Col. Simral's company moved off a large proportion 
of two companies of major Roper's battalion from Kentucky 
followed, which reduced that battalion, (being the whole force 
now remaining from Kentukcy) to less than eighty men. I 
was indebted to col. Simral for all the cartridges he had ex- 
cepting tv/o rounds; but as the most of them had been dam- 
aged and dried, they did not add one sound round to each 
man. I was on the point of taking up the line of march to 
execute general Winchester's orders, when col. [John] Allen, 
commanding a regiment of Kentucky troops in gen. Win- 
chester's camp, came up, and informed me he had obtained 
leave to accompany me to the Rapids in any station I thought 
proper to place him, from a soldier upwards. I thankfully 
accepted his services and caused him to be announced as an 
aid. Col. Allen proposed, that as it was gen. Winchester's 
wish that the troops should move on the direct route to the 
Rapids, that none should be taken but such as would go freely. 
The experiment was made, when about 400 volunteered for 
the service ; scarcely had the troops moved forward from the 
rank, when col. Allen beckoned me aside and shewed me an 
order which gen. Winchester had that moment forwarded to 
him, giving col. Allen the command of the men ordered for 
the Rapids. I requested of col. Allen a copy of this order, 
which he declined giving. It would be difficult for me to de- 
scribe the state of my feelings at this moment. I turned to 
the troops which had refused to volunteer, and ordered them 
across the Auglaise on the route you directed me to take, as 
the best calculated to carry your orders into effect. When 
it was found that general Winchester, had superceeded me in 
the command, the whole force from Ohio, crossed the Auglaise 



 

and refused to march as directed by gen. Winchester. Col. 
Allen and major [Henry] Brush returned to general Win- 
chester who assured them he had mistook the object of col. 
Allen's request. General Winchester then proposed to di- 
vide the force and have a part to move on the direct route to 
the Rapids, the other to proceed by Tawa [Ottawa] towns, 
to unite at a certain time 12 miles above the Rapids. I was 
unwilling to consent to this measure ; the force united was not 
half the number you thought necessary to order on the most 
secret route; a division of less than 500 men to meet in an 
enemy's country, where many circumstances might prevent 
their junction, was to me a measure I could only consent to 
by compulsion — this measure \\'as in the end abandoned. 

It is a duty I owe to col. Allen that I have not the smallest 
reason to believe he was privy to the order of general Win- 
chester, giving to him the command : his character, and every 
part of his conduct on that occasion, convinces me he is above 
it. 

The whole force proceeded to Tawa towns v^'here we reached 
the day following. Early on the morning of the 9th I ordered 
the march for the Rapids, when at the distance cf half a mile 
it was found our whole force was reduced to 200 men ex- 
clusive of officers; the other part of the force had refused to 
march, and remained in the encampment; scarcely a man 
marched from the second battalion of colonel Finley's regi- 
ment, commanded by major Taylor. INIanary's company of 
U. S. Rangers, both officers and soldiers, refused to march. 

When it was ascertained that our Vv'hole force for the Rapids 
was reduced to 200 men, I called a council of the officers to 
determine whether Vvith that force it was advisable to proceed 
on to the Rapids. 

The council considered that our force was not sufficient to 
carry the first object of your orders into effect; that we were 
too numerous to act as a spy party, and too weak to carry 
offensive operations into the enemy's country; and that it 
would be improper and unadvisable under those circumstances 
to continue the expedition. 

With the then remaining force I proceeded to this place, 
[Urbana] where I directed col. Findley and major Roper to 
discharge such men only as had continued to do their duty. 

Thus, sir, has terminated an expedition, at one time capable 



 

of tearing the British flag from the Walls at Detroit, wherein 
our troops might have returned with the pleasing reflection 
of having rendered their country an essential service. 

It is a duty, sir, I owe to the oflicers of the Kentucky forces, 
to col. Findley and oflkers of his first battalion, to say that 
they were zealous of pressing forward the expedition; while 
the oflficers of the second battalion, commanded by major 
Taylor, with few exceptions, were shrinking from their duty, 
and shamefully deserting the cause of their country. 

The detaching of col. Simral's regiment from our force 
stands prominent among the causes of our failure; already 
was there a panic in some parts of our camp ; the enemy that 
had retired at general Winchester's approach had been greatly 
magnified. The day succeeding the alarm general Winchester 
drew in one wing of his lines and strengthened his camp with 
a breast-work — even this circumstance was noticed, and urged 
as an evidence, that he apprehended a force superior to his 
own. Thus when imaginary obstacles, unite with those that 
are real to oppose the movement of a force so insubordinate, 
as that every man's will is his law, little can be expected to 
the oflicers, but a plentiful harvest of mortification and dis- 
grace. 

It cannot be denied that at the time those men refused to 
march, that there was a scarcity of provision in the camp, not 
three days rations of meat to each officer and soldier remained ; 
and no bread or flour. But we had found at those to^^^ls, an 
abundant supply of good sound corn, together with nearly 30 
bushels cured when green, or tossanwnona. Our sufl'erings 
with this supply could not have been great in going or re- 
turning from the Rapids. 

The man whose courage and patriotism expires when his 
rations are reduced, ought never to place himself between his 
country and its enemies. 

When you shall have examined and considered the whole 
causes of our failure, should doubts rest on your mind 
whether some part of it does not attach to my conduct, may I 
not hope, sir, that you may order a court of enquiry, that I 
may have an opportunity of meeting an investigation. 

I have the honor to be, &c. 

Edw. W. Tupper. Brig. Gen. 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Franklinton (Ohio) 

13th. Oct. 1812 

Har. Pa. 711-719 

Sir: 

"My last letters to you were from Piqua on the 27th and 
St. Marys on the 29th ultimo. [See above] I have been so 
constantly in motion since that I have been unable to write. 
On the 30th ultimo I was at St. Marys waiting the arrival of 
some companies of mounted Volunteers to make up with those 
which I had with me 15 or 1800 men and which under the com- 
mand of Brigd. Genl. [Edward] Tupper of this State I in- 
tended to have sent on the expedition mentioned in my letter 
of the 27th ult. On that day however (the 30th.) I received 
information by two Officers who were sent from Genl. Win- 
chester that in his march from Fort Wayne to Defiance he had 
been greatly impeded by a considerable body of Indians who 
were frequertly engaged with his advanced guard and that 
upon his arrival near Defiance he had discovered that the 
Indians were attended by Brittish troops who had with them 
some pieces of Artillery. Within a few minutes after the 
arrival of these gentlemen I received by an Express sent by 
Gov. Meigs a letter from Genl. Kelso commanding a Detach- 
ment of Pennsylvania troops on Lake Erie informing me that 
on the 16th of Sept. 2000 Indians with a detachment of Brit- 
ish regulars and Militia had set out from Maiden with 2 Pieces 
of Artillery for the purpose of attacking Fort Wayne.^ Hav- 
ing no doubt that this was the force which was in front of 
Genl. Winchester, I immediately ordered the two Regmts. of 
Infantry which were with me and the whole of the mounted 
men amounting to above 1000 to divest themselves of all their 
baggage and prepare to go in pursuit of the enemy. We 
marched six miles that Evening and on the following day I 
left the Infantry pushed on as rapidly as possible and reached 
Defiance on the evening of the 2nd day, where I found Genl. 

1. Following is the note: 

Pittsburgh 28 Sept. 1812 
Sir: News have reached us that 200 English and a large body of Indians left 
Detroit very recently to attack Fort Wayne, and Fort Harrison on the Wabash — and 
that Maiden is almost destitute of troops. 

Amos Stoiidard 
Gen. WAnawonTii Maj. 

V ^Yest. Rc8. Hist. Soe. Tract OS p. 71 



 

Winchester encamped and had the mortification to learn that 
the enemy had passed that place at least 3 or 4 days before. 
Genl. Winchester met with the Indians the day after his de- 
parture from Fort Wayne but he was not able to ascertain 
their number or their position. When he arrived within a 
few miles of Defiance he found the tracks of the enemies 
carriages on the south side of the Miami both going & return- 
ing and upon further examination it was discovered that they 
had not advanced more than 8 or 10 miles above Defiance. 
Genl. Winchester kept his troops so well prepared to, receive 
the enemy that they did not dare to attack him. In the course 
of the march he lost an Ensign and 6 men killed and one 
wounded. As my presence was absolutely necessary in the 
rear to make arrangements for sending on the supplies for 
the Army I left Defiance on the 4th inst. having previously 
directed Genl. Winchester to build a small fort at that place, 
and Genl. Tuppcr to proceed with the mounted men to the 
Rapids and if he should think proper (from the information 
he should there receive) as far as the River Resin. On my 
way to St. ]\Iarys I met an express from Fort Wayne inform- 
ing me that the Indians were again collecting round that place 
and that it had been thought advisable that a troop of Dra- 
goons (amied with INIuskets) which I had sent to bring off a 
six pounder left there by Genl. Winchester should not proceed 
with jt until they were reinforced. At St. IMarys I found 
about 500 mounted rifle men who had come on to join the 
expedition towards Detroit. These were dispatched under a 
Col. [Allen] Trimble to Fort Wayne and with directions to 
proceed on and endeavour to surprise the Potawatamie To"smi 
called White Pigeons Town about 65 miles from Fort Wayne. 
I sent also a Battalion of Ohio Infantry to Fort Wayne with 
a supply of provisions and for the purpose of collecting for 
the garrison a quantity of fuel which they are unable to get 
from the distance they have to haul it whenever there are 
parties of Indians round them. Before I left St. jMarys for 
Defiance some IMiamis had arrived (via Fort Wayne) with a 
flag and a I\Icssage from their Cheifs begging for peace. [See 
Oct. 11, above] I had then not time to listen to their speech 
and upon my return I found the Owl, Charley (the Eel River 
Chief) the Turtles son and several others had joined them. 
They came prepared to palliate or deny the hostility of their 



 

tribe as the one or the other might best suit their purpose, 
but finding that I was in possession of facts which unequiv- 
ocally proved it they threw themselves upon the mercy of 
the President and have agreed to abide by his decision be it 
what it may. I have named five Chiefs as hostages whom 
they are to send in to Piqua there to be kept in Custody until 
the decision of the President is made. The facts which we 
can prove upon them are the assistance given by Chappim one 
of their principal war Chiefs in the siege of Fort Wayne. 
One of these Warriors participating in the murders com- 
mitted in Clark County, Indianna, [Pigeon Roost] and a scalp 
exhibited (taken by him) in the town of Mississinaway, a 
Declaration made to the Delawares of their having taken up 
the tomhawk against the U. States and I may add their refusal 
to attend the council at Piqua altho they were informed that 
their not attending it would be considered as evidence of their 
having withdrawn from the protection of the U. States. There 
is great reason to believe that the Weas assisted in the late 
attack upon fort Harrison and Mr. [John] Johnson thinks 
his brother was killed by a miami.- I have no doubt that some 
of the Chiefs have done everything in their power to prevent 
the young men from going to war with us, and as little that 
the great bulk of the tribe were decidedly hostile. The revo- 
lution in their afl'airs and in their dispostion towards us was 
very sudden. The Declaration of hostility to us which I have 
spoken of above that was made to the Delawares was followed 
in two days by a message entreating the mediation of the 
Delawares in their favor. In the intermediate time our Army 
had appeared at Fort Wayne their Villages and provision 
destroyed and their utter extirpation threatened. You are 
so well acquainted Sir with all the circumstances connected 
with the situation of this tribe, that it would be presumption 
in me to indicate my opinion of the course to be pursued 
toward them. I will merely observe they can do us consid- 
erable injury if they are driven olT and unite with the hostile 
bands which are collecting towards the southern extremity of 
Lake Michigan. 

From the Miamis I learn that the Prophet has abandoned 
his position upon the Wabash and had taken one near the 

2. Steven Johnson was a clerk in tlic a'.^cncy under Sticknoy. IIo was killed try- 
ing to get through the Indian lines to I'iiiua. John Johnson accused White Raccoon 
of the murder. Griswold. Fort Wayne, COZ 



 

head of the Tippaccano River and that the Wincbagoes had 
deserted him and returned home disgusted, I suppose, with 
their late want of success in the attack upon Fort Harrison. 
Having made every arrangement in my power for forwarding 
the supplies for the Army to Defiance and committed the com- 
mand of that wing to Genl. Winchester who agreed to serve 
under me without the least hesitation I left St. Marys for the 
purpose of making similar arrangements for the Right Wing. 
The accumulation of provisions upon the Auglase Route is 
quite equal to my expectations. There are at St. Marys and 
advanced of that place about 250,000. Rations of flour 
whiskey and small parts purchased by the Commissaries and 
Mr. [William] Piatt'' is actively & successfully employed in 
increasing the quantity to 500,000. There are two Regmts 
stationed on the Auglase thirty six miles above Fort Defiance 
employed in building two block houses and ten batteau for 
the purpose of conveying supplies to the Rapids if there should 
be a rise of Water which often happens in the fall. 

Upon the Urbana Route little has been done towards the ac- 
cumulation of provisions excepting Meat Kind which can be 
procured of Cat''^^ or Hogs to any extent. The Ohio Troops 
have marched from Urbana to Minarys Blockhouse [in Logan 
Co.] 20 miles in advance and will be employed in repairing the 
road to McArlhers block house [in Hardin Co. at the crossing 
of the Scioto] 40 miles from Urbana where I have directed 
200,000 Rations to be deposited by the Contractor White and 
the same quantity by the Commissary. Further information 
upon the subject has howevei- convinced me that my first 
opinion as to the propriety of adopting the Sandusky route 
as that which ought principally to be relied on for the con- 
veyance of our supplies was correct. But I was misinformed 
as to the eligibility of Woostcr as a place of deposit and the 
Rendezvous of the right wing. It should have been Mansfield ; 
indeed that place is not far enough West to serve as a deposit 
of the supplies procured on the Sciota nor for the junction of 
the two Corps from Pennsylvania & Virginia, the former with 
all the Artillery & supplies from Pittsburgh will still pursue 
the route by Canton & Wooster to Mansfield and I have sent 
an express to conduct the latter through Cliilicothe, this place 
and Worthington to Delaware from which last a road is now 

3. Willifim rialt w:is in the quartcnnastor department .nnd John Tuitt was a con- 
tractor. It is often impossiljle to determine to which Harrison refers. 



 

cutting by a detachment of the Ohio ^Militia to the Upper 
Sandusky where I have directed Block Houses to be built for 
a principal deposit. 

I have directed Major [Ebenezer] Denny to forward by the 
Canton and Wooster route 400,000 complete Rations but I do 
not think that any further quantity need be sent from that 
place of any article composing the Ration unless it is whiskey. 
All the information I receive corroborates the opinion I have 
given that every thing else can be procured here cheaper than 
it can be brought from Pittsburgh. My only fears on the 
score of provisions arrise from the difficulty of getting it 
transported from the frontiers of the settlement. My expe- 
rience in the Campaigns of Genl. \Va:^me and the opinion of 
men conversant in such matters have determined me to pro- 
cure Ox teams. They can live on the food which the forests 
will furnish for some time if well salted whilst our horse 
teams require a constant supply of grain. I have therefore 
directed Col. [James] ]\Iorrison to purchase One hundred Ox 
waggons and teams for the Sanduskj^ route being convinced 
that purchasing will in the end prove more economical than 
hiring. Col. [Thomas] Buford is also ordered on here for the 
purpose of procuring provisions. I am much relieved by the 
information given in Yr. letter of the 26th. Ultimo [see above] 
of the number of shoes & blankets destined for this army 
which have been sent on, great exertions are making in Ken- 
tucky to procure other articles of clothing, socks & mittens 
will be obtained in sufficient numbers and it is probable a con- 
siderable number of overals & Jackets will also be procured. 
Without these I shall never be able to get the army to Detroit. 
With a thoughtlessness which can hardly be accounted for 
many of the Volunteers have left home clad entirely in linen 
and cotton. 

I am fully sensible of the responsibility vested in me by your 
letter of the 23d. [22] Ultimo. [See above] I accept it with 
full confidence of being able to effect the wishes of the presi- 
dent or to show unequivocallj" their impracticability. If the 
fall should be veiy dry I will retake Detroit before the winter 
sets in but if we should have much rain it will be necessaiy 
to wait at the Rapids until the Margin of the Lake becomes 
frozen sufficiently to bear the Army and its baggage. A 
simultaneous movement with the army below will be highly 



 

useful as the enemy will be able for some time to come to 
transfer their force from one end of the lake to the other by 
water. I have written to Gcnl. Vanranssalear and shall con- 
tinue to keep him informed of my movements and prospects. 
I am indeed highly pleased with the appointment of Col. 
[James] IMorrison I know of no man who could discharge 
with so much propriety as himself the duties of Quarter 
IMaster Genl. to an Army. The Col. has applied to me to ap- 
point a deputy to him under the Act establishing the Quarter 
Master Gen Is. Department. The Colo, cannot get a proper 
person to assist him for the compensation allowed for the 
assistant deputy Quarter IMaster by the law under which his 
own appointment is made. Will it be proper to appoint a 
Dt}p5'. Quarter IMaster under the 1st. Section of the act of the 
28th. of ]March?. Genl. Winchester agreed to continue under 
my command without the least hesitation. That circumstance 
has given me great pleasure. But I am at a loss in what light 
to consider myself. If as a Brigar., Genl. Winchester's prior 
commission will entitle him to the command. IMy commission 
from Kentucky has not been abrogated, would it be improper 
to continue to act under it and at the time that I am a Brigdr. 
in the service of the U. States? however the government may 
decide, I shall be content. In a former letter 1 requested that 
a detachment of the Artillery Corps should be sent to me. 
In an army composed almost exclusively of Militia and oper- 
ated in a country Vvhore rivers are to be crossed in the pres- 
ence of highly disciplined troops and Foi'ts to be taken, it is 
all important that the Corps of Artillery should be respectable 
for its numbers and knowledge of its duty. I beg leave also to 
recommend that an other officer of Engineers should be sent 
on. A fit of sickness or an accident depriving us of the serv- 
ices of Capt. [Charles] Gratiot might put a stop to our oper- 
ations. 

I have the honor to be very Respectfully 
Yr. Hbl. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secy of War 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No 16,) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 15th Oct. 1812 

Har. Fa. 720-72:^ 

Sir: 

I am sorry to inform 3-011 that the expedition which I di- 
rected of mounted men toward the Rapids of I\Iiami did not 
succeed. The greater part of the men having as I understand 
refused to march under Genl. [Edward] Tupper after I left 
them. I have received no written account but what is con- 
tained in the enclosed note from Govr. ]\Ieigs. [see Oct. 11, 
above] I cannot conceive how Genl. Winchester can be to 
blame on this occasion and I am fully persuaded that it will 
be found to attach elsv\iicre. I have lately seen an article in 
the St. Louis paper complaining bitterly of the want of troops 
in that quarter. If they are wanted it is the fault of the Gov- 
ernors, so early as the 7th ultimo I wrote to the governor 
of Tennessee and requested him to furnish any number of 
men that Gov. Howard [Mo.] or Govr. Edwards [111.] should 
call for and to prevent delay I requested him to hold tvro 
Regts. in readiness to march as soon as he should receive a 
requisition. Both the Governors were informed of this ar- 
rangement. A Regt. from the lovv'er part of Kentucky was 
in the first instance ordered to Cahokia from Henderson but 
their march was very improperly diverted to Vincennes by 
Genl. [John] Gibson. I have now forwarded orders for it to 
proceed to its first destination without delay. I am still of 
opinion that the Volunteers in the N. W. army from Kentucky 
are equal to any that have ever turned out in U. States but I 
am not without fears that the hardsliips & difficulties of a 
winters campaign may shake their firmness & evaporate much 
of their zeal. It is therefore an object of much importance 
to collect a body of men who can be depended upon under any 
circumstances. I have accordingly ordered all the recruits in 
Kenty. Ohio and Tennessee to be organized and brought on. 
Lt. Col. [John B.] CampbelP will command those from this 
State & I have given to Col. [James i\I.] Anderson the option 
of commanding those from Tennessee or sending an other field, 
oflicer. For the mere purpose of guarding the fi'ontiers, 

1. John B. Campbell was a native of Va. His father was a colonel at l-Cini-i's Mt. 
He joined the army as Lieut. Col. in 1812, m;i(le a colonel after the Mississinewa ex- 
pedition and lillod in the battle of Chippewa July 5, 1813. 



 

]\Iililia will answer as well perhaps better than Regiilars. 
Conformably to the authority given in your letter of the 17th 
Ultimo I have appointed Capt. Nathl. G. T. Hart= of the 5th 
Uogt. of Kentucky Volunteers, Deputy Inspector. I am aware 
that the law directs that this officer shall be taken from "The 
line" but I could not think that it was intended that in an 
Army composed almost exclusively of Militia & Volunteers 
the Staff appointments should be all taken from the line of 
Regular troops. If I have been mistaken however in my con- 
struction of the law it can still be corrected. Captn. Hart is 
as well qualified as any other officer amongst the Volunteers, 
a warm advocate of the present administration the brother 
in law of Mr. H. Clay and nearly connected with Gov. Scott. 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of 
the 7th inst. [see above] This letter is the 16th which I 
have written to you since my first arrival at Cincinnati in 
July. It so numbered — as each succeeding one will be with 
progressive numbers. I sometimes receive you letters in in- 
verted Order I shall therefore be thankful to have the same 
course pursued with regard to them. It will at any rate, save 
trouble and enable me to Imow when a letter comes to hand 
whether all those which were previously written have been 
received. It was a plan used by the Secy, of War and Genl. 
Wayne and in one instance that I recollect was productive of 
particular advantage. 

I expect the Virginia Brigade will arrive in Chilicothe the 
day after tomorrow. Major [Ebenezer] Denny had directed 
500 barrels of flour to be purchased in this Country in part 
of the 400,000 Rations ordered by me. I have directed him 
to forward 400,000 Rations of flour exclusively of these 500 
barrels and to send whiskey and small parts to the amount of 
800,000, Cattle & Hogs can certainly be procured here in 
abundance and of course none need be sent from Pittsburgh. 

With great Respect I have the honor to be 
Yr. Hbl. Sei^t. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
I break open the cover which contains this to enclose a copy 

2. Capt. Nathaniel G. T. Hart was born in Hagerstown, Md., and came as a 
lioy with his father, Col. Thomas Hart, to Lexington. His sister married James Brown, 
lonK a minister to France, and Henry Clay. Capt. JIart read law with Clay but 
t'Hk'Hvred in business. He was wealthy when the war broke out. He was killed at 
the Raisin, Jan. 22, 1813, among the wounded prisoners. 

Collins, Kentucky, SJ,5 



 

of a letter this moment received from Mr. Stickney — [see 
Oct 11, above] The information it conveys is most won- 
derful. 

W. H. H. 
Honblo Secy, of War 

John H. Piatt to Harrison 

St Marys Oct. 17th 1812 

Har. Pa. 725, 726 

Sir 

The intelligence (contained in Mr. [George] Wallace's let- 
ter herewith enclosed from Fort Jennings) of the failure of 
the Contractor to furnish the necessarys at that post in con- 
sequence of which they are consuming the provisions & I have 
forwarded to fort Defiance is of such importance at the 
present crisis that I have thought it advisable to communicate 
the circumstances to Your Excy. by Express and should be 
glad to receive your possitive instructions on the subject. The 
roads are getting so extremely bad that with all my exertions 
I have only been able to forward the following articles di- 
rected to Defiance, Viz. 334 head of beef cattle 528 barrels of 
flour 57 barrels whiskey 48 barrels of salt 22 boxes of soap 
18 boxes of candles and 36 bags of bread which was carried 
by 78 Waggons and 161 packhorses. You will observe from 
Mr. Wallace's letter that the Commandent at fort Jennings 
has taken a considerable quantity of the above articles for the 
use of' that post. Under these circumstances I take the liberty 
of suggesting to your Excellency the propriety of ordering 
[Robert] Poague's Regt. now at that place to return to this 
post and to keep a part of them employed in repairing the 
Roads from Piqua to this place as I am informed there is 
not more tools at fort Jennings for building boats than will 
serve to keep [William] Jennings Regmt. employed and if 
Poague was here he might aid in the different works that are 
necessary for the safety of the provisions sent from here to 
forts Wayne and Defiance and they wculd be supplied here 
much easier than at fort Jennings. 

I certify this to be a true extract 

W. S. Hunter, A. D. C. 
His Excellency Genl. Harrison. 



 

Wadswortii to Harrison 

Huron Oct. 20th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 7. J J 

His Excellency Wm. Henry Harrisson. 

I was somev/hat surprised at a passage in your letter (viz) 
"I left Govn. Meigs yesterday at Urbana & I think he told me 
that he had given order for some part of your command to 
open the road in the direction of the Miami Rapids by the 
Upper Sandusky". You will sec by this letter that my de- 
tachment is not completely organized, I have given order for 
the whole to march to this place without delay, which I expect 
will be complied with, all the Munitions of war I have ordered 
to this place and expect them on in a short time, you will 
readily see should my orders be countermanded my detach- 
ment will not be completed so as to answer the expectations 
of the Secretary at War. I believe he must have had some 
greater object in view for it then to open road by contract. 
I am in possession of the copy of a letter from the Secretary 
of the Treasury to Govn. Meigs requesting him to open the 
above contemplated road by contract or otherwise and an ap- 
propriation had been made for that purpose of $5500. I feel 
confident that your Excellency will not approve of any such 
orders, yet will be sensible it will overturn all discipline in 
the army. [Extract] 

Elijah Wadsworth^ 
Truly Copied Geo. Trotter Jun. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No 17) 



Head Quarters Franklinton October 22 1812 

' Har. Pa. 727-7J0 

Sir 

Every exertion has been made since I last wrote to you to 
procure and forward the supplies for the Army to the ad- 
vanced posts. Very little however has been purchased for 
the Commissary's department in this quarters as Major 
[Ebenezer] Denny had engaged every manufacturing ]\Iill 
from the Scioto to Pittsburgh having dispatched an agent for 

1. Elijah Wailswoith was burn at Iluitfoixl, Conn., Novonibor 4, 1717. Seivcd 
through the Revolution. Located at Canficld, O., in 1802. Died Dec. 30, 1817. 

LossInK, ^Var oj lfil2, S.',0 



 

that purpose as soon as he received your first order for tho 
One Million & ninety eight thousand rations. Under these 
circumstances, I thought it advisable to suffer him to go on 
to procure the whole quantity wliich you had ordered and have 
instructed him accordingly. 

I have not heard from the Virginia troops since they left 
the Ohio but have heard from pretty good authority that they 
were to march on Sunday last. I set out this morning for 
Mansfield where I expect to meet the Brigade from Pennsyl- 
vania and the greater part of the artillery. Governor I^.Ieigs 
informs me that there are no artilerists in Genl. [Elijah] 
Wadsworth division, who have any practical knowledge of 
their duty. One or two Companies have been formed but they 
never had a field piece until a few weeks ago. I regret ex- 
ceedingly that a Detachment from one of the Regular Regi- 
ments cannot be spared for this Army. A report has pre- 
vailed in this country that a number of Indians and British 
Troops had been landed at Sandusky eight or ten days ago. 
I learn that it has been the cause of Genl. Wadsworths ad- 
vancing from the Poi'tage to the Huron River with all his 
force. I am persuaded however that the report is entirely 
unfounded. I am not able to fix any period for the advance 
of the Troops to Detroit. It is pretty evident that it cannot 
be done upon proper principles until the frost shall become so 
severe as to enable us to use the River and the Margin of the 
Lake for the transportation of the bagage & provisions upon 
the ice. To get them forward through a Swampy Wilderness 
of nearly two hundred miles in Waggons or on Pack-horses 
which are to carry their own Provender is absolutely impos- 
sible. The enclosed Extract of a Letter [see Oct. 17 above] 
just received from the Commissary [John H.] Piatt will give 
you some idea of the state of the road and of the difficulty of 
getting provisions even to Defiance. But I have no doubt but 
that the object of reaching Detroit can be accomplished by 
using the ]\Iargin of the Lake as above mentioned, if thr 
Troops are provided with warm Clothing and the Winter such 
as they commonl}^ are in this climate. It is certain however 
that no species of supplies arc to be calculated upon being 
found in tlie Michigan Territory. The farms upon tlic river 
Raisin which might have afforded a quantity of forage are 
nearly all broken up & the grain destroyed. This article then 



 

as well as the provisions for the men is to be taken from this 
State — a circumstance which must at once put to rest every 
idea for a land conveyance at this season. Since it would re- 
quire at least two Waggons with forage for each one that is 
loaded with provisions and other articles. I am informed 
that from Eight to ten thousand bushels of corn may be ob- 
tained at Cleveland and a few thousand from the Country be- 
tween that place & Sandusky. My present plan is to occupy 
Sandusky & to accumulate as much provision & forage as pos- 
sible at that place to be taken upon Sleds from thence to the 
river Raisin. At Defiance, Fort Jennings & St. Mary's boats 
& sleds are preparing to take advantage of a rise of water or 
a fall of Snov.^ General [Edward] Tupper with one thousand 
Ohio militia is advancing to McArthur's Block-house forty 
four miles from Urbana upon Hull's trace to cover the provi- 
sions which the Commissary is depositing there and which 
by the middle of November will amount to two hundred thou- 
sand rations. He has also directed to prepare sleds for tak- 
ing it forward. It has been my object to keep as many of 
the troops within the 41st degree to save the provisions pur- 
chased by the Commissary which are intended for the use of 
the troops when they shall advance. But notwithstanding my 
urgent demand the Contractors have done little or nothing 
towards the Deposits which I have required to be made at 
McArtluu's & Jenning's Blockhouse (upon the Auglaise) and 
at the latter place the tv/o Regiments there are subsisting 
upon the Commissaiy's Stores. Major White has let out his 
cojitract for the North Western part of the? State at so low a 
rate that the Sub-Contractors are unable to furnish the sup- 
plies and one at least of them is as groat a scoundrel as the 
World can produce, indeed, I am very far from being satisfied 
with Major White himself. He will it is said, make One hun- 
dred thousand Dollars by the contract for this state and I am 
very well persuaded that he had rather see the Army starve 
than that his profits should be lessened five Hundred Dollars. 
He merits no indulgence from the Government and he has 
certainly forfeited the penalty of his bond. 

The Troops at Fort Defiance might advance to the Miami 
Rapids in a few days. I do not believe however that any 
great advantage would arise from it until the other Columns 
are ready to support them and it would be productive of the 



 

certain disadvantag-e of consuming provisions forwarded with 
immense labor & expense without essentially contributing to 
the main design. I know of no arrangement which could be 
better calculated to protect the frontiers and support each 
other than that which the several Corps of the Army at pres- 
ent form. Depredations by small parties of Indians may and 
will bo made but it is impossible that any considerable body 
can advance against the settlements without being in gi'eat 
danger of being intercepted in their retreat. I am persuaded 
that the Indians have done less mischief upon the frontiers 
since the Declaration of War than they did for the same length 
of time preceding it. 

It was suggested to me a few days ago by a member of 
Congress that the possession of Detroit by the Enemy would 
probably be the most effectual bar to the Attainment of peace. 
If this is really the case I would undertake to recover it with 
a Detachment of the Army at any time. A few hundred 
Packhorses with a drove of beeves (without artillery & heavy 
baggage) would subsist the fifteen hundred or two thousand 
men which I would select for the purpose, until the balance 
of the Army could arrive. But having in view offensive oper- 
ations from Detroit an advance of this sort would be pre- 
mature & ultimately disadvantageous. I have the honor to 
enclose you Genl Tupper's report to me which himself or his 
friends have very improperly caused to be printed in a hand 
bill, [see Oct. 12, above] 

Since I began to write this letter I have received informa- 
tion that the Troops from Pittsburgh had not set out from 
thence on Sunday last and of course that they cannot be ex- 
pected at Mansfield for our or five days yet. I shall therefore 
remain here which is much more convenient for Super-intend- 
ing the supplies than any place further in advance until 
Monday or Tuesday next. I have reed, no certain informa- 
tion of the Virginia Brigade's crossing the Ohio. Capt. 
[Nathaniel F.] Adams is now at Cincinnati, as soon as he 
arrives a return of all the troops shall be forwarded. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 
Yr Hble Serv 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Ilonble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 

15— 22CG1 



 

John Johnston to Harrison 
(Copy) 

PiQUA October 23. 1S12 

Har. Pa. 7oi-ToO 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the rect. of your Excellency's 
letter of the 21st inst. You may dei)cnd upon my furnishing 
the Shawanoese. They will I suppose meet you at upper 
Sandusky. Logan will bo here this night or in the morning 
and shall make him Chief of the party. Shall vrrite you by 
him the conditions &c. In consequence of the Delaware's not 
coming this waj^ for protection and knowing as I do that there 
is a number of unprincipled Lawless scoundrels among them. 
I directed John Conner to proceed to White River to watch 
their movements and keep them straight, to collect news and 
convey it here by every opportunity. I am sending out Wil- 
liam Conner [brother of John] tomorrow morning to conduct 
some Delawares past Greenville & return here. I shall after- 
wards direct him to repair to you immediately. I believe he 
will answ^er your purposes better than his brother. I have 
always thought him the better man of the two, I am glad you 
have ordered [James] IManary's^ Rangers to Loramie's as they 
have heretofore done us no good. If they vv'ere divided into 
two squads one to be placed at Greenville and the other to 
remain at Loramie's and directed to range the intermediate 
country it would more effectually cover the frontiers, unless 
they are specially & pointedly ordered to do their duty we shall 
derive no benefit from their services. The Indians are hover- 
ing about and only want an oppoi'tunity to strike. Their 
signs continue to be seen in this neighbourhood. We cannot 
doubt the information respecting the IMiamis, it was derived 
from John Conner, the Shawanoese & the Delawares. I con- 
sider it fortunate that Mr. Conner did not proceed farther 
than I\Iassassineway, thereby leaving Genl. [Samuel] Hopkins 
at liberty to proceed up the Wabash. The Potawatamies con- 
tinue to pass Massassineway with droves of stolen horses. 
They told Richardville that they wanted the horses to enable 
them to move out of the reach of the long knives. I hope they 
will be as good as their word. I should be content to spare 
them a few horses myself on condition of getting rid of such 

1, James Manany or Manaiy was caj)tnin of the fust company of Ohio ran^'crs. 



 

nei.u"hbours. There are several indications that the Prophet 
will leave the Wabash and seek a home fartlier West. The 
Kickapoos who atten.ded the U. S. Commissioners here suc- 
ceeded in drawing off and sending home the greater part of 
the Prophet's force. All accounts agree in representing the 
Indians of the Wabash and the Illinois in the utmost confusion 
and distress. 

One of the soldiers taken at Chicago has made his escape 
from the Potaw^atamies and came into Fort Wayne. He con- 
fn-ms the account of Capt. [Nathan] Ileald and his wife with 
about seventeen more having been taken alive and divided in 
the usual manner among the Indians. Heald and lady was 
allotted to one family and was taken to some place near Green 
Bay. Immediately after the surrender of our people the In- 
dians set fire to the Fort. I am afraid we shall not again see 
poor Heald and wife or any of the party as the soldier wdio 
escaped states that he was to be burn't the day after he ran 
away — his escape w^as miraculous — it is too long a story to be 
put on paper. [See Oct. 12, above] 

With my best compliments to the Gentlemen of your family 
I have the honor to remain with very great respect 
Yr. Ob. Hb Servt" 

Jno. Johnston 
His Excellency W. H. Harrison 

Commander in Chief of the Army 
Franklinton, Ohio 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department October 23d, 1812 

Har. Pa. 35, 3G 

Sir: 

Your letter of the 13th Instant is received, [see above] 
The disposition of the several Indian Tribes will bo known by 
you and you will treat them as their conduct and the public 
interest may require. In cases where you shall be satisfied 
of their good faith and that it is proper to extend to them the 
protection of the Government, it is the pleasure of the Presi- 
dent, that they be sent for safety to such places and provided 
for as you may think proper. 
Br. General, Wm. H. Harrison 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 
No 12 

War Department October 24th 1812 

Har. Pa. 37 

Sir: 

Your letters of the 13th and 15th Instant have been re- 
ceived, [see above] This is the twelfth letter to you from 
this Department since the 22d of August, All communica- 
tions to you in the future will be numbered. 

Previous to receiving your last, orders had been given to 
Colonel [James M.] Anderson to proceed with the Recruits 
of his Regiment and [Joseph] Philips' Company of the 2nd 
regiment of artillery to the neighborhood of St. Louis. You 
cannot therefore calculate on any of those Recruits. 

Herewith inclosed you will receive Copies of Orders from 
this Department on the Governor of Tennessee. 

On entering the Territory of Upper Canada with the army 
under your command, I am instructed by the President to di- 
rect that you do not pledge the Government to the Inhabitants 
beyond a protection in their persons, property and rights. 

Br. General Wm. H. Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No 18) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 26th October 1812 

Har. Pa. 7 37-7 W 

Sir: 

Brigd Genls. [Simon] Perkins^ and [Reasin] Bcall- of the 
detachment under the Command of Genl. [Elijah] Wadsworth 
arrived here late last evening. I learn from them that the 
directions given by Gov. Meigs for opening the road from a 
point near Mansfield to lower Sandusky have not been exe- 
cuted, [see Oct. 20, above] 

1. Simon Perkins was born at Norwich, Conn., Sept. 17, 1771; removed to Os- 
WCRO, N. y., 179.J ; went to Ohio 1798 and settled at Waiion. He was a land specu- 
lator and later a banker. He served with honor in the War of 1812 till Feb. 28, 1813, 
when he retired. He died at Warren, Nov. 19, 1814. 

Lossiny:, War of 1812, SCO 
Howe, Hist. Col. Ohio, III, SCO 

2. Reaxin P.call served under Ilarmar and was an ensign under Wayne till 1794 
wlicn he resi^^ned. He was a brigadier of militia from Ohio for a 'short time in 1812. 
He was born in Monl'romery Co., MA., Dec. 3, 17G9. His homo was at Woostcr, where 
he was reKifiter of the land ofTnc ; in CoiiKrcss 1813-14. Died at Wooster Feb. 20, 1843. 

Howe, Hist. Col. Ohio, HI, csn 



 

Gcnl. Beall was in the execution of this order and was 
stopped by Genl. Wadsworth the order was reiterated by the 
Gov. and again countermanded by Genl. Wadsworth. His 
singular motives for doing this are explained in the enclosed 
extract of his letter to me received last evening. I have re- 
peatedly been informed that the road which was laid out in 
July last from Sandusky to the ]\Iiami Rapids would prove a 
very good one when properly opened. I nov,' find from Gen. 
Beall who was one of the Commissioners that it will not be 
passable for waggons after the autumn rains unless it is cause- 
wayed for 13 miles. This intelligence is extremely embar- 
rassing and leaves me only a choice of difficulties. There can 
however be no douljt that the swamp may easily be passed 
after it becomes frozen, but this cannot be calculated upon 
as Genl. Perkins informs me before the first of January. 
There is however he thinks a possibilitj^ of using the beach of 
the Lake from Sandusky to the Lliami bay. It is so important 
that I should correctly understand everything that relates to 
the Sandusky route that I have determined to proceed thither 
immediately. I have the honor to enclose you a letter from 
I\Iajor Genl. [Samuel] Hopkins [see Oct. 6, above] explaining 
his situation and prospects. I also enclose a letter from Mr. 
Johnston [see Oct. 23, above] containing a similar account 
of the conduct of the IMiami's with that formerly fonvarded 
by ]\Ir. Stickney. I believe that the majority of the Chiefs 
are desirous of rcirirrining neutral and two or three of them 
arc no doubt our friends but the hostile disposition of the 
g-reater part of the tribes cannot be doubted. Their declining 
to send in hostages after having positively' engaged to do it 
has been occasioned by their being relieved from the fears 
of Genl Hopkin's Army, which they informed William Conner 
had returned from Fort Harrison. It remains for the Presi- 
dent to say what shall be done with the Tvliamis. I should be 
pleased to save a few of the Chiefs, but the base ingratitude 
with which the greater part of the tribe have conducted them- 
selves towards us merits in my opinion the severest chastise- 
ment. And in my opinion every motive of justice and policy 
demands its infliction. 

The Honble I\Ir. McKee-' (and I believe also Richd 11. John- 

^>. Wlicther tliis vcfcr.s to the British partisan Alexandor McKee (in dcrisiejii), to 
John MrKoo, at'cnt for the Choctaws, or to Samuel McKcc, congressman from Ky., is 
not clear, but most probably to the latter, who was with Harrison in Ohio. 



 

son) were present at my agreement with the JMiami Chiefs 
upon the subject of the Hostages. Col. Johnson will also in- 
form you that the proofs of their hostility were so decided 
that a council of War at Fort Wayne unanimously advised 
that they should be considered as enemies. The gentleman 
who recorded the proceedings of the Council has never put 
them in my hands and he is at present with the left wing of 
the Army. Nothing can be more easy than to surprise the 
]\Iiami Town of Mississinaway with mounted men. I have 
engaged Genl. [Duncan] McArthur* to undertake it, if it is 
not considered as a violation of his parole. Indeed the force 
for the expedition would principally be composed of those 
who served in Genl. Hulls Army, if they are allowed to under- 
take it. It must be observed that the IMiamis have never 
joined the British and their hostility has been confined to our 
own Territory. I am sorry to inform you of the failure of 
an other Expedition of Ohio Mounted Men. Col. [Allen] 
Trimble who as I informed you [see Oct. 13, above] was sent 
to surprise the White Pigeons Town on the head waters of 
the St. Josephs of the lakes, was abandoned at Fort Wayne 
by nearly half of his command, and was prevented from ac- 
complishing his object with the ballance by the treachery of 
one guide and the cowardice of an other. He destroyed how- 
ever two small villages and would have killed or taken the 
inhabitants if they had not been intentionally alarmed by one 
of the guides. I have not yet received Col. Trimble's official 
report. The determination of the President with respect to 
the Miamis will I hope meet me at Upper Sandusky on my 
return from the Lake. The conduct of I\Ianary's Company of 
Rangers lias been such as to destroy all confidence in it. I 
would have arrested him and his officers if I were not in hopes 
that the President would direct the whole company to be dis- 
banded. There could certainly be Companies raised of that 
description that would be eminently useful but to be so the 
officers must be selected in a different manner from what they 
have been. Both the Companies raised in this State and that 

4. Duncan McArlhur \\;is a Scotchman I'orn in DutchcFS Co., N. Y., June IJ. 
1772 ; later moved to Pa. He served in Hannar's caiTii)aiKn ; surveyor under Gen. 
Nathaniel Masaie ; served in the legislature, Major Gen. of I^Iilitia ; ;:iniendcrcd with 
Hull at DL-troit; elected to Congress 1812; resigned and became a briKadier ^en. in 
army. Took Harrison's place when latter rosiKned ; 1822 elected to congress ; ISoO 
elected t'overnor. Died in (.^hiilicothc, Apr. 28, 18;!9. 

Howe, Hist. Col. Ohio III. 179 



 

in Kentucky are entirely worthless because the ofTiccrs are 
deficient in every Quality which is necessary for their sta- 
tions. [William] Perry^ is a fool a coward and a drunkard. 
[James] JManary" a poor old imbecile creature, and Gov. Scott 
assured me that his Captain was as bad a one as could have 
been selected. The Companies have been unifonnly recruited 
amongst their friends and neighbors and it is the principal 
object of the officers to screen them from duty. Amongst 
the Volunteers there are Officers of tried merit and with a 
little attention men might be procured of the like character. 

Gcnl. [Elijah] Wadsworth's whole command amounts to 
about 1000 men. He is himself a Major General and he has 
two Brigadiers in service also. The old gentleman is I be- 
lieve full of zeal, but his age and infirmities render him un- 
equal to the fatigues of a winter's Campaign. I believe he 
thinks himself called into service by you, but I am persuaded 
that he has misunderstood your intentions 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect 
Tr yr Humb Sevt. 

WiLLM Henry Harrison 
The Honble Will'm Eustis Esq Secy of War 

Secretary of War to General Hull 

War Depart]\ient October 26th, 1812 

Har. Pa. 38 

Sir : 

Your letter dated Newton Mass. Oct. 19th, 1812 was re- 
ceived by the Mail of Yesterday, and I am instructed by the 
President to inform you that as soon as the state of the pub- 
lic Service will permit, a Court Martial will be convened to 
investigate your conduct in surrendering to the Enemy the 
Army and the post of Detroit under your command on August 
last. 

The time and place at which the Court will assemble and a 
co])y of the charges on which you will be tried will be season- 

5. William Terry was captfiin of the second cojnpany of Ohio ranprers. 

(i. .Tnnics Manaiy Sen. was !ii)pointrcl a cajitain of the UaiiRevs, Aup. 5, 1813. 
James Manary had been appointeil laplain Jan. 7, 1812. On July 2, 1812, tlie picsi- 
(ioiit apjjointcd James Manaiy l.st LI. in tlic First Co. The spelling "Manany" in the 
hxrnitivc Journal in evidently an en or. Hcitman's lircjistcr pives James Manary Jr. 
Ift Lt. rnnwrs July 6. 1812, till June I,''), 18ir>, and James Manary, capt. rangers, 
Au?. 5, ]8i:!, to June 15, 1815. 



 

ably tranKmitied to you, together with the names of the 
Oliiccrs wlio may be oi'dered to compose the Court.' 

Br. General Wm. Hull 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort, Ky., Nov. 1st, 1812 

From Governor haac Shclbj/'a "Letter Book A" page U 

DE.'Ui Sir: — I am favored by the opportunity of j\Iaj. [Robert] 
Logan, your Aid-de-camp, to drop you a few lines in haste. 

It gives me pain to be the messenger of bad news — such I 
consider the failure of Genl. Hopkins' expedition against 
Peoria and the Kickapoo To\\'ns on Illinois river. This news 
is just announced by Capt. [Anthony] Crockett,' immediately 
from Fort Harrison, who reports that about the 14th ulto. 
the General set out from that place with about 2,000 mounted 
men, provisioned for ten days, against the Kickapoo Tovrns 
and Peoria on Illinois; that they marched first northwest a 
day or two and then nearly north, in all between five and six 
days, at or near 30 miles per day, vrhen their provisions were 
nearly exhausted, and their guides entirely bewildered and 
lost, not knowing which way to steer, the army discouraged 
and disheartened by their situation, all turned back and with 
much difficulty and distress, retraced their forward march, 
and got back to Fort Harrison, the Indians having fired the 
praires in their rear, burnt all the grass, and their horses 
almost perished and themselves; at one time in the most im- 
minent danger of being consumed by the flames. The guides 
were Capt. Touissant Dubois and a man of the naine of Joseph 
Baron. Capt. Crockett now believes that the army must have 
been well on to Lake ]\Iichigan — thus has ended an enterprise 
on which the flower of Kentucky enlisted themselves, and are 
now returning home deeply mortified by the disappointment. 

About the time General Hopkins marched. Col. [William] 
Russell,- of the U. S. Army, was to set out ^^ith about 800 men, 

1. A cojiy of tliis bt'Cins to liave been tent to all Kcr.erals in the service. 

1. AnUinny Ciockctt was born in Prince Edward Co., Va., 1756; represented Ky. 
in the \'ii. IcKislature 1706; served in the Ky. legislature. He was a IJcvolutionary 
veU-nm, srrvinir at White Plains, Monniuuth, Saratoga, Germantown, Princeton and 
Trenton ; was with Geo. R. Clark on his 111. ci'mjiaiKn. He was a nephew of Col. 
Joi-cph Crnclitt, C ft. •.', in. in height. He died in 1838 at his home in Franklin Co., Ky. 

Yountj, Battle of the Thames, Id 

2. WitliuMi Russell of Ky. was apjiointed a colonel. May 3, 1808, under the act of 
thai year for raisinK a special military force. He was assiirned to the 7th Inf. On 
this expiilition he was commanding rangers. 



 

rangers, regulars and militia, up the Illinois river, and to form 
a junction Avith Gen. Hopkins if necessary, about Peoria, [see 
Oct. ol, above] I hope by some means he will get information 
of the ]'('t]-oat of the right v/ing of the army, that he may gov- 
ern himself accordingly. 

What service can three Regts. of Cols. Wilcox's, [Philip] 
Karbour's and [John] Miller's do on the Wabash this winter? 
Is there any thing up that river that they can make a stroke 
upon? Or could they reach you so as to be of any service 
under your immediate command? I think it of importance 
for you to determine upon the necessity of continuing them 
on duty unless there is something of consequence for them to 
do. It is reported that Gen. Hopkins had a project in view 
ui) the Wabash after he returned from the Illinois — you know 
best what there is to do there.^ 

(This is only substance, not signed.) 

Gen. Wm. H. Harrison 

H. Johnston to Harrison 
(Copy) 

Fort Fayette [Pittsburgh] Nov. Si-d 1812 

Har. Pa. 76S-77A 

Sir: 

In your letter of the "27 Sept. 1812" you directed all the 
supplies for the North Western Army from the Quarter ]\Ias- 
tcr Dept. at this place to be sent by "George Town, New Lis- 
bon and Canton to Wooster" in the State of Ohio. In your 
lettei- of the 19 October, you acknowledge the receipt of mine 
of the 10 October enclosing Invoice of M\\. Stores forwarded 
to your address at Wooster and in your letter of the 28 Octo. 
to .Major [Amos] Stoddard you say I am very much embar- 
rassed in consequence of my having received no information 
of the progi-ess that has been made in forwarding the Sup- 
))lies of Qr. LI. Stores and clothing and the direction those 
have taken which have been sent on. This would seem a self 
conti-adiction but perhaps you meant those that were sent on 
before the destination was altered to Wooster. On the 25 Sep- 
t<'ml)er I had the Honor to receive the Secretarys order to 
comply with your requisitions. I informed you of it in a 
It'ttei- of the same date, and concluded as follows: "I have 

.<. It is fvuU'iit fioni tlT^ iiaiiips of his jrnitlcs tli.il they were not to blame. 



194 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



lately made several shipments of Mil. Stores to Newport, 
[Ky.] and shall make another today, all of which will be sub- 
ject to your order or that of the Officer Commanding the North 
W. Army. Advices and invoices of which were duly for- 
warded to the Mil. Store Keeper at that place. This letter 
I am told was sent to you by Express from Newport to Piqua. 

I suppose you were at Cincinnati, from whence you had 
written the 28 August but the Secretary of War you say en- 
closed me a list of every large supply which left Washington 
& Philadelphia some time ago. For my pai't I have duly ad- 
vised you and enclosed invoices of the Stores forwarded to 
Wooster & Mansfield the 10th, 12th, 18th, & 29 ults. and in- 
formed you in the last, that I had a quantity of Mil Stores to 
be forwarded to you. and shall continue to send out such as 
I apprehend will be first wanted as fast as I can hire and pur- 
chase Teams for the purpose what more could have been done 
to prevent the embarrassment of which you complain, nothing 
I can assure you by any one in my situation. I doubt not 
however that your Excellency is very much embarrassed, nor 
that you will be much more, and more seriously so in the 
course of the Campaign. The letters I have referred to prove 
the former but your Excellency may rest assured that I shall 
do every thing that depends upon me to prevent the latter. 

I have the Honor Sir 

(signed) [Hezekiah] Johnston D & Q Master 
His Excellency Genl HarPvISON 
Mansfield, Ohio 



U. S. Arsenal Schuilkell Oct 8th 1812. Invoice of Stores for 
delivery by George Ingels Mil. Store keeper to William Linnard 
Esq Deputy Q. Master for transportation to Lieut II. Johnson, 
Pittsburg 



Packages 


Marks 


Contents 


Hhd No. 1 

2 

3 

Twine 4 

Box 1 


U. s. 

Lieut H. Johnson Pittsburg. . . 

u 
u 

u 
u 


53 Watch Coats 
53 
180 Doz large buttons 

22 Watch Coats 
53 Felling Axes 



 
Invoice Continued 



rack.nj^os 




M: 


rks 


Contents 






U. 


s. 




o 


Lieut H 


Johns 

u 
ti 
a 
u 


on Pittsburg . . . 


52 Felling Axes 


3 


53 


t 


60 


5 


54 


Oct 7 


110 " 55 ea. 


8 to 12.. .. 




u 




270 " 51 ea. 


13 




« 




51 


U c\: 15 ... 




a 




lis " 59 ca. 


16 




a 
a 
u 
u 




52 


17 


53 


18 


55 


19 


19 


IIlul2l 


13 Saddles 










13 Bridles 










13 Halters 










13 Prs Holsters & Caps 










13 Sursingles 










13 Comn. Valises 


22 




« 




12 of each of the above 




(articles) 










12 Nose bags 










12 Currj^ Combs 










12 Horse Brushes 


23 it 26... 




u 




36 Saddles 

36 Bridles 12 of each 

36 Halters 

36 Prs. Holsters tt Caps 

36 Sursingles 

36 Comn Valises 

36 Curry Combs 

36 Horse Brushes 


Hiid.sXo20»'v:.3t; 




u 




151 XoRc bags 

15i Horse brushes 1-10 ea. 

151 Bridles 

154 Halters 

154 Prs. Holsters il- Caps 

154 Saddles in 

154 Sursingles ea. 

151 Comn, Valises Hhd. 


nh.l::'t 








54 Nose bags 



19G INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Invoice Continued 



Packages 



Murks 



Invoice Carried 
Tierce No. 10 
Bblll 



Boxes 42, 43, 41 
IIhdl,2, 3.. 

4 

Bbl5 

Boxes 1 to 8. 

1 to 6.... 

Casks 132 140 
141, 150, 159, 
165, 170, 
131, 151, lis, 
157, 149, 1G8 
One cask No. 

unknowai 
48, 60, 52, 53, 

62,03, 01 

2 



Over. 

U. S. 
Lieut II. Johnson Pittsburg. 



U. S. Pittsburgh 



84, 85 

80 

209 

34 to 45 

95, 90, 97, 123, 

124, 120 

14, 18, 25, 28, 
29,31,32...... 

21 

07 OS, 72, 80, 

81,83,87 

2 at 0, 9, 10. . . . 
1, 2, 11, 12, 16, 
20, 38, 40, 41, 



Six each 



U. S. Pittsburg 



Contents 



18 Ilorsc Ijru.shcs 
202 Curry Combs 
5 Saddles 
5 Bridles 
5 Halters 

5 Prs. Holsters & Cap 
5 Sursingles 
5 Comn. Valises 



200 Horse Cartouch boxes 
& bells 
50 Horse Cartouch boxes 

& bells 
3000 ]Musket Fhits 
300 Cotton Blankets 
20 

100 Sheets 
GO " 
40 boxes medicine and 

Api)aratus 
30 in Splints 



420 Calls Molasses (30 ca) 



SO Gals (20 ea.) 
600 Lbs. Siigav (200 ca.) 
180 " 

300 " nice 
100 " Barley 
250 " 

2 !0 Galls Vinegar (20 ca.) 
ISO " " (30 ea.) 



100 



Spii'if ! 



20 " 




210 " 


(30 ea.) 


110 Gall.s Wini- 


(20 ca.) 


352 " 


(32 ca.) 



 

Invoice Continued 



I'lU'kagOrf 


M.'i 


rks 






Contents 


u.'ir, 


U. S. 1' 


itts 


)U1 


K 




K(Ton 

Hoxc3, 211, 212, 










Spices 

1000 lbs Chocolate (100 ea.) 


2')G, 2".!), 201, 


u 










2ai, 2(1 1, 2(10, 


u 










20'.>, 270 

211, 212, 217, 

221. 22.>> 

22'.l 


a 
u 
a 
u 
« 








325 lbs. Tea (05 each) 
67 « " 


2S() 


Rasins 




26 Packing Ilclds 












2 long W B Tierces 












2 Barrels 












81 Casks for IIosi)ital Stores 












17 Boxes for 



Stores forwardcnl overland & now to be forwarded to the mouth 
of Scioto. 

A Copy 

Test 

Wfilliam] Prince 



198 



LNDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



U. S. ArsiMinl on Schuylkill Soj:)!. Sth 1S12, Invoice of Stores 
for (li-liv.'i-y by (u'0)';j;(' ln;iics r\Iil. Store Keeper to William Linnard 
]:>\. n, i)i. Master to T.i. 11. Johnson. A. D. ()r. blaster Pitt>bur<:h. 



r.'u-iv.'iixos 




Mark.s 


Content,? 






IT. S. 






'l"icrcrs N... 1-0 


\L S 


Lt. U. Jolinson 


ISO Com Tents (20 each) 






PhtslMii-Kh 






Illi-ls " 10. 




K 


192 C. 


B. c^- Belts 


" 11. 




K 


193 " 


a u a 


" 1-2. 




U 


195 " 


II l> u 


13. 




U 


190 




Tirrrcs 11. 




u 


82 




\:,. 




u 


Si 




10. 




u 


SI 




17. 




II 


Si 




IS. 




» 


84 




1<». 




a 


S2 




•JO. 




a 


8.8 




1,. \V. UTicrces 










21. 




u 


S6 




22 




a 


SI 










4 Packed Hhds 








18 Long W. B. Tierces 



N. 15. Part is.-iiKvl «.t Part on hand 



HARUISON: MESSACxES AND LETTERS 109 



r. S. Ars(>nal on Schuylkill Sept. 8th 1812. Invoice of Stores 
f(ir delivery by C(>orge Ingles INIilitary Store KeejK'i' 1o AVilliam 
Liiiiiard }-]r<([. 1). (^r. ]\Ia^5t(T to Lt. II. Johnson A. 1). i}. Master 
i'il(d)ur<;h. 



I'jickafics 


Marks 


Contents 


TicrcrsXo. 1 -D 


U. S. LI. II. Joliiison 
Pittsburgli 


180 Com. Tents 20 cm eh 


]UhU " 10. 


<i 


192 C.B. & Bells 


" 10. 


n 


192 


I ( 




" 12. 


u 


195 




" 


i:'.. 


u 


199 




" 


'I'icrce 11. 


u 


82 


1 1 


( i( 


15. 


a 


81 




" 


IG. 


u 


84 




' " 


17. 


tt 


SI 




" 


18. 


u 


81 


I I 


" 


19. 


K 


82 


1 i 


" 


20. 


tt 


88 




" 


LWli'rier<>f21. 


u 


86 




I « 


22. 


u 


84 « ' 


" 






4 Packed Hhds 






IS Long W. B. Tierces 



X. 15. juirt 



& part on hand 



200 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



r. Stal.^s Anscnal Schuylkill Oct. 9 1S12. 

Invoice of Stoi\s for delivery l)y George Ingels ^Mil. Store 
K'(M'])cr to AVi!Ii:iin Linnnrd Esqr. Deputy Q. ^Master for transpor- 
t:ititiii to Liriil. II. .lohiison Pitt^lniigh. 



Tack ages 




Marks 


Contents 


Jiiu! Xn 1 


U..' 


■^. Lieut. Joliiison 
Pittsburgh 


500 Prs. Shoes 


'I'icrrcH 2-0 






1000 " " (200 ca) 


Uli.l. 7-9.... 






1500 '• " (500 ea) 


•I'lriHi'S 10- !l... 






700 " " (200 ea) 


1-4... 






5600 Socks (1400 ea) 


" o 






1400 " 


f. 






100 « 


l'...\i's 7 ."1. . . 






1200 Muskets (25 each) 


Towiior niihi 








<Kt-loi 






100 Bl)ls Cannon powder 


Ticroc? Xo. 








ir>3& l')G... . 






2000 Prs Socks (1000 ca) 


157.... 






479 Bavonet Scabbards 


15S.... 






200 Belts 

100 " 

SOO Scabbards 


loO.... 






425 Belts 


IVj.... 






313 " 

4 Packed Hhds 
49 long W Bd Tierces 


101.... 






3 short 








1200 Gun slings 








1200 brushes 6c 








1 Long W. Bd Tierce 



X. n. 



P.'irt is.siK-d A: part on hand 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 
(No 13) 

War Department Nov. 5th 1812 

Har. Pa. 39, J,0 

Sir: 

Your Letters of October 22d and 26th [see above] have been 
received. I have had repeated conversations with the Hon. 
[Richard ]\L] Johnson who has communicated more fully j'our 
views and arrangements v/hich are approved. You are au- 
thorized to discharge the whole or any part of the Rangers 
raised in Ohio and Kentucky, whenever their Services are un- 
necessarj' and as the Season is fast approaching when it will 
be difficult for them to subsist their horses and provide ra- 
tions, it is desirable they should be disbanded as soon as the 
State of the service will permit. In all cases where White 
fails in his Contract, or where purchases are made to supply 
his deficiencies, notice should be given to this Department, 
that he may be charged. 

The Miamies as well as the other Indians, must be dealt with 
as their merits or demerits msiy in your judgment require. 
Br. General Wm. H. Harrison, Franklin Ohio. 

Go\nERNOR Shelby to Harrison 

Nov. 7th, 1812 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" page oS 

Dear Sir: I do myself the honor herewith to transmit to 
your Excellency the copy of General [Samuel] Hopkins' offi- 
cial report [see Oct. 6 above] to mo on the subject of the 
volunteer expedition under his command. This event has 
terminated most dishonourably to the volunteers. I have no 
doubt but their refractory conduct in turning l")ack contrary 
to the General's consent will be found to be owing to the secret 
plotting of some who may yet be but little suspected, but who, 
I hope, will be discovered and placed in their true colours. I 
am surprised among the great number of inlluential, eloquent 
and respectable characters who composed the ai-my, that scores 
of them did not turn out of the ranks and exert every power 
to prevent the disgraceful retreat which they were about to 
make. Various gentlemen with whom I have conversed and 
whose duty it was to be near Gen. Hopkins admit that liis 
conduct throughout the whole expedition vras that of an at- 

IG— 22GC1 



 

tentive, vigilant, good officer, yet there are others who to 
screen themselves from the disgrace consequent to the failure 
of the enterprise, are spreading the most unfounded, malicious 
falsehoods against him. 

That your efforts may be crowned with great advantage to 
your country and redound to your own honour is the sincere 
wish of, my dear sir, your friend 

& Mo. Obt. Servt., 

Isaac Shelby 
To General Harrison : 

P. S. It is stated to me by Maj. [William] Trigg, one of 
General Hopkins' aids-de-camp, the General had in contempla- 
tion about this time to make a descent with the infantry 
against the Indian tov/ns up the Wabash. I hope he will yet 
be able to do something to retrieve his own fame. Every 
necessary supply of provision for the enterprise had been or- 
dered on to Fort Harrison before Major Trigg left 
Vincennes. 

Adieu, 

I. Shelby 

Samuel Tupper to Perkins 

Head Quarters Huron IUver Nov 9th 1812 

Har. Pa. 71,5, 7. '.6 

Sir 

It is my duty to state to you that it will be out of the power 
of the Contractor [B. G. Orr and Aaron Greely] to furnish 
the number of Rations required by Gen Harrison. As there 
had been considerable quantities of provisions deposited at 
Sandusky, Miami, River Resin, and Detroit, for th(3 supply 
of the army and as these provisions has fallen into the hands 
of the Enemy in consequence of the Capitulation by Gen Hull, 
and as the Contractor has not received any notice from the 
War department, for any further Supplies; he docs not con- 
sider himself bound by his contract to furnish them. 

He feels confident that a concurancc of circumstances which 
render it impossible (at this late season) to comply with the 
requisition will justify this construction of the Conti'act. The 
navigation of the lakes which have been heretofo]-e employed 
in transporting provisions to the Army, has for several months 
past been exclusively in possession of the Enemy except for 



 

small boats. Tlie ])osts )'cqiiired to be supplied Jj.ive been for 
scvc'i-al moiiths and still continues in possession of the Enemy, 
surrounded by a Wilderness on one hand and a desolate coun- 
try on the other. 

I\Iy instructions from tlie Contractor seems to be dictated 
fi-om a full consideration of all these circumstances. 

It would be beyond my instructions to attempt to supply 
the ai'my at Sandusky or any place beyond. 

I will however in behalf of the Contractor continue to fur- 
nish such quantities of provisions as may be in my power, to 
be delivered in bulk after the army leaves this place, the pub- 
lic paying the expense of transportation of flour and Whisky 
after it passes Cleveland, and this I will continue to do until 
otherwise instructed. In order to give you the best Idea in 
my power, of the situation and quantity of flour and Whisky 
we have on hand. I will state that there are 

In Camp say of Flour 100 Barrels 

on board of boats Whisky & flour 390 
at Erie by best estimation 460 

950 

The flour and Whisky in boats may be expected shortly at 
least the greater part of it. In this case it may be possible 
that they may make another trip to Erie this fall if the weather 
should continue warm — of meat we have enough. 
I am Sir Respectfully Your Obt Servt. 
, For the Contractor 

Signed Saml. TurPER 
Rrigadier Gen Perkins 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No ]9) 



Head Quarters Delaware Nov. 9th 1812 

Har. Pa. 7U1, 71,2 

Si!:: 

I have the Honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters 
of 23 and 24th Ultimo, [see Oct. 23, 21, above] I retui-ned 
li'om lake Erie to this place three or four days ago. I found 
a Detachment of eight hundred Militia under Generals 
[Elijah] Wadswoi'th and [Simon] Perkins encamped near the 
mouth ol' the River Huron and another detachment of five hun- 



 

drcd under General [Ilezin] Bell [Bcall] twelve miles north 
of jMaiisficld. I have ordered the latter to join Gcnl. Wads- 
\\'orth and the whole to proceed to lov^^er Sandusky. This 
r.ri^Mde will be commanded by Gen Perkins, The Pennsyl- 
vania Troops with the Artillery are about this time at ]\Ians- 
f)cl(l, 1 have directed them to move on to upper Sandusky there 
to form a junction with the Virginia Troops Mdio arrived at 
Ibis place on thursday the 61h Inst, but the rains vvliich have 
fallen and Vv'hich have inundated the whole Country Vv^ill pre- 
vent their moving further in advance for four or five days at 
least. This circumstance is to be regretted on some accounts 
but is nevertheless upon the vvdiole highly benificial as it will 
put beyond contingency the success of the Campaign provided 
my ordei's to those to whom the duties of transporting provi- 
sions have been assigned are faithfully executed. Bj'' the next 
]\rail I shall have the Honor to lay before you a full View of 
the Army in every respect. You will get from the Kentucky 
papers the failure of the Expedition under General [Samuel] 
Hopkins, altho this result was entirely unexpected by me and 
must be highly detrimental to our affairs generally, arrange- 
ments have been made to prevent as far as possible its injuri- 
ous effects to the progress of the Army under my command. 
By a letter just received from Col. [William P.] Anderson 
of the 21th Ilegimcnt I learn with I'egi'et that the contrariety 
of the Oi'ders from the Adjutant Generals Office and myself 
liad prevented his executing the former and that he remains 
at Nashville w^aiting for further Instructions. This delay 
ho\vev(!i' allords me an opportunity most ix'spcctfully to re- 
quest your attention to the reasons for producing an o]*der 
for altering his destination for this Army. The reasons are 
tluit almost the whole Army is composed of Militia and the 
teiTn of Service of the greater part will expire soon after they 
will reach their place of destination. The greater part of the 
Tj'oops fj-om this State and those from Pennsylvania and Vir- 
ginia a)e undisciplined and altho the Kentucky Troops and a 
part from this State from a sense of duty v/hich they per- 
fectly understand and the personal Influence which I possess 
over them will march wherever they are ordei'cd yet I <'im 
afraid that the Troops from the other States arc strongly 
tinctured with that abominable principle, that the Militia 
under the Constitution are not bound to act out of the pre- 



-3 

cincts of tlic United States. You will excuse the vrant of 
perspicuity in this letter, I write it under disadvantage of a 
severe tooth ache. 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect your 

obt. Sevt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honbe W. EUSTIS Esq. Secij of War 

Edward Tupper to Harrison 

Camp Near McArthurs [H.ardin Co.] Blockhouse 

Nov 10. 5 Clock ]\Iorning 

Hay. Pa. 7\7, 74 S 

Sir 

Conceiving it would be a. great satisfaction to you and of 
much interest to the service to obtain information of the oper- 
ations of the Enemy at the upper end of Lake Erie I ordered 
Capt Wood who Commands a company of Spies to proceed to 
the Rapids, & if possible bring off a prisoner.^ Capt Hinkton 
returned last evening with Capt Thomas A Clark a british 
Subject, who resides two miles above jNIalden, and was out 
v.ith a party of 500 Indians & about 50 British gathering in 
the corn from the fields at the Rapids. Capt Hinkton was 
but two days in returning to this Camp. The enemy had not 
yet landed excepting a part of the advance, when Capt. Hink- 
ton took the prisoner. They had brought tvv^o gun Boats, one 
Schooner, & six or seven Batteau to transport the corn to 
]Malcien. I wrote Genl Winchester immediately apprising him 
of tliis force, but upon reflection found it vvould require up- 
v.'ards of two days for the Spies to deliver the letter; that it 
would l^e three days or near it before Genl Winchester could 
connnence his march & in that time I could be there with a 
force equal if not superior to that of the Enemy. This, Sir, 
has determined me to order this detacliment to draw five days 
provisions & with their knapsacks and blankets, only, march 
this day for the Rapids. ]\Iy only fear is that it may not meet 

1. "Early in Novomber General TuiJjicr sent out his spy conii-any unckr Captain 
llinV.hton to icconnoitre at the Rapids. The Captain concealed his men on the south- 
fast side of the river wlierc he had discovered a British and Indian encampment in 
the opposite bottom which was an open prairie. Presently a British ofiiccr with a few 
liiilians came over the river and when they had advanced some distance from their 
boat Capt. Hinliston fired on thcin and tool; the ofiicer prisoner." 

McAfee, The Late War, if.S 



 

your entire approbation. But considei'ing' it of the utmost 
foiisoQucnce if possible to save that forage — That a day was 
all in')])o]'tant, Tliat our Troops were anxious to hazard the 
fatigues and danger of the expedition & that from the infor- 
mation of Capt Clark (upon the truth of which I assured him 
his life depended) we might in all probability sui-prise the 
(•nemy; These considerations have induced me to take upon 
myself the responsibility of the moment. I take with me one 
field piece, a light six pounder, drawn by six active horses. 
11" ^\•e find this force there I am in hopes those Gun Boats will 
not get an opportunii.v of returning to IMalden. I send Capt 
Clark to you in the Charge of Mr. Selby. 
I am very respectfully 

Signed 

Edw W. Tupper B. Gen 
Genl W H Harrison Com in Chief N W Army 

Edward Tupper to Harrison 

(B) (Extract) 

Camp at Army, Nov. 10th 1812 

Har. Pa. 7h'3-h 

Ilis Excellency Wm H. Harrison, Esq. 
Sir, 

Inclosed [see Nov. 9 above] is a Duplicate of a communica- 
tion received from S[amuel] Tupper Esq. Agent for the con- 
tractor i\I. Porter, which I deem of importance to advise you 
of immediately. Mr. Tupper arrived in Camp on the sixth 
inst. and lamented that he could not have seen you since his 
return. I have conversed with him sundry times on the sub- 
ject of furnishing the Troops at Sandusky with provision, and 
have at length obtained this statej-nent and have made no 
agreement to his i^roposals of paying for transportation from 
Cleaveland — not feeling myself authorized to vary an existing 
contract; However improper it may be in ordinary cases to 
pay a man a premium on his own contract, it may in this 
l.)ei'haps be advisable to make some allowance on condition of 
oxti-a exertion — but of this you will judge and please to advise. 
^Ii-. Tupper has not received any instructions from Islx. Porter 
since you was hei-e, and not knowiiig what Mr. Porter will 
advise he (W. Tupper) will continue to forward on provision 



 

iintill otherwise instructed. I have offered to afford to Mr. 
Tapper eveiy aid in my power by assisting him v/ith men for 
his boats '■■' *. I feel mortified to inform you that 1 am still 
at Huron, and think it will be several days before any move- 
ment will be made toward Sandusky. 

The delay is by Genl. [Elijah] Wadsw^orth deemed neces- 
sary in order to hold a Court Martial on Genl. [Reazin] Beall, 
and a Court will not be convened before tomorrow, as Genl. 
W. is disposed to have all the field officers in the Detachment 
on the Court, and Col. Andrews will not be in camp sooner. 

No unnecessary delay shall be made after the command is 
committed to me, and to have that done as expeditiously as 
possible, I have not at any time, neglected to urge it; but 
Genl. Wadsv/orth's opinion as expressed is, that there is now 
no duty to be attended to so important as this trial. A Scout 
has been to Sandusky who report that, there is now there a 
considerable quantity of corn, one or tv\^o thousand Bushels 
of which I hope to secure. I have proposed to send out a 
Detachment of 100 or 150 men to take provision and secure the 
property which will I fancy be done in a few days, and if w^e 
meet with no unexpected delay in the Court Martial will make 
a general movement for Sandusky in six or eight days — a 
party are now out exploring and marking the road.^ 

Glegg to Baynes 

York 11th Nov. 1812 

Wood, Canudiun War of 1812, If 19 

My Dear Sir, 

At the request of Mr. Robert Dickson^ the bearer of this 
letter who intends proceeding immediately to Montreal on his 
private affairs, I take the liberty of giving him an introduc- 
tion to you, in order that previous to his being presented to 
His Excellency, some interesting particulars may be made 
known through your obliging communication. 

Mr. Dickson is closely connected with the most respectable 

1. There is some difficulty in ttiosc letters. Gen. Edward Tuppcr writes from 
McArthur's Blockhouse, Nov. 10, and also from what seems to be "Camp of Army" 
on the same day. Most probably the address "McAithur's L'iochhouse" is wronj,^. Ed- 
ward Tupper enclosed Samuel Tuppor's letter to Han-ison, who enclosed a copy of it 
to the war department. 

1. Kolx;rt Dickson was an unofficial representative of the British inteicsts aniomr 
the Northwest Indians. His headquarters were at Maiden but he traded j)ijiK-ipally 
from Michillinriacinac. 



 

families in iliis Province, who have invariably shewn them- 
selves sincere and zealous friends to His Majesty's Govern- 
ment. 

The Gentleman in question, has resided for a number of 
years in the character of a mercantile Trader in the Western 
Territorj^ and owing to his influence and assistance with the 
powerful Tribes of Indians some impoit'tant services have been 
perfomied for the British cause. His influential Interest with 
the Western Indians has been repeatedly acknowledged by this 
Government, and his efforts in having decided that much in- 
jured race of Aborigines to abstain from hostilities with tlie 
United States have been well knowai here and duly acknowl- 
edged. During the month of Fe. 1812, existing circumstances 
made it highly necessary to ascertain the sentiments and in- 
tentions of the Western Indians. Promises of their continued 
forbearance had been constantly made thro' the Agents of the 
Indian Department, but it was much apprehended by my 
vigilant and ever to be lamented friend (Brock), that the 
attack made by General Harrison's army upon the Shawnese 
Indians assembled under the Prophet on the Wabash on the 
7th Nov. 1811 [Battle of Tippecanoe] might possible produce 
some spirit of retaliation — It now became an object of con- 
siderable importance to open a communication without loss of 
time, with the neighbouring Indians bordering on the ]\Iisisipi. 

No doubt could be then entertained of the premeditated de- 
struction of the Indians by the Americans, and that merely 
because they had presumed to continue to establish themselves 
in the peaceful occupations of their native woods and villages. 
The most prompt measures were immediately adopted by the 
head of this Government, in conformity with the repeated In- 
structions of His Excellency and those of His Predecessor 
Sir James Ci'aig, to prevent, by every possible exertion, the 
threatening flame from reaching our Frontier. 

Mr. Dickson's influence with the Indians being well known, 
the advantage of immediately opening a communication with 
him became obvious, and the accompanying paper (number I) 
was depatched to him early in february last by two confiden- 
tial Indians. Mr. Dickson was then at the Portage called 
Ouisconsin which is about one hundred and eighty miles from 
the IMississipi and the same distance from LaBaie, about 800 
miles from Amherstburg. He was then employed in admin- 



 

istering in his mercantile capacity, to the severe distresses of 
their women and children who were literally languishing for 
want of food & clothing, ov/ing to our supplies having been 
discontinued and to the severity of the season. 

I\Ir. Dickson received the enclosed paper (No. 1) early in 
May and immediately replied to it (No. 2). Previous to this 
date Mr. Dickson had observed an unusual degree of activity 
in the American Agents who were then residing amongst the 
Indians, and having ascertained that presents Vv^ere daily dis- 
tributed by these people, which by the bye was a novel cir- 
cumstance, he made immediate inquiry, and was informed by 
some of the Principal Chiefs, that the American Agents, had 
been directed by their Government, to invite some of their 
leading wariors from each nation, to pay an early visit to 
Washington. A combination of various circumstances left 
no doubt in the mind of Mr. Dickson, that all this was intended 
as a prelude to more important events. His first endeavour 
was to dissuade the Chiefs from listening to the invitation of 
the American Government, and to point out the imminent 
danger of the p)'oposed alliance. Mr. Dickson fully succeeded 
in every object, and he received the strongest assurance of 
friendship and suppor in the cause of their Father the British 
Monarch, whenever circumstances should render their assist- 
ance necessary. Soon after this communication passed, in- 
telligence reached the Wabash Indians, that General Hull with 
an army of tv/o thousand men v»^as on his march to Detroit. 
The Shawnese and other nations voluntarily offered to attack 
him on his route, but were still induced to desist from it, by 
the repeated entreaties of the friends and Agents of Die Brit- 
ish Government. 

It is however a well known fact, that General Hull's move- 
ments were all closely watched by Tecumpthsey's confidential 
Scouts, v/ho were considered and received by the American 
General as friends attached to their Interest. At the capure 
of ]\Iichilimackinac, T\Tr. Dickson took an active part, and his 
services on that occasion, have been honorably I'ccoi-ded by 
Captain Roberts. After the surrender of that Post, an Ex- 
pedition \yc\^ immediately formed (at the solicitation of JMajor 
General Brock) by the Gentlemen of the "Northw^'st" and 
"Southwest" companies then assembled at Michilimackinac, to 
cooperate with the Force then contemplated to be employed 



 

against Detroit. So imperious however, was the necessity for 
despatch, in carrying this operation into execution, that the 
expedition under Major General Brock reached its destination 
and succeeded in its object, before the Indians intended for 
assistance, could form a junction with our little army. The 
intelligence of their approach had however reached the Enemy, 
and I have particular reason for knov/ing, that this circum- 
stance produced very considerable influence in the final nego- 
tiation. 

In justice to the memory of our lamented friend Major Gen- 
eral Brock, and in obedience to what I am confident, would 
have been his intentions I have taken the liberty of troubleing 
you with this confidential communication, which j^ou will be 
pleased to make use of, as your superior Judgment and dis- 
cretion may point out. I am not aware of Mr. Dickson's im- 
mediate views in soliciting an interview with His Excellency, 
but I have a perfect knowledge that there is no Gentleman 
in this Province more capable than himself of giving accurate 
information respecting the Western Indians than himself, and 
I am authorized in saying, that had General Brock survived 
the late contest, he intended pointing out Mr. Dickson to the 
notice of His Majesty's Government, as a Gentleman \vho by 
his zealous and faithful service has proved himself deserving 
of their special protection. 

I remain My Dear Sir With much esteem 
very faithfully yours 

J. B. Clegg C«pf. J^9th Regt. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No 20) 



Head Quarters Franklinton 15 Nov. 1812 

Har. Pa. 7A9-765 

Sir, 

I arrived here from Delaware three days ago for the pur- 
pose of meeting Col. [James] Morrison and to make some 
other arrangements which shall be explained in the course of 
this communication. Upon the day of my arrival, the enclosed 
letter [see Nov. 10, above] from Genl [Edward] Tupper was 
received. The movement wl^ich he has made is extremely 
hazardous. It was not possible to send him a reinforcemeent 
of mounted men from hence in time to render him any service. 



 

1 liope however that Genl. Winchester will have descended the 
]\Iiami as soon as the intelh'gence from Genl Tupper reaches 
him. An Express was also immediately dispatched to Genl 
[Simon] Perkins apprising him of the landing of the British 
at the Rapids and directing his advance. Genl. Tupper has 
with him less than seven hundred men, but they are all Volun- 
tcei's from his Brigade. They therefore, no doubt are deter- 
mined fellows and I have much confidence in the Genl's 
Talents. 

I have received no information from Genl. [Samuel] Hop- 
kins but there is no doubt of the complete failure of the 
mounted expedition [up the Wabash] under his command and 
that measures must be immediately taken to prevent the evils 
which will otherwise flow from it. As soon as the information 
reached me I determined to direct an Expedition against the 
Lliami Town of Mississineway. The situation of this tovv^n 
as it regards one of my lines of operation even if the hostility 
of the inhabitants was less equivocal would render a measure 
of this kind highly proper, but from the circumstance of Genl. 
Hopkins failure, it has become indispensible. Relieved from 
the fears excited by the late inva: 'on of their country, the In- 
dians from the Upper part of the Illinois river to the South of 
Lake jNIichigan will direct all their efl'orts against Fort Wayne 
and the Convoys which are to follow the track of the left wing 
of the Army. Mississineway will be their rendezvous v\'hGre 
they will receive provisions & every assistance they may re- 
quire for any hostile enterprise. From that place they can 
by their runners ascertain the period at which every Convoy 
may set out from St. ]\Tary's and with certainty intei'cept it 
previously to its arrival at the j\Iiami Rapids. But that place 
being broken up and the provisions destroyed there will be 
nothing to subsist any body of Indians nearer tlian the 
Potawatamie Towns upon the waters of the St. Joseph's of 
Lake Michigan. The Troops destined for the ]\Iississineway 
Expedition are the Dragoons belonging to my army with the 
addition perhaps of a single Company of mounted Volunteers. 
The Dragoons will amount to about six hundred — but the 
greater part of them are to be relied upon. The Expedition 
will be commanded by Lt. Col [John B.] Campbell of the 19 
Regt. He has not military experience but is brave, sensible 
& judicious and will be ably seconded by the talents & expe- 



212 INDIANA HISTOriCAL COLLECTIONS 

ricncc of I\rajor [James V.] Ball. I am confidoiil that you 
will not hear of anj^ retrogade inovement upon the part of this 
detachment until the object upon which they are sent is ac- 
complished. 

]My preparations for the principal object of the Campaign 
are progressing, not however with the rapidity consonant to 
my wishes and I think I may say, to my personal exertions. 
For the route of the Left Wing of the Army upwards of a 
million of rations of flour have been provided. When I had 
last a report 75,000 were at Defiance, 30,000 on packhorses 
going to that place and near to it, 120,000 at St. ?.Iary's, 
200,000 at Piqua, 100,000 between the latter place & Dayton 
going on in waggons and the balance at Lebanon, Franklin & 
other places on the big Miami. There ought also to be at Fort 
Jenning's 30 or 40,000 Rations. The great defect is in the 
means of transportation. Almost all of the fine teams vrhich 
were brought from Kentucky have been worn dovrn and dis- 
charged and the greater part of the pack horses are in the 
same situation and the roads have become almost impassable 
for waggons. Foreseeing this I early turned my attention 
towards the providing of water Transport. Something con- 
siderable has been done in this way, but by no means equal 
to my expectations and the orders I had given. At St. ]\Iary's 
a boat and some perogues were prepared and will have left 
that place on the 12 or 13 with nearly four hundred barrels 
a part of which will be left at Fort V>^ayne and the balance 
taken on to Defiance (Fort Winchester). At the latter place 
boats a.nd perogues capable of transporting 350 or 400 Barrels 
were prepared on the 5th of this month and others were pro- 
gressing at Col Jennings' block-house also several batteau were 
in considerable state of forwardness. All these were I hope 
& expect ordered up the Auglaise upon the first rise of the 
water to take in loading at Tawa Town, which is only fourteen 
miles from St. IMary's. T^Ir. Piatt also informs me that a part 
of the Hour purchased on the ]\Iiami has been ordered up the 
river in boats to Loramies. If these means are pushed in the 
manner that they may be, I expect in two weeks to have at 
Fort Winchester 500,000 Rations of flour, whisky & small 
parts with Salt to lay down the I\Ieat part of the Rations to- 
gether with all the Quarter I\iastei-'s stores & clotlrlng which 
hiive been prepared for that wing. On the route of the Centre 



HArvRISOX: MESSAGES AXD LETTERS 213 

Column by Urbana, there were on the 10 Inst, at McArtluir's 
Block house forty four miles in advance of Urbana, 200,000 
Rations of flour whisla* and small parts deposited there by 
the Deputy Commissary [John H.] Piatt with salt sufncient 
to lay down the ^Meat part of the Ration to that amount. Of 
the supplies ordered to be furnished by ^^Nlajor [Ebenezer] 
Denny there are now at Delaware tAventy five miles above this 
place Six hundred Barrels of flour; at Norton twelve miles 
farther 100 Barrels & four or five Hundred are ready at the 
i\lills below this. 

Having been informed in the latter end of September by 
Governor ]\Ieigs that the Contractor ]\Ir. [John P. B.] Porter 
had declared his inability to supply provisions for the Army 
as long as the Lake was controled by the Enemy, I thought it 
unnecessary to call upon him. Finding however that small 
boats were permitted to pass safely from Presquile to Huron, 
I addressed a letter to him upon my arrival at Genl. Perkins' 
Camp requiring him if possible to send on 500,000 Rations in- 
stead of the 200,000 which had been demanded of him by Genl. 
[Elijah] Wadsworth and which he had positively promised 
that oflicer to supply. The enclosed copy of a letter [see Nov. 
9 & 10, above] from his agent (B) will shew that he has de- 
termined not to suppl}^ the Rations which he promised and 
vrhich he has on the margin of the Lake miless he is paid an 
advanced price for bringing it above Cleveland. I have di- 
rected Genl. [Simon] Perkins to get hold of the flour if pos- 
sible and leave it to be settled for by the Governinent. There 
is no difficulty in procuring the ^Meat part of the Ration and 
I have taken care to have salt provided for laying it dov.m. It 
will be driven to the Rapids of ^liami and then salted, For 
which Genl Winchester and Genl Perkins have been directed 
to providf^- materials for Barrels. 

I do not think that it will be safe to advance from the I\Iiami 
Rapids until vre can have there one ]\Iillion of Rations. Of 
these I calculate 500,000 to be taken by the route of the left 
wing. The 200,000 at ]\IcArthur's Blockliouse can be trans- 
ported at three trips by six hundred pack horses and I calcu- 
late upon getting to the Lower Sandusky by the means now 
providing hero 300,000 Rations. The Deposits directed to be 
made by Major White at ]\Ic Arthur's Block house at Fort 
Jenning's, & at Upper Sandusky and by i\Ir. Porter at Lower 



 

Sandusky are not to be relied upon. A part "\vill however be 
received, suflicient perhaps to supply what may fall short in 
my calculations from the Commissary's Department. You 
can scarcely form an idea, Sir, of the difhculty with v\^hich land 
transportation is eflectcd north of the fortieth degree of Lati- 
tude in this countiy. The Country beyond that is almost a 
continued swamp to the Lakes. When the streams run 
parallel to your course a small strip of bettor ground is gen- 
erally found. But in crossing from one river to another the 
greater part of the Vv'^ay at this season is covered with water. 
Such is actually the situation of that space between the 
Sandusky & the Miami Rivers and from the best in.formation 
I could acquire whilst I was at Huron, the road over it must 
be causewayed at least half the way. This dihlculty great as 
it may seem is not however insuperable. The timber of the 
proper size grows so thick upon it that Genl Perkins & other 
persons accustomed to that kind of v/ork assure me that a 
CausevN^ay sufficiently wide for the purpose can be made there 
with as much ease as a road of four Rods wide can be opened 
& cleared in heavy timbered Up-Land. Genl. Perkins has 
undertaken to effect it with his Brigade and Governor Meigs 
has agreed that the money which has been appropriated by 
Government for making the road in that direction shall be 
distributed amongst his men. If this plan should fail there 
is yet another way to go from the Lower Saiidusky to the 
]\Iiami Rapids. The Isthmus which connects the Sandusky 
Peninsula to the Main is much narrower than is laid dov/n on 
the map and is much nearer to the foi'mer factoi-y at Sandusky 
Rapids — in fact it is but a mile & one half from tlie Bay to the 
]\Iouth of Portage River on the lake & from thence to the 
Miami Bay 18 or 20 miles. Throughout this distance the 
Swamp borders on the beach of the Lake — but the boach itself 
is a beautiful sand and sufficiently firm it is supposed, neiir llie 
water to bear Waggons. From the mouth of the Miami Bay 
to the Rapids the ground is good. I have sent to Clevelard to 
purchase some boats that are there and have directed them 
to be loaded with anything that can be procured fo)- llie sub- 
sistence of tlie Army or the horses belonging to it. I had 
calculated ui)on drawiiig a considerable quantity of forage 
from the Connecticut Reserve but am informed the suj)ply to 
be obtained there is very limited. 



 

Tlic ^'irfiinia Brigade has been for some days at Delaware, 
rroviously to their arrival there, Deserters had been very 
common. Ten or twelve had gone off in one night. The dis- 
satisfaction vras supposed by the Genl. & field officers to be 
produced by tlie want of clothing, particularly blankets. I 
have at the instance of their Commander agreed that they 
sh;ill remain there until blankets shall arrive which have been 
sent for and are novr coming on from Cincinnatti. The delay 
is productive of no injury to the Service as the Contractors are 
not ready for them at Upper Sandusky and I employ detach- 
ments f j'om them to improve the road in their front and rear. 
The Pennsylvanic'. Brigade will arrive at iMansfield today. Its 
march has been retarded by High waters which has also sub- 
jected them to some little embarassment on the scoj'e of pro- 
visions. They will proceed the more direct route to Upper 
Sandusky and be there joined by the Virginia Troops. The 
]-oad which v^as ordered to be opened to Lower Sandusky by 
Governor ^vleigs has not been effected through the obstinacy of 
Genl. [Elijah] Wadsworth. Indeed the old Gentleman with 
the best intentions and animated by the most ardent patriotism 
has done much mischief. He has arrested Genl. [Reazin] 
Beall for obeying the Governor's orders with respect to open- 
ing the road to Sandusky and is delaying the march of the 
Detachmt under Genl. [Simon] Perkins for the purpose of 
trying him. To put a stop to his farther interferences I have 
])rocured an order from Governor ]\Ieigs &, Genl. Perkins no 
longer to regard the directions of Genl. Wadsworth. 

Col. [James] ]\Iorrison arrived here yesterday. He is very 
uneasy upon the subject of funds for his Dc^partment. I fear 
Si]", that the Expenses of this Expedition will greatly exceed 
the calculations which have been made the grounds for the 
appropriations of funds for the Quarter I\Iaster's use. A 
single fact will at once shew the difliculty of the undertaking 
and the expense which vrill attend it. We are now purchas- 
ing corn here to be transported in Waggons to Upper 
Sandusky. Col. I\Iori'ison believes that it will require two 
v»'aggons with corn to support their ox teams & one other with 
flour to that place & back again and yet there must be a de- 
posit there for the support of all the horses & oxen of the 
Ordinance, Quarter I\Iasters & Commissary's Departments in 
the advance of the Army from thence & which must amount 



 

to at least two thousaiid. The object to be accomplislied is 
however considered of great national importance & expense 
must not be regarded. The Government may however be per- 
fectly satisfied tliat every Dollar that is appropriated will be 
faithfully and as economically employed as possible. The long- 
experience of Col. Morrison in affairs of this kind is a pledge 
for the former as his high character and unblemished reputa- 
tion is for the latter. 

It will be im])ossible to use the Dragoons in the advance 
to Detroit this Winter from the w^ant of forage. I shall es- 
tablish their Quarters in tin? heart of the settled Country, 
where forage is very cheap and employ them in desultory ex- 
peditions. In this manner they may be eminently useful, in 
a short time it will be an elegant Corps. Capt [Samuel 
Goode] Hopkins has an Hundred men in his troops. ]\Iajor 
[James V.] Ball informs me that Capt. [Alexander] Cum- 
mings^ is at Pittsburgh with Eight or ten. If he were to 
come on here, with those &, tlie surplus of Hopkins; a com- 
plete Ti-oop could be formed for him. Will you be pleased to 
order him to do so. I am persuaded that a body of Dragoons 
employed in the mamier that I propose will bo not only more 
useful but more economical than the Mounted rdflcmcn pro- 
cunxl in this Country. 

Sii-, I liavc the honor to be With great respect & regard 
Yr Hble Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The I-Ionble Wm. EuyTLS Esq Secretai-y of War 

P. S. C(»l. [James] ?\Iorrison has just called & infoims mo 
that the corn which has been forw^arded from this jilace to 
Delaware has avei'aged one Dollar & fifty cents p. TJusliel. 

Edward TurrER to Harrison 
(C^opy) 

Camp near LIcArtiiur's Block House, Nov. 16, 1812 

liar. I'll. 7?fi-7!<i) 

Sir; 

IMy letter of the lOtli instant informed you of my pj-epara- 
tion to march that day to the Rapids, in conscquciice of the in- 
formation I obtained of the prisoner, Capv. Clarjc. I am sorry 

1. Alexander CummiiiKS was boiii in IichiTid: cnlislcd lir.hl iliajto'.ns frma ]'ii. 
May 3, IbUl ; made a capt. Nov. 1, ISU; fcwved till Dec. 1, ISJO; died Jan. \',\. IblJ. 



 

to inform you, that I have not succeeded to the extent of my 
expectations ; though I am convinced the movement will prove 
beneficial to the service. 

On the morning of the 1011 1, about eleven o'clock, we moved 
from this Camp, with a force consisting of 604 men, exclusive 
of officers, with one light six-pounder, the soldiers cariying 
in their knapsacks five days provisions. Owing to the state 
of the roads, I soon found the field-piece could not be carried 
forward without retarding our march. I left it at the block- 
house, 15 miles in advance. 

On the eveiiing of the loth, we reached Caiion [Cai'rying] 
river (about 18 miles from the Rapids). I ordered Capt. 
Hinkton to proceed that night to examine the situation of the 
enemy; Capt. Hinkton met me the next day about five miles 
from the Rapids, with the information that the enemy still 
occupied the Rapids, and that the boats and vessels lay a little 
below. I detained the troops till sunsetting, so as not to fall 
in with their daily scouts, and proceeded in the evening to 
the ford, about two and a, half miles above the Rapids ; I there 
again halted, while Capt. Hinkton and Wood of the spies pro- 
ceeded down and examined the exact situation of the encamp- 
ments of the enemy. At nine o'clock they returned and gave 
me the necessary information ; they were encamped in a body 
above the Bougron's house, wei'e engaged in dancing and (as 
they concluded) drinking. I immediately ordered the troops 
to prepare to cross the river to attack the enemy at the dawn 
of day. 

Colonel Safi'ord, who commanded the second regiment, I 
ordered to proceed, marching by the loft flank in single files; 
colonel [John] Miller, commanding the third regiment, fol- 
lowed in the same order; major Galloway, who commanded a 
battalion of the first regiment, I ordered to march thirty paces 
to the left, so as to act as a reserve as circumstances might re- 
quire, the two regiments being suOicientto form a line to enclose 
the enemy with the river. Evei'y oflicer had been instructed 
in his duty, and every soldier ordered to leave the ranks, who 
felt an unwillingness to pass over, that our situation would 
admit of no retreat, and that when vt had gained the other 
shore, they had only to clioose between victory and death. 
The soldiers cheei'fully took up the line of inarch. Though I 
had ordei'od the fords examined, I liad still fears, whetlier the 

17— 226C'l 



218 INDIANA IIISTOIIIGAL COLLECTIONS 

iViOi'. could resist tlio current — ih.ey had iindierg-oric a fatiguing 
i-)iartli, iiad tlH:'"a lay od the ground vritliout fires nearly thj-ee 
hours, the wind blov, ing almost a gaU^ from the north-west. 
Tliougli the soldiers were shivering with cold, they did not 
hesitate to attempt the fo^^rd. I piocecded over with the first 
section, instructing them to lock arms to resist tlie current. 
A part of the first company passed over in safety; but scarcely 
liad tlicy reached the shore, when a cry of "help, I am drowri- 
ing," was heard fi'om the companies in the rear. The current 
Yv'as sv/eeping the men down the llapids in spite of the exer- 
tions OL those who were stronger aiid better able to resist it. 
The levv' horses vre had wx^re sent in to save the men, and 
fortunately suc<-c;eded; about ten gu}is vs^ere lost, and the 
greater ])art Oi the ammunition of the miishet men entirely 
destroyed. I n- xt attempted to bring the men over on horses, 
but owing to their being weak, many of the liorses were sv/ept 
from their feet, and their riders th.rown into the current. I 
soon found that it ^vould not be possible to cross the v;hole 
force before day-light; and some, W'hen over, they would not 
be in a condition to contend with a force of tvro-tbirds their 
nurntjers. I was very reluctantly compelled to stop tlie pass- 
ing over of tlio men, and send back such as had crossed. This 
occupied us till 3 o'clock in the morning. I immediately or- 
dered the wet aru'is to be dried, and caused cai'tridges to be 
taken from the men v.dio had not been in the I'iver and dis- 
tributed to those v.diose cartridges had been wet. 

In the r,"iorning, convinced we were unable to get at the 
enciuy, I ordon.'d the spies to endeavour to decoy thciu ovei-; 
they proceeded dovni and discovered themselves; about 1-3 
came over, but they were so cautious as not to be (h'a.v.'n witliin 
our lines. The spies, however, wounded two of them. After 
finding they w^ere not coming over v/ith any considerable force, 
I ma]'ched down and showed the heads of our columns oppo- 
site their encampment at Bou.gron's. They appeared in con- 
siderable disorder, as the advanced guard o])eiied from the 
Vvoods. The Britisli, who were in the vessels and boats, im- 
mediately cut loose and proceeded down the river. The women 
v.'crc seen running off, on tlie road leading to Deti'oit; tlie men 
commenced a fire towards us. The Indiaiis sliowi-d a force of 
between foin- and five hundi'cd; every one discharged his 
piece; Tliey had one piece of artillery which they discharge,.; 



HARBISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 219 

from its report I considered it a four-pounder. After a num- 
ber of challeng-es for them to cross over by our men, I ordered 
the march back to our encampment, having previously ob- 
served a number of Indians mounting their horses and tak- 
ing the direction of the foard. When within about one mile 
of our encampment, some of the soldiers without permission 
and contrary to orders, fired upon a gang of Hogs from the 
rear of the right column, and pursued them nearly half a 
mile; at the same time, 8 or 10 men, without my knowledge 
left the ranks and entered a field to gather corn. At this 
moment a body of mounted Indians came upon them, and killed 
four men; and then rode violently up to the right flank and 
commenced an attack. I ordered the right column thrown 
back and commenced a brisk fire, at the same time advancing 
upon them, they gave the ground ; but in a few minutes rallied, 
and passing along our van-guard, made a violent charge upon 
the rear of the left column. This was thrown briskly back, 
and resisted every attempt to break the lines. In 20 minutes 
they were driven from the field. Conceiving that the attack 
by this force of mounted men was but to get our troops into 
disorder, to make room for an attack of their foot, I ordered 
the right column to move up into marching order, lest that 
attack should be made on our right flank. This column had 
scarcely regained their position, when major Beasly, who com- 
manded a battalion on that flank, sent and informed me that 
the Indians were crossing the river in considerable numbers 
at the head of the column. I immediately ordered the left 
column to resume their marching order, and proceeded to the 
head of the right column, which was nearly up to the ford. 
I found a number of Indians had crossed on horseback ; some 
in the middle of the river crossing, and about two hundred 
still on the opposite bank. I ordered major Bently to advance 
with his Battalion and dislodge them. In this he succeeded 
in a few minutes ; several of them v/ere shot from their horses 
while crossing the river. I observed them floating down the 
Rapids at a distance belovv^ their horses. The sun at this time 
was setting. 

The Indians which had made the attack upon our rear, 
crossed at a ford below the rear of our columns. We had but 
one man touched by a bullet in our lines, and he but slightly ; 
one of our spies was also wounded. A number of Indians 
were shot from their horses. They, with great dexterity. 



 

threw them on again and carried them off the field ; from the 
information of a number of men on whom I can rely, as well 
as from what I was witness to, from 15 to 20 Indians were 
carried off, either killed or disabled. Split Log, mounted on 
an active white horse, led. on tlie several attacks at the com- 
mencement. His horse was well trained; he sometimes fired 
from him, and at other times leaped from him behind a tree. 
At some of the last attacks another rider was mounted on 
that horse, when the horse was wounded and taken from the 
field. Colonel Elliot was along our rear and right column, 
at about 300 yards distance; he was well known by several 
persons in our lines. The Indians' horses were very different 
from such as I have been accustomed to see them riding; they 
were high and active. They were also supplied with pistols 
and holsters. I have reason to believe the whole force of the 
enemy was very little, if any, inferior to our own; of this I 
was well convinced from the information of captains Hinkton 
and Wood, who examined the number of their files before we 
attempted to cross; but from the advantage we had gained 
by our approach, and the determined spirit of the soldiers, I 
felt not the least hesitation in attacking them; and well am 
I convinced that nothing but the situation of the river pre- 
vented our making a complete slaughter of their whole force, 
and securing the gunboats and batteaux loading with com. 

From the time that had elapsed after Gen. Winchester must 
have received my letter inforaiing him of the force at the 
Rapids I had every reason to expect he would have ordered 
down a sufficient number of troops to maintain that post or 
rout the enemy. On the morning of the 14th I sent an ex- 
press to him stating the impossibility of my crossing; that my 
troops were out of provisions and that I could not attempt to 
continue longer than the next day at that place. Whether he 
has sent down a force I know not. 

The troops under my command had consumed their provi- 
sions some on the evening of the 13th and all on the 14th, and 
had then a distance of 40 miles to travel back before there 
was a possibility of supply. I was therefore compelled to 
abandon a position I felt rayself fully able to maintain. 

It is a duty, sir, I owe both to the officers and soldiers, to 
say that they have performed this march through roads, al- 
most impassable, wet and deep; they have marched late and 



 

early; have endured wet, cold, and hunger, without a murmur 
or a complaint. They have at all times cheerfully sought the 
enemy, and when engaged and commanded to charge them 
have rushed upon them at full speed. 

The enemy had gathered very little of the corn from the 
fields on this side of the Rapid, and I have reason to believe 
they took but little off on their boats ; what quantity remains 
on the other shore, I am not able to determine. 

The troops encamp this evening 10 miles from this place. 
I left them this morning, at 10 o'clock; they will arrive in the 
course of the day [or] to-morrow, when they will have per- 
formed a march of one hundred and sixty miles in eight days, 
one of which was spent in manoeuvring and contending with 
the enemy. I am, very respectfully, etc.^ 

Edward W. Tupper 
Brig. Gen. Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No 21) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 17 Nov 1812 

Har. Pa. 766-767 

Sib 

I have heard nothing since my last from General [Edward] 
Tupper. 

I have the honor to enclose you a letter [see Nov. 3 above] 
lately received from Lieut. [H.] Johnson the Assistant Qr. 
Master Pittsburg. It is in answer to a complaint which I 
had equally made of Major [Amos] Stoddard Lieut [James 
W.] Bryson and himself upon my want of information as to 
the State of the supplies under their care, and directing them 
to send me weekly statements of every thing received, for- 
warded and on hand. From both the other officers, I received 
polite and satisfactory answers. Mr. Johnson alone has 
thought proper not only to be very insolent upon the occasion, 
but instead of the documents required to send me these of 
which copies are herewith inclosed. One principal object 
with me in giving the direction was to know when & where 
I might expect the articles which I wanted. 

1. This is published in the Historical Rcyislcr II, 11,0, with the omission of the 
reference to Gen. Winchester. This criticism applies to a great many of the official 
papers published in all contemporary publications. Thoy were pretty closely censored. 
Winchester arrived at Tapper's camp soon after the latter left. 

McAfee, The late War. 171-2, 



 

The infoi-mation could not as you may suppose be obtained 
by such remarks as lie has made Viz : "Forwarded over land 
in part the to the mouth of Scioto" and "a part is- 

sued and a part on hand". The fact is that at the time of 
receiving- his communication I was unable to tell where I was 
to send for certain articles which were much wanted. 

Gun slings for instance were required for the mounted ex- 
pedition. I knew that they had been at Pittsburg, but was 
at a loss to know whether I was to send to Mansfield or to 
the mouth of Scioto for them. I know not what can be Mr, 
Johnson's motive for this conduct. But it is certain if per- 
sisted in it cannot fail to do great injury to the service if not 
entirely defeat the Campaign. He caimot plead ignorance be- 
cause he received (as the Major informs) written instructions 
from Major [Amos] Stoddard. I have been informed that 
Mr. Johnson without ever having seen me and before I had 
any communication with him had been pleased to express the 
most unfriendly disposition towards me. I am how^ever dis- 
posed to pass over his improper conduct upon receiving as- 
surances that it will not be repeated. 

This declaration I suppose he will make upon being in- 
formed by you that his continuance in a station so important 
to the army I command will depend upon my view of the 
propriety with wiiich he discharges its duties. 

I have the honor to be With Great Respect Sir 
Your Humble Servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honorable William Eustis Secretary of War 
City Washin^on 

McJuNKiN Ferriage 

November 1812 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 

I do Certefy that Mr. CcJunkins ferry man on White River 
Did on the eighteenth of November eighteen hundred and 
twelve Did ferry over white River eighteen men and horses 
in the Service of the united States 

Joseph IMontgomery Capt 2B U Regt In Millitki 

November the 20 1812 

This is to Certifi that John McYunkin has ferried five of my 



 

Company of Mounted INIolitia Cald in to sel•^ds by General 
John Gibson acton govner on There way to vincin. The 18 
of this Instant givin onder niy hand 

Thos Spencer C'p't 3 B J^ Rcgi I M 

November the 18—1812 

this is to sertify that John IMcJunkin has ferried forty too of 
my Company of IMounted I\Iilitia Called in to servis by John 
Gibssons Acting as govorner on there way to vincins Given 
under My hand 

Gs Wiggins Cajit 

November the 19th 1812 

A Detachment of Captain John Milburns Company Consisting 
of 19 Mounted Men Ordered in to the Service of the United 
States by John Gibson Secretary and acting Governer Crossed 
white River this day at John McJunkin's Ferry — 

The Deputy quarter Master of the Indiana and Elinois Ter- 
ritorys will pay John McJunkin Nineteen Ferrage agreeably 
yo the above Returne 

John Milburn Capt 

Harrison General Orders 

N, W. Army Head-Quarters, Franklinton, 

November 19, 1812 

Niles Register III, 217 

The commanding general returns his thanks to brigadier- 
general [Edward] Tuppcr and the corps which lately advanced 
to the ]\Iiami rapids, for the perseverance, zeal, activitj^ and 
bravery with which they conducted themselves on that enter- 
prize. A casual circumstance only, and one which the general 
or his men could not control, prevented them from surprizing 
and cutting to pieces a detachment of the enemy equal in num- 
bers to their own. The measures of general Tupper appear 
to have been highly judicious, both in his advance to the 
enemy, and in resisting their attacks. The general is sorry 
that any circumstance in an affair which reflects honor on 
almost the whole of the troops engaged in it, should deserve his 
censure; such, however, is merited by the small detachment, 
which, in the face of a positive order from their conimander, 
left their ranks to gather corn, and pursue a drove of hogs. 



 

But for this disorderly conduct, general Tupper would have 
brought back in safety his whole command. The command- 
ing general feels, however, so much more to praise than blame, 
in the conduct of general . Tupper's detachment, that he de- 
rives no small satisfaction in exhibiting it as a worth}'' ex- 
ample of militiary spirit and enterprize to the rest of his army 

Nathl. F. Adams Deput. Adj.-Gen. 



Shelby to Harrison 

November 20th, 1812 
From Governor Isaac Shelbi/'s "Letter Book A" 38 

Dear Sir: — I enclose to your Excellency a copy of a letter 
received from General [Samuel] Hopkins wherein he proposes 
the discharge of three regiments of six months men under his 
command, to-^^it: the 6th, 3rd and 8th Regts. of the De- 
tached IMilitia of this State, commanded by Cols. Barbour, Wil- 
cox and Miller. 

I do not consider myself as invested with power to direct 
the General in this case, nor have I such a knowledge of the 
situation of the enemy that menace that quarter as to justify 
even an advice to the General ; but believing that he is acting 
solely under authority derived from yourself, and that you 
are the most competent judge of the propriety of continuing 
those men in power — will you be pleased to give Gen. Hopkins 
instructions as to the discharge of those men, or if you wish 
that I should do it, be so good as to write me immediately, and 
I will take the earliest opportunity to apprise him of your in- 
structions. 

I am, &c., &c., 

Isaac Shelby 
IMajor-General Wm. H. Harrison, Commanding, &c., 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Frankltnton Nov. 20. 1812 

Har. Pa. 786, 787 

Sir 

I have the honor to enclose you a list of the Staff Appointments 

which I have made pursuant to the power given me in your 



 

letter of the 17th. September, which yet requires the confirma- 
tion of the President & Senate. 

I have the honor to remain With great respect 
Yr Hble Sevt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 
Washington 



226 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



a 



J5 



o 



a 

o 
U 



w 



>! 




-D 






to 


rt 


+-> 


a 


rt 


CO 


Oj 



c -rJ 



.S P 


o 


fl> 


D. 


XI 










ta 


o 


Cl 


■4J> 


H-^ 


n 


r/) 


OJ 




"O 


o 


ro 


_^ 


0) 








Ph 



u 



« 



<^, 



CI 


'M 


ri 


^1 


oi 


CI 


»— ( 


T— ( 




T~H 




f— ( 


CO 


C/0 


ry 


r/1 


C/D 


t/l 


i-H 




r-H 




T-H 


rH 


^ 
























CO 


lO 




I-- 


iC - 


o 


Ol 








I-l "' 




t-i) 


_^ 




_ij 


> 


•> 


12 


o 


CJ 


o 


o 


o 


-< O O O J^ 


>^ 



^ « o 









a ^ 

o z; 



q; o ^ ^ a; B ^ 
P Q <J Ph Q O W 



^ M H^ 

. -t^ -(^ 

-1^ -tJ bO bC 

fc£i bC CJ CD 

^^^^ 

^ -fl t3 t; 

^ -fj M< o 

ni lO (M --I 






-a • 



^ B '^ '^ 



tt,';Q 



k-H 6 



>- _s I- c: 



^ ,a o •-■ o (-. O c5 

^;^p:;ptfOP4^ 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No. 22.) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 20 Nov. 1812 

Har. Pa. 775-778 

Sir: 

I have the honor to enclose you GenL [Edv/ard] Tupper's re- 
port of his proceedings in his Expedition to the Rapids, [see 
Nov. 16 above] Although the object which he had in view 
has not been completely accomplished, it is probable that the 
Enemy have been so much alarmed that they will abandon 
their object of taking av^ay the corn, if they do not I have 
directed Genl. [James] \yinchester & Genl [Simon] Perkins 
to ascertain the fact & dislodge them. 

From the copies of your letters to the Presidents of the Cin- 
cinnatti & Kentucky Banks received under cover from your 
office this day I presume that funds have been lodged in those 
institutions to meet the Drafts authorized to be drawn upon 
them. This has relieved Col. [James] Morrison from much 
embarrassment and will enable him to provide the means of 
transportation for the Army. I am sorry to tell you that all 
my calculations as to the water Transportation upon the St. 
IMary's & Auglaize River have failed. The water was too 
low before the Boats & perogues were ready. Our reliance 
must now be entirely upon Pack-horses, of which it will re- 
quire three thousand. Arrangements are made for purchas- 
ing them immediately. 

Genl. Winchester has exhibited charges against Genl. 
[Edward] Tupper and has requested me to appoint a Court 
of Enquiry for himself. It is to be regretted that he should 
think either necessary. I had however ordered Genl, Tupper 
in arrest before I knev/ of his departure for the Rapids and 
he did not receive it until his return. It will not be possible to 
have either the Court of Enquiry or Court Martial until the 
Army unites at the Rapids. 

Believing that my presence v/ill be much more useful in the 
rear than with the f}*ont of the Army for some time I shall 
remain here pi-obably until the Troops of this wing are ready 
to leave Upper Sandusky. 

I am very much gratified at the promotion of Cap. Zachariah 
Taylor for his conduct at Fo)-t Harrison. Perhaps however 
Dr. Clarke whose gallant conduct on that occasion deserves 



 

the highest commendation \\i\\ not escape the attention of the 
President. I have kno^^^l him for a long time and am well 
convinced that he would do honor to the Service. He has 
been anxious to obtain an appointment in the line of the Anny 
& I hope such merit will not be overlooked. I should have rec- 
ommended him long since but from my fear that he would be 
opposed by Mr. [Jonathan] Jennings, Cap. William Prince of 
the Indiana ]\Iilitia who served with me during the Campaign 
on the Wabash & v^^as recommended by me for a Captaincy in 
the Army, I have thought proper to appoint Brigade I\Iajor. 
As the appointment may not be strictly proper according to 
law, I must request for him the best Commission in the Army 
which you can give him. [He received none] 

I have the honor to remain With great respect & regard. 
Yr Hble Servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis, Esq. Secretary of War, 
Washington 

Harrison to Campbell 
Head Quarters Franklinton Nov. 25th 1812 

Har. Pa. 815-S19 

Sir: 

The object of the command which has been assigned to you 
is the attack and destruction of the IMiami villages at Missis- 
sineway. You will continue your march todaj'' through 
Springfield, Xenia and Dayton to Eaton at which latter place 
supplies of Forage and Rations have been ordered for you. 
Should the supplies of either not be sufiicient or should any- 
thing be wanting towards the equipment of your detachment 
you are authorized to call upon the contractor or Qr. I\Iaster 
to furnish you. You have with you William Conner as a 
guide who has been frequently to IMississineway and is well 
acquainted with the country thro which you have to pass. It 
will be safer however to employ several other guides. John 
Connor is on White Water in the Indiana Territory and may 
easily be sent for and it is probable also that there are many 
persons to be found about Greenville or Eaton who have fre- 
quently been across the country to IMississineway; you can- 
not be too well supplied with Guides. It is left to yourself to 



 

determine upon your route to ]\Iississine\vay after your arrival 
at Eaton and your decision will be governed by the best in- 
formation you receive from Conner and others whom you 
may consult. The route by Greenville is to be preferred on 
account of its being more distant from the Delaware Toatos 
which I wish you by all means to avoid. The Delawares have 
been directed to leave their Tov/ns and retire to the Shawanee 
establishment on the Auglaize River, [on] their route to the 
latter place there is a probability of your falling in with them. 
This would be unfortunate as the faith of the Government 
has been pledged for their safety. It will be necessary that 
care should be taken to avoid coming in contact with them or 
to avoid any ill consequences should it happen to be the case. 
Inform yourself as minutely as possible from Conner and 
others who have been to IMississineway of the localities of the 
place and the situation of the Indians. The Three small Tribes 
which compose what they call the IMiami nation were very 
lately assembled there viz: the Miamies proper whose resi- 
dence it is, the Eel River tribe and the Wea tribe, the latter 
had participated in the attack upon Fort Harrison and the 
former in that upon Fort Wa^Tie and their warriors have been 
concerned in several of the murders committed upon our citi- 
zens. There are however some of the chiefs who have un- 
deviatingly exerted themselves to keep their warriors quiet, 
to preserve their friendly relations with us. This has been 
the case with respect to Richardville (a half French man the 
2nd Chief of the INIiamies) Silver Heels the White Loon cer- 
tainly and perhaps of Pecon the Principal Chief of the Miamies 
and Charly the principal Chief of the Eel River tribe. It is 
not my wish that you should run any risk in saving those 
people but if it can be done without risk it would be extremely 
gratifying to me and no doubt to the President, the same re- 
mark will also apply to the sons and brothers of the Little 
Turtle who continued to his last moment the warm friend of 
the U. States and who in the course of his life rendered them 
many important services. Your o^^^l character as a soldier 
and that of the troops you command is a sure guarantee of the 
safety of the women and children. They will be taken how- 
ever and conducted to the settlement. 

Your order of march will be such as to form with facility 
an order of Battle to meet an attack in front flank or rear. A 



 

principal object of your attention is tlie service of the guards 
a duty that is generally worse attended to than any other 
in our army. The utmost vigilance however of your guard 
will not afford you. perfect security. Your men must at all 
times be kept ready for action by day as well as by night. 
When you advance into the enemy's country all your men must 
he made to lie upon their arms and with their accoutrements 
on. The post of each corps must also be particularly ascer- 
tained each night under every contingency that may happen. 
The rapid movement which will be necessary to ensure the 
surprise of the enemy will prevent your making an entire 
fortification round your camp but in dangerous situations it 
should be done and each night the guards should be placed in 
small square redoubts built of logs which can be constructed in 
a few moments. 

Your marches should be so arranged as to get near the To\vn 
"and ascertain the situation of the enemy at night and the 
greater the distance you encamp the night before you reach 
the town the less will be the probability of your being dis- 
covered, in other words the last days march must be a forced 
one. The Mississineway [a line gone] should your approach 
be undiscovered it will be necessary to divide your force so as 
to make a simultaneous attack upon all the principal ones at 
least. This will however be dangerous if the enemy should 
be collected or have time to collect after you are discovered. 
The Hostilities which have been actually committed upon us 
by the Miamies justify our considering them as enemies. They 
would not however have been attacked at this time but for 
the facility which their Towns affords to the other tribes to 
attack our settlements and the convoys of the left wing of the 
army. The whole of the provisions must therefore be de- 
sti'oyed and the towns burned. Should the Indians discover 
you and leave the Towns and should you not be able to come up 
with them but should by the capture of a woman or old man 
have an opportunity of sending a message to them you will 
please to do so informing them that if they will send in six 
of their principal chiefs as hostages to perform such terms 
as the Goveernt. may impose upon them we will cease to annoy 
them. There are probably some white men at ]\Iississineway 
but I am uncertain whether they arc citizens of the IT. States 
or not. The safe way will be not to kill them if it can be 



 

prevented. An old Canadian by tlie name of Godfrey has 
lived there several years and has a squaw for his wife and he is 
and ahvays has been a friend of the U. States. There will 
be no difficulty in saving him as his house is apart from the 
rest. Having accomplished the object of your command in 
regard to the ]\Iississineway Towns it is left to your discretion 
to proceed against any other Town or body of Indians which 
you may tliink yourself able to strike v.ith effect and without 
incurring too much risk. A Banditti of scoundrels principally 
of tlie Potawatima tribe have for some time assembled at the 
White Pigeon's Village upon the headwaters of the St. Joseph 
of Lake ^Michigan and which cannot be more than fifty or sixty 
miles from ]\Iississineway. An attempt to cut them off will 
be made, or not, from your view of its practicability from the 
information you may receive and the stale of your command 
after the principal object shall be accomplished. L^pon your 
return the cavalry will be ordered into winter quarters at 
Xenia the Infantry will be brought on to this place. 

Some pack horses arc coming from Cincinnati with Blank- 
ets. You will meet them and distribute them to your men. 
The commanding ofiicers of Corps will receipt for the number 
tliey get and the receipts you will be pleased to forward to 
the Depty. Q. ?.!. Genl. and direct that each man who receives 
one is charged with it, and his name returned to the paj'- 
mastcr. Your whole command vrill be mustered and paid at 
Xenia with the best wishes for your success 

I am with great respect Yr. Hbl. Servt. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 

Hopkins to Gov. Shelby 

On Wabash, near the mouth of Pine Creek, 

Nov. 27, 1812 

Niks' Register III, ^6.'^. 

My Dear Sir— 

By Col. Richard Taylor,' quartermaster general, who goes 
on as quick as possible to Frankfort, I have it in my power 

1. Richard Taylor was one of the earliest settlers of JcfTor.son Co., Ky. He 
served throuKh the Rev. heins a colonel at its close. Came to Ky. in ITS.j when the 
preRident was nine months old. He sat in the Ky. Con. Conventions 1792, and 17i>9 
and oit«n represented his co. in the legislature. . He was the father of Pi osidtnt Taylor. 

Collins, Kentucky, 36C, 363 



 

to give you general information of the movements of the army 
since my last. 

On the 11th [Nov.] the army marched from Fort Harrison 
on the road formerly made by governor Harrison's army, and 
the boats set out at the same time. The length of time the 
enemy had expected us made it necessary to guard ourselves in 
an especial manner. The rise of the waters from the heavy 
fall of rain preceding our march, and some large creeks, left 
us no doubt of considerable difficulty and embarassment ; inso- 
much that not until the 14th did we pass Sugar creek, three 
miles above the road. 

From every information, I had no hesitation in moving on 
the east side of the Wabash. The Vermillions, Pine creek, and 
other impediments on the west side, superadded to the pre- 
sumption that we were expected, and might more easily be 
annoyed and ambuscaded on that rout, determined me in this 
measure. The boats too, with our provisions of rations, 
forage and militarj^ store, could be more easily covered and 
protected, as the line of march could be invariably nearer the 
river. Lieutenant colonel [Philip] Barbour, with one 
battalion of his regiment, had command of the 7 boats, and 
encamped with us on the bank of the river almost every night. 
This so protracted our march that we did not reach the 
Prophet's town until he 19th. On the morning of this day 
I detached 300 men to surprise the Winebago town lying on 
Ponce Passu creek, one mile from the Wabash and four below 
the Prophet's Town. His party, commanded by general But- 
ler, surrounded the place about the break of day but found it 
evacuated. There were in the main town about forty houses, 
many of them for 30 to 50 feet in length, besides many tempo- 
rary huts in the surrounding prairie, in which they had culti- 
vated a good deal of corn. On the 20th, 21st and 22d we were 
embarked in the complete destruction of the Prophet's to\\ai 
which had 40 cabins and huts, and the large Kickapoo village 
adjoining below it on the west side of the river, consisting of 
about 160 cabins and huts; finding and destroying their corn, 
reconnoitring the circumjacent country and constructing 
works for the defence of our boats and army. Seven miles 
cast of us on the Ponce Passu creek, a party of Indians were 
discovered. They had fired on a small party of ours on the 
21st and killed a man by the name of Dunn, a gallant soldier 



 

in captain Duval's company. On the 22d upwards of 60 horse- 
men, under the command of lieutenant-colonels ]\Iiller and 
Wilcox, anxious to bury their comrade as well as gain a more 
complete knowledge of the ground, went on to a point near the 
Indian encampment, fell into an ambuscade, and 18 of our 
party killed, wounded and missing. Among these are three hope- 
ful young ofTicers and one private from the 8th [Wilcox's] regi- 
ment, viz. Mars, Edwards, Murray, and the private Webb, pre- 
sumed to be killed ; the other 14 were of the rangers. On the re- 
turn of this party, and the information of a large assemblage of 
the enemy, who encouraged by the strength of their camp, ap- 
peared to be waiting for us, every preparation was made to 
march early and engage the enemy at every risque ; when, from 
the most violent storm and fall of snow, attended with the 
coldest weather I every saw or felt at this season of the year, 
and which did not subside until the evening of the 23d, we 
were delayed until the 24th. Upon arriving on the ground, 
we found the enemy had deserted their camp before the fall 
of the snow, and passed the Ponce Passu. I have no doubt 
but their ground was the strongest I have ever seen. The 
deep rapid creek spoken of was in their rear, running in a 
semicircle, and fronted by a bluff 100 feet high, almost per- 
pendicular and only to be penetrated by three steep ravines. 
If the enemy would not defend themselves here, it was evident 
they did not intend fighting at all. After reconnoitring suffi- 
ciently, we retui'ned to camp, and found the ice so accumulated 
as to alarm us for the return of the boats. I had fully in- 
tended to have spent one more week in endeavoring to find 
the Indian camps ; but the shoeless, shirtless state of the troops, 
now clad in the remnants of their summer dress; a I'iver full 
of ice; the hills covered with snow; a rigid climate, and no 
operations; under the influence of the advice of every staff 
and field officer, orders were given and measures pursued for 
our return on the 25th. 

We are now progressing to Fort Harrison through ice and 
snow where we expect to arrive on the last day of this month. 
From Vincennes I shall have the honor of addressing your 
excellency again ; but before I close this, I cannot forbear 
expi-essing the merits of the officers and soldiers of this com- 
mand. After leaving at Fort Hari'ison all unfit for duty we 
had in privates of every corps about one thousand — in the 

18— 226G1 



2:M INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

total twelve hundi-cd and fifty or thereabout. At the Prophet's 
town, upwards of one hundred of these were on the sick report. 
Yet sir, liave we progressed in such order as to menace our 
enemy, free from any annoyance; seven large keel-boats have 
been conveyed and protected to a point heretofore unkno^^^l in 
Indian expeditions; three large Indian establishments have 
been burnt and destroyed, with near three miles of fences (and 
all the corn, &c. we could find) besides many smaller ones; the 
enemy have been sought in their strong holds, and every op- 
portunity alTorded them to attack or alarm us ; a march on the 
east side of the Wabash, without road or cognizance of the 
country, fully one hundred miles perfected ; and this has been 
done with a naked army of infantry, aided by only about fifty 
rangei-s and spies. All this was done in twenty days — no sigh, 
no murmur, no complaint. 

I certainly feel particular obligations to my friend general 
Butler and colonel [Richard] Taylor, for their effectual and 
ready aid in their line ; as also .to captain Z. Taylor, of the 
seventh United States regiment; Messrs. Gist and Richeson, 
my aids-dc-camp, and major J. C. Breckenridge, my secretary, 
for a prompt and efi!ectual support in every instance. The 
firjn and almost unparallellcd defence of Fort Harrison, by cap- 
tain Z. Taylor, has raised for him a fabric of character not 
to be effaced by my eulogy. To cononel [Philip] Barbour, 
for liis officer-like management, in conducting and command- 
\uy: the boats, my thanks arc due, as also to colonels IMiller and 
Wilcox, and to major Hughes and Shacklet, and to the captain 
and subalterns of the army generally. From lieutenants 
Richeson, Hawkins and Sullivan of the United States troops, I 
have to acknowledge my obligations for their steady and uni- 
foi-m conduct, as well as captain [Parmenius] Beckes, of the 
rangers, captain Washburn, of the spies and the staff gen- 
erally. 

Let me refer your excellency to colonel Taylor for more 
nnnute information; and believe me with high regard and 
consideration, to be, your most obedient servant. 

Samuel Hopkins 



 

Statement of Robert Dickson 

Montreal Dec 3, 1812 

Mich. Hist. & Pioneer Soc. XV, 193 

]\;\.\\\\\K obtained a supply of merchandize at St. Josephs 
iv<m\ lh(> Monti-eal merchants, 1 left that place in the latter end 
of Aujrust 1811 and notwithstanding the impediments throwTi 
in my way by the American Government, I w^as fortunate 
rii<ivi}.rh to reach the country where I successfully carried on 
my tr.ido. 

During tlie winter I found the Agents of the American Gov- 
ri-jiiiirjit using every means in their power to influence the 
Ijuh.'ins in tlieir l)ehalf, by making them unusual presents of 
i^mkhIs and inviting them in the most pressing manner to visit 
tlu- I'n-sident of the United States at Washington, where it 
\v.i^( !i(l(l out to tliem, they would hear something of the ut- 
tno>t importance. 

Vvoiw tlu\s(! circumstances 1 was inclined to believe that 
s.5'!ii, iliing h(tstile was meditated against our Govt, and being 
5)!»' only individual in that country possessed of the means of 
frustrating their intentions I took such steps as I trust will be 
approved of by His Excellency the Commander in Chief. 

Tl)c Culamitous state of the Indian Tribes at that time was 
jM-x-uharly distr(\ssing, the crops of those who cultivate the 
i/r<nnul having failed from the great drought of the preceding 
fiurnnur; and owing to the same cause those who subsisted 
rn!irrly by the chace were deprived of provisions, the large 
ivnin?al i li.iving gone noilhwards in quest of food. 

1 S'-fl tlii' River Mississippi on my return to St. Josephs with 
A r!urnb.'r of Indians after having supplied their families with 
finsruunition and i)rovisions at a great expence I w^as met at 
Oh' Tortag*' of the Ouisconsing by two Courriers from Am- 
h<'raUjiir-j' with a conmumication from general Crock, in con- 
t^-ti'.i.n. ,. ,,f \vlii,.h J sent a party of Indians from Labaye to 
Arn);t'rsll))iig wIktc they remained during the Summer and 
'^^ r»- in .'Very engagement with the Enemy, 

I forbear rnt«M-ing into any detail respecting the Indians who 
•'^^^ 'v.-p:u)i^.(i me as I presume that their conduct has already 
l*Mwniu|.^ l:no\\n to His Excelk-ncy the Commander in Chief. 

A Stattnunt of Expenses incu)']-ed for the above purposes is 
"TV subjoined. 



 

1812 July 20 

To amount of Robert Dickson & Go's account of sundries fur- 
nished to Scioux, FoUesavoinc and Winibago Indians p. 

account herewitli No. 1 20973 

To i)aid Francis Boutcllicr for sundries at Prairie du Chicns for 

do. p. acct. No. 2 S995 5970 

To paid Pierre Grignon for funds for do. p. acct. No. 3 624 

To cash pr Louis Grignon for one ox for do 300 

To cash pr. Dr. Mitchell for provisions for do 876 

To cash pr Paul Ducharme for an ox for do 300 

To ainoimt of Jacob Franks accoimt of sundries for said Indians 

pr aect. No. 4 12130 18 

To cash pr Lewis Crawford for provisions for said Indians at 

St. Josephs 7 voucher $5 350 

To Robert Dickson & Co. disbursements for said Indians at 

Michillimackinac p. account No. 6 3483 

Livres 45006 18 

Hx Curry -1875 5 

R. Dickson 

/XT «ov Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 23) 

Head Quarters N. W. Army Delaware, 

11th December 1812 

Sir; Har. Pa. 788-790 

I liave appointed Mr. John C. Bartlett to do the duties of 
field-Commissary to receive and account for all the provisions 
which have l^cen purchased for the United States. Such an 
odicer was indispensible. Mr. [Henry] Clay will inform you 
of the high standing- of Mr. Bartlett. 

The Contractors having failed to make the Deposit of pro- 
visions at Upper Sandusky or even to provide for the daily 
issues here & at that place. I have been obliged to direct 
Mr. Bartlett to supply the deficiencies by other contracts, 
which he has effected. The sums necessary will be raised by 
Drafts on your Department, to be charged to Major White. 
Mr. Bartlett has entered into bond with security which will be 
forwarded in a disjiatch which I shall forward tomorrow. 

I have promised Mr. Bartlett the pay & emoluments of a 
Deputy Quarter Master. 

I ha\'e the honor to remain With great respect 
Yr Ilble Sevt. 
■ WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honblc W. EusTiS Esq Secretary of War 



 

Return of Cannon, Gun Carriages & Destined for the N. W. 
Army under the care of Captain Charles Gratiott of the 
Engineers 



S3 2 miles 

west of 

N. Lisbon 

(Ohio) 

Dec. 2, 1812 


«3 
O 

c 


Of 

o 
C 

eg 

t-(0 




, t-T, 

u 

CO rt 


II 
2 


3 S 


1 CO 

> o 

s « 


-T- bf. 

> o 


c 

o 

:^§ 

C bJt 

3 tr. 

£ « 


I-l 
o 

O o 
— 1 rt 




o 

o 


CO 

o 

CO 

Sh 

O 

w 


Fit for use 


2 


4 


1 


5 


10 




2 


1 


5 


29 


1 


304 


Unfit for use 










8 




3 




































Total 


2 


4 


1 


5 


10 


10 


3 


2 


1 


5 


29 


1 


304 







Signed 

C. Gratiott Capt. Engineers 

Note: 

The Gun Carriages marked unfit for use were made in 
Pittsburgh for Government some years since & rejected as 
being incapable of service from which time they have been (as 
1 am informed) exposed to the weather and are now so rotted 
that the axeltrees and Limber Hounds of some of them break 
whenever the carriage receives any considerable jolt. 

C. Gratiott Ccqyt. of Engs. 

Extract of a Letter from Col. [James] IMorrison, Deputy Q. 
IMaster Genl. "We shall soon be out of Cash. I shall send 
Harmon in a few days to Cincinnati, but expect from Mr. 
Baum's letter that they will soon refuse purchasing my drafts. 
He says that the 200,000 dollars will scarcely be felt that they 
have already advanced to other agents of Government upwards 
of 50,000 dollars, and I have had even a larger sum, and were 
I to hazard an opinion there must be due on the Centre line and 
left Wing more than $00,000. So then my good Sir, be ex- 
plicit in your Requisitions on this subject to the Secretary of 
Wai', for believe me unless arrangements are immediately 
made by that Gentleman all your efforts will be paralized when 
you may be on the eve of accom})lishing the object of the 
Campaign." 



 

Thomas Bodley to Harrison 

(Copy) 

Fort Barbee St. Marys Dec. 11, 1812 

Har. Pa. S03-S0G 

Dear General 

A few days ago our prospects here was truly flattering, 
every one appeared in high spirits and much gratified at the 
appearance of sending on provisions & by water but the scene 
is sadly changed. Our most sanguine hopes are blasted and 
the chance of forwarding supplies to the advanced parts of 
the army is gloomy indeed. On the 4th Inst we started from 
this place a large boat and 16 perogues loaded with flour &c. 
The water was in fine order and we took advantage of the first 
chance of sailing. No time was lost. On the 7 two large 
boats sailed with a fine flood, the whole freighted 398 Bbl. 
Flour, 32 Bbl. Whiskey, 72 Bbl. Salt, 20 kegs powder, 10 kegs 
lead, 1 box Cannister shot, 2 boxes clothing, 150 cannon ball, 
10 bushel oats and a quantity of hospital stores (of which Dr. 
Taylor has the invoice) 5 bars Iron, 5 Bars steel and 3 coils 
rope. In addition to these stores about 700 hogs have been 
sent to Fort Winchester last vreek and this, on foot, and a 
quantity of flour, whisky, salt and clothing has been sent down 
the Auglize from Forts Amanda and Jennings in perogues 
and on rafts. Col. [Robert] Pogue took advantage of the 
rise of water and as he had not time to prepare perogues he 
fitted out two rafts and loaded them with whiskey and salt 
in tiglit barrels. I have not heard how they got on but am in 
hopes they will get down safe. In this situation we were all 
highly gratified with the result of our united exertions in get- 
ting off such quantities of supplies. Nothing that could be 
done was omitted, all concerned united their efforts in the 
common cause and no doubt was entertained of success until 
yesterday about noon when unfortunately a messenger arrived 
with information that the last boats were stopped by the ice 
below this about 40 miles by water and about 12 by land, that 
they had used every exertion but could proceed no further 
and in the evening an express arrived from the first boats 
that they had got to Shane's Crossing^ about 60 miles by water 

1. Slianc's Cmssiiur was at what is now llotkford, Mcitcr Co., O. It was named 
from Anthony Shane, a I'lcnrh trader (Shcsnc in French) who lived there on a sec- 
tion of land presented him by tlic U. S. in reeotniilion of his services to (leiieral Wayne. 

Griswold, Fort Wannr, 2Z0 



 

and 18 by land from this place where they were frozen up and 
no possibility of their getting on. You may judge of our 
surprise and mortification. The first boats were commanded 
by Capt. Jordan of Col. [Joshua] Barbee's Regt. and Mr. 
LlcClosky Asst. Q. M. at this place went with them to take 
charge of the cargo &c. The Last were commanded by Mr. 
Allen both fleets had the best crews we could select. They 
were all volunteers and no set of men ever exerted themselves 
more than these have done on this occasion. Mr. McClosky 
is an experienced water-man, him and many of the crew were 
often in the water and sometimes risqued their lives. He got 
in here last night very much fatigued and almost exhausted. 
There was no alternative left but to make arrangements to 
secure the craft and property, which Col. Barbee has this 
morning taken every necessary step to effect. Capt. Jordan's 
Company remain with the first boats & Capt. McNair is sent 
to the last, with directions to build storehouses &. The roads 
are so extremely bad and the water have been so high as 
to render it impossible for waggons or horses to travel, not a 
waggon has arrived at this place for two weeks and but few 
pack horses & those returning from the advanced posts. The 
St. Mary's is so extremelj^ crooked and so blocked up Avith 
Driftwood in many places where it is out of the bank and over- 
flowed for miles. In short turns the slush-ice has collected 
and frozen solid so as to dam it up for miles. Consequently 
nothing but a general thaw or hard rains can give us the bene- 
fit of the navigation of this stream. Of course some other 
means of transportation must be resorted to. 

Permit me ag'ain to suggest the propriety of an establish- 
ment at Wapaghkennetta or of having the supplies sent to Fort 
Amanda [on the Auglaize]. The Auglaise is much straighter 
has more water and will not freeze up so soon as the St. 
jMary's. Sleds and pack horses are now the only means of 
transportation. A number of active strong draft horses for 
sleds and some pack horses could be very usefully employed 
from Piqua to Fort Amanda. I have engaged flats to be built 
at both crossings of Lorimie's and at this place. It is now 
freezing very hard and I hope the roads may soon be travelled. 
I will write to Col. [James] Morrison fully on these subjects. 

Col. Pogue and this Regt. have erected the best fort on 
these waters, at Amanda, and in very little time. They de- 



 

serve much praise. Your appi-obation and notice of their con- 
duct would be extremely pleasing to them. 

I have wrote Genl. Winchester by express this moniing and 
hasten to give you this without delay. 

Present me to my friends at Head Quarters and particularly 
those in your own family. I should be glad to hear from you. 
I have the honor to be yr. friend and Hble. Servt. 

Thos. Bodley Acting Q. Master N. W. Army 

P. S. Some of the Paymasters will not receive the Indian 
goods and others wish to return what they have reed, will you 
be so good as to direct what is to be done \\'ith those not used. 
T. B. 

Harrison to Secret.^jry of War 
(No. 24) 

Head Quarters N. W. Army Delaware 12th Deer. 1812 

Har. Pa. 791-798 
SIR. 

Since I had the Honor to write to you on the 17th Ultimo 
[see above] every exertion has been made and every Engine 
put into operation to procure and forward Supplies for the 
Army to the advance posts. The difficulties which have and 
which are still to be encountered in this business are almost 
insuperable but they are opposed with unabated lirmness and 
zeal. The greatest obstacle to our Success is the want of 
forage which for this line we are now obliged to bring from 
the Neighbourhood of Chillicothe at an expense which can 
scarcely be conceived. Genl. [Simon] Perkins informs me 
that two men have lately arrived at his Camp from Detroit 
and from them he learned that the British had taken from 
the Inhabitants of the r\Iichigan Territory everything which 
they deemed surplus provisions leaving the Inhabitants 
scarcely enough to live on. I fear too that they have taken all 
the Corn from the Rapids, as neither Genl Winchester nor 
Gen. Perkins made any effectual attempt to interrupt them. 
General Perkins has been able to save between two and three 
thousand Bushels of Corn at lower Sandusky — and there are 
persons actively employed at and about Cleveland procuring 
evej-ything that will answer for the sustenance of ]\Ian or beast 
to be sent on in Boats as long as the lake remains open and 
when it Freezes, upon sleds which are preparing. I received 



 

letters from St. IMary's under date of the ist of this month, 
at that time the Watei's were all in a navigable State, boats 
and Perognes were loading at St. Mary's and a number of 
others coming up the Auglaize to load at Tawa Town. Had 
the open Weather continued but four or five [days] longer 
Gen Winchester would have received from one thousand to 
fifteen hundred Barrels of flour by this time, but I fear that 
the hard Frosts which we have had for some days past will 
prevent the Boats from returning and possibly the General 
from descending to the Rapids to which he was directed im- 
mediately to proceed. Gen. Perkins is at lower Sandusky with 
all his Brigade. A Battallion of the Pennsylvania Troops 
reached upper Sandusky yesterday with the 21 pieces of Ar- 
tillery brought on by Lieutenant [Levi] Hukill. The sending 
them from Mansfield with so small a force was extremely in- 
judicious upon the part of Gen. Crooks, I directed another 
Regiment to follow them but as they may not arrive for sev- 
eral days I shall send on to day some Companies of the Vir- 
ginia Brigade and shall follow myself the day after. The 
Virginia Brigade has been here since the 5th Ultimo they were 
detained for the want of Blankets which reached them only 
last Evening. But from the failure of the Contractor in pro- 
viding the means, or subsisting them at Sandusky they could 
not have marched unless the provisions purchased by the 
United States Commissary had been issued to them. Major 
[Ebenezer] Denny and his agents have not acquitted them- 
selves as they might have done, in upwards of two months 
they have procured and forwarded not more than 1,000 Bar- 
rels of Flour. The last accounts from the lakes were not very 
flattering, seven or eight hundred Barrels were scattered in 
small parcels below Cleveland, a part of it has probably 
reached Sandusky but the severe v/eather which v^'e have had 
for some days has no doubt interrupted the Navigation. I beg 
leave to call your attention to the enclosed Extract of a letter 
from Col. [James] Morrison [seeDec. 11 above] I fear that the 
Expenses of this Army will greatly exceed the calculations of 
the Government. The prodigious destruction of Horses can 
only be conceived by those who have been accustomed to IMili- 
tary Operations in a Wilderness in the Winter Season. The 
fine teams which arrived on the 10th Inst, at Sandusky with 
the artillery are entirely worn down and two trips from Me- 



 

Arthur's block House (our nearest deposit to the Rapids) will 
completely destroy a Brigade of Pack Horses. 

Should I be able to get one Million or even 800,000 Rations 
of Flour at the Rapids and the Weather is severe enough to 
freeze the Straight the object of the Campaign can still be 
accomplished. A few Horses would be sufficient to take on the 
Supplies and Baggage upon the ice and if the Straight freezes 
I should be enabled to sit down before Maiden (without going 
to Detroit) in six days from my. leaving the Rapids. If on the 
contrary the Straight does not freeze (which is frequently 
the case) the difficulty of crossing will be very considerable 
and it vdll require much time to build Boats to effect the 
passage. All that could be done then Vv'ould be the recovery 
of Detroit until later in February or perhaps the middle of 
March. The Government will determine whether that object 
is of sufficient importance to induce them to bear the Expense 
which will attend the prosecution of the Campaign at this 
Season. If there were not some important political reasons 
urging the recovery of the ^Michigan Territory and the Cap- 
ture of ]\Ialden as soon as those objects can possibly be effected 
and that to accomplish them a few weeks sooner expense was 
to be disrcgai'ded, I should not hesitate to say that if a small 
proportion of the sums which will be expended in the Quarter 
Master's Department in the active prosecution of the Cam- 
paign' during the Winter was devoted to the obtaining the 
command of lake Erie the v/ishes of the Government in their 
utmost extent could be accomplished without difficulty in the 
months of April and May. Maiden, Detroit and Mackinac 
would fall in rapid succession. On the contrary all that I can 
certainly promise to be accomplished during the Winter, unless 
the Straight should afford us a passage upon the ice is to 
recover Detroit. I must further oI)serve that no military man 
would think of retaining Detroit (Maiden being in possession 
of the Enemy) unless his army was at least twice as strong 
as the disposable force of the Enemy. An Army advancing 
to Detroit along a line of Operation passing so near the prin- 
cipal force of the Enemy as to allo\\' them access to it when- 
ever they think proper must bo covered by another Aimy more 
considerable than the disposable force of the Enemy. I men- 
tion this circumstance to show that the attack ought not to 
be directed against Detroit but against Maiden and that it 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 



9 (O 



depends upon the ice alTording- a safe passage across the 
Straight whether I shall be able to proceed that way or not. 
Detroit is not tenable. Were I to take it without having it in 
my power to occupy the opposite shoi-e I should be reduced to 
the necessity of liiding the army in the adjacent swamps to 
preserve it from the effect of the Shot and Shells which the 
I-^enemy would throw with impunity from the opposite shore. 
This result is so obvious to every man who has the least ]Mili- 
tary information, that it appears to me as extraordinary as 
any other part of Gen. Hull's conduct that he should choose 
to defend Detroit rathei' than attack Maiden. There is an- 
other circumstance Sir, which will claim attention. Admitting 
that Maiden and Detroit are taken Macinac and St. Joseph will 
remain in the hands of the Enemy until we can create a force 
capable of contending with the Vessels \\'hich the British have 
in lake Michigan and which they will be enabled to maintain 
there as long as the Canoe route by Grand River and lake 
Nipissing shall remain open and for six months after. 

I have conceived it proper, Sir, to lay these statements be- 
fore you. If it should be asked whj^ they were not made 
sooner, I answer that altho' I was always sensible that there 
wei'e gi'eat difficulties to be encountered in the accomplishment 
of the wishes of the President in relation to the recovery of 
Detroit and the conquest of the adjacent part of upper Canada 
in the manner proposed I did not make sufficient allowance 
for the imbecility and incompetence of the public agents and 
the Villainy of the Contractors. I am still however very far 
from believing that the original Object is impracticable. I 
believe on the contrary it can be effected and as I kno^\ that 
my personal fame is materially interested in its success in the 
manner first proposed my feelings are all engaged in opposi- 
tion to any delay. But I should illy deserve the confidence 
of the people or the President if I were capable of being in- 
fiucnced by a piivate consideration to witlihold from the Gov- 
ernment any statement which might thi'ow light upon the 
operations of an army the success of which is so important 
to the Character as well as the interest of the Country. If 
it would be the determination to disi'cgard expense and to 
push on the operation of the Army in tlio manner they have 
been commenced the President may rely upon the Exertions 
of the Troops which I shall employ in the final Effort. I shall 



 

be much disappointed if I cannot select three or four thou- 
sand men from the army who will do as much as the same 
number of men in a similar state of discipline ever did do. 
If the plan of acquiring the naval superiority on the Lakes 
before the attempt is made on Maiden or Detroit should be 
adopted, I would place 1500 men at the Miami Rapids (De- 
fiance would be better if the Troops had not advanced from 
thence) retain about 1000 men to be distributed in different 
garrisons, accumulate provisions at St. Mary's, Tawa To^\^l, 
Upper Sandusky, Cleveland and Presquille and employ the 
Dragoons and mounted Infantry in desultory Expeditions 
against the Indians. The Villages south of lake Michigan 
might be struck with effect by making a deposit of Corn and 
provisions at Fort Wayne. 

Col. [John B.] Campbell marched from Franklinton with 
the Detachment destined to destroy the Miami Villages on the 
Ultimo. His troops were mustered and paid at Xenia and 
left Dayton on the 9th Instant. I have the Honor to enclose 
you an Extract of a letter from him of the 6th Inst, describing 
his situation and prospects. There never was a finer body of 
men. I also enclose the orders given to him which I hope will 
meet with your approbation, [see Nov. 25 above] 

I am much disappointed in the Artillery which has been 
sent on. There are in all twenty eight pieces of which 10 are 
six and 10 twelve pounders, the former are nearly useless. I 
had five before and if I had 100 I should only take three or 
four with me. You will perceive by the return of Capt. 
[Charles] Gratiott which is enclosed that all the Carriages 
for the Howitzers and 8 out of 10 of those for the twelve 
pounders are unfit for use. 

Since I began this I have received a letter from Cleveland. 
The assistant Quarter Master there has been very successful 
in procuring forage. Better news I could scarcely have re- 
ceived 

I have the Honor to be With great Respect 
Your Humble Sevt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble William Eustis, Secy of ivar 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No. 25) 

Head Quarters Delaware Dec loth 1812 

Har. Pa. 799, 800 

Sir 

I have the honor to enclose you a Hst of the appointments 
which I have made of Staff oflicers for the North Western 
Anny. The hst of Quarter Masters was given to Col. [James] 
]\Iorrison who informed me that he could not get through with 
the duties of his office without them until the Supplies for the 
army are all procured and the army itself more consentrated 
when he will have it in his power to dismiss half of them. I 
am clearly of opinion that those appointments will not only 
promote the public service but will prove to have been proper 
on the score of economy. In my letter of the 11th [see above] 
I mentioned the Appointment of Mr. [John C] Bartlett as 
field Commissary. I knew that there was no Law authorizing 
expressly such an appointjncnt but as the Provisions pur- 
chased by the Commissaries of purchases there must be some 
one to receive and issue them, if subordinate agents had been 
appointed at each post without a head to whom they should 
account the Public would have been defrauded and the ac- 
counts have exhibited a chaos which could never have been 
understood or arranged. This officer will receive the provi- 
sions from all the purchasing Agents. He will so arrange 
them as to have a regular supply of all the articles that com- 
pose the Ration at every place where they are issued. He 
will receive my orders for Deposits and will at all times be 
ready to lay before me a complete view of the State of the 
Supplies. Mr. Bartlett is a man of talents wealth and re- 
spectable connections. 

Govr. Shelby having applied to me to determine whether 
the 3d Regiment of Ky. Volunteers that serve under Genl. 
Hopkins should be dismissed I have directed it to be done ex- 
cept one Batallion which are to be retained and placed under 
the command of Col. Wm. Russell. I have more militia than 
I want. The Pennsyl. Brigade manifests so much insubordi- 
nation that If I were not affraid of wounding the reputation 
of the State, I would dismiss them en masse, but I shall ccr- 



246 



INDIANA HISTOPJCAL COLLECTIONS 



tainly be obliged to dismiss a part of the Troops and those 
that are least useful, must be first sent off. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Yr. Hb. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Hon. Wm. Eustis. Sccfy of War 

A list of Staff appointments made by Genl. Wm. Harrison, Com. 
N. W. Army 

Division J. Adv. 
Dpy. Comiss. of Ordn. 
Conduct, of Artillery 
Field Comissy. Genl. 

Depy. Qr. Masters 



1812— Octo 27 


John J. Wills 


1 SI 2— Nov 


18 


Robert D. Richardson 




18 


Charles Madiss 




24 


John C. Bartlett 




27 


James T. Eubank 
A. D. Orr 
Hubbard Taylor 
Thomas II. Pendall 
Jacob Fowler 
James JMcCluspy 
John C. Paine 
Benjamin Gardner 
James R. Curry 
Daniel Mayo 


Dec. 3rd 




L. Hukill U. S. arniy ap. 


tt ii 




Ensign Charlev L. Todd 



> as. Dy. Qr. Mr 



Dy. Ajd. Genl 

J. Advocate to tlie left 
wing N. W. arm)' 
wdth the pay & em- 
oluments of J. Advo- 
cate 



(No 26) 



Sir: 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Delaware 14th Dec. 1812 

Har. Pa. 801 -SO J 



I neglected in iny last to mention a cii'cumstance which re- 
flects much Honor on the bravery of the Sha^vanoe Chief 
Logan who has fallen a victim to his zeal for our cause. I had 
sent him with a reconnoitriiig party to the Rapids of Miami. 
They were pursued so closely by the hostile Indians that they 
were obliged to sepai'ate. Logan with Uvo of his men reached 
General Winchester's Camp from which he again proceeded 



 

towards the Rapids. They soon fell in with a reconnoitring 
party of tlio Enemy consisting- of a British Oflicer, the cele- 
bi-ated Potawatimie C/hief Wincmack and another Chief and 
tlii-eo men of the same tribe. Logan had the address to per- 
suade them they were Friends until he got an opportunity to 
attaclv them to advantage when he succeeded in kilHng the 
ofhcer, Winimac the other [Ottawa] Chief and one of the 
Warriors. Logan himself was shot through the body and one 
of his men [Bright Horn] through the thigh. They succeeded 
however in seizing the Horses of their enemies with which 
in four Hours they rode 20 miles to General Winchester's 
Canip where Logan expired on the following day with as much 
heroism according to the General's account as ever was ex- 
hibited. He has left a wife and several children under the 
guardianship of Major Hardin of the Kentucky Troops who 
has sent them to that State. I have promised the Chiefs of 
the Tribe to recommend them to the protection of the gov- 
ernment.^ 

I have received information that four or five hundred In- 
dians have been placed by the British with considerable sup- 
plies in an old stockade work which was erected by a 
Detachment of our Troops some years ago on Swan Creek 
below the Miami Rapids. I think it no diflicult matter to cut 
off their retreat with a part of General Winchestei's command 
unless the latter has advanced to the Rapids and they have 
abandoned their positioii. I have not heard from the general 
for eighteen or twenty days, I shall go forward and send an 
express through the woods directing him if he has not reached 
the rapids to make a detachment to his left towards the head 
of Swan creek whilst his main body shall advance to the 
Rapids. The position occupied by the Indians is a complete 
cul de sac unless Swan Creek (which is fifteen feet deep for 
many miles) is frozen over. I calculate upon Col. [John B.] 
Campbells arrival at Mississiniway about this day. Never 
was there a finer time for such an enterpi'ize, dry weather, 
snow on the ground (which will make it impossible for the 
enemy to secret themselves) and the moon in such a state as 
to permit night marches. 

1. For a more dttnilcd account oT this exploit KCe McAfee, The Late \','ar 172. 
Captain Jonny )\iid rjiiKHthorn woi-c with I-oKan. The liritish oflicer was tlic eldest 
Bon of Colonel Elliott of the IJritish army. Captain John s.calped the dead Indians and 
came leisurely into camp. The Ilaidin heic mentioned was the son of Col. John 
Hardin who had captured Logan in ITbO. Lo;,'an's family was not taken to Ky, 



 

New contracts have been made for filling all the deficiencies 
of White [contractor] and some otlicrs made for delivering 
flour at the Rapids. I have so majiy engines in operation for 
forwarding provisions that I can scarcely believe in a possibil- 
ity of our not having a sufficiency. 

I am very Respectfully D. Sir Your Huml. Ser^i;, 

WiLL^i. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secy of War 

Campbell to Harrison 

Camp on the IMississinaway two miles above Silver 

Heels Town Dec. 18, 1812 

Hcu: Pa. 809-810 

Dear Genl. 

After a fatiguing march of three days and one night from 
Greenville I arrived with the Detachment under my command 
at a To^^^l on the IMississinaway (thought by the spies to be 
Silver Heels Town, but proved to be a Town settled by a mix- 
ture of Delaware and j\Iiami Indians) about eight oclock on 
the morning of the 17th undiscovered. A charge was made 
on the To^^Tls when many fled over the River, others sur- 
rendered, those who fled, made resistance after crossing, by 
firing across the River. Thirty-seven prisoners are taken, 
M'hom I shall bring in with me, including men women and 
children, seven warriors Idlled. After disposing of the pris- 
oners I marched a part of the detachment down the river, and 
burned three villages without resistance. I then returned, and 
encamped on the ground where stood the first village attacked. 
This moniing about daylight, or a little before, my Camp was 
attacked by a party of Indians (the number unknown but sup- 
posed to be between two and three hundred) on my right line 
occupied by ^Jajor [James V.] Balls squadron, who gallantly 
resisted them for about three quarters of an hour when the 
Indians retreated; after being most gallantly charged by 
Captn. [George] Trotter, at the head of his troop of cavaliy, 
we have lost in the first action one killed and one wounded 
(by accident the last) in the action of this morning we have 
eight killed and about twenty five or thirty wounded (not hav- 
ing yet gotten a report I am unable to state the number ex- 
actly.) The Indians have lost about forty killed, from the dis- 
coveries now made. The spies are out at prescent ascertain- 



 

iiig' tlie number. I have sent to Greenville for a I'einforce- 
nient, and send you this hasty sketch a detailed report shall 
be liei'eafter made to you, noticing- particularly those com- 
panies and individuals, who have distinguished themselves 
signally. I anticipate another attack before I reach Gi'een- 
ville, but rest assured my Dear General they shall be warml.y 
received. I have a detachment composed of the bravest fel- 
lows, boath officers and soldiers, in the world, our return will 
bo commenced this morning among our killed I have to de- 
plore the loss of the brave Capt. [Bennoni] Pierce, Lieut. 
[Daniel] Waltz of Captain [Abraham] Markle's troops of cav- 
alry, is also mortally wounded, their gallant conduct shall be 
noticed hereafter. 

Yours with the greatest respt. and esteem. 

John B. Campbell Lt. Col. 19th U. S. Reg. 
Gcnl. William II. Harrison Couimdg. N. W. Army 

Proclamation Convening the General Assembly 

December 18, 1812 

Western Sun, December 26, 1812 

Whereas, circumstances require that the Legislature of the 
Territory should be convened: I have therefore thought 
proper to appoint, and do by these presents appoint, ]\Ionday 
the first day of February next for the meeting of the same; 
and the members of the Legislative Council and of the House 
of Representatives, and each and every of them, are required 
to give their attendance on that day accordingly, at the town 
of Vincennes. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Vin- 
cennes, this 18th day of December, in the year of our Lord 
1812, and of the Independence of the United States the thirty- 

John Gibson, [Acting Governor'} 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(^^- 27) Head Quarters N. W. Army 

Upper Sandusky Dec. 21st 1812 

Q,.„. Har. Pa. S07-S08 

I have the Honor to enclose you a copy of a letter received 
last evening from Major [Thomas] Bodley [see Dec. 11 
above] the acting Quarter ]\Taster to the left wing of the army 

19—22664 



 

by which you will perceive that all our hopes of getting on 
a large supplj'' of provision and stores by the means of the 
Auglaize and St. ]\Iarys have been disappointed by a sudden 
and uncommon freesing of those rivers when in the finest state 
for navigation. By a letter received from Gen. Winchester 
of the 10th I leani also that his last barrel of Hour has been 
issued to his Troops. They cannot however suffer much as 
the large supplies sent dowm the Auglaize from Fort Amanda 
(Tawa Town) if they have not reached him could not be at 
any veiy great distance from Defiance. The unfortunate 
freesing has however obliged me to abandon all Idea of Get- 
ting any assistance in accomplishing the final object of the 
campaig^^ from the Troops of that Wing or the very large sup- 
plies which have been collected at Piqua and St. Marys. I 
shall determine in the course of the day upon the propriety 
of dismissing the greater part of the Kentucky Troops and, 
by redoubling my exertions in this direction, prepare for oc- 
cupying the Miami Rapids and advancing to Maiden with a 
force less than half of what was at first intended. They will 
hov\'ever be choice spirits and the Government may rely that 
whatever success may attend us the honor of the American 
Arms will at least be supported. Capt. [Charles] Gratiott 
has not yet got on nor have I heard any thing from him since 
ho left Canton. Blankets and Shoes ai'e beginning to arrive 
and the clothing for the regular troops is coming up the Scioto, 
it will hov/ever be a considerable time before it can reach 
them. I have not heard, of the woollen overalls and jackets 
(so long ago ordered by you in Philadelphia) having reached 
Pittsburg. The militia too are many of them naked and some 
corps from that cause remarkably sickly. General [Edward] 
Tuppcr reports 260 out of 700 to be unfit for duty out of his 
Brigade. 

I had neglected to inform you on the 18th of November I 
accepted the resignation of Ensign Daniel D. Armstrong and 
on the 4th of this Inst, that of Ensign John E. Morgan both 
of the 19th Regiment. The former was charged v/ith crimes 
for which he would have been cashiered. His youth and in- 
experience and the intercession of Gov. Meigs induced me to 
suIFei* him to resigii. 

I have the Honor to be with g]-eat respect sir your obt. sevt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Ilonblc W. EusTis Esqr. Secy of War 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Dec. 21, 1812 

Har. Pa. hi 

General Wm. H. Harrison. 
Sir: 

The difficulties attending the transportation of Specie to the 
Western Country render it expedient to require of the agents 
authorized by you to draw bills on this Department to dispose 
of them as far as practicable, to individuals, who wish to make 
remittances to the Atlantic States, and you will please to give 
directions accordingly. 

Robert Dickson to Gen. Geo. Prevost 

Dec. 23, 1812 

Mich. Hi-if. & Pioneer Soc. Pub. XV, 208 

In the prosecution of the war, if the active cooperation of 
the Indian Tribes is required, the subscriber begs leave to sug- 
gest the following remarks. 

A large Wampum Belt with proper designations & an ap- 
propriate speech, encouraging a general and spirited combina- 
tion, among the different Indian tribes, to be immediately 
forwarded. 

Chicago and La Baye [Green Bay, Wis.] are the fit places 
of rendezvous for the Western Indians in the Spring — provi- 
sions must be provided at these places, Canoes can be got at 
La Baye, part of the force to go to York by water, the re- 
mainder by land to Detroit if necessary a junction can be ef- 
fected at Niagara. 

A person must be fully authorized to order from His 
]\Iajesty's Indian Stores, what may be requisite for the In- 
dians with the knowledge of the oOicer commanding. 

Twenty young men as Interpreters, and oflico-s will be 
wanted, what ever pay may be allowed them for their serv- 
ices, let the payment be prompt. 

A Commission from His Excellency the Commander in 
Chief, of the nature he chuses to be given to the person who 
shall command the Western Indians. 

Would it not be pi'oper to raise a body of men English & 
Canadians now in the Indian Country as Rangers to act with 
the Indians to consist of from one to two Hundred. 



 

One silk Standard &, one large medal to be got for each 
Tribe. 

An Express to be sent to Michilliniackinac, to order neces- 
saries for the Indians to be fo]'warded to the portage of the 
Ouisconsin and Chicago, as early in the Spring as possible. 

Should it meet His Excellency the Commander in Chief's 
approbation the subscriber intends without delay, setting out 
for the Mississippi by the route of Montreal, Kingston, York, 
Niagara, Amherstburg, Detroit, St. Josephs on Lake ]\Iichi- 
gan, Chicago, Rock River. On his waj^ he will dispatch 
courriers when required, he hopes to reach the Mississippi 
about the end of February, which \\'ill enable him to collect 
the Indians on the west of that River. 

Amable Chevallier, an Ottawa Indian, will be wanted for 
the voyage, he is an intelligent & useful man. 

If the sei'vices of Capt. Moi'ton at Niagara can be dispensed 
with it is necessary he should accompany the subscriber as 
far as Amherstburg. 

The Indians will hold out to the Americans that they must 
retire within the boundary Line, as settled by Wayne's Treaty, 
else everything within the line will be desti'oyed. 

The above is submitted, for the consideration of His Ex- 
cellency the Commander in Chief — by — his most devoted most 
obedient and 

ve]\v humble Servant. 

Robert Dickson 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
Headquarters Upper Sandusky December 21th 1812 

Har. Pa. Sll, S'1.2 

Sir: 

I have great satisfaction in communicating the enclosed copy 
of a letter from Lieut. Col. [John ]].] Campbell to you who 
commanded the Detachment which was sent to destroy 
the Mississinaway Towns. Capt. [Lewis] Ilite who brought it 
informed me that Col. Campbell had learnt from one of the 
Prisonei's, that Tecumseh was on the Wabash not more than 
eighteen miles below our Ti-oops with six hundred Warrioi's. 
If this should be the case I entertain some apprehension foi' 
the safety of oui' detachment on its return cncumbei-ed as it 
is with wounded and prisoners. Eighty or ninety of the Ohio 



HARRISON: I\IESSAGES AND LETTERS 253 

IMilitia liowcver marched from Greenville on the 20th Inst, to 
reinforce Col. Campbell, and his original command merits the 
approbation he bestows upon it. The Captain [Bennoni] 
Pearce who was killed commanded a Troop of Dragoons from 
this State. Lieut. [Daniel] Waltz belonged to the Troop of 
twelve months Dragoons from Pennsylvania and Capt. 
[George] Trotter of the Kentucky Dragoons Vvdio distin- 
guished himself is my aid de camp, whom I permitted at his 
desire to head his troop upon this command. 

I have further the satisfaction to inform you Sir, that I 
have ascertained that the British and Indians were not able to 
take off the com from the Rapids of ]\Iiami and I assure you 
that they shall not have another opportunitj^ of removing it. 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect Your Obt. Servt. 

WiLLiAi^i Henry Harrison 
The Honble Willia:^! Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 

Campbell to Harrison 

Fort Greenville 25th December 1812 

Har. Pa. 820-835 

I left this place on my march out on the 14th with six hun- 
dred rank and file which number was reduced on my march 
by the return of some who became sick. ]\Iy first order of 
march v.'as in five columns Col. [James] Simralls regiment 
in two on the left, the Infantry in one in the center and j\Iajor 
[James V.] Ball's squadron in two on the right. There were 
also strong front, rear and flank guards, who marched at a 
distance from the columns of from two to four hundred yards 
as the ground would permit. 

From the flank guards I ordered small parties occasionally 
to examine the country to the right and left and report to me 
Vviiether they had made any discoveries. ]\Iy encampments 
were in a sciuare form covering ground sufllcient to embrace 
the horses within the first line of fires, without being crowded. 
1 had a second line of fires made around the Camp at the dis- 
tance of sixty yards, outside of which and opposite to each 
angle of the Camp a redoubt was constructed in which the 
guards were placed, the want of axes prevented me from mak- 
ing tlie outer fires and constructing the redoubts as well as I 
wished. I had one third of the men on guard every night and 



 

formed a chain of ceiitinels around the camp so close that the 
enemy could not possibly penetrate without being discovered. 
At day light each morning I sent out parties to patrole at a 
considerable distance from Camp. I found it necessary in a 
day or two to vary my order of march and directed the infan- 
try and riflemen to march in two columns one on each side 
of the road. The pack horses and baggage, as also the de- 
tachment staff in the road between them. Major Balls squad- 
ron in four columns on the right and Colo. Simralls Regiment 
in four on the left. The flank columns served as guards, in 
this way I found I marched with more ease. I then dispensed 
v/ith the taps of the drum and sound of the trumpet which in 
my first order of march was necessary. I further ordered that 
if an attack was made on the march and in front the troops 
would immediately form in order of Battle by filing up on the 
left and dressing by the front of columns, if on either flank 
the flank columns would face outwards and make resistance 
untill reinforced. If in the rear the rear guard would face to 
the right about and make resistance, whilst the other columns 
would file up and wheeling to the right about form in succes- 
sion on the left in line, the ofllcers leading columns taking 
especial care to march at sufficient distances from each other 
to form in line in open order dressing by the center. If the 
attacking was made in camp the Troops would immediately 
form in the I'car of their fires, which would be extinguished 
as soon as possible by throwing it out in front. I ordered the 
Guards if attacked to stand their ground as long as possible 
and then retreat through the angle of the camp nearest them, 
there form, defend the angle if attacked if not to wait for 
orders. These form my disposable force. The weather tho' 
cold and the snow deep, was however well calculated to favour 
our enterp]'ize and I determined to make forced marches to 
avoid if possible a discovery. On the march I occasionally 
formed in order of Battle to accustom the troops to it. They 
formed with the utmost celerity and in good order, the first 
two days I marched forty miles, the third day I pushed the 
troops as much as they could bear, marched the whole night 
altho' excessively cold stopping twice to refresh and warm. 
This day and night we marched forty miles, early in morning 
of the 17th I reached undiscovered an Indian town on the Mis- 
sissinaway inhabited by a mixture of Delawares and Miamies. 
The troops rushed into the town killed eight warriors and took 



 

forty two prisoners eight of whom are warriors the residue 
women and children. I ordered the towii to be immediately 
burnt a house or two excepted in which I confmed the prison- 
ers and I ordered the cattle and other stock to be shot. I 
then left the infantry to guard the prisoners and with Sim- 
rail's and Balls Dragoons advanced to some Miami villages 
a few miles lower down the Mississinaway, but found them 
evacuated by all but a sick squaw whom we left in her house. 
I bui'nt on this excursion three considerable villages, took 
several horses and killed a great many cattle, and returned to 
the towm I first burnt where I had left the prisoners and 
encamped. My camp v.^as in the usual form but covered more 
ground than common. The Infantry and Riflemen Vv^ere on 
the front line, Capt. [Wilson] Elliott's company on the right, 
[Capt. James R.] Buttler's' in the centre and Alexander's on 

1. For account.3 of this family of soldiers see Pcnn. Mag. of Histwy VII, 1-10. 
Gen. Richard Butler served during the Revolution under Morgan and was killed at St. 
Clair's Defeat ; James R. was his son, Col. Robt. Butler, Jackson's chief of staff at 
New Orleans and Gen. W. O. Butler who fought in the Mexican war were of the 
family. See also The Historical Register, Jan. ISSS. Harrison's appreciation is ex- 
pressed in the following letter. 

North Benii, Ohio, Nov. 2Gth, 1820 
Dear Sir: 

I have been informed that Capt, James R. Butler of Pittsburgh is a candidate for 
an office in your gift. As this gentleman served in the army commanded by me in 
the late war & under my immediate view I have deemed it incumbent on me to state 
to you my opinion of his conduct & merits. A soldier yourself you will not hesitate 
to acknowledge the claims which disinterested, laborious and successful services in the 
field give to a candidate on an occasion of this kind — that those by whose exertion & 
dangers our country has been brought to repose in peace & prosperity, should share 
the bounties which the administrators of that counti-y's government are authorized to 
bestow. Admitting this as I am certain you will, I can assure you that Capt. Butler's 
pretentions to your favor will be exceeded by none that will contend for it. 

The captain joined the North Western army early in the winter preceding Hull's 
surrender at the head of a Company of Volunteer Light Infantry raised and disciplined 
by himself and engaged for a twelve month tour. It is no disparagement to other 
corps of this description to say that none that ever came under my notice could at 
all compare with them in point of discijiline, nor was their conduct in any respect, 
in camp or in the field, in battle or in those still more trying and difficult situations 
to which they were exposed, inferior to that of any other corps. Regular or Irregular. 
It is unnecessary to say to you how much of this merit ought to be attached to the 
commanding officer. The Pittsburgh Blues (Butler's Company was so called) greatly 
di>;tinguishcd themselves at the Battle of Messissiniway & in a sortie from Fort Meigs. 
My sense of their merit and that of their worthy Captain is strongly expressed in 
my Gen. Orders of that period. & in my letters to the Secretary of War. 

It would be impertinent in a citizen of another State to interfere with your ap- 
pointments further than the statement of facts with which it is possible you might be 
unacquainted. I .shall therefore leave it to Ca))t. Bulters other friends to urge his 
claims to the office in question from his (lualifications to dischar;re the duties, & the 
fairness of his private chai-acter. And conclude with assuring youi- Excellency of the 
great Respect with which I am 

Your Hum. Servt. 

WiM,. IT. H.\ni;isoN 
Gov. HiESTEit \_rrna.'] 

Pcnn. Mau. of Ilislory and Biography 



25G INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

the left. INIajor Ball's squadron occupied the right and one 
half of the ]-ear line Col. Simrall's Regiment the left and other 
half of the rear line Between Ball's right and Simerall's left 
there was an interval which had not been filled up, owing to 
tlie unusual extent of gj'ound the camp ejnbraced, it having 
been laid off in my absence to the lower towns. I now began 
to deliberate upon our future movements whether to go on 
further encumbered with prisoners, the men much fatigued 
and a great many severely frost bitten. Horses suffering 
from the want of forage which was very partially relieved by 
the scanty supplies of corn obtainod in the towns or retui'ii. 
I determined to convene the Field officei's and captains of the 
detachment to consult and then to take such a course as my 
own judgment might approve. At four in the morning of 
the 18th I ordered the reveille to be beaten, and the officers 
convened at my fire a short time afterwards, whilst we were 
in council and about half an hour before day my camp was 
most furiously attacked by a lai'ge party of Indians preceded 
by and accompanied with a most hideous yell, this innnediately 
broke up the council and every man ran to his post. The at- 
tack commenced upon that angle of the camp formed by the 
left of Capt. [S. G.] Hopkins Troops and the right of Captn. 
[William] Garrard but in a few seconds became general from 
the extreme of the right to the left of Balls squadron. The 
enemy boldly advanced to within a few yards of the Lines 
and seemed determined to rush in. The guards posted at the 
different redoubts retreated into camp and dispersed among 
theii- different companies thus leaving me without a disposable 
force. Captn. Smith of the Kentucky light Dragoons who 
commanded at one of the Redoubts in a handsome and mili- 
tary manner kept his position untill ordered in to fill up the 
interval in the rear line, between the Regiment and Squadron. 
The Redoubt at which Captain [Bennoni] Pierce commanded 
was first attacked, the Captn. maintained his position until it 
was too late to get within the line. He received two balls thro 
his body and was tomahawked, he died bravely and much la- 
mented. The enemy then took possession of Ca])i. Pierce's 
redoubt and poured in a tremendous fii'e upon the angle to the 
right and left of which were posted Hoj^kins' and Garrard's 
troops but the fire was as warmly returned, not im inch of 
ground was yielded, every man, officer and soldiei', stood firm 



 

and animated and encouraged each oilier, the enemy's fire be- 
came warm on the left of the squadron at which Capt. [Abra- 
ham] ]\Ta]'cle's'^ troop was posted and the right of [Wilson] 
Elliott's company which with ]\'Iarcles formed an angle of the 
camp was severely annoyed by the enemy's fire. I had as- 
sisted in forming the Infantry composed of Elliotts company of 
the 19th U. S. Regt. [Capt.^ James R.] Buttler's Pittsburgh 
Blues,'-' and Alexander's Penns.ylvania Riflemen and ordered 
them to advance to the brink of a declivity from which they 
could more effectively defend themselves and harrass the 
enemy, if they should attempt an attack on that line, this how- 
ever they thought proper to omit. Whilst I was thus engaged 
Major Ball rode up to me and observed he was hard pressed 
and must be relieved. I galloped immediately to the left wing 
with an in'ention of ordering Capt. [George] Trotter's Troops 
to reinforce the squadron, but there was informed that the 
enemy were seen approaching in that direction and believing 
it improper on second thought to detach so large a troop from 
the line which also covered an angle of the camp I determined 
to give the Relief from the Infantry. I wheeled my horse and 
met Major McDowell who observed that the spies and guides 
under the command of Capt, Paterson Bain consisting of ten 
men were unemployed. We rode there together and ordered 
Captain Bain to the support of the squadron, seven of them, 
to wit: James Audrain, William Conner, Silas McCullough, 
James Thompson, James Naggs, John Ruland and Joseph G Mc- 
Cleland followed their brave leader, and I rendered most ef- 
fectual assistance. I then ordered Capt. Buttlcr with the 
Pittsburgh Blues to repair immediately to reinforce the squad- 
ron and directed Capt. [Wilson] Elliott and Alexander to ex- 
tend to the right and left and fill the interval occasioned by 
the withdrawal of the Blues. Capt. Buttler in a most gallant 
maimer and highly worthy of the name he bears formed his 
men immediately in excellent order and marched them to the 
point to which he was ordered. The alacrity with Vvdiich they 
formed and moved v/as never excelled by any troops on earth. 
Hopkins made room for them by extending his Troop to the 

2. Al)ia)Kim Marklu \v:is born in Ulster Co., N. Y., 1760. From there he moved 
to Upper Canada and when the war of 1812 opened was prosperous. He Joined the 
trooi)s of U. S. and his ])roperty was lost. ConKress Rave him a grant of land wliich 
he located on the Wabash. He wa.s one of the finuidcr.s of Terrc Haute, where his 
descendants still reside. He died March 26, 18Z6. 



 

right. The Bhies were scarcely at the post assigned them 
before 1 discovered the efFect they produced. A well directed 
lire from them and Hopkins Dragoons nearly silenced the 
enemy in that quarter, they then moved in force to the left 
of the squadron and right of the infantry at which Capt. 
Llarcle's and Elliott's companies were posted. Here again 
the3^ were warmly received. Lieut. [David] Gvv\vnne and En- 
sign Batteal Harrison who were 011 the right of the company 
boldly stood their ground, and tired obliquely on the enemy. 
Those two young officers in a particular manner signalized 
themselves and shed a lustre on the 19th. Capt. [Wilson] 
Elliott and Lieut. [James] Campbell were on the left of the 
Company and were not engaged. Serjeant [William] Levitt 
Q. M. Sergeant to the 19th U. S. Regt. deserves particular 
notice for his bravery. At this time daylight began to da^^Tl. 
I then ordered Captain Trotter whose Troop had been ordered 
by Col. Simrall to mount for the purpose to make a charge. 
The Capt. cried out to his men to follow him and they tilted 
off at full gallop. Capt. Trotter's first Lieut, with eighteen 
of the men were on guard. Lieut. Trotter, Cornet Dishman 
and the residue of the troop together with Lieut. Hobson and 
four men of Elmores troop Doct. LToore and a few other Gen- 
tleman including Mr. Thomas Moore my private secretary 
advanced gallantly and charged a numerous body of the 
enemy. Major ]\IcDowell with a small party rushed into the 
midst of the enemy and exposed himself very much. I cannot 
say too much for this gallant veteran. Capt. ]\Iarkle with 
about fifteen of his troop and Lieut. Warren's also made a 
daring charge upon the enemy. Captn. Markle avenged the 
Death of his relative Lieut. [Daniel] Waltz upon an Indian 
with his own sword. Capt. Trotter and his troop Capt. Llarkle 
and his little band performed a most dangerous duty in the 
bravest manner. Captn. Trotter mentions to me as worthy of 
pailicular notice Robert ]\Iitchell a waggoner, who had vol- 
unteered for the expedition, Christian Willman, trumpetc)- to 
Col. Simi'alls regiment who blew two charges, and hewed down 
an Indian with his sword, William Montgomery, Sei'gi- ]\Iajor 
to the Regt. of Kentucky Light Dragoons, was in the charge 
and distinguished himself as well as in the ski]-mish tlie day 
before. In this charge Capt. Trotter was wounded slightly, 
Corporal [Henry] Riddle shot through the body David Steele 



 

wounded in tho tliigh slightly and the brave [Salem] Piatt 
received his mortal wound being shot through the body and 
hand. Fearing that Ca])t. Trottei- might be too hard pressed, 
I ordered Captn. [John] Johnson of the Kentucky light Di'a- 
goons to advance with his Troop to suppoi-t him. I found John- 
son ready and Col. Simrall reports to me that all his other 
ca]"»tains to A\it Elmore, Young and Smith were anxious to 
join in the charge, but I called for only One Troop. The Colo, 
had the whole in excellent order. Ca])t. Johnsoii did not join 
Trotter untill the enemy was out of reach, he however picked 
u]) a straggler or two that Trottei- had passed over. The Cav- 
alry returned and infoi-med me the enemy had fled precipi- 
tately. I have on this occation to lament the loss of several 
brave men and a great many Avounded, amongst the former 
are Capt. [Benoni] Pierce of the Ohio Volunteers and Lieut, 
[Daniel] Waltz of Markles troop. From the enclosed list you 
^^'\U see the names and numbers of the killed and wounded, 
Eight being killed and forty-eight wounded two of whom are 
since dead. The enemy paid dearly for their temerity from 
the trails thro the snow and those found dead, we could not 
have killed less than thirty which with those killed the day 
before amounts to thirty-eight. The enemy did not take a 
scalp. The Indian who killed Capt. Pierce attempted to scalp 
him but was killed. Major Ball informs me that he can say 
with confidence that there never were ofhcers and soldiei's who 
displayed more cool, firm and soldierly conduct, than those of 
his squadron. 

The zeal activity and courage displayed by Capt. Hopkins 
and his officers (Capt. McCleland and Cornet Herod of the 
Pennsylvania volunteers having been atached to him) did not 
fail to arrest his attention and met his fullest approbation. 
Lieut. [James] Hedges received a slight wound on the nose. 
Cai)t. Garrards Troops sustained the action at that point 
whei'e it raged with greater violence for some time after it 
commencement that a.t any other (except upon the left) with 
the fii'inness of veterans, while the oflicers were unceasingly 
employed in stimulating and encouraging their men. Lieut. 
[Edwajd] Basey and [Harris H.] Hickman were both 
wounded early, but performed their duty in tho line to the 
close of the action. Cornet McClanjihan Q.M. to the Detach- 
ment was ca(iually active in the line with the other oflicers of 



2G 

tlio Troop. Q. M. Scrjt. Strotbcr I. Hawkins wlio had no 
other fire arni.s loaded and fired l\is pistol several times at 
the enemy and many othei's similarly situated used their pis- 
tols as fast as they could load them. Young Mr. Baylor placed 
himself a little in front of the line and fought bravely during 
the action. Lieut. Warren's and Cornet Lee's detachment be- 
haved with great firmness and used their pistols and carbines 
to the best advantage Cornet Grear (of Warren's) was 
wounded in the arm but remained sometime afterw^ards in the 
lino, Capt. Markles Troop as I have before stated was sit- 
uated upon the left of the squadron and most sorely galled. 
Lieut. Waltz fell most gallantly, there never were men who 
sustained so heavy an action with more firmness, but one sen- 
timent pervaded the wdiole and victory or death was most ob- 
stinately determined upon. Col. Simrall's Regiment altho not 
engaged with the exception of Trotter's Troop w^ere all ready 
and panting to engage. The Colonel deserves the highest ap- 
plause fo]* his excellent disposition during the action, and for 
his cool firm and deliberate conduct. To ]\Iajor Ball the great- 
est praise is due for his activity and bravery during the action. 
No man could have done more, he informs me he v/as greatly 
aided throughout the ])rogress of the action by the exertions 
of Lieut, and Adjt. Fullerton and Serjeant Major Edwards. I 
must now mention in the highest terms of a.ppreciation Lieut, 
[.lohn] Payne of the Kentucky Light Di'agoons who acted as 
my adjutant on the expedition for his great activity attention 
to duty and gallantry during the action he rendei-ed the most 
essential service. My extra adjutant Capt. [Lewis] Hite was 
verry active and as brave as a Lion I ahvays found him ready 
foi- any ser\'ice I had for him to perform. Capt. Luce of the 
Ohio volunteers marcked with me from this place as a private 
in the ranks and in the action killed an Indian, he deserves 
my particular notice. Captain Alexander with his rifieman 
were on the left of the front line and not engaged but wei-e 
all ready if an 0]ii)ortunity had offered. Bevei'ly Bro\\m and 
Thomas Bedford of Capt. Gerrard's Troop and Francis Lou- 
song of the Blues were killed fighting bravely in exposed sit- 
uations. I have now my dear Sir detailed to you the particu- 
lars of an engagement bravely fought and victory gloriously 
won after contending most warmly fo]- at least an hour. Fi'om 
the length of our line simultaneously attacked by them 1 am 



HAKRISON: ]\IESSAGES AND LETTERS 261 

persuaded there could not have born less tlian three liundred 
of the enemy. The}' fought most bravely. ]\ly strength on 
the morjiing of the action vas about five liundred and ninety 
rank and file a considerable proportion of whom, amounting 
to at least foily or fifty were almost rendci-ed unfit for duty 
by the severity of the weather. Some vrere so badly frost 
bitten as to be scaix-ely able to walk. There never was severer 
sei'vice perfoi-med by any trooi)S and yet there is not a mur- 
mur. Reports made to me yesterday morning informs of 
three hundred and three Avho are so severely frostbitten as to 
be entirely unfit for duty. On my march back I was compelled 
to move slowly on account of the wounded, seventeen of whom 
we had to carry on litters. I kept the troops always ready to 
meet an attack ^ hich I daily and nightly expected untill I 
reached this place. I fortified my camp every night by a 
breast work, which kept us busily engaged. The scarcity of 
axes was now most sensibly felt. I have informed you how 
I advanced into the enemy's country. jNIy return vras much in 
the same mode. I determined to be always ready to avoid 
surprizes and falling into ambuscades. I assure you the re- 
sponsibility attached to this command I most seriously felt 
being young in service an inexperienced I felt great diffidence 
in accepting this command. I however hope my conduct will 
meet your approbation. I shall hasten on to join you but it 
will take the troops some time to recruit and heal. Some will 
lose toes, others feet are so swollen as not to be able to put on 
their shoes. The night march was most severe upon them. 
I met J\Iajor [John] Adair with ninety-five men on my 
return about forty miles from the place vrith a supply of pro- 
visions. This came most seasonably some companies were en- 
tirely without. Hopkins's had eat nothing for three days. 
That night I should have ordered a horse to be killed. The 
greatest praise is due Major [Nathaniel F.] Adams for his 
promptitude in relieving us. ]\Iy express arrived here on Sat- 
urday evening and he started on Sunday morning. The next 
day I met Col. Holt from Dayton with additional supplies. 
Thi'ough the whok^ of this expedition we ceilainly were fa- 
vored by divine Providence. Th.e weather though severe was 
favorable to the entcrpi'ize the snow enabled us to ascei'lain 
whetliej- we Averc discovered. The moon gave light all llio 
night and on our return the water courses were l^lockcd up 



 

by ice. there was not a drop of rain, such a concatenation of 
favorable circumstancGS rarely happens. The Indian prison- 
ers I will send off tomorrow to Piqua to the care of Mv. 
[John] Johnson escorted by an ofilcer and twenty troops from 
this place. The few lines I ^vrote you from the Battle Ground 
I fnid in some particulars to be incorrect, not having* at that 
time full reports of the wounded, My prisoners are also more 
than I then represented. I think Sir that you may assure the 
Government that the Battle of Mississinniway Vv'as not badly 
fought and that the enemy suffered severely, that the Troops 
deserve well of thei]- country and their losses ought to be 
comjien sated. The number of horses killed vrcre considerable 
and I have no doubt they saved the lives of a great many men. 
1 hope to overtake you before Maiden falls. I have learned 
since my return that Gcnl. [Samuel] Hopkins had returned to 
Vincenncs after burning some Indian villages and driving 
them, supposed to be three hundred in numbei-, up the Wa- 
bash. This still made my situation more perilous and I shall 
not be surprised to leai-n that Tecumseh commanded in the 
action against me. let him be wlio he may he was a gallant 
fellow and maneuvered wqW. [William] Conner thinks it was 
Little Thunder (nephew to the Little Turtle) from his loud 
voice which he knew. He heard him ordering his men in the 
]\Iiami language to rush on that they would soon retreat. I 
think Sir the Kentucky cavalry will surely be in a situation 
to render you much more service. Their losses in horses are 
considerable and one hundred and thirty-eight frost bitten 
severely. They are fme fellows with a few exceptions and as 
brave as any men in the world. Captn. Prince is here verry 
sick he v/as unable to get on with us, this was to me a great 
loss. 

I am Sir verry respectfully your most obdt. & Hb. Servt. 
John B. Campbell, Lt. Col. 19th U. S. Regt. 

His Excellency Genl. William Henry Harrison 
Coiiimander in Chief N. IF. Army. 



Return of the Ba'i'tle of Missineway 

Harrison Pa. .18-21 

The following is a true statement of the killed and w^ounded 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 



26: 



in tlie Rattle of the ]\'Iississinway on the morning- of the 18th 
Instant and in the skirmish on the 17th viz: 

On the 17th In Captain IIoi)kins troops U. S. L. D. 
Sergeant James Wjight, Killed. 
In Captain Elniore.s troo]) Ky. Vol. L. D. 
Sergeant Thos. Sinilli grounded, since dead. 

On the IStli In Captn. Hopkins troops U. S. L. D. 
Lst Lieut. Jarnes Pledges slightly. 
Thomas Robinson Ijadly 
John Holeroft *' 

John May slightly \- Rrivates 

John Tarn badly 
Tlios. Salsbury badly 
In Captn. Marcles troop 12 mo Rcnn. V. L. D. 
2nd Lieut. Danl. Waltz, killed 
Private Jas. Giffin killed 
Corpls. Henry Breneman, badly 
Corp. Robert Skilly slightly 
Saddler, James Smith, slightly 
Thompson Carnahan mortally, 

since dead 
Robt. Campbell dangerously 
Fuidlay Carnahan badly 
Wm. Logue slightly 

Jos. Chambei-s badly }■ Privates 

Jas. Selby slightly 
Thomas Porter badly 
John McCarmon, badly 
Robt. Cooper slightly 
David Braden sliglitly 
Jno. Bennet slightly 
In Captn Garrards Troop 12 mos. K. \'. L. D, 
Privates Thomas Bedford killed 

Bev(>i'ly Brown killed 
1st Lieut. Edwd. Ba3'sey, slightly 
2nd Lieut. David Hickman slightly 
Qr. M. Sergeant Strotlu>r J. HaAvkins slightly 
Sergeant G. Edwards slightly 
Farrier J. ]\Ic( 'onnell slightly 
Henry "\\' illson 
Moses Riehaidson 



2G 

RETI'llN OF TJIE BATTLl-] OF MISSIXEWAY— Coiitiiiucd. 

Thomas East on baelly 
Wm. Scott moi'tally 
Thomas Webster 
In Capt. Pierces troop G mos. Ohio V. L. D. 
Captn. Bennoni Pierce kihed 
Privates Daniel Cunningham Killed 
Willm. ]Monroe wounded. 
In Lieut. Warrens troo]) Penna. A- L- D. 

Cornet Greer, wounded 
In Cornet Lee's Troop 12 mo. ^Michigan "\'. L. D. 
Privates David Hull wounded 

Michael ]\IcDermot wounded 
CjTUS Hunter wounded. 
In Capt. Trotters Tioop 6 mo. Ky. V. L. D. 
Captn. Geo. Trotter Jr. slightly 
1st. Sergt. Byrd Smith badly 
1st Corpl. Henry Riddle dangerou-^ly 
Salem Peyatt,, [Piatt] mortally since dead 
David Steele, slightly 
In Captain Elliotts Comp;iny U. S. Infty. 
Privates ^^^altel• ^McAllister wounded 
Henry Watters woumled 
Thomas Wittington wounded 
In Captain J3utlers (Pitts.) Blues 12 }vIos. \'. Infiy 
Private Francis Lansing killed 
Corps. E. Elliott wounded 
Corp. Reid wounded 
Private Isaac Cliess wountled 
Jos. Dodd wounded 

Killed Captains 1 Wounded Caj'jtain^ 1 

2nd Lieut 1 1 Lts 2 

Sergts 1 2 Lts 1 

Privates 5 Cornets 1 

— Q.M. Sergts 1 

Total killed hi action S Sei'gts 3 

Died of the wounded sinc(^ Corps 5 

th<' action 2 Saddkns 1 

■ Fari'iers 1 

Total 10 Privates 32 

Total >\ound(d in action 48 



HARRISON: .^lESSAGES AND LETTERS 265 

KETUP.X OF THE BATTLE OF :MI.SSIXE\VAY-Coiitiniud. 

A report of the number rendered unfit for duty by being fro->t 
bitten as ai:)pears from the re})ort> of tlie morning of tlie 24th Inst. 
Viz. 

In 2Major Balls squadron 107 

Cob Simralls Regt.„ 138 

Infantry and Riflemen 58 

Total 303 

John Payne 1st Li. Ky. V. L. D. and adjt. to 
Detachments. 

Secretary op War to Harrison 

War Department Dec. 26, 1812 

Har. Pa. ^2-Jt7 
General \\l\. H. HARRISON 
Sir: 

The President having confided to me [James Monroe] the 
temporary charge of this Department, I have to communicate 
to you his sentiments on some important objects relating to 
the operations of the Troops under your command. 

The object of your Expedition was to retake Detroit, to take 
j\Ialden, with the adjacent Country, and to hold them. For 
this purpose, a considerable force was placed under your com- 
mand, with all the other means which the Government could 
afford. It was anticipated that you would have to encounter 
many difliculties in the execution of your orders, particularly 
in the transportation of pro\isions and other supplies; bu it 
was presumed that they might be surmounted. The delay 
however which has already taken place, and which it is not 
doubted has been unavoidable, and the expense which has been 
incurred inseparable from the gi'eat force assembled under you 
give the President much concern. It is the greater from the 
consideration that the terms of the Volunteer and ]\Iilitia 
Coj'ps will soon expire, and leave you the regular force only, 
with a fev.' Volunteer ComjDanies for one year. 

The President still considers the occupancy of Detroit and 
jMalden objects of the highest importance. If these Posts 
could be taken and held, the advantage attending it would be 
most extensively felt. It would put an end to the British as- 
cendancy over the Indian Tribes, and connected with and 

20—22061 



 

aided by other measures, which that event would suggest, and 
whicli it would be easy to execute, it w^ould demolisli the Brit- 
ish power in that quarter. It is therefore with great reason, 
that the President lias attached such high importance to the 
complete success of youi- expedition. Important however as 
it is, you will nevertheless bo sensible of the ill consequences 
attending a perseverance in efforts w^hich while thej'" expose 
our Troops to all the hardships of the present season, and ex- 
haust our provisions and the public Treasury afford no rea- 
sonable pvospect of success. 

At this distance and with an imperfect knowledge of the 
actual state of things it is impossible for the president to de- 
cide satisfactorily to himself, or with advantage to the public, 
w^hether it is practicable for you to accomplish the objects of 
the expedition in their full extent, during the present Winter. 
No person can be so competent to that decision as yourself ; and 
the Pj-esident has great confidence in the solidity of the opinion 
which you may form. He wishes you maturely to weigh this 
important subject, and to take that part which your judgment 
may dictate. It is expected that you will forthv/ith form a 
clear and distinct plan as to the objects which you may deem 
attainable, the time within wdiich they may be attained, and 
the force necessary for the purpose, and that you communi- 
cate the same with precision to the Department. As soon as 
you have formed this plan you will proceed to execute it, with- 
out waiting for an answer, and as soon as the Government is 
made acquainted with it, measures will be adopted to give to 
your operations all the aid in its power. 

The Troops- now under your conunand were oixlered to the 
field immediately after the surrender of Detroit wiien it was 
apprehended that the British force and Indians flushed with 
their late success, would make incursions and carry their sav- 
age war to our frontiei". The Government confident of the 
ample means of the Country and disdaining to relinquish any 
part of the plan at first conceived, in consequence of that dis- 
graceful event resolved to pursue every object with new vigor, 
with a force which should be adequate, affording at the same 
time complete protection to the frontiers. But the Indians, 
driven by the season have, it is presumed, now left the field 
and the British Commander under the Pressure made below 
drawn much of his foi'ce to the Sti'ait of Niagai'a and else- 



G7 

whei-e in that Quarter, so that there is little to apprehend for 
the piTsent from either party. 

Yon ^\ill decide Vvdiether tlie vrhole force now under your 
command is still necessary, and will be cfFectual for the ac- 
complishment of tlie oj'iginal objects of the Expedition. Your 
situiition and the intelligence you have acquired, will enable 
you to judge what opposition you may expect from the Sav- 
ages on the Route to Detroit, and you are doubtless correctly 
informed of the strength of the British force there, and at 
iMalden, as of the condition of tliosc Fortresses in respect to 
provisions, cannon, and other munitions of Vv'ar. If you strike 
at those posts it v/ill be well to keep together a force which 
shall be abundaritly adequate to their reduction and retention, 
but all extra force, serving only by its magnitude to impede 
and retard your march by the difliculty of procuring and trans- 
porting pj'ovisions, and to exhaust our Resources, and the 
spirits of the people ought to be dismissed. 

Shou.ld you be of opinion that your force and other means 
arc incompetent at this season to the reduction of Detroit and 
IMaldon and their retention, or of Detroit only, in consequence 
of their strength in men and cannon and the difficulty of trans- 
porting cannon to bear on them, and of supplies for support 
of the Troops during the present season, then the Campaign 
must be reduced within that limit. It vrill be confined to such 
objects as are within your reach, particularly to the protection 
of your advanced supplies on the ]Miamis, and of the Frontier, 
and to such annoyances of the Enemy as may be practicable. 
For these objects, especially the security of your supplies and 
protection of the frontier, in case nothing is to be appre- 
hended from the Indians, a small force will be adequate. For 
the latter, the force must be apportioned to the nature and 
extent of the annoyance contemplated. The destruction of the 
Queen Charlotte, and of the ^hole of the naval force of the 
enemy frozen up as it is pi'esumed to be in the ice, would be 
an important attainment. It is one vrhich is recommended to 
your particular attention. Success in it v/ould pave the way 
to an easy command of the upper Lakes early in the next cam- 
paign, and a commiind of them would coritributo most essen- 
tially to the reduction of all upper Canada. For this expedi- 
tion, in aid of the Regular Troops, or such part as it may be 
■proper to employ in it, after placing judiciously an adequate 



2( 

force for the protection of your advanced supplies and of the 
frontiers, and making an arrang-ement for sustaining and 
keeping open the commuiiication with the force cinployed in 
the Expedition, it is presumable that some of the gallant spir- 
its now in the field from Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania and 
Virgiiiia would i-eadily volunteer their services. It is not 
doubted that you might easily drav*' from those Corps, an ade- 
quate force for this sei'vice, should the object be deemed prac- 
ticable. The cause should not be stinted. According to the 
object the force should be abundant. All beyond it should be 
discharged. Those brave men Avho turned out to serve their 
country at so interesting a crisis and have boriic so many hard- 
ships, have a just claim to be relieved as soon as it appears 
that there is no further occasion for them. They will come 
fonvard again vv^hen their country requires their aid. From 
every view that is taken of the subject, there seems to be no 
motive for keeping in service either the Troops under the com- 
mand of General [Elijah] Wadsworth or General [Samuel] 
Hopkins. If you see no sufficient reason to the contrary' you 
will of course disband them. The Indian tribes present 
another object of annoyance. It is presumed that at this sea- 
son their Villages are in a great measure defenceless. If their 
provisions were destroyed, they wou.ld be in want of the means 
to cai'rj' on the next campaign. Their Warriors are supposed 
to be engaged in small parties in hunting. If they were met 
with they would be easily vanquished, in whicli case we should 
have less to apprehend from them hereafter. You may per- 
haps be able to engage and form from amoiig the Troops 
under you, whose terms are about to expii'e, some Corps for 
this Service. 

It is probable that Volunteer Corps may be raised out of 
the Ti'oops now in the field to serve for one year. On that 
pj-esumption I send you Commissions, wdiich you are author- 
ized to confei' on such deserving characters as may merit 
them, and maybe able to raise the men. The pretensions of 
Colonel [Duncan] McArthur, [James] Findlay and [Lewis] 
Case are much respected here. It is expected that they will 
soon be relieved from all restraint on account of their late 
captivity, and it is much desired to b3ing them again into 
active service. Of Colonel James Dunlap a very favoi-able 
opinion is also entei'tained. On this subject I shall write, you 
more fully soon. 



G9 

It is proper to inform you that llie President has it in con- 
1 em Illation to set on foot an expedition from Kentucky of 
about 1000 mounted men to pass by Fort \\"ay]ie, the lowor end 
of Lake JMichif>-an and round by the IlHnois, back to the Ohio 
near Tjouisville, for the purpose of scouring? that Country, de- 
stroying tlie provisions cohccied in t)ie Indian vihages, scourg- 
ing the Indians tliemselves and disabhng them from interfer- 
ing with 3'our operations. It is expected that tiiis expedition 
v.'i]] commence in the I\Ionth of Februar}^ and that it vill 
terminate in a few weeks, I give you the information that 
you may take it into consideration in the estimate of those 
ari-angements you may find it necessary to maJve for cari-y- 
ing into effect the objects of the Government. 

I send you a copy of the proposed plan on vrhich I v\'ish to 
hear from you without delay. You will particularly state 
whether you can eflfect those objects in the manner which is 
suggested, by adequate portions of the force now in the field 
and in that case wdiether it would be better to suspend the 
movement of this force till the Spring. 

You "will be able at an early day to state distinctly, the force 
which will be required in the Spring, to secure success to fu- 
tui'e op(>]'ations in that Quarter. You know the amount of the 
British force at this time at Detroit, and in Upper Canada, of 
the Indian force which may be combined with it, and you can 
form a tolerable estimate of the impression which you may 
make during the Winter; and taking a combined view of the 
whole subject, you may give a just idea of what will be requi- 
site for the next Camapigii, and at what time it ought to take 
the Field. The President desires that you will hasten to com- 
municate your sentiments on this subject, that they niay be 
taken into consideration, and that su.ch provision may be made 
for a vigorous prosecution of the next campaign in every di- 
rection, as may secure complete success to it. 

J. M. [James IMonroe] 

MiSSLSSINEWAY EXPEDITION 

Dayton, 0. December 31, 1S12 

Pitlsbiu-o-h Gicuft.c, Jan. 22, 1813 

On the 25th of Noveniljo' a detaclnnent under the command 
oC Lt. Col. [John] Campbell left Franklinton on a tour which 
was then a secret. This detachment consisted of a regiment 



 

of Light Horse (6 mos. Vols.) of Kentucky, Col. [James] 
Simeral, U. S. Regulars, and II. S. Volunteers, commanded by 
Major [James V.] Ball, a company of regular infantry, the 
Pittsburgh Blues and Capt. Alexander's Riflemen, amounting 
in tlie whole to up\\'ards of 600 men. We proceeded to this 
place. We here left all our tents and all our baggage. From 
this we marched to Greenville, the extreme frontier settlement. 
Previous to our arrival here the object of our expedition was 
made known to us. We were informed in general orders that 
it was against the I\Iiami Indians whose town and settlements 
lay (jn the Tslississineway River. 

The whole of the 'foot' being mounted on pack horses at 
Dayton, in order to expedite our march, we proceeded with 
considerable rapidity. Our march, after we left Greenville lay 
through a dreary wilderness, and never saw a house nor the 
trace of a human being, except savages, for the distance of 
85 miles, the whole of our march from Franklinton being about 
200 miles. Every man carried his own provisions on his 
horse, which consisted of nothing but biscuit and pork. As 
we had no cajup equipage of ?ny kind, our only means of cook- 
ing was by broiling our meat on the coals, or roasting it on 
a stick before the fire. 

On the morning of the third day's march from the settle- 
ment, \vc v.'ere within 40 miles of the Indians towns. We pro- 
ceeded that day, and the whole of the next night, and halted 
at about 4 O'clock in the morning a few miles from the iovm. 
After refreshing ourselves for about an hour, v.'e took up our 
line of march, which was in ten columns of single file, the 
order observed during the whole expedition, and moved with 
the gi'eatest silence, our object being to take them by sur- 
prise. When we were vrithin half a mile of the to"\^Ti our 
guides gave direction to move up as briskly as possible. Here 
a scene of tumult and confusion ensued. Every man put spurs 
to his horse, the yell was raised by the whole a]-my, the ranks 
were broken, and we entered the town in the utmost confusion 
and disorder. 

The infantry and riflemen, who were mounted on pack 
horses, and were left in the rear when the race began, dis- 
mounted and entered the town regularly formed. There were 
not moi'e than 12 or 15 warriors in the town. These,, on the 
appro;icli of ou)' men, fled aci'oss the river without making 



 

any ]-esi stance. Wc fired on tlicm and killed 6 or 7. Between 
;;0 and 10 ))risoncrs we]'e taken, men, women, and children, 
and the town burnt. Had we entered the to\Mi in regular 
oi'der every Indian might have been taken without firing a 
gun. The prisoners were left in the care of the infantry and 
riflemen, and the light horse proceeded to destroy another 
town, a few miles lower down the river, v/hich they accom- 
]3lished, there being only two or tliree old men ar.d a squaw 
in it. The light horse returned in the afternoon. 

Our loss in the attack consisted of two men — one killed by 
accident by our own men in the general confusion ; the other had 
strolled some distance from the town and ^vas shot by an 
Indian who was lurking about. We were informed by the 
Indian prisoners that there v/ere 500 warriors at a to^vn 15 
miles below, at the junction of the ]\Iississineway and Wabash. 
[Peru] From this information we had every reason to ap- 
prehend an attack next morning. The result justified our 
suspicions. 

The object of the expedition being accomplished, which was 
to take prisoners and destroy the Indian towns, we had re- 
ceived orders to prepare for our return next morning. We 
encamped that night in our usual order, which was a hollow 
square. 

After reviclle in the morning and about half an hour before 
daylight just as the moon had set, and while we were cooking 
our bi'cakfast and preparing for our march, v/e were assailed 
Ijy the yells of the savages. 

The attack commenced on the right I'car angle of the camp 
with greatest fui'y, and was sustained by part of ]\Iajor Ball's 
Sciuadron of horse who were on that quarter. The guards 
were immediately driven in — every man Vv^as nndci- arms in a 
minute." Our company, together with the rest of the infantry 
and riflemen, formed the front side of tlie square, instantly 
formed on our gi'ound where we waited for orders. In a short 
time, and while the battle raged with gi'eat fury on the quar- 
ter- where it coinmenced, Col. Campbell rode to Captain Butler 
and oi'dered him to reinforce that quarter or we should be cut 
oil". Tlic company immcKliately marched to the ,s])ot directed 
and poured in so furious and well directed a fii-e that in a 
short time the fii'e of the enemy was almost totally silenced. 

Soon after this daylight began to appeal", and our party prov- 



 

ills' too powerful the savng-es began to retreat. They were pur- 
sued some distance by a troop of horse and routed with con- 
siderable slaughter. The action conliinied about an houi'. 
Our loss was eight killed and about -lo wounded. Of the 
wounded, two died on our return and one at this place. These, 
together wiih the two killed the day of the attack on the town, 
makes our loss in killed, 12. 

The greatest part of the battle being fought in the dark, 
rendei's it impossible to form a correct idea of the number of 
the enemj'. It is the general opinion, however, that their 
force was about 300. Neither are we able to ascertain cor- 
rectly their loss, but from the number we found dead on tlie 
field, from the trails in the snow of those who had been 
dragged off, and from the reports of the Indians wlio have 
since come in, we calculate their loss to be about 100 killed and 
wounded. 

In the action our Pittsburgh boys behaved with the greatest 
courage. It is impossible to say too much in their praise. 
Oil the first alarm they were formed ^^•ith the utmost alacrity 
and marched to the ground in the best order, where they 
fought with the coolness and intrepidity of veterans, and al- 
though two of the men vrei'e wounded iri the commencement 
of the action they refused to leave the ranks but fought until 
the action was over. In short, our company contributed more 
tlian any other to decide the fate of the day. They were in 
the hottest of the action for a considerable time, yet there was 
not the smallest indication of fear discernible in a single man. 
Wq liad one killed, one dangerously wounded, but he is nov,- 
ivco\-ej'ing, one severely and two slightly wounded. 

No less can be said in p}-aise of Captain ]\Iarkle's troops. 
His loss in killed and wounded \',"as considerable. Among the 
killed was his second lieutenant, Waltz. He was wounded in 
the a)'m at the commencement of tlie action, but fought until 
near its close, when he received a ball through his forehead, 
which terminat(;d his life in about five liours. Of the whole 
detachment, not more than four companies can properly be 
said to have beeii engaged. These were Tvlarkle's. Garrard's 
and Hopkins' t)-oops of horse and Butler's company of in- 
faiitiy — The Pittsburgh Plues. 

The attack was made on the lliree first mentioned troops, 
who sustained the shock until thev were reinforced bv our 



HARRISON: :RIESSAG.ES AND LETTERS 273 

(•(>)n])niiy. Oilier parts of tlic army had some slig'ht sldrmish- 
iiift' but were not drawn into the reg-ular line of battle. All 
tlie cavalry were arrned with rifles and muskets and fought 
on foot until daylight. 

Durying the dead and making prepai'ation for Iran.^porting 
oui- \\'ounded procrastinated our departure till late in the 
aCternoon. The dead were buried in one of the houses which 
was torn down and burned over the graves to prevent any 
trace of their deposit being discovered by the Indians. All 
the wounded, who were not able to ride, were carried on lit- 
ters by horses. This necessarily retarded ouj- movements 
greatly, and v/e were every night under the continual appre- 
hension of an attack from the savages. Vv^e every night 
fortified ourselves by throwing up a strong breastwork around 
our encampment. The men slept on their arms. One-third 
of the detachment was detailed every night for guard. Fortu- 
nately, however, the reception we gave them at Mississinevv'ay 
detei'red them from again attacking us. 

After a tedious march of seven days we arrived at Green- 
ville. From that place we sent the prisoners under a militia 
guard to Piqua. Fortune favored us v/ith respect to weather, 
which was extremely cold. Had it been otherwise, the diffi- 
culties from the number of creeks and the great swamps we 
had to cross would have rendered it almost impossible. The 
detachment is very much broken down from the severity of 
the weather. Nearly one half have their feet frost bitten, 
which renders them incapable of doing duty. 

To add to our misfoi'tune, when within two days mcireh of 
Greenville our provisions were exhausted. This, to troops so 
much i-educed by fatigue and hardships, as we were, was suffi- 
cient to damp the spirits of any men. The second nig'ht be- 
fore our arrival at the settlement we encamped on the same 
ground we had occupied on our march out. Here our men 
were glad to gather the gi'ains of corn from the ground where 
the horses had fed, and parch and boil it for their sustenance. 
The next day we met a reinforcement of militia fi'om Green- 
ville. They brought six pack-horse loads of provisions, which 
afforded about half a ration a man. This kept us from starv- 
ing till v/e arrived at the settlement, v/here wc got everything 
necessary for our relief. 

I can scai'cely believe any men suffered more than we did 



 

from fatig'ue and hiin;?,-cr. Indeed, the result proves it, as 
there is not more than one-fourth of our detaclmient fit for 
duty. Notwillistanding all this, I scarcely ever heard a man 
complain. 

From Wefltcrn Pcnn. Hist. Mar/., Vol. h, 115-119 

John Ketciiam Ranger Service 

Rcininiscenccs of Col. Jolni KetcJiom 

I propose to give a short history of our Indian troubles of 
1812-1818, in that part of the Indiana Territory, commonly 
called the "Forks", situated between IMuscackituck and the 
Driftvv'-ood fork of White River, called by the Indians 
Ilangonahakqua sepoo. In April, 1811, Ave settled on Section 
14, Township 5 N., Range 4 East. Said section was made 
fractional by the Indian Boundary line cutting off the N. W. 
corner. The Indians were numerous and friendly in that part 
of the Territor^^ until after the Tippecanoe battle, which took 
place on the 7th of November 1811. The Delaware tribe ex- 
pressed disapprobation of the battle and many Indians left our 
part of the Territory then, but not all. We enjoyed peace, 
but not without fear, until April 7th, 1812 ; about tvv^o and a 
half miles above our location there lived three families to- 
gether, Hinton, Cox and Roddick. Their horses grazed in 
what was called the Cherry Bottom, five or six miles above. 
Hinton started in the morning to get a horse for some purpose, 
but not returning that day, his friends went in search of him, 
and ascertained that their horses were all stolen, and that 
Hinton was murde}'ed or taken prisoner. The circumstance 
being made known to our neighborhood, we all v^^^nt in search 
of the missing man. When we arrived at the Cherry Bottom, 
tv/o men were sent to examine the I'iver shore, the balance 
were so divided as to sweep the bottom at one througii. He 
was found shot through the head, stri])ped and thrown into 
the river. We laid him on a blanket, tied the corners over 
a pole and started for home. Night overtaking us we cut 
forlis and raised the corpse out of the reach of wolves. A 
proposition was then made to John Ketcham and Noah 
Wright, that if Ketcham would write a letter, and Wright 
take it to the Covernor, then at Charlestown, they .should be 
exempt from helping to bring in and bury the dead, agreed to. 

Next morning (Sunday) about ten o'clock myself a.nd fam~ 



 

ily were shut up in the lioufje. 1 wms lying on a pallet before 
tiie fire, when suddenly, without speaking, thrc^j Indians, each 
having a gun, pushed open the door and came in. I requested 
them to take seats; they placed their guns in the corner of 
the house and took seats. I took occasion to examine their 
guns, found them primed and loaded. It was not common 
when the Indians called on the Whites to have any guns with 
them. Sometimes they had one, but that not loaded. They 
could speak pretty good English. I asked them, "what news?" 
They answered "none". I told them of the murder of Hiiiton 
and horses stoleii. They then observed that three days past, 
seven Winnebago Indians passed their camp, going towards 
Cherry Bottom. I then let them kno^v^ that we had sent a man 
to tell the Governor what was done, and in a littl'- time he 
would send men to hunt up the bad Indians, &;c. I asked them 
if they would go with me to the burying, they consented. My 
wife objected to my going with them and wept. The oldest 
sympathized with her and shed tears too. We started, I lead- 
ing the way. We had proceeded near a mile, they stopped, 
said "we no go, make white man heap mad", so we returned 
but found nobody at the house. My wife and children had 
secreted themselves in the bushes, supposing they should kill 
me, and return and kill them, and plunder the house. The 
conduct of the three Indians was very suspicious. They had 
brought skins to trade with me, but left them hid some dis- 
tance from the house, saying nothing about them until after 
our return. Just as we returned, McColough, who had a 
squaw to wife, and another v/hite man, happened to come 
there. ]\Ic. told them if they didn't leave immediately, "every 
devil of them should be killed". They returned to their camp, 
and left in great haste, leaving some of their valuables. They 
were the last cainp of Indians tliat left our frontier that sea- 
son. 

In about ten days after, the Indian Agent, residing at the 
Delaware town, sent two Indians, Salt Peter and Peter Van- 
vacter, with a letter aiid a white fla;-, stating that it was not 
the Delawares who had done the mischief, but the Kickapoos, 
who had passed through their tovv'n with the stolen horses. 
The two messengers remained with the Whites many weeks. 
Peter Vanvacter liired to work and never returned, was mur- 
dered in Kentucky l^y some unprincipled white man because 



 

he vras an Lulian. A man was killed near wiciov/ Solida's, a 
few miles Ciom T\ruscackatuck — his name not now recollected. 
Another man was killed on White River at ]\IcGowen's Ferry. 

At the commencement of our Indian troubles, there were 
u])\vai-ds of seventy families living in the Forks, but in a few 
weeks after Hinton's murder, upwards of fifty families left 
the countiy, and some for safety crossed the Ohio river. The 
balance, fifteen or eighteen families, determined not to leave 
and built block-houses and forts. John Sage and others built 
a fort at his place, but the principal fort Vv'as at Valonia, Huff's 
fort, higher up, and Kctcham's fort, still above and outside. 
We all lived in forts, went in companies to work our lit; le im- 
provements, some stood sentinel, while others v/orked, and 
thus we got along lor a while. The good people of Hai-rison 
and Clark counties, considering the small number left in the 
Forks, and they sliut up in forts, could not hold out long. The 
most good they seemed to do was to be a kind of Indian bait, 
for the safety of the interior counties, who probably taking 
that view of the subject, reinforced us, by sending company 
after company to help us maintain our stand. The Indians 
began to understand by our preparations, that we vrould 
soone)- fight a little than quit our location, although very few 
that remained during the war were owners of land, many hav- 
ing settled over the boundary line, where the land did not 
come into market for several years after. 

About the time that Fort Harrison and Fort Wayne were 
besieged by the Indians, namely, the 4th of September, 1812, 
a marauding i)arty of Indians, v^ho passed north of our forts, 
fell on the unguarded and unsuspecting neighbourhood of 
Pigeon Roost, killing twenty three men vv^omen and children, 
mostly vromen and children. After robljing the liouses they 
set fire to them, and stole horses to carry off their boot}'. 
About tlie same time, T\Iajor Duvall, of Salem, with a small 
comijany of men, made a scout up White River, and it so hap- 
IxMied that \vhile they were passing over some fallen timber 
on Sand Creek, that they came in contact with the Indians 
on theii- return from the Pigeon Roost, Those of them who 
had horses thi'ew off thei]' Inrge ])acks and made good their 
reti'eat. Two others who had no hoi'ses fled in another di- 
rection, pui'sucd by the men. John Zink, one of the party, 
l)eiiig young and athletic, outran his comrades, and when the 



 

Iiulians discovered that they were separated, they devised a 
plan to shoot Zink. In ci'ossing a ravine, one Indian secreted 
hiinseli", while the other showed himself in plain view, within 
sliootinc: distance. Zink stopped to shoot, but the secreted 
liidian lived first, giving- him a mortal wound. Zink lay in 
!iis gore ^hat j-ainy night; and was found b.y his companions 
next morning: still alive, and brought to Ketcham's foil-, where 
lie was v; ashed and comfortably clothed, and Dr. Lamb, of 
Salem, sent for. The Doctor arrived, drew a silk handker- 
cliief through the wound, and started home. Zink died before 
iliey reached Valonia. The three large packs were opened, 
and found to consist of men, women and children's clothing. 
Wv knew then that some settlement has been destroyed, but 
at llie time knew not what one. 

About the last of September, 1812, Absalom Buskirk and 
brother-in-law took a two liorse team to his field to get some 
corn and ]nmipkins. The Indians killed Buskirk and stole his 
\\\o fine hoi-ses. The corpse was brought into Ketcham's foi't, 
the same evening, and on the next morning, John John; ton, 
Robert Sturgeon and others came and hauled the corpse to 
Huff's fort for interment; after which Sturgeon started home, 
and was killed at the Half-mile branch, near Valonia. Al- 
though there were at Valonia a number of militia men, sta- 
tioned, they were unwilling to risk their own scalps, and re- 
fused to go for the dead. After night the citizens, namely, 
f'raigs, liogers, Beems, &c, went with their dogs, and brought 
tin: coi'pse to the fort. 

After the murder of Buskij-k and Sturgeon, no other per- 
:.ons were killed during the Fall and Winter following, but 
many alarms were given and horses stolen. I will insei't a 
few cases. 

One night Daniel Stout, who now lives near Bloomington, 
and others, were at Ketcham's fort. After their sentinels 
v.-ei-e placed out in diffei-ent directions round the fo]'t, two 
heard and a third saw two Indians and fired at them, and 
then fied to the fort, expecting next morning to find a dead 
Indian, or a trail of blood; but a hard rain fell that night, and 
we found no Indian or blood. 

At another time, about corn gathering, Capt. Hiram Boone, 
with twelve or fifteen men, were at Ketchain's fort. They 
tied theii- horses to stakes driven into the gi'ound in the yai'd, 



-7M LXDIAXA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

]\.<i fir fVi'VA tlie i'orL A largo poplar slump stood rather 
}.. ?v.c. !i two ol" the lioLLse^;, not more than five steps from 
' :t;:. !•. )u th;it stutr;]) liolos wqyc^ bored and liooks driven in, 
;-':"i f^\'r or tiN'o hor.ses fastened to them. The night v.-as 
.;■.:;■. i-ul tip' moon did not rise until after night. While it 
^ ,: \. t d.nk the ir.dians opened the yard fence into the corn 
?:■ ;^i, .•■jid itl down one bar on another square of the yard 
f. !;. r. Th«' i.Ki rs were within twelve or fifteen steps of the big 
■t-unp. An Indian slipped through the bar--, and got to the 
';■!••■. undi;;'. 'vorcd, but while loosing his choice hoi'se — a fine 
J.'' ■•!;:•!'. <n\c of the guard fired at hira, but he clung to the 
i;-'! ■•. Aivjther guard fnx'd on him, but he led the horse ofi 
^-'•fMvii'h tiie g;ip, into the cornfield. By this time, Captain 
:*.!••■!;.' and fiv.' ni' six of his men pursued the Indian having 
H,.- linr-;..'. WliiJo the chase was going on, Ketcham vras stand- 
;;,;.: i:\ III,' yard giving some directions when an Indian secreted 
ri-.iv {)u- !;ars, not more than twenty steps distant, fired at 
h^;., i;no!ie halted and asked vrho had shot? I replied, an 
India!!. ()!ie of his men said, "Captain let us tree". He re- 
V'h^.ii. "Wr* don't know on which side of the tree to get, we v/ili 
return to tiic fort". The party v\'as composed of about six- 
t^ !i Indiaiis. We counted their trail next morning through 
A ru'wiy cut buckwheat patcli, and at that time discovered what 
'h>)r pulicy had been. On each side of the gap opening into 
^^..' .•*.:.rnrioid there was placed a strong guard, also on each 
•••■■■ '*f the bars; if an Indian had been closely pursued in 
'^!-Kv r dinrtion the guard would have shot down his pursuers. 
AIUi^hikH it v.-as believed that the Indians were continually 
*-"-.uin«r ab.iut some of our forts, the people got so hardened 
''> ihif'.K' r that they seemed not to dread thcr enemy. One 
'-*.'^.t Mr. Ilutcherson and family, together with some of the 
?'-.^;a;..----!i. concluded to stay at his house, a short distance 
•••■••■ i h'.!i!'.s fort. They felt safe and happy, and having a 
' -4-.-'. ' o!;. lud. d to )\avG a dance, and enjoy themselves first 
»-^-; S'U! )n l}w> morning when they awoke they found that 
':" '■ ■'■'•■ '-^ \' ^re all gone. While they were dancing, the In- 
ih^:,^ w.-rr matching Iht-ir horses. Pursuit was made, and 
:*'^ ■* '"y-'^Jng liuir t]-ail a few miles they met David 
« t^.^rj,': ,,f;'8 okl. Ugly horse coming back with a leather tug tied 
^^> t>^;htiy around his throat that lie could scarcely draw his 
"f'-'Mth. Tliey did this, probably, to show their contempt for 



HAP.PJSOX: TvIESSAGES AND LETTERS 279 

the vrliite man's old ugly horse. They recovered no more 
horses. 

Long after that time the Indians stole two horses from 
Flinn's settle^ ^nt. They v,-ere pursued by Genei-al Tipton, 
David and James Rog-ers, and others, vho followed them for 
several days, wlien they foimd they were close on them, the 
water being muddy in their tracks. Tipton's plan was to fol- 
low them slowly and cautiously until night, then have fine 
sport tomahawking them. But his spies, I\Iajor Sparks and 

]\Ir. disobej'ed orders. The Indiaiis had halted over 

the turn of a hill, dressing the horses' manes and tails. The 

IMajo] and got within thirty or forty steps of the 

Indians before they discovered them. The temptation was too 
great ; they fired, but missed. When Tipton came up and saw 
what was done, he cried like a child, and was tempted to 
tomahawk the major. Their provisions vs^re exhausted and 
they far fiom home. The rain had swelled the creeks until 
they were past fording; those wlio could swim had to do so. 
They came to a large creek in the north end of Monroe county. 
A man by the name of Bean Blossom, in attempting to svrim 
the creek, came very iK^ar drovniing, and Tipton nanied the 
creek Bean Blossom, after his name, and so it is called to 
this day. 

At another time General Tipton and Captain Beam, vrith 
perhaps twenty men, made a scout to the West Fork of White 
River. Before they got to the river, they crossed a beautiful 
stream that empties into Bean Blossom near its mouth. A 
man by the name of Jack Storm, and another man named John 
Ketcham, in crossing the stream, got both of their horses 
mired and stuck fast in the mud. The> tlien named the creek 
Jack's Defeat, and so it is called to this day. 

No disturbance was made in the "S'N'inter of 1812. Perhaps 
the Indians thought they might be tracked in the snow. In 
]\Iarch, 1818, they commenced again fiercer than evei'. They 
made ariother descent on the Pigeon Roost country, killing old 
Mr. Hufiman, wounding his vs'ife and daughter, and taking 
his grandson, a small boy, son of Benjamin Iiufl:man, pris- 
onei". On their return they divided their company. One party 
stole Reed's horses, the other party went eight or ten miles 
from Reed's and stole Kimberlin's horses, and the same night 
made good their retreat. 



 

After tlie war was over, Benjamin HufFman went North, 
perhaps to Detroit, in scai'ch of his lost son. He heard that 
his son had been sold to a Frenchman livin.g' in Canada. HufT- 
man was poor; his means exhausted, he returned home dis- 
couraged, despairing of ever seeing his child again. Our kind 
and benevolent Representative in Congress, Jonathan Jen- 
nings, got an appropriation made to enable Huffman to seek 
further after his son. He hired a man to go with him. The}'- 
went down the St. Lawrence into Canada and found his son. 
The child was so young when stolen, and had been gone so 
long, tliat he liad forgotten his fathei-'s rxame. He i-ecollected 
that he was called Ben, but had forgotten the balance of the 
name. 

In the spring of 1813, the Pottawotamies made a descent on 
Flinn's settlement — now Leesville, killed Mr. Guthrie and took 
]\Iartin Flinn prisoner. He remained a prisoner ^^nth them 
until the Fall of 1814. At that time a young warrior crossed 
the Tippecanoe river in a splendid canoe, on a courting expe- 
dition, and while enjoying himself with his beloved one, Flinn 
gathered his ax, which they had stolen when they captured 
him, and a few ears of corn, and quietly stepped into the lov- 
er's canoe, not asking any questions "for conscience sake", 
and with his beautiful paddle, rowed himself down stream all 
night. He secreted himself in daytime, and in this way spent 
se\'eral days and nights before he landed at Fort Harrison. 
When he landed, he was unable to get out of the canoe. He 
Vv'as helped out and cai'ed for, and in a few days considered 
himself able to travel home. The rangers then at the Fort, 
and others, made up a pony purse, and bought him a horse to 
ride home on. In a few days he was able to ride, and cariicd 
his lost ax home. Oh! then, the happy meeting of friends and 
relations. 

About the middle of March, 1813, Jolm Ketcham and Geo. 
Doom, a ]\Iilitia man from Har]-ison County, then on duty, 
went on an errand to Joshua Lindsey's, — Lindsey having dur- 
ing the winter of 1812 removed from Ketcham's fort to his 
farm some n^iles above. On their return home th<\v W(.}re 
waylaid and fired on by the Indians. Doom was killed, and 
Ketcham badly wounded with two balls. When he reached 
the fort a messenger was sent to Valonia foi' a reinforcement. 
About twenty men, under command of Lieutenant , 



S1 

]yroccc(Ic(i to where Doom's corpse lay; after carrying it to 
Lindsey's, William Reddick, John Samuel and Frederic!^ Funk 
W(;re detailed to bury the dead, and remained at Lindsey's till 
next inorniiip;. The scout proceeded up the country for miles 
without making any disco\ery of Indian sigiis, and returned 
home. The fatigue party having completed the burial, the 
sun yet an hour high, concluded that the Indians, were all 
gone and they w^ould retui-n to the fort, they had proceeded 
about three hundred yards when the Indiaiis lying in ambush 
near their path, fu'ed on them, and wounded Reddick and 
Samuel, then retreated. 

Shortly after this. General Tipton, PJchard Beem, William 
Dyer and a number of Militia men from Harrison county, v/ent 
on a scout up \Vhiie River, some distance above Ketcham's 
fort, struck a fresh Indian trail. They eagerly and coutiously 
pursued the same, until they ascertained that the Indians had 
ci'ossed over on drift timber into an island. Tipton stood 
ready with his gun presented, while Beem and others were 
crossing on the drifted logs. An Indian, who was secreted, 
raised his gun to shoot Beem, but Tipton touched triggc^r first. 
The Indian threw down his gun — it cocked, and retreated 
badly wounded. He was supposed to be their leader. Tipton 
and his men all crossed over into the island, except Dyer, who 
had charge of Tipton's horse. Several shots were exchanged 
between the parties. The Whites got one scalp, and tracked 
several of the enemy b>' the blood to the vs^ater, where they 
attempted to swim. Dyer being below the island had a fair 
view of the river. He saw a number bulge into the water 
Willi their blankets on. All suiik before they reached the op- 
posite shore. It v/as believed that the whole paily perished. 
This good licking caused the Redskins to treat us with more 
politeness. 

In the spring of 1813, the General Government authorized 
the raising of four companies of mounted Rangers, to protect 
the Territorial frontier. Captain Shoultz, of Lawrenceburg, 
(I believe), raised a company; Captain Williamson Dunn of 
Madison, a com])any; Captain James Bigger, of Charlestown, 
a company, and Captain Andrew, of Vincennes, a company. 
Captain Rigger's company was principally made up of citizens 
(»f Clark county, ten or twelve of whom had been shut up in 
block houses and forts in the Forks for more than a year, mak- 

J51— 226C4 



i:S2 INDIANA HISTOKICAT. COLLECTIONS 

)},</, nothinjT, toriCiudcd to join Ins company, and make a busi- 
n(.•.■^.s of luinting- Iiulians and guarding their own frontier, as in 
so dniM.(;- llicy ^vol!]d get some ])ay for their services, othci'wise 
\h> y would not. The pay of a 1- anger was a dollar a day, each 
n):;n "finding liimself'' ; that is each man furnishing his ov.n 
liorse. ai-ms, annnuPxition and provision, — every rnan his ovn 
coriunissary. 

Tiie soldiers became much attached to each other during 
Wwiv service, and the kindest feeling tovv-ards each other seems 
ever to have existed betvreen. them all, except David Barnes 
a)id Samuel Ridge, who often fought each other. They vrere 
too full of spii-its, — very spirited men sometimes. Others 
again tlid wroiig because they had not spirit enough. En- 
sign Owen and Richard Levris marred the good feelings of 
their com.radcs by desertion, on the Peoria campaign. It was 
.^;iid by Daniel Williams and others, as an apology for them, 
tlial tliey had caught the Kickapoo fever. 

Lul few of Captain Digger's company are now living. For 
the gratification of the few survivors, I publish the "^^luster 
Roll" at v.'hose call they so often answered. 

After General Tipton had liandled our Red Brethren so 
roup.hly on Tipton's Island, (so called,) they were more cau- 
tious and sly tov\-ard us. No more of our neigh.bors were 
killed by them, but occasionally they vrould }'ide off a horse 
lh;\t was not their own. 

Aft^r the four companies of Rangers were organized, it 
was thouglit best to carry the ^^•ar into Eg>-pt. Arrange- 
ments were made for a campaign against the Indians, com- 
lK>s'.xl of Rangers and a few volunteer T^Iilitia. Captains Dunn 
and Bigger, VN'ith part of their companies, and some of 
Captain Pay ton's men, (of Kentucky,) togeth.er with Gen- 
eral Bartholomew and volunteer ]\Iilitia, VvTrc assigned to tliat 
duly. Tliey rendezvoused at Valonia about tlie middle of 
•lune, then in-oceede.l under the command of General 
Baitholomew to the upper towms on the West Fork of White 
River. The towns had mostly been destroyed before we got 
tlure, probably by a company from White Water settlement. 
Wr then went dowm the river to towns not aterruptod, and 
come to Strawtown late in the evening, and discovered fresli 
Indian signs. Early next morning, General Bartholomew, 
Caj-.tain Dunn, and Captain Shields, and about twenty Ran- 



V \.RniSON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 283 

KCiTv, went in piirsuit of the Indians. Wlien VvT- had pro- 
ceeded about tliree-fourtlis of a jiiile ^ve discovered three 
liorses; vre surrounded and secured them, — two v.-erc hobbled, 
l-'ollov.-ino; their back track, we came to their camp. Geiieral 
i]artholomew directed tliree mounted Rangers, namely, Severe 

Lewis, David Hays and ■ . (that is Jolin Ketcham.) to 

l:ec]) in the rear, but at the fire of the first gun to dash for- 
v.ard. Captain Dunn v\'ent on the right under cover of the 
river banl:, Captain Shields on the left, and General Barthol- 
omew brought up the center division. The directions v\'ere to 
surround their camp and take them prisoners. The Lidians 
liad a large brass kettle hanging over the fire v.itli three deer 
heads boiling, and wore sitting near to tlie fire. Captain 
Shields slipped carefully through the bushes, and when oppo- 
site the camp, at least one hundred yards distant, the Indians 
discovered us, jumped to their guns and fled. Shields fired his 
gwn to notify the hoi'semen. One of Bigger's men, (to-v,it, 
John Ketcham,) immediately started in pursuit, ran two or 
three hundred yards, when he got into the path the Indians 
had run on; he was Vv^ithin thirty steps of his game, and shot 
dov;n the Indian. The other horsemen soon made up, but the 
other Indian was just out of sight. They vrere directed by 
(Ketcliam) to v.'here he Aras last seen. Hays got separated 
from the other two horsemen and unfortunately met with the 
secreted Indian, who gave him a mortal wound. The horses 
and brass kettle were sold to the highest bidder, on a credit, 
and the notes were given to Hays. His wounds were dressed 
by David jMaxwell. He was carried on a horse litter to the 
mouth of Flat llock, now Columbus, v.'here we made two 
canoes and sent him and a guard by water to Valonia, where 
his wife and family were. He died in two or three days after 
they reached the fort. 

This is the end of Mr. Ketchanrs narrative of the Indian 
diificulties. He closes his account of his own public life in 
the follovv'ing quaint and characteristic style : 

In Juno I enlisted in the United States service, a mounted 
Ranger. In my fii'st month's service I killed and scalped an 
Indian — was very pi'oud of it — got leave to go to Kentucky 
to sh.oVi" it to my Daddy and jMamma — I guess they thought 
I had done about i-i.<rht. I continued in tlie service two vshole 
years — saw some hard times — was eighlv eight davs from rnv 



 

family on one campaign, and lived seventeen days on seven 
days' rations. 

The war now being ended, Governor Harrison, hearing that 
I was a fellow of pluck and had killed an Indian, sent me a 
commission as Associate Judge. I never had much to do on 
the bench, but was "Judge Ketcham". 

In April, 1818, I moved to Monroe county, and built a mill. 
While rnill-building w^e grouiid our meal on a hand-mill, there 
being no other but hand mills in the county. After Bloora- 
ington was located, I was solicited to build the Court House, 
which I did, thirty or forty years ago. It still stands firm. 
Because I had built a good Court House, and had a sw^ord and 
sevei-al pistols, the people thought I ought to be Colonel, I 
was so elected and served until I ^\^as forty-five years old. 
But my honors did not stop here. The people knev/ I had 
killed an Indian, and had decided three lavrsuits in about forty 
minutes, — they said I must go to the Legislature. I agreed 
to it. My popularity not high enough yet, — my old friend, 
Lr. Foster, (God bless him,) who had done some service in 
defence of his country, knew I had been wounded by the In- 
dians, and had killed and scalped an Indian, went to the Demo- 
cratic Convention at Indianapolis, and told them what 
Ketcham had done, and said he must be appointed one of Gen- 
eral Jackson's Electors. It w^as agreed to, and here I am yet, 
one of General Jackson's Electors. 

MUSTER ROLL 

Of a Company of U. S. Mounted Rangers, Commanded by 
Captain James Bigger 

Commissioned Officers 

Captain, James Bigger 3d Lieutenant, Wm, Meredith 

1st Lieutenant, John Carr Ensign, Jack Owens 

2d Lieutenant, James Curry 

Non Commissioned Officers 

1st Serg-t. John Ketcham 1st Corp, Basil Bowel 

2d Sergt. Josiah Williams 2d Corp. William Patrick 

3d Sergt. Wm. E. L. Collins 3d Corp. Samuel Herrod 
4th Sergt. Jonathan Watkins 4th Corp. Robert Wai'dle 
5th Sergt. John Herrod 5th Corp. Andrew B. Holland 

6th Corp. Jonathan Gibbons 



 



j\IosGS Allen 
James Allison 
I\rart.in Adams 
George Armstrong 
Luther Beadle 
Thomas Bernet 
Davis Kell}^ 
William Lindsey 
Richard Lewis 
John May 
Jolm McNaiight 
Jolin I\IcNight 
John Baldv/in 
John Blair 
John Bartholomew 
David Barnes 
George Bratton 
I\lichat'l Beam 
John Cosner 
John Cowen 
James Co\ven 
Isaih Cooper 
James Collins 
John Cloak 
John Clark 
Isaac Clarlv 
Jolm R. Clark 
John Craig 
Stephen Dunlap 
Moses Dunlap 
John Dunlap 
Robei-t Evans 
John Evans 
William N. Griffith 
William Gainer 



Phillip Hart 
Isaac D. Huffman 
Hames Herrod 
Benjamin Noble 



P)'ivates 

John Gibson 
John. Gibson 
Janios Hay 
John D. Hay 
Willi^un Hiler 
Aaron Iloleman 
Harvey Owen 
George W. Owen 
Jeremiah Pierceall 
Adam Peck 
Henry Pearcy 
Robert Pearcy 
Andrew Perry 
Charles F. Ross 
George Ross 
James Ross 
Hugh Ross 
John Reed 
Thomas Ryan 
James Rogers 
Isaac Rogers 
Lewis Rogei's 
Samuel Ridge 
Thomas Rose 
Stephen Shipman 
\Villiani Stewart 
Robert Sv^^any 
John Sage 
George IJlmer 
Reece Williams 
Daniel Williams 
Thomas Weathers 
Martin Wilson 
James Wilson 

New Recruits 

Lewis Cutting 
John Flint 
Samuel Haslett 
Jenkins 



28(5 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



i\'c\v Ivcciuits- 



T,e\vis IlaiiK'ins 
Ksram Hiitchins 
liobort Jo]ics 
JoP.iUlian Johnston 
Lr-wis Kolcliarn 
Abraluiiii Kelly 
WillJiim Kelly 
Thomas F. Kelly 
James S. Kelly 



-ConliiHk'd. 

Levi Nugent 
James i\]ooney 
John ]\iilton 
Josepli Rawlins 
David Studabake 
John Storm 
John Sands 
James Sands 
Elam Whitley 



]\IUSTER ROLL 

or Captain Williamson Dunn's Compaiiy of U. S. Rangers 

Commissioned Ofllcers 



Cai^tiiin Williamson Dunn 
IJc'Utenant Henry Brinton 
Lieutejiant Henry Ristine 



Lieutenant David Hillis 
Ensio-n Green B. Field 



Non Commissioned Ofllcers 

Sergeant John Thorn 
Sergeant John Danolds 
Sergeant Joshua Wilkinson 
Sergeant Ebenezer Hillis 
Sei'geant Jolni Griflm 



Corporal Joshua Deputy 
Corporal Josepli Strickland 
Corporal Peter Ryker 
Corporal Andrew J. Storm 
Coi'poral ]\Iatthev/ Cowley 
Corporal Willis Ild.w 



A ] ex an der An d erson 
John Adkison 
Robert Anderson 
James Anderson 
Jolm Barns 
Williiim Blankenship 
Maurice Baker 
Isaiah Blankenship 
David Bigger 
Henry Banta 
Jolin Bandy 
Isaac Bergin 
Nathan Chalfant 
G(>orge Ci'aig 



Privates 

Wiatt Coleman 
John Colbert 
Benjamin Combs 
Isaac Crawford 
Elijah Collier 
Nathaniel Dimn 
John Dunn 
Andrew Davidson 
William Dickey 
John Davis 
Hannibal Dougherty 
Thomas Davis 
Charles Easton 
William Farley 



HARRISON : MESSAGES AND LETTERS 287 



S;iinuel T. Graj^ 
Henry Giles 
George Giinn 
Jo] 111 Gutliiie 
William Gi 11m ore 
William Hamblen 
Absalom Hankins 
William Johnston 
Williamson Irwin 
Tliomas Jones 
James Jolmston Jr. 
Samuel Long 
Severe Lewis 
James Lewis 
Jacob Lewis 
John Lee 
Peter i\Ietz 
David H. Maxv.^ell 
James "Monroe 
James TvIcCartney 
James McCollough 
John ]\Iaxwell 
James McKay 
William McKay 
Geo]-gc McKay 
Robert McKay, ;kl 
Robert IsIcKay, 4th 
Thomas McConnell 
John H. Newland 
Brackett Ovvxai 
Moses Overton 



Privates — Conliiiued 

David Patton 
John Peters 
John Purcell 
John Ristine 
William Russell 
John Ramsey 
Peter IL Roberts 
William Renis 
Gerard us Ryker 
John G. Ryker 
John Ryker 
Jacob Smock 
William Sage 
John Smith 
James Stevens 
Samuel Snodgrass 
David Stucker 
John Shank 
Richie Smith 
Isaac Short 
Henry Salyers 
Peter Storm 
William D. Stuart 
Jacob Trumbo 
James Ventioneer 
Abraham Varvel 
William Wright 
Thomas Wise 
Daniel Whi taker 
Thomas Wendsaw 



Campuell to Harrison 

Dayton 1st Janmy 1813 

Her. Ft'. 8J(l-8o7 

My dear Sir 

In my re-port to you of the 25th ulto. [see above] from Fort 
Greenville I omitted to notice some circumstances and indi- 
viduals inadverteiitly which and who are as highly worthj' of 
notice as most of those 1 have already' d(;tailed. I must there- 



288 INDIANA HiSTORTCAL COLLECTIONS 

fore in the most especial manner, mention ]\Ir. James Brad- 
shaw, Capt. Lewis Hite and ]\Ir. Silas IMcCullough, "who ten- 
doi'ed their services to me on the battle sTound to carry in- 
telig-ence to Greenville of our situation and request a 
reinforcement of men and a supply of provisions. This dan- 
gerous and fatig"uing service they performed in the most 
prompt and expeditious manner. In tv/enty-two houi's they 
travelled upwards of eig-hty miles without resting except a 
few minutes twice to feed their horses and reached Greenville 
worn do^\ai with fatigue and v\'ant of sleep. Mr. Bradshaw's 
activity at Greenville in assisting to forv\^ard supplies, merits 
the highest praise. I must also mention by name Lieut. 
[Matthew F.] Magco and Ensign Irwin of the Pittsburgh 
Blues whose cool, deliberate braveiy was particularly ob- 
served, amidst the hottest fire of the enemy and I regret ex- 
tremely that these young gentlemen who highly merited dis- 
tinction, should have been pretermitted in my first report. 

I made a mistake in stating tliat Capt. Smith was abandoned 
by half his guard, only one or two went in for some part of 
their arms, staid with their companies, and upon inquiry vrere 
found to have behaved well. Ca])t. Smith was aided in his 
excellent disposition at the redoubt he commanded by Lieut. 
Adams and Fishel, whose names and bravery are synoniraous 
term^. Adjutant Guy and Quartermaster Hite, of the Ken- 
tucky Light Dragoons are two fine young men, and wei-e ac- 
tively employed on the morning of the Battle. 

I am Sir with great respect your most obt. Servt. 

John B. Campbell Lt. Col. I9th U. S. Regt. 
His Excellency Genl Harrison 

General Orders 

Franklinton, January 2, 1813 

Nik a' Register III, 331 

The commanding general has received from lieut. col. 
[John B.] Campbell the official report of his late expedition 
against the ]\Iassassineway villages. The conduct of tlie col. 
and his gallant detachment has been in every respect such as 
the general had anticipated. They luive deserved well of their 
country, and liave shed a lustre on the Northwestei'n army. 
In no part of their duty have they failed. The ofiicers vied 



HAP.RISON: IMESSAGES AND LETTERS 289 

with cc-.di other in setting a proper example to tlieir men, and 
tlie conduct of the men was marked thronghoiit by cheerful- 
ness alacrity and obedience, upon the march and invincible 
bi'avery in the presence of the enemy. The detaclnnent aj> 
peai's to have been v/ortby of their commander, and their com- 
mander worthy of them. Notliing- can evince more clearly the 
merits of Lt. Col. Campbell, than the confidence and attach- 
ment manifested for him ))y his command, an attachment, not 
produced by any impi'oper indulgence or weak compliances, 
but established upon the solid basis of a zealous and punctual 
discharge of his own duty, and a mild, humane but determined 
exaction of obedience from his subordinates. Troops thus dis- 
posed, and thus commanded v/ill be ahvays invincible. Lieut, 
col. Campbell's oflicial account will be ti'ansmitted to the sec- 
retary of Vv^ar; it will be published to the world, and the simple 
narrative of their actions will form the best eulogium upon 
the conduct of the troops. The general requests lieut. col. 
Campbell, lieut. col. Simerrll, major Ball, and all the other 
officers, non-commissioned officers and pj'ivates to accept his 
warmest thanks for their good conduct. The officers, non- 
commissioned officers and privates, who v/ere fortunate 
enough to have an opportunity of distinguishing themselves 
by their valor or good conduct are as follows 

Kentucky Dragoons. — Lieut col. Simrall; major M'Dowell ; 
capts. Trotter, (slightly wounded) Smith, Johnson; 1st. lieuts. 
Hobson, Payne 2d. lieut. Trotter; comd. Disliman ; serj. maj. 
Montgomery, corporal Riddle; trumpeter Willman. 

]\Iajor Ball's squadron, consisting of 2d }'egt. 11. S. liglit 
dragoons, 12 months, U. S. V. dragoons — Major Ball ; capts. 
Hopkins, Garrard, ]\Iarkle M'Clelland (acting as 2d lieut. to 
capt. Hopkins) ; 1st lieuts. Hedges (slightly wounded) Basey ; 
adjt's. Fullerlon and Warrens; 2d lieut. Hickman; cornet and 
quaj'ter-masters M'Clanaha, Lee, Grear (v/oundcd) Herod; 
serg. maj. Edv/ards; quarter-mastei-'s serj. Hawkins. 

Pittsburg Blues, (12 months' U. S. infantry) capt. Butler. 

Ninteenth regt. U. S. infantry. — 1st lieut. Gwynne, ensign 
Harrison; quarter-master's serj. Levitt 

Spies and Guides — Capt. Patterson Bain, James Audi-ain, 
William Conner, Silas M'CuJloch, James ''J'liom])son, James 
Naggs, Joseph G. M'Clelland, John Ruland. 

Capt. Hito, extra edj't. capt. Luce (voluntee]-) doc('.)r 



290 INDIANz\ HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Moore; Thoinas I\IoorG, P. Secretary; Mr. Baylor; Robert 
I\[itclicJl, wag-g-oncr. 

The character of this galla.nt detachment exhibitiiig*, as it 
did ]X!rseverancc, patience, fortitude and bravery, would how- 
evei-, Ii;ivc been incomplete, if, in. the midst of victory, they 
had rorgott(m the feelings of humanity. It is with the sin- 
cerest pleasure, that the general has heard, that the most 
punctual obedience was paid to his ordoi's; not only in saving 
the women and children, but in sparing all the warriors v/ho 
cea.sed to resist; and that even, when vigoi'ously attacked by 
tlu' enemy, the claiins of meix-y prevailed over every sense of 
their ovm dange"-; and this heroic band respected the lives of 
their prisoners. The general believes that humanity and true 
b]-av(!ry ai'e inseparable, The rigid rules of war may some- 
times, indeed, make a sevei'e retaliation necessary; but the ad- 
vantages which attend a frequent recurrence to it, are very 
micertain, and are not to be compared vith the blessings which 
providence cannot fail to shed upon the efforts of the soldier, 
v.'ho is "in battle a lion, but, the battle once ended, in mercay 
a lamb." Let an account of the murdc}'od innocence be opened 
in the I'ccords of Heaven against our enemies alone ; the Amer- 
ican soldier will follov/ the example of his government, and 
neither the swoi'd of the one will be raised against the helpless 
or the fallen, nor the gold of the other paid for the scalp of 
a massacred eneiny. 

The general cannot pass by the opportunity that is afforded 
liim, by bestowing deserved commendation upon a detachment 
of liis ai-my, without recurring to the merits of the other corps. 
They have not had, as yet, their wishes gratified in meeting 
the eneni3' ; but tliey have, nevertheless, performed hard so'v- 
ice undei' great deprivations. The Ohio brigades are exerting 
themselves with vigor and effect in perfecting their discipline 
and i)(>rl'()i'ming some works requiring great labo]'. Those 
from Yii-ginia and Pennsylvania are vieing with each other in 
the i)ath of duty and discipline, to a degree rarely equalled and 
nevcM- excelled. Since their arrival at Sandusky, a proper 
sense of su.bordination everywhere pi'cvails, and the infamous 
principle, that the claims of patriotism would be satisfied by 
inarch ill g to the lines and looking a.t the enemy, is so com- 
pletely ex])loded. Unit the general believes his authority v/oidd 
be scarcely suCiicient to pj'olecl from the vengeance of the 



KAIJRISON: ]\IESSAGES AND LETTERS 291 

yoldicr llio wretcli who .sliould ho.xc the tcmeriiy to insult ihe.m 
l)y suft'gesting it. The general is hiippy in believing that liis 
ov;n Kentuckians ai'O not behind the oilier corps of the army 
in i:he race of patriotism and dnty. He lias heard Vvith ;i sat- 
isJ'action that he caimot find wo'ds to express, that the bri- 
g-ado with, which he first took the field, and whose discii^linc 
lias been confirmed and extended under the immediate direc- 
tion of his -worthy second, gcnerrd Vvincliestci', have borne 
with fortitrde and cheerfulness an unexampled privation of 
a pi'iin'iple article of tlie ration. The genci'al records the cir- 
cumstances for the edification and example of the rest of the 
army. Calculating upon tlie arrival of flour by the Auglaize 
and St. ]\lary's rivers, upon, which a large quantity had been 
embarked under appearances indicating a most favorable ter- 
mination of the voyage no means were used to forward any 
by land ; but by a very sudden and imexpectcd freezing of the 
rivers, the boats v/ere arrested in progress and the troops of 
I'^ort Winchester, consisting of a detachment of regulars under 
col. Wells; Scott's, Lev/is's and Allen's I'cgiments of Kentucky 
infantry, subsisted for ten days upon indificrent salt beef, 
without an ounce of floui'. In this time not a murmur was 
heard, and the sentiment which eveiy where prevailed Vvas 
that of contim.iing to serve as long as their services were 
wanted. What may not be expected f j-oni such troops, when 
the only difliculties of the campaign are once overcome, and 
they are broug-ht in the presence of the eneiny? 

L. liUKiLL, Asst. Dcp. Adj. Gen. 

A report of the number rendered unfit for duty by being frost- 
bitten, as iippears irom the reports on the ir.orning of the 21th 
Inst, viz: 

In Tvlajor 'Bair.s squadroii 107 

Colonel Semrali's regiment 138 

Infaritiy and I'iflemen 58 

Total 30a 

John Payne, lir:d lUndenant, 

Kentucky V. L. D. and adj't to d.ciaclimcnt 



 

IlAiiRisox TO Secretary of War 

(No. 29) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 3d January 1813 

Har. Pa. SlS-Sli 

I hiive tlic lionor to enclose you herewith, the official report 
of Lt. Col. [Jolm B.] Campbell of his expedition against the 
:.Iis.sissinewa\ to^alS of the 25th ulto. and 1st Inst, [see 
under these dates above] I am entirely satisfied vrith the 
Colonel's conduct and beg leave to recommend him, IMajor 
[James V.] Ball and the rest of the officers and soldiers of the 
regiment \vho wei'e fortunate enough to have an opportunity 
of distinguishing themselves, to the notice of the President. 
I v,-ill venture to predict that Colo. Campbell's future career 
will support the character he has obtained in the commence- 
ment of his military service. Major Ball, my friend and as- 
sociate in Genl. Wayne's army, would do honor to any service. 
Lt. Colo. [James] Simrall deserves great credit for the ex- 
cellent discipline of his Regiment which perhaps equals tliat 
of any other Regiment of Lt. Dragoons on the Continent. The 
chai'acter of i\Iajor [Joseph] ]\IcDowelh has long been estab- 
lished in Kentucky for Intrepidity at an age when most men 
retire to the enjoyment of ease, this hardy veteran solicits 
every post of difiiculty, fatigue and dange- , with the ardour 
of a youthful warrior. The conduct of the other officers is so 
particularly descri' cd by Col. Campbell that it is unnecessary 
for me to repeat them. Knowing each individual I heartily 
accord in the sentiments he has expressed of their merits. 
There is hov.-ever a circumstance which Col. Campbell has 
neglected to mention, that too so honorable to a young hero, 
now no more, as well as to the army, that I cannot pass it 
over. :\Iajor [Joseph] jMcDowell, Capt. [Wm] Trotter and 
Capt. [Levris] Ilite have all informed me that Lieut. [Daniel] 
Waltz of Capt. ^Nlarcles Troop of Volunteer Dragoons like the 
gallant Spencer, could not be brought to leave his post, after 
having received two wounds, one of which shattered his arm. 
In this situation he vras mounting his horse to make a charge 
when a ball passed through his head. In short Sir, the whole 

1. .loycph McDov.il! v.as adjutant frmicrnl of tlio KcntiK'!;y troop.-; Lorn in Va. 
.Sept. l:!, ITCS, rnovc<I to Ky. 17S1; FRrvcd under Stott. )T01, and \V:iyne, 1704, r.nd 
thronk'liout the var of 1R12. Hi- i)l;iiitatitiV was lu'.'tr l.i'xint;(oii, v.herc he lived ti!l 
his diath Jan. 27, tSi.'>6 - S7 yrs. of age. 

YcuiiK, Halite of Thame?, 1^3 



P3 

Detachment have redeemed a solemn pledge given to me at 
the moment of their departure that they vrould obey their 
otlicei's and support the cliaracter of American Soldiers. 
I ha\'e the lioiior to be wilh tlie greatest respect Sir 
Yr Humb Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harr^-on 
Honorable JaT'IES :Monroe Esqr. Acting Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
No. 30 

Head Qrs. N. W. Arn^v Fr.nnklinton 4th Jan}-. 1813 

Har. Pa. S3S-S;9 

Sir: 

Upon my return from Chilicothe to Upper Sandusky your 
favor of the 26th ulto (no. 1) overtook me at this place, [see 
Nov. 26, above] 

;My letters and papers being all at Sandusky I have it not in 
my power to recur to them but from my recollection of its 
contents I regret that a letter which I addressed to the Sec- 
retary of War from Delavrare about the 12th ult. [see Dec. 
12, 13, above] had not been received before yours of the 26th 
was written. In that letter I stated the causes vrhich had 
retarded our pj'ogress towards Detroit, my then prospects and 
wliich might under various circumstances be expected f.'^om 
this Army. When I was directed to take the command in th.e 
latter end of September I thought it possible by great exer- 
tions to effect the objects of the Campaign before the setting 
in of winter. I distinctly stated however to the Secretary of 
\\'ar tliat there was always a period of rainy weather in this 
country in the months of November and December in which 
the roads within the settlements v\^ere almost impassable and 
the svramps which extend Northwardly from about the for- 
tieth Degree of Lattitudo entirely so and that this circum- 
stance would render it impossible to advance vvith the army 
before that period without exposing it to inevitable destruc- 
tion unless a sufricicncy of provisions could be taken on to 
subsist it untill the sevei'e frost should remover the impedi- 
ments to transportation. Tlie experience of a few days was 
sufficient to convince me tiiat the supplies of provisions could 
not be procured for an autunnial advance and even if this 
cUniculty were removed another of eaqual magnitude existed 



21) 

fro]n tlic want of artiliory, there remained then no alternative 
))ut to prepare for a winters campaign. But in order to take 
advanta^'c of every circumstance in our favor Boats 
and Forog-ues were prepared in considerable numbers upon 
tlic Auglaize and St. I^-Iarys PJvers in the hope that V7hen the 
land transportation could not be used we might by the means 
of these rivers take on very largo supplies to the Bapids of 
the jMiami. An effort v/as made also to procure flour from 
Presquille by coasting the lake with small boats. These meas- 
ures were calculated on as collateral aids only. The more 
safe one of providing a large number of pack horses and ox- 
teams was resorted to and the Depty. Q. M. General Colo. 
[James] Morrison was instructed accordingly. 

Considcj-ing the T^Iiami Ripids as the first point of destina- 
tion provisions were ordered to be accumulated along a con- 
cave base extending from St. Marys (Called in the map Girtys 
To^^m) on the left to the mouth of the Huron (and afterv/ards 
Lower Sandusky) on the right. From this base the rapids 
could be approached by three routes or lines of operation, two 
of M'hich were pretty effectually secured by the jiosts which 
were establislied and the positions taken upon the third. St. 
Marys, McArthurs Block house (foarty four miles in advance 
of Urbanna) and upper Sandusky were selected as principal 
deposits. 

The Troops excepting those with General Winchester were 
kept within the bounds of the local contractors that they might 
not consume the ]irovisions procured by the U. S. Commis- 
saries and which weve intended to form the grand deposit at 
the Miami Rapids. It was not untill late in October that 
much effect could be given to these arrangements and for the 
six following weeks little or nothing could be done from the 
uncommon unfavorable state of the v;cather affoi'ding just 
rain enough to I'cnder the roads almost impassable for wag- 
gons and yet not a sulilcicncy to raise the waters to a naviga- 
))le state. Great exei'tions were however made to prepare for 
the change vdiich might reasonably be expected and the last 
twenty days of December v/ei'e entirely favorable to our vievvS 
and so well employed by Colo. Morrison as to afford the most 
flattering prospects of being able to ta.kc on to the rapids early 
in this ]!ionih a sufficiency of provisions and stores to author- 
ize an advance upon ]\Iald('n from the 251.h Inst, to the 1 0th 



 

of I'cby. Our hopes Yvcve again a little checked bj' a gene}"al 
thaw succeeded, by a very deep snovv' whilst the ground ^^'as 
in that soft state. Jt is however now cold again and V\'e cal- 
culate upon being able to use with elTect the sleds a consider- 
tible number of whic-h I had caused to be prepared. The in- 
structions which 1 received from the Secr-tary Mr. Eustis 
with regard to the conduct of the v/ar in this Department 
amounted to a complete Carte Blcoic/ic. The principal objects 
of the campaign Vvcre pointed out and I was left at liberty to 
proceed to their full execution during the ])resent winter or 
to make arrangcmerits for their accomplishment in tlie Spring 
by occupying sucli posts as might facilitate the ii" tended opei-a- 
tions. 

The wishes of the Government to recover the ground that 
had been lost and to conquer upper Canada v\^ere however 
expressed in such strong terms and the funds v/hich were 
placed at my disposal v/ere declared to be so ample (if not 
unlimited) that I did not consider myself authorized to adopt 
the alternative of delay from any other motive but that of 
the safety of the army. Isly lettei^s have contained frequent 
alusions to the monstrous expense which would attend the 
opperations of an army at this seasoii of the year penetrating 
to the enemy through an immense forest of one hundred and 
fifty miles. The silence of the Secty. on this sul^ject left me 
no room to doubt the correctness of the opinion v/hich I had 
at fu'st formed, i. e. that the object in viev/ was considered 
so important that expense was to Ijc disregarded. 

I thought it best however to come to a full understanding 
on the subject and with this view my letter of the 12th ulto. 
(as I think) from Delaware was w^ritten. 

My plan of operations has been and nov/ is, to occupy the 
]\Iiami rapids and to deposit there as much provisions as pos- 
sible. 

To move from thence Vvith a cliosen detachment of the army 
and with as much provision, artillery and ammunition as tlie 
means of transportation wUl allow, make a demonstration to- 
wards Detroit and by a suddev: passage of the Straight upon 
the Ice an actual investuro of ]\Ialden. In the letter fi'om 
Delaware above aludcd to I explained my objections to the 
occupancy of Detroit untill Maiden should fall. The latter in 
the hands of the enemy with a disposable force of half the 



 

size of tliat vfitli which we should advance to the former would 
place us completel:/ in a cul dc sac. With regard to the amount 
of force v/hich such ;'.n expedition would I'equire — I ha\'e made 
my calculations noL upon that which the enemy might have 
at IMalden at the time that the enterprize should commence 
but upon what they would be able to assemble there in time 
enough to resist us. I know the facility with v/hich troops 
may be brought at this Season by what is called the back 
route along the . iver Tham -s from the vicinity of Niagara 
to Detroit and Maiden. Had. General [Alexander] Smyth's^ 
attempt been successful my plans could have been executed 
with a irrac.h smaller force than I should deem it jjrudont lO 
employ under present circumstances. I have indeed no doubt 
that we shall encounter at Maiden the verry troops which 
contended with Genl. Van Ran sol are on the hights of Queens- 
town. It is the same thing with regard to the Indians. The 
British have wisely dismissed the greater part of them to save 
their provisions but a whistle vvili be almost sufficient to col- 
lect them again. 

There is another consideration v,diich must have consider- 
able influep-ce in determining the number of men necessary to 
make an atempt upon Llalden — it is this, that the number of 
Indians and Canadians which will be opposed to us v/ill be in 
an in\'erse ratio to the force v.hich we employ. To destroy a 
small army the timid the wavering and the cautious v/ill all 
turn out, but if our foi-ce is such as to create a belief that its 
operations will bo successful boath those description of people 
will stand aloof ready to take the side that ma^' pj'ove vic- 
torious. 

But the quantom of force necessary foi' the enterprize 
against Maiden may be greatly lessened by our having the 
means of transportation at the Rapids to take on at once the 
Atillery. Stores and a sufficiency of provisions to last untill 
tlie object is eflx'cted but if the sup})lies are to be taken o]i at 
several ti-ips large escorts (amounting themselves to small 
armies) will be necessary, more tirie will be ]-equired and con- 
sequently a much larger quantity oi' provisions wanted. Such 
is thc^ natui'c of Indian warfa.re that it is impossi).)le to tell 
whei-e the storm will fall. It is a rule therefo]-e with mo 

1. Alexander Sniylh was insiJCctoi- j;cn. of the army and sr-tond in coiiini.'uid undrr 
Van Kenssolaor on the Nia.f..'ua fronlior. Ho Kuccce()ed to the command. For an ac- 
count of his fiasco see Lossinjr, Field Book M'ur of 1H12, JiS7 acq. 



 

when oporatiiig against thoni jicvei' to make a detacliment 
neithc]- to the front or rear which is not able to contend with 
tlieir wliole force. From this statement you will perceive Sir 
how dilficult it would be for me at present to ascertain with 
any degree of correctness the nuniljcr of men with which I 
should advance froin the Rapids. It was my intention to have 
assembled thei'e from four thousand five hundi'ed to five thou- 
sand men ajid to be govei'iicd by circumstances in forming 
the Detachment w'ith which I should advance. This is still 
my plan and it was always my intention to dismiss at that 
period a-1 that I deemed superflons. The nature of our forti- 
fication." (upon the frontiers) requires a much lai^ger force for 
their protection than w^ould be requisite if they wex-e capable 
of resisting artillery; a few hundred Indians assisted by half 
a dozen British matrosses and a six pounder would take any 
of them. Notwithstanding the large nominal amount of the 
army under my command their sufferin.'.s for the want of 
clothing and the rigor of the season renders the effective num- 
ber of less than two thirds of the agregate. You will read 
with as much pain as I write it that a fine body of regular 
troops belonging to the 17th and 19th Regts. under Col. 
[Samuel] Wells- has nearly been destroyed for the want of 
clothing. The whole of the effective men upon this frontier 
does not exceed six thousand three hundred infantiy. 

Upon the wiiole sir my reaching T\Ialden during the winter 
depends upon a circumstance which I cannot controlo viz: the 
freezing of the straight in such a manner as to enaljle jne to 
pass over the Troops and Artillery. I have explained to you 
my objections to making any attempts upon Detroit untill 
I\Ialden should be taken — should hovv^ever my view of the sub- 
ject be incorrect I will cheerfully undertake whateve]- you may 
direct — and must request you to determine whether it w^ould 
b;' proper to advance to Detroit if the openness of the Winter 
and other causes should in my opinion i-oider an attemijf upon 
IMalden impropei-? Genl. Winchester is I hope now or will in 
a day or two be at the rapids. Provisions in large quantities 
are pi-ogressing 'liither. I calculate upon being there myself 
by the 20th Inst, v^nth the ti'oops which ai-e intended for the 
; larch upon Maiden. 

In the event of the occurrence of cii'cumstanres wliich may 
induce a suspension of operations beyond Ihe Rapids, Meas- 

22— 22GC1 



 

lU'cs will be talam to make and to secure at tb.nt ]3]ace a dc- 
poyii of provisions equal to the support of the Troops in any 
etiterprize tliat may ha undertaken in the spring. 

Should our olTensive operations be suspended untill that 
tinu^ it is my decided opiiiion that the most clfoctual and 
cheapest plan will bo to obtain tlie command of tlie lake. This 
bein^^^ once :ffected c\'ery difficulty will be removed. An army 
ol" four thousand men landed on the north side of the Lake 
below IMalden v/ill soon reduce that place and rctakx Detroit — 
and with the aid of tlie Fleet proceed dov/n the lalce to cooper- 
ade with the army frojn Niagara. The cnterprize against the 
Queen Charlotte has been meditated and shall not escape my 
attention. My anxiety to get off this Letter in time enough 
to rccich Chilicothe for the mail tomori'ov/ has obliged me to 
wi'itc it witli a precipitancy which n.iay have prevented me 
giving all the explanations required. I will however reperuse 
it tomorrow and will have the honor of writing to you again 
previously to my setting out for Sandusky. 

Tlie object of my visit to Cliilicothe vv'as to consult v/ith Gov 
I\Ieiggs upon the means of raising a mounted force for another 
expedition to Mississineway. This subject shall also bo no- 
ticed. 

I am sorry not to be able to agree witli my friend Col. 
[llichard i\I.] Johnson upon the pi'opriety of the contemplated 
mount(,'d expedition. An expedition of this Ivind directed 
agaiiist a particular Town would pi'obably succeed. The In- 
dian Towns cannot be surpi'ised in succession ns they give 
the alarm fj'om one to the other Vv'ith much more rapidity than 
our ti-oops can move. In the niontlis Feby. Majch and A]n-il 
the towns are all abandoned the men are hunting and the 
women and children (particularly to the north of the Wabash) 
are scattered about making sugar. The corn is at that season 
miiversally hid in small parcells in the earth ainl could not Ije 
found. Tltere is no considerable lndi;in Vill; ges in that di- 
i-ection, and those that are there composed of bai'k h.utts wliich 
the Indians do not care for and whicli during the winter ai'c 
entirely empty. 

Thie Detachnu-nt might pass thro the v>'hole extiiit nf com^- 
tiy to be scoured without seeing an Indian, but at the first 
Tov/n they struck and it is moi-e tlum probable that they 
would (ind if empfy. But the expedition is imi)racticabN' to 



HARRISON ; ]\IESS VGES AND LETTERS 209 

Ih' (■::'.erii proposed. The Horses if not the men would perish 
T!:i- Ho)-?o:s which arc now to be procured are not hke those of 
llu^ early settlers, and such as the Indiaiis and traders now 
iia\e. They )iave been accustomed to corn and must have it. 
Col. [James B.] Campbell went about seventy miles from the 
noniio's and the greater part of his horses could scarcely be 
l)i-(>u^vlit in. Such an expedition in the summer and fall would 
1)0 hiijhly advantageous because the Indians are at their 
TovrtiS and their corn, can then be destroyed. An attempt 
upon a particular tov;]i in the ^vinter wlien the Inhabitants 
;in! in it (as we knovr tiicy are at ]\Iississineway) and which 
is so near as to enable the Detachmeiit to reacli it i nd return 
v.ithout killing their Horses is not only practicable but if there 
is snow on the ground is perhaps the most favorable time and 
small i)art!es mioiit be employed to great adxantage searching 
for a;id attacking their huntijig camps. 

I have the honor to be with greatest respect Sir Yr. Hb. Sevt. 

William Henry Harrison 

JAMIIS ]MONROE Esqr. 

Harrison to Sec. of V/ar 
No. 31 

Head Qrs. N. W. Army Franklinton, 6th Jany. 1813. 

Har. Pa. 850-867 

Sir: 

Since 1 had the honor to write to you yesterday [see Jan. 
1, above] I have had a conversation with the Deputy. Qu. 
^.raster General Colo. [James] ]Morrison, he is decidedly of 
opinion that the means of transportation now in his possession 
will enable him to supplj^ the army with provisions and to take 
on the artillery and stores necessary for the operations against 
I^Ialden unless the Winter should be uncommonly open. At 
this moment the api)earances in relation to the weather are 
extremely unfavorable. Our preparaticvns are how^ever so well 
advanced that w'c shall be able to take advantage of a change 
v.'hich the season authorises us to expect and with three weeks 
of severe frost to make a deposit of provisions at the Rapids 
of ]\Iiami suihcient to authorize the advance of the army from 
tliat point. If our expectations on this subject are disap- 
pointed, longer perseverance in attempting to reach the prin- 
cipal object of our wishes (the reduction of .Alalden) during 



 

tho winter VviJl as you observe consume our provisions and 
resources in vaiji efforts and however relucta]\t I may be to 
abandon hopes v;] = ich have bee]i forr:icd as ^s^ell upon the con- 
fidence I IniN'e .in the troops I comniand as tlie Sta.te of our 
actual preparations I Vvdll subinit to the hard necessity and 
direct my thoughts towards an economical disposition of the 
ti'oops for the wiriter and a.n aj-rangement of supplies calcula- 
ted for early and vigorous operations in the spring. A suspen- 
sion of the operations of this i-my for the vrinter without 
having accomplished the principal object for v/Iiich it Vv^as em- 
bodied is an event which has been loolvcd for by most of tlie 
well informed men who knov,' the character of the counti'y 
and recollect that the army of Genl. "Wayne after a whole sum- 
mers preparation was unable to advance more than seventy 
miles from the Ohio and that the prudent caution of Genl. 
Washington had directed it to be placed in winter quartei's 
at the very season that our arrangements were commenced. 

You do me justice in believing that my exertions have bee?! 
unremitted, and I am as yet sensible of the commission of one 
er]'or only, that has injuriously affected our interests and that 
is the retaining of too large a force at Defiance. The disad- 
vantages attending it were however scon at the ]>oriod of my 
committing the management of that wing to Genl. Winches- 
ter' possessing a supei'ior rank in the line of the army to that 
Vv'hich was tendered to me I considered him rather in the light 
of an assoc"ate in command than an Inferior. I therefore 
recommc^ndcd to him, instead oi" ordering it, to send back tvvo 
Pwegiments within the ])ounds of White's contract. Had this 
measui'e been pursued there vv'oukl have been at Fort Win- 
chester (Defiance) one hundred thousand Rations more than 
there is at present. Tho Genl. who possesses the most es- 
teemed fiualities of tlie liead and heart was deceived as I was 
witli regard to tlie ix^riod when the army could advance but 
he did not think that the reduction of issues would be so im- 
portant as it is now ascertained they \\'ould have been. 

As th.e greater i^art of the expenses of the cam])aign have 
been already incurred, I beg leave to assure you Sir t!"!at 
trifling diflicultics will not oppose the progress of the army 
to ]\Ialden, but at the same time 1 also promise; you that no 
measure shall be ado])ted ^vh(n•e tlie pros])ec,ts of success -Are 
not as clear as they can be in any military ojierations. I know 



HARRISON: IMESSAGES AND LETTERS 301 

not whn' measures can be adopted to make a diversion in our 
favor or to prevent the enciny from sending reinfoi'cements 
to ]\Ialden from Ej'io and Fort Georg'c. After Vvhat has hap- 
pened at Niagara it having been published to the v/orld that 
the militia in that quarter vrould not cross the line the British 
will certainly view as a fei^it and not regard any movements 
of tlio regular Troops there of v/hose numbers they must be 
well informed. With such a force as I can select f]*om this 
army however, provided I can find the means of transporting 
their pi'ovisions and the Artillery, I should not fear to en- 
counter the force v/hich they no\.' have in the upper district 
when reinforced by that which they dare spare from below^ 
That I may be better understood and that you may be en- 
abled to correct the errors of my opinions and reasoning I 
will nov>^ state . briefly as possible what appears to me to be 
the a. 'vantages id disadvantages which will attend an attack 
upon Maiden in the three modes by which only it can be ap- 
proached. The fii'st is that which is now in contemplation — 
of advancing in the midst of v/inter and crossing the Straight 
U])on the ice. The objections are that in an enterprize of this 
kind in a climate so rigorous the troops would suffer greatly; 
that unused to subordination it might be impossible to make 
them bear such hardships; that in some winters the ice is not 
sudiciently strong to bear an army and artillery; and that 
some times v/hcn it is so a few warm days will suddenly open 
up a cliannel in the Straight and thereby prevent our passage 
after v/e shall have arrived under appearances which promise 
a safe one or that having passed the communication with the 
real" may be cut off and thus making it necessaiy to talvc over 
with tlio ar]ny everj'thing which it may require in a siege, at 
the same time a circumstance Vvdiich it may not bo in our 
power to effect. That the operations of a seige in Winter 
are very difficult and that in case of any disaster the retreat 
of the army miglr. be impracticable from the uncei'tainty of 
the contiriuance of the ice as above stated. The advantages 
of this plan of attack are That the roads beijig frozen are 
passable for a}"tillej'y andbaggagenotwithstanding theswampy 
nature of the country. That with light sleds tlie men might 
draw their own baggag'e upon the ice, that the principal object 
of the campaigTi could be accomplished sooner and conse- 
quently with less expense than by waiting until! spring and 



 

that ■whati'ver might be the case ^vith the regular aiicl mihtia 
force Oi llie Qncnry wo should certainly have fewcj* Indians to 
conlnul with. 

Tiio 2nd phui is that of marching to Detroit at any tii'e 
wh.'ii tlie prcnarations can be made, Imilding a sufiiciency oi 
Ijoats artd pa;: ^ing tl"ie army over in tliat manner. Tliere are 
no peculiar advantages attending this mode of proceeding 
TiTid the di:-nd\'antage3 are numerous. It v;ould require a 
much loriger time to cfrect it and consequently much more 
provisions and as much ■. .-eater immber of men as e^^ch co]^- 
\-oy nru5-t have an esco'l" capable of contenxlir.g at least vrithi 
th(^ whole of liie Indian force of the enemy. Tlie third plan 
is iliat of creating a naval force capable of conrmanding the 
Lalv.' arid v\-ith it to transport as soon as the navigation opens 
the; army artillery and Baggage to some point on the north 
sliore belovr ^lalden and from th.ence to coPiimence operations 
against ^^lalden and Detroit. 

I have no means of estimating correctly the cost of a naval 
armament ca]\able of elfecting this object but from ]ny knc'V.-l- 
edge of the cost of transporting supplies thru a svv'ampy V;il- 
derness I do believe that expense which will be incurred in 
six weeks in thjo spring in an attempt to trar.sport the pro- 
visions for the army along the road leading from the rapids to 
Detroit Vv-ould build and equip the vessels for the purpose. In 
point of time there could not be throe vreeks dinerence in the 
accomplishment of the objects in regard to ]^dalden and De- 
troit betvreen this plan and that of the land I'oute in th.e 
spring )-ound t];e head of the Lake and if the taking of :Malden 
and Detroit wx-re alone the object the former would I pi'esmne 
be i)referable in eveiy point of viovn-. There is however an- 
other consideration which \cili make it necessary to obtairi 
the naval superiority upon the up])er lakes i. e. the retakiiig of 
Macinac and the driving the British from their other estab- 
lishments in Lake r\Iichigan and the entrance of Lake Su- 
pei-ior. It is from those sources that the means of anno:rarice 
to our frontiers will bo furnished to the Indians and that ex- 
peditions the mo>t to be dreaded of any others, thra they can. 
undertake will be set on foot. Tire southvvai'dly directii-'n of 
Lake IMichigan running deep in.to our country a])proaches Foi'( 
Wayne, the settle nents upon tiie Wabash, and those, of the 
Illinois Pvivei'. Unless we can hud the means oi' dri\ing tlie 



HARRISON: ^lESSAGES AND LETTERS 30:? 

oi. my rroni Lake Michip-vii early i)i ilie Spring' an innncnso 
Iii(li;ui force aided by British cannon and artillerists will bo 
.•issemblod at tlie southwardly bend of that lake and its opera- 
(ion.s will be directed against Eoi t Wayne, Vincenncs or the 
Illinois, As it will be impossible to tell v/here the storm will 
i';dl il will require an army at each of Ihcse points to protect 
111. lii. ]\ralden and Deti'oit may fall but tliose posts are not 
uiub'rin] lo ^lacinac and St. Josepli the siii)plies for wliJch and 
i'(ir the supp rt of the Indians in tliat cjuarter are drawn from 
Montreal by means of the Gran.d Rivei\ All the Lidians north 
oi' ;he Wabash can be supplied with the means of continuing 
tl): Vv-ar at Ciiicag'o much easier than from I\ialden. Mon- 
tre;il will be tal^cn perhaps by our main army but this will 
not jH'obably be unlill the opening of the navigation in the 
sjiring. The hrst of which is always made use of to forward 
tlie sr.jnplies for the Indians by the canoe route to the Lakes 
^Michigan and Superior and should we not have the moans of 
destroying their po\v'er in those L;dvcs oven if we shall succeed 
in taking IMalden and Detroit an.d j?iIontreal they will possess 
and will make use of tlie me; s of annoying us from thence 
to an extent that Vv'ill give us great trouble. The facility of 
attacking Fort Wayne by an Lidian force collected at Chicago 
aided by British artillery from ]\Iacinac was seen by the In- 
dians of that quarter and it would have I'cen attempted last 
fall if there had been time enougli. 

That the idea still exists and tinit it Vvill be renev.ed the 
ensuing spring a;id extended to embrace an attack ujion our 
settlements upon the Wabash and Illiiiois and upon Fort ]\Tadi- 
son also by the route of Fox river and the Ou.isconsiug I have 
not the least doubt. All tliat the British will lisk will be a 
few peices of ai'tillery and tv/entj?- or thirty of their Ti-oops 
to eacli of the Divisions of Indian force. As I before observed 
the talving of Alalden and Montreal will ha\e no otFcct upon 
their operations for tlie succeeding summer. The I'emedy 
lies in having the coinmand of the lakes and providing as 
soon as ^lalden falls to take jMa.cinac and restore Chicago, 
"i'fiu may rely u\)(m it Sir that the intentions of the Bi-ilish 
h;ue always been such as are now stated. 

A very short time v/ill enable mn to determine upon the 
pj'opi-iety of our advance upon Makhm during the present 
wintei-. In the meantime may T hoj)e for your instructions? 



 

Posse;;, :c(l as you will be of •aW the reasons Y\'liich will govern 
my coiicliict in the clioice of nicasiirr-.s which I have contem- 
plated you vrill be enabled to correct any error tlicy may con- 
tain. 

Operations against the' hostile Indians duririg tlie winter is 
a subject which has neve}- ceased to occupy my attention and 
the expedition under Lieut. Col. [John B.] Campbell v;as iri- 
tended to distroy tbo only hostile^ esliiblishments which I con- 
ceived to be v/ithin the reach of an efiectual stroke at this sra- 
son. His being unable to distroj^ the priiicipal town from a 
greater accumulation of Indiaii foi'ce in the nei.iibourhood of 
it than we had reason to expect determined me ijnmediately 
to organize another detachment for the purpose. It was witli 
the intention of obtaining the assistance of Gov. Meiggs in 
procuring some volunteer corps of moujited men that I visited 
Chilicothe. With the promptitude which has every distin- 
guished him in complying with my requests he agreed to or- 
ganize as secretly as possible five hundred men to be joined 
to the Dragoons which served under Lt. Col. Campbell and 
to commence their march in four or five weeks by which time 
I expected that the Dragoons ould be sufficiently recruited. 
But upon receivi]ig a statement of their situation. I was con- 
vinced that the Kentucky dragoons would not be able to render 
any effectual sei'vice untill their term of service would expij-e. 
I have therefore directed the five Troops composing [James] 
Simralls Regt. to be discharged. Major [James V.] Ball Vv-it!i 
his squadron consisting of Capt. [Samuel G.] lloijkin's Troo]) 
of U. S. Light Dragoons Capt. [Abraham] T^Iarkles and [Wil- 
liam] Garrai'ds Twelve I\Tonths Volunteers and a small de- 
tachment of i\Iichigan volunteej'S for the same period and a 
detachment of Pennsylvania six months dragoons ainounting 
to about 281 men are ordered into a favorable situation to re- 
cruit and altho a great many of the men are veiy severly frost 
bitten and the Horses very much reduced the Llajor gives nie 
hopes of having them ready for active service in the course 
of four or five weeks. The expedition contemplated from 
Kentucky may however su]jorcede Vm^ necessity of that which 
I was preparing. But I am still of tlie opinion given yester- 
day that no attempt upon th(^ enemy beyond I\Iis- 
sissineway would be attended with any advantage if it did 
not end in the destruction of the Detachment employed to 



HAkRISON: JMESSAGES and letters ■ 805 

oxociite it. I again repeat that the Indians are not at this 
season to ].)e found in their towns. That tliey invariably take 
(licir FamiHes vrith them upon their hunting excursions and 
tliai lh(>ii' pi'ovi.sione'. are alv/ay.'^ buried in small parcels each 
family hiding its own. Col. Campbell destroyed these vil- 
lages and did not get a feed of corn a piece for his horses. 

I have always calculated upon being able to Iveep Three Reg- 
iments of the Kentuclvy troops in service as long as they shall 
be v/anted. 

These troops I am convirced would not leave me as long as 
tliere was any prospect of active service but if the operations 
of army are suspended for the winter they will insist upon 
being discharged at the termination of the period for which 
thry were engaged. The term of the Ohio Troops will also 
(^x)jire in Fcby. Those from Virginia and Pennsylvania in 
]\I;irch. It is probable that some twelve months volunteers 
ma.y be procured fj'om tliem. I have offered to give such as 
may engage a twelve months volunteers credit for the time 
they have served in the militia. 

In making an estimate of the nuinber of men which may be 
requisite for the insuing spring my calculations could be gov- 
erned in a great degree by the determination of the Govern- 
ment upon the subject of obtaining' the command of the upper 
Lakes. That object effected It would in my opinion not re- 
qui}'e more than iivc thousand men for the Garison of the 
posts upon this frontier and for the reduction of Maiden and 
Deti-oit, a few troops for defencive purposes only would an- 
swer at Vincennes and in the Illinois territory. In the event 
however of our being unable to destroy the British power on 
Lake Michigan early in the Spring It will be necessary to 
cover those places as well as Fort Wayne each, with an army 
of some thousands. 

Pi'ovisions have been purchased and are now in progress 
toward the Ilapids ;ind S:mdusky for Ten Tliousancl men for 
one year. If the advance of the Troops should be stojud for 
the winter these supplies v\'ill be placed upon the St. Tdarys, 
Aaiglaize, Blanchard's fork and Sandusky River, and )x)ats 
provided to take them down upon the first raise of the waters 
in the Spring, an arrangement that Vvill save a grea.t expense 
of transportation. 

I am not informed of the position in which tke Queen Char- 



;;0G INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIOAS 

loUu ;iT)d othor arjiicd vessels are laid u]) — if \]iQ attempt upon 
.MaUi'.n should be aliaiidoncd for the winter I vrill spare uo 
]iai!is !o ascertain thuir situation and endcjivdr to effect their 
(Ir'striiftion. 1 ha\'e requested Govr. Slielby to direct tlie dis- 
chaviro ui all the Ti'oops that served under Gonl. [Sannioi] 
II()l)'c!ris one Eattalic^n excepted to be placed under the coni- 
marui of Colo. [William] Russell. 

Capt. [Charles] Qjatiott of the Engineers who lias cliarge 
of a fevr pieces of artillery and the carriages for all tho?e 
which have been previously forward' d — as well as a quantity 
of stores and amnnn^iition has met v.ith great diiluuvlty from 
t]i(> badness of tiie roads. Ke will I hope reach Sandusky in 
a fe-.e days. By a Letter rcceiv- d from him some time since 
I Icc'.rn that the carriages of all V\e Twelve pounders are 
entij'oly unfit for service being so rotten that they were eter- 
n. ]ly breaking dovrn. 

In my letter of yesterday I )nentioned the nakedi^ess of tl'e 
Regular Troops under Colo. [Samuel] Wells a part of tlie 
clothing lias arrived here the baha'nco of it is I fear arested by 
the ice on the Oliio. There has certainly been great negli- 
gence upon the part of some person in relation to this clotli- 
ing. The Troops marched from Ken.tucky in August to re- 
lieve C.enl. Hull and the Clothing for them^ left Philadelphia 
latr- in Xoveiribv^r. I beg leave also to mention to you that by the 
u]iparvIonable negligence of the ofiiccr vdio examined and re- 
ceis'ed tliem fj'om the manufactury the axes which have beer. 
sent 0)1 to tills army are so worthless that not abo\e one in a 
dozen vdll stand tlie cutting of a sticli six inches in diameter 
witliout breaking. 

The recruiting rendezvous in this State are entirely without 
clothing. 

Upon the authority which I had received from the Sec:v. of 
War I ordei ed the recruits raised in Tennessee for Col. Ander- 
sons Regiment to march to this arnr\-. The Colo. Was upon 
tlie point of obeying the order when another ari-angement 
fj'otn the v/ar ofiicc supercceded it. I liave been since in- 
formed that he v\'as ordered to Newpori. As the engagemerit 
of volunteers for 12 months to the extent that will be neces- 
sary to supply the place of the ^Militia that will bo discharged 
is veiy uncf?riain. I v/ould beg leave to recommend that Colo. 
[Whlliam P.] Anderson if he has not already received an order 



JiAia^iSOX: MESSAGES AXD LETTERS HO; 

'■■■ ■]'.■:[ r;iV'c-l, 1)0 (liiOitccl to NewpoT't lii'H'e to receive my or- 

.;. i.-. f !)0j)(> that clothi];.Q' will be ,>ent on for tlierii. Nothing 

;!; li,' iiioi'o ('ii.sti'L':-si)-!;j: than to see soldiers naked at this 

• M -rii i\v.{\ nci^liiiij:' C';-n cci-hiinly l)-^- more hui'tfii] to the i.'iib- 

i'r :-fi'\i('t>. 

l! will -rive >-n!.i some id-a of ihe diilcihtics of transpOL'tirg 
'■; • s'.ipiMifS h)V tlie ariri\' in tliis connlry v.dicn you are in- 
..r!;:i:i iJi;.{ the (). ?•!. is ohlip-ed to uiscJiargG corn bci0^v 
< '; i;i'''ittH' to niahe a dei)o^it of forage at U. S::^ndusky a dis- 
! .!•' i> :.)] ojU' Inandi'od and tv\"enty miles. 

1 .-.hoidd be gratifK^d if the Pi'osident should think ])voper 
b< •■.,•)! fic a, C}-evet of O)lonel on Lt. Col. Campbell and of Lt. 
( -'. i-n .\b;j ;r Bali. They ai'e both highly desei'ving oihcers. 
Tin- piwincli'M! of ihe lattc-r v,'ould be highly beneficial to the 
-t\ii!' .ts ins )-ank at ]jvesent does not authorize my giving 
; •■'! !;,!■ (MiMinand of a detachm-'nt for \vhich thoj'e are fevr iii 
'■ ::!::!>■ as wcl! (jiiahih (h Besides tlie U. S. Dragoons, he 
1 . ■ :'•■■ : oaimaad of the 32 mo. volunteers, ^vhose affection and 
■ ■■ ;;d. )!<■*■ la' iias ac(juired to a degree rarely eciuallod, by his 
''!,v ••!•>■. hrimii'ss Iiumanity and indefatigable attention to jiis 
duh'. i .'.liall do myself liie honor of M-r.',ting to you again 
\\]^'^\\ v.-y arj'ival at Sandusky. 

1 iiavc the honor to be vith great respect Sir Yr. Obt. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
ih'!ii :-. Jami:s Monroe. Ei:q)\ Acfiug Sccti;. of War 

Day to Harrison 

Otter Creek, Jan, 12, 1813 

IIii:: Pa. SCO 

Sir: 

I lia\-e taken the liberty to send per express to inform you 
that the enimy ai-e apprised of your being at the Rapids and 
havr removed .a.ll the fi'iends of oui' govcriinievit to T\Ialden 
Trfsou a.iul at present v/e are beset with spies. 1 expect the 
riuard to ;;earcri for me evei-y moment. I have agreeably to 
^'■ry nrdvr from \V. Shields your acting contractor engaged 
fifty ba.iTols of iiour and tv. o hundred bushel !s of v^'hcat. K 
you Sir see proper to send a detachment of cavahy and ritie- 
UK'M v.ith arms and ammunition for thiii-ty inen fo]- this jilace 
v.e can secure, it is supposed, three thousand Barrells of Flour 
and a giv-it quantity of coin and vrhcat. Thei'c is bat 40. or 



80". INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLE JTIONS 

50 soldiers garrisoned at the River Raison and not one hun- 
dred savages; there is not 'one thousand English French and 
savages at Maiden. 

If you do not come toniorrov\' or the next da ■ you v. ill not 
find a man at this place. The English are collecting all the 
savages to rally at the Ri\'er Raisin for the purpose of giving 
battle, they are engaging sleighs to transport tb.e flour and 
grain to their pandora's box, Maiden. Five hundred true and 
brave Americans can secure the District of Erie — A timely 
approach of our armies will secure us from being forced to 
prison and the whole j^Vace from being burned by savage fury. 

Your Humble S -rvt. 

Raac Day- 

To Ilis Excellency GovR Harrison 

Hali' past !wo o'clock 

P.S. Please to excuse th" : scrol as I write in the v>'oods with- 
out a fire. 

I certify that the abo\'e is a correct copy 

Nath. F. Ada]\is, Depif. Ajt. Gen. 

Gibson to- Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, Jan 13th, 1S13 

Har. Fa. 251 

Sir: 

In my la,"t, I had the honor of informing you, that I had 
(lisiiatchcd an express to General [Samuel] Hopkins upon the 
subject of the Battalion of Kentucky detached ]\Iililia's re- 
maining here. Since when I have received the General's an- 
swer, vy'ho adhering to his first determination upon this sub- 
ject, the Battalion were the other day discharged and have 
generally returned home. The Gen. proposed to me to hire 
the Battalion to stay (provided the men and oflicers would 
consent to remain) by advancing to them tv\'o months pay. 
This I declined, seeing the great confusion that would arise in 
tl;e Adjustment of the accounts. We are now left without any 
effective force except a few Regular Troops and a few Rangers 
which has induced me to determine to keep the whole of the 
?>Iililia of th-v 'i.'erri oiy upon the alert; and at the first inti- 
mation of actual dan.;or to order into se]'vice three companies 

1. I.uao I.'fiy wiis a ici-iiji.:.t of Dctioit as ciuly fis ISOti. 



HARPwISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 309 

of the Territorial Militia for the protection of the Frontiers. 
I am still in hopes that Gen. Harrison has been or will be 
successful in his expedition against IMaklen, and if so, that I 
shall not be drove to the disagreeable necessity of calling out 
the Militia. 

Inclosed herewith I have the honor of transmitting you Two 
Bonds which were lodged in my hands by order of Governor 
Harrison i. e. that of Tho. S. Wingate as Quarter Master and 
George Harrison as Pay Master to the 8th Reg, of Kentucky 
detached Militia. 

I should be extremely sorry to be considered troublesome 
but as I have latterly frequently heard of certain persons ex- 
pressing an opinion that the Governor of this Territoiy pos- 
sessed no command other than as respects his own Militia; 
I will thank you to give me your opinion, whether or not all 
the forces in the Territory are not subject to his orders. 

Intending to proceed in the Removal of Fort Knox to Vin- 
cennes so soon as the weather will permit I have taken the 
liberty of ordering Captain [John T.] Chunn^ and Lieut. 
[Robert] Buntin [Jr] to remain here until your further or- 
ders, in as much as officers are necessary to command the 
Garrison and others for the necessary fatigue parties. And 
there are none others now hei'e except EnsigTi [Thomas] 
Hawkins. Should this step not meet your approbation you 
will please to inform me, when Messrs Chunn and Buntin, 
should you so direct, can repair to and join their respective 
companies. 

I have the honor to be with considerations of Respect etc. 
Sir, 
Your Obedient and Humble Servant 

John Gibson 
The Honble. The Secretary of War 



No. 33 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters U. Sandusky 15 Jany. 1813 

o Har. Pa. SGS, 869 

Sir: 

The weather and roads have been so favorable for some 

1. Capt. John F. Chunn of O. belonged to the 19th U. S. Inf. lie served throuRh 
the war of 1812 and was discharKcd June 1, 1821. He was born in Maryland in 1780 
and died on his farni on Brouillette's creek near Clinton, Ind., in 1847. 

Gookins, Hist. Viao Countu, iS (iSSO) 



 

days past and the provisions and stores accumulating so fast 
at this ])lace and Lower Sandusky that I have the most flat- 
tering piospocts of being able to advance from the Rapids 
against the enemy in the iirst week of February. Thirty or 
forty thousand dollars in Gold or Silver will be wanted to 
purchase such supplies as the settlements about Detroit and 
iNlalden will afford. Should you think proper to forward this 
sum to the army the route by Pittsburgh and Cleaveland to 
Lower Sandusky will be the proper one from which latter 
place it will be sent in charge of one of those large escorts 
which nmst necessarily follow the army. 

Having understood that it was probable the Regular Army 
will be increased at this session of Congress I must take the 
liberty of recommending to you for the appointment of Major 
of Infantry Lieut. Levi Hukill of the first Regiment U. S. 
Light Dragoons Asst. Dy. Ajt. Genl. to this army. Mr. Hukill 
has been in my family for some weeks and I have derived 
great advantage from his assiduity and knowledge of his pro- 
fession. His attention has not been confined to the duties of 
his own corps but extended in some degree to every other in the 
army and those which are peculiar to the Infantry. His at- 
tainments are perhaps eaqual to those of any Field officer in 
the service. Mr. Hukill was for some time Brig. Q. Mr. to 
Gen. [Wade] Hampton and I have seen a letter from that 
officer and another from his Colonel [Leonard] (Covington) 
in which he is spoken of in the highest terms. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Ilonble. James Monroe Actg. Secty. of War 

Endorsement of Harrison 

Columbia Township, Hamilton 
County, 0. Jan. 16, 1813 

Dawson, Harrison, Ap. Note 7 

Gen. Wm. H. Harrison 

Dear Sir : The anxiety of your fellow citizens has been ex- 
cited, (and we hope you v/ill pardon our intruding a few lines 
on you, which were drawn up in haste at a large meeting of 
the citizens of Hamilton and Clermont counties, for the par- 
ticulars of which we refer you to the Liberty Hall,) to find 



IIAinilSON: MESSAGES AND LETTEKS :ni 

■.. ^;;,i i!i(r)!tl lo rolij'c ivom the command of ouv army a.t llic 
.■vi.ii-;iti,!n of tlie in'osent campaicn. 

\\ I'll (Icoji regret do we contemplate the discontent that v/ill 
j,r,\ail in tlie army, by j'our withdrawing from a station 
•-,■. t:i. li ytniv ))re8ence seems indispensably nGCCRsary for a con- 
hnii.uiic- of that discipline and harmony, and implicit confi- 

• i'Mrv'. wliich we feel confident no other coimnander which 
j'r.-i'iiiiii.'iit may please to appoint will ensure. We have 
lh!TiM'(»it' been constrained to address you in this way, as a 
Ti!a!iirc.-;';ition of our ai'dent wishes for you to continue the 
< oiiiMiamt until we shall by petition obtain a commission for 
y«\\ which sha.ll place you at the head of the north-western 
.niiiy (liirin^^- the present war. 

W'luii wo. reflect on your past life, the honouralile stations 
yo'j iKive filled with unremitted zeal and fidelity, the general 
siUisfadion which has prevailed wherever your authority has 
(Xtrndcd. your knovrn attachment to liberty and the honour 
ruu! y:ooi\ weal of your country, we anticipated a favourable 
; iisv.oi- from you, that you will devote a few more days or 
".rars in the service of your country. You, Sir, are aware of 
tiii' ueci'ssity of a beloved connnander in an ai'my, the great 
adva.ntage of soldiei's obeying for love aJ3ove that of fear; the 
incsfMice of a beloved general animating his men ))y good ex- 
ample, adds f]"esh vigour to the war-worn sokliei-, warms theij- 
h-aris. ainl jirms them with undaunted courage, and they v/ill 
P'.j-KU-m to admii-ation — such scenes you, Sir, have experi- 

♦ •n.ci'd. and they will ever be held in grateful remen.ibrance by 
:.'"Ur fi'iends and your country. By order of the meeting, 

John Armstrong, Chainnan 
I'AViD :\rCAUGilEY, Secretanj 

Harrison to Winchester 

llKADQUARTERS U. SANDUSKY, IG Jany. 1813, OCk. ]). m. 

1 Itave wailed with great ar.xiety to hear from you for some 
days past; that 1 might put in motion the supplies destined 
for llic Ka])id.s, which have arrived liere in large (piantities, 
and ior which a new road now passable by pack-horses is 
<'l"'ning into Hull's trace. A copy of your letter to Genl. 
[Nimon] Perkins of the 15th this moment received, gave me 



 

the first information of your arrival at the Rapids. I have 
sent Capt. Forsytli to you to bring- me to lovrer Sandusky, for 
which phice I shall set out in the morning, information as to 
your situation and designs. 

I am very respectfully 
Yr. 0]3t. Servt. 
Wm. Henky Harrison 
Brig. Gen. Winchester,, Comd. Left Wing. N. W. Army 
True Cop3^ 
HUKILL, Aid de Ccmj? 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department January 17th, 1813. 

Har. Pa. .',S-50 

Br. General Wm. H. Harrison Sir: 

I have just had the honor to receive your letter of January 
4th [see above] dated Franklinton, in answer to mine of the 
2GtIi ultimo, [see above] 

Your letter of the [?] ultimo would have been noticed im- 
mediately after its receipt had not the principal subject 
treated in it been anticipated in tliat which I had already writ- 
ten to you. 

You state that Detroit is an insecure position while the 
Enemy are in possession of ^lalden and the Country between 
Detroit and the frontiers of the State of Ohio a wilderness 
because there would be danger of their passing the Strait, and 
cutting off your supplies, if not your Retreat; that Detroit 
ought to be assailed through Maiden, and that i\Ialden cannot 
be approached and taken unless the Strait be frozen, so as to 
afford j^ou a passage to it on the ice. 

You intimate also that the ground on the Canada side of 
the Strait commands Detroit, in consequence of which the 
latter merely as a post could not be maintained against an 
Enemy with a suitable train of Artillery on the opposite Bank, 
which it is known the Enemy possesses. 

'i'he great dilTiculty is in the transportation of Ordnance 
and other supplies sufficient for the Enterprise; for I am per- 
suaded that if you could take with you the force you mention, 
with the necessary sup])lies in Ordnance and provisions, so 
as not to be embarrassed on that account you jnight carry 



 

ovt^'vihing: before you. Secure as to supplies it might not be 
\(M;y matijdal which post you attacked first, and whether you 
passed the Strait at Detroit or I\Ialden. Superior in the field, 
and lit liberty to take your o^vn positions, the comparative 
heifcht of different stations would be of little importance. 

You liiink however that you cannot get foi'ward at this 
.season of the year vrith your supplies to Detroit and pass the 
Strait there in the hope of taking those Fortresses in tliat 
mode, leaving ]MakIen in the first instance in your Rear. Your 
opinion on this point must be conclusive. The President 
wislies you to attempt nothing in vain or at least without the 
fairest prospect of success. The delay of a few months is an 
evil not to be compared with the failure of another expedition 
or Vv'ith any serious discomfiture. It is obvious that the Com- 
mand of Lake Erie would dissipate manj'- difiiculties which 
now weigh lieavy on us. By the facility which it w^ould afford 
to trrinsportation and to all our operations, it would soon give 
us Maiden, Detroit and all Upper Canada, and terminate the 
Indian War there. The importance of the command of Lake 
Eric is seen in its true light. The most active and vigorous 
exertions will be made to attain it. The Command of Ontario 
was acquired before tlie Lake was frozen. It is expected that 
the ]\Ieasurcs which have been adopted will secure to us like- 
v,-ise that of Erie early in the Spring. 

The President wishes it distinctly to be understood that he 
has no object in view to be accomplished by a measure v\diich 
is to produce a transitory effect only. Whatever gTound is 
gained must be held, and he is content to gain it slowly, pro- 
vided it be made secure, rather than to put the important 
interests of the Country to hazard by a rash enterprise. 

1 liave received your letter communicating the result of 
Lieut. Colonel [James B.] Campbell's Expedition, and am in- 
structed to convey to you the approbation of the Presideiit of 
tlie gallant conduct of the Commander, and of the Officers un- 
der him and the Troops employed in it. 

1 shall be hai)py to receive your opinion on the several sub- 
jects suggested for consideration in my last not touched in 
the letter just received, particularly the force necessary to 
P.ive effect to the operations of the next campaign, and 
whether any and what portion of that force may be raised 
from the several Corps nov/ in the field under your Command. 

23—22664 



 

I will transmit to you in mj'- next a copy of two Acts, now de- 
pending in Congress, should thej?- pass, with such comments 
on them, in their relation to the States immediately connected 
with our military operatior:s against upper Canada, as they 
may invite. J. M. 

Winchester to IlARRisr -i 

17 Jany, 1813 

Har. Pa. 900, COl 

Inclose,! I send you a note delivered to me on the night of 
the loth Inst, b; two persons escaped from the River Raisin. 
[see Jan. 1: above] On the 1 1th one other person from that 
settlement arrived in Camp, and on last night two more. They 
all agi'ee, in stating that the enemy is searching for, and tak- 
ing all suspected persons whom they can lay hold of and con- 
fining them in Maiden Trison. 

Isaac Day, the writer of the enclosed note, [see Jan. 12, 
above] has been taken and sent to prison. I am also informed 
that the enemy is engaging all the sleighs he can procure, for 
the purpose carrying off the flour and grain. In this latter 
purpose, I have determined to disappoint him, or oblige him 
to pay a dear price for it; for which puiiDose, I have this morn- 
ing detached Colonel [William] Lewis and [John] Allen with 
a command suitable to effect the object intended. I am in- 
formed that they will have to contend with two companies of 
Canadians and about two hundred Indians. 

If we get possession, it is mj^ intention to retain it; there- 
fore a coopej-ating force from the right wing may be accept- 
able. 

Nothing will reconcile an extention of the period of serv- 
ice of the volunteers, but progressive operations; indeed some 
have calculated on being discharged within their own state on, 
or before the expiration of their term of service. [Extract] 

Signed, J. Winchester 
B. Gad. Com. L. W. N W. army 
Genl. Wm. H. Harrison, Covid. N. W. Army 
True Copy L. Hukill, Aide dc camp 



 

Harrison to Mvags 

Lower Sandusky Jan. 19 1813 

From tlie Chillicolhe Supporter 

On ThiirsdajT- last a7i express arrived in town bearing? a let- 
ter from Gen. Harrison to gov. Meigs, dated Lower Sandusky, 
Jan 19, 1813. The general has required of the governor two 
additional regiments of militia to march immediately to the 
Rapids for the pui-pose of fillijig the ranks of those Ohio ti'oops 
whose terin of service expire during the next month. 

Wo are informed than gen. Winchester arrived at tl^ie Rap- 
ids on the 10th inst. and soon after sent a detachment of about 
300 men under the command of Cols. [William] Lev/is and 
[John] Allen for the river Raisin, at which place the British 
intended to destroy all th" property and had taken av/ay a 
number of persons who v/ere supposed to be friendly to the 
U. States and sent them to the prison in I.Talden, It was as- 
certained that the British and Indians intended to attack gen. 
Winchester's main body at the Rapids, and considerable 
anxiety was felt for the detachment under cols. Lewis and 
Allen, as they had not been heard from and were expected 
to have fell in with an enemy. The troops are all I'apidly 
concentrating at the Rapids — one regiment left Sandusky on 
Monday last, and were to reach the Rapids the next morning 
by marching all night, another regiment left there eai'ly on 
Tuesday morning at which time gen. Harrison left there, de- 
termined to reach the Rapids on the same day. From these 
movements some important events may be shortly expected to 
take place. 

Vinc.ennos Sun 

W^INCHESTER TO HARRISON 

Camp Miami Rapids, 19t]i Jany. 18J3 

H(Li: Pa. 9.J5, !>.:(; 

Sir: 

In my last, [Jan. 17 above] 1 inforiucd you I ha.d sent out a 
Detachment under the command of Lt. Col.William Lewis. I 
have the honor now to communicate the result. Tlie Village 
at River Raisin is ours with all the public stores. 

The action connnenced yesterday at 3 o'clock i)i the evening 
near the village and continued until dark. The enemy was 



 

driN'on at the point of tho bayonet from liis strongholds and 
pursued two milos, notwithstanding he was covered by his 
artillery. Twelve warriors were left on the field of battle. 
One Potawatimie made prisoner, who is now at this Camp. 
?»ry express left the scene of action as soon as it closed, there- 
fore has not a list of the killed and wounded, nor was the num- 
ber known when he came away. The latter I fear is consid- 
e)-al)le, tho not a commissioiied officer killed and only one 
wounded (Capt. [Pascal] Hickman) slightly in the ankle. 
The troops, to a man behaved in this action in a manner that 
would do credit to the oldest veterans. 

A particular list of the killed and WTiunded shall be trans- 
mitted as soon as obtained and proper notice taken of those 
who distinguished themselves in this gallant action. 

1 have the honor to be with every consideration, of respect 
and esteem Your Mo. Obt. Humb. Servt. 

J. Winchester Brg. Gen Com. L. W. N. W. Army 
Cenl. W. II. Harrison, Comd. N. W. Army 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
No 35 

Head Quarters N. W. Army Miami Eapids, 

20th Day January 1813 

Har. Pa. 937-038 

Sir: 

(lenl. Winchester arrived here on the 10th Inst, with a part 
of tho army amounting to about thirteen hundred men, hav- 
ing received information from the River Raisen that a body 
of Pritish troops and Indians were at that place and that they 
W(M-e upon the point of destroying the provisioiis of the citi- 
zens he dispatched on the 17th a Detachment under the com- 
mand of Colo. [William] Lewis to attack them. Upon my 
way to this place last evening I received the letter from the 
General of which the inclosed is a copy [see Jan. 19 above] 
informing me of the complete success of the enterprize in tho 
defeat of the enemy and taking the stores they had collected. 
Ihc detachment under Colo. Lewis remain at the River Raisen 
and Genl. Winchester very properly marched yesterday with 
two hundred and fifty men to reinforce him and take the com- 
mand, tlie fo]-ce at present there amounts to about one thou- 
sand eirective men and I am at this moment dispatching a hne 



 

r]nttalion of Ohio Iirfantry (from tho Connecticut res(3rve) 
with a small company of artillejy and a fjcld invcc. It is ab- 
•solutely necessary to maintain the position at the River Raisin 
and I am assembling the Troops as fast as possible for the 
}iurpose, I am happy in having it in my pov/cr to inform you 
that oui- affairs in every respect wear a flourishing aspect I 
fear nothing but that the enemy may ovei'pov^^er Genl. Win- 
chester before I can send him a sufficient reinforcement, I 
liav- however the highest confidence in the General and the 
Troops. 

Depend upon it that they will not easily ]3e driven fi'om theii' 
position. I directed a part of the heavy artillery to set out 
from U. r'andusky yesterday on sleds. 

The express who came in from Colo. Lewis reports that 
about ten of our men were killed and two captains and about 
t^^'enty non-commissioned officers and privates wounded. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir yr. ob. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
llonble James Monroe, Esq. Asst Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 36) 

Head Qr. N. W. Army Miami Rapids, 20 Jany. 1813 

Har. Pa. 870, 871 

Sir: 

The appointment of Col. [James] J\Iorrison and Capt. [John 
il.] Piatt as Depty. Qr. M. Genl. to this army vvith equal 
authority, is calculated to produce tho most unfortunate re- 
sults to the public interest as well from the confusion which 
it must produce in the accounts of that Department as from 
the eternal clashing with regard to their duties in the field. 

1 wish you to be so obliging as to decide between them. 
Tliere are some peculiar circumstances which render it im- 
possible for me to have anything to do in the decision. 

Genl. Courts IMartial have been constantly ordered and acted 
upon by Genl. Winchester; upon what authority I know not. 
I liave never heard that a Genl. Court Mailial could be ordered 
by any but the commanding Genl. of an army iior do I believe 
it to be lawful. The President may authori^'.e a Colo, in a 
separate department to oixler Court IMartial but in the same 
ai-my or Department that authority can be vested in one per- 



 

son only without proving destructive to subordination. I must 
request you to decide upon this subject also. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr. Ob. Svt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honb. James Monroe, Esq., Act. Secty. of War 

Payne TO Shelby 

Miami Rapids, Jan. 20, 1813 

Vincennes Sun 

NORTH WESTERN ARMY IMPORTANT!! 

Dear Sir : 

Since my last, a detachment of about 650 men under the 
command of Lieutenant Col. Wm. Lewis, 5th regt. Kentucky 
volunteers, on the 18th inst obtained a glorious victory over a 
combination of British and savages of certainly 460 (prob- 
ably much greater) at the river Raison — The enemy were 
driven two & a half miles, although they had the advantage 
of a three pounder and picketting. Our loss as far as. is yet 
ascertained, is about ten killed, and 25 wounded. That of the 
enemy as usual in Indian fighting unknown — but 18 found 
dead on the field and one prisoner. 

" '"^ [John Payne] 

Harrison to — - 



• , ; Head Quarters N. W. Army, January 20, 1813 

Scioto Gazette, Extra, January 23, 1813 

My dear Sir : 

I have the pleasure to inform you that the detachment under 
Col. [William] Lewis, was completely successful in the attack 
upon the post of the enemy at the river Raisin — their force 
there consisted of some hundreds of Indians, and a company 
of militia, which were placed behind pickets, were attacked 
by our troops about 3 o'clock on the 18th instant. 

The action continued until night. The Indians suffered 
considerable — their allies ran off with a piece of artillery in 
the commencement of the action. Our loss in about ten killed 
and 20 wounded — general Winchester marched yesterday with 
250 men to take the command at the river Raisin. He will 
have about 1000 effectives and I am at this moment dispatch- 



 

ing- five companies more of Gen. [Simon] Perkin's brigade. 

My hands are so cold that I can hardly hold the pen, which 

must be my excuse for this scroll. 

r, • T , ^r- o Wm. H. Harrison 

Copied by Vmconnes Sun 

Lewis to Winchester 

Camp at French Town, On the River Raisin 

Jany. 20th 1813 

Brigadier General Winchester ^'"■- ^''- ^^^'^^^ 

Sir : In obedience to your order I proceeded on the March 
with the detachment under my command to Presquisle on the 
17th Inst, where the reinforcement under the command of 
Lt. Col. [John] Allen arrived at 7 o'Clock p. m. On the 18th 
as I informed you it was my determination, to set out for the 
Camp of the enemy at this village. From an early start, 
together with the advantage of a passage on the ice of the 
Lake, and the rapid march we made we were enabled to meet 
them by three o'clock in the evening. 

When we were within three miles of the eneni}^ correct in- 
formation was obtained that they were prepared to receive us. 
Having arranged the troops in the following order they were 
directed to prepare for action. The right wing composed of 
the companies, commanded by Captain [W.] McCracken, 
Subaltern Lieutenant Williamson and Ensign McClary. Cap- 
tain [Richard] Bledsoe, Subalterns Ensign Morrison (acting 
as Lieutenant) and Ensign [Thomas] Chinn Captain Matson, 
subalterns, Ensign [William] Nash (acting as Lieutenant,) 
and Ensign Caldwell. The left wing composed of the com- 
panies commanded by Captain [John] Hamilton, Subalterns 
Lieutenant Moore and Ensign [James] Heron; Captain 
[Samuel L.] Williams, Subalterns Lieut. [John] Higgins, and 
Ensign [Joseph] Harrow, Captain [Joseph] Kelly, Subalterns 
Lieutenant [William] IMcGuire, and Ensign [John W.] Nash. 
The center composed of the companies commanded by Cap- 
tains [Richard] Hightower (17 U. S. Regt) Subalterns Lt. 
Holder and Ensign [Wm. 0.] Butler, Captain [Coalman] Col- 
lier, Subaltern Lt. Story and Ensign [William] Fleet, Captain 
[Uriah] Sebree Subalterns Lieut. [Byran] Rule and Ensign 
Bowles, Lieut. Col. Allen commanding the right wing. Major 
[Benjamin] Graves the left and Major [George] Madison 



 

the Center, Captain [Bland W.] Ballard acting as Major was 
placed in the advance of the whole with two companies, one 
commanded by Captain [Pascal] Hickman, Subalterns Lieut. 
[John T.] Chinn, the other by Captain [i\Iichael] Glaves, Sub- 
alterns Lt. Comstock, and also Captain [Henry] James with 
his spies. In this order we proceeded within a quarter of a 
mile of the enemy \\-hen they commenced a fire on us with a 
Howitzer from which no injury was received. The line of 
Battle vs-as instantly formed, and the vrhole detachment or- 
dered to move on in the direction of the enemy without delay. 
The river at this time being between us and the enemy's lines 
we succeeded well in crossing it tho the ice in many places 
was extremely slippery. Having crossed at this instant the 
long roll was beat ; the signal for a general charge, when I 
ordered IMajor [Benjamin] Graves and Major [George] 
Madison to possess themselves of the houses and picketing 
about which the enemy had chiefly collected and where they 
had placed their cannon. This order was executed in a few 
minutes; and both their battalions advanced amidst an in- 
cessant shovrer of bullets, neither the picketing, nor the 
fencing over which they had to pass retarded their progress 
to success — the enemy were dislodged in that quarter. Mean- 
time Col. Allen had fallen in with them at considerable dis- 
tance to the right when after pursuing them to the woods 
(a distance of more than half a mile) they then made a stand 
with their Howitzer and small arms covered by a chain of 
inclosed lots and a group of houses. Having in their rear a 
thick bushy wood full of fallen timber, I directed Brigadier 
[brigade major James] Garrard (one of my aids) to instruct 
Major Graves and I^.Iadison to possess themselves of the wood, 
on the left, and to move up towards the main body of the 
enemy as fast as practicable, to divert their attention from 
Col. Allen. At the moment the fire commenced with these 
Battalions the right wing advanced. The enemy were soon 
driven from the fences and houses and our troops began to 
enter the woods after them. The fight now became close, and 
extremely hot on the right wing, the enemy concentrating the 
chief of their force of both kinds to form the line. They were 
still however kept moving in retreat, altho slowly our men 
being much exhausted, lly orders to IMajor Graves and 
Madison were executed with dispatch and success which 
joined with the exertions of Col. Allen's line completely routed 



 

the enemy. The distance they retreated before us was not less 
than two miles and every foot of tlie way under a continual 
charge. The battle lasted from three o'clock until dark. 
The detachment was then drawn off in good order and en- 
camped at the place which the enemy had first occupied, being 
the best for a camp then near us. The gallant conduct of 
Lieut. Col. Allen during every charge of this vrarmly contested 
action, has raised for him no ordinary military merit. ]\Lqjors 
Graves, and ]\Iadison deserve higli praise, for their undeviat- 
ing attention to orders and the energy and dispatch with 
which they executed them. Captain Ballard led the men witli 
great skill and bravery. I take this opportunity of tendering 
mj' most hearty thanks to Brigade ]\Iajor [James] Garrard, 
Capt. Smith and Adjutant [John] ]McCalla vrho acted as my 
aid de camp for the great support they gave me during the 
whole of the action. The company ofiicers acted v.ith great 
bravery. It would be an almost endless task to particularize 
all who have distinguished themselves, for as all had an op- 
portunity so to do there were none but what accepted it. 
There was not a solitary instance of a retreat on our part. 
Both officers and soldiers supported the double character of 
Americans and Kentuckyans. I have not been enabled to as- 
certain the exact force of the enemy, but from the best infor- 
mation, there was between 80 and 100 British troops and about 
400 Indians. Major Reynolds [British] was present and it is 
understood commanded the whole. The number of their killed 
and wounded is unknown, we having left the woods after dark, 
so that not only during the battle, but after night they had an 
0]Dportunity of carrying off all, except those who vrere left on 
the field where the action first commenced, say about 15. But 
from the blood, the trails of bodies dragged off and the reports 
from the people who live near this place the slaughter must 
have been great. One Indian and two of the Canadian ]\Iilitia 
were taken prisoners. So steady and composed were our men 
in this assault that while the Enemy were killed or dro\e 
from the houses not a woman or child was hurt. Our loss 
is killed 12 and 55 wounded. One has since died. Enclosed 
is a list of their names, [see above] also a list of public stores 
taken from the enemy. 

I have the honor to be your most obedient servant. 

Will. Lewis Com nuuidant of the detachment 
True Copy L. HUKILL aid de camp 



322 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Report of the Killed, wounded and missing in the action at French- 
town on the River Raiscn, on the 18th January 1813. 

Right column commanded by Lieut. Col. John [Allen]. 

Capt. W. McCracken's Company 1st Rifle regt. 
Names Killed What company's detail 

Joshua Moore 1 

Wounded 
John Nolan 1 



Hickman's 1st Rifle Regt. 



Capt. Matson's Company 

Killed 



Sergt. Benson 
Jesse Humble 
Robert Harrison 

Capt. Matson 

George Keith 
Edward McConnell 
Will Armstrong 
Harrison Boothes 
John Bridges 
Will Adams 



Wounded 



Langhams 



Langhams 



Matsons 



Capt. Bledsoe's company Lst Rifle Regt. 

Killed 



Joseph Simpson 

Williamson Price 
Clement Estes 
Abraham Estes 
Dudley Hudson 
John Lock 
Jesse Fisher 
William Elhuton 



1 

Wounded 



Simpson's Company 

Bledsoe's 1st Rifle Regt. 
(< (( it It 

(I <( (( (( 

(t K tt a 

Simpson's 



Centre Column Commanded by Major George Madison 
Capt. Hightower's Company 17th U. S. Regt. 

Wounded 
Jeremiah Walker 1 Edwards " 



HARRISON: ]MESSAGES AND LETTERS 323 



Capt. Collin's company 1st Regt. K. V. M 

Killed 
Cyrus Short 1 

Wounded 
Ensign Fleet 
Armstead "Ward 
John AVard 
John Roach 4 



West's Company K. V. M. 

Collins company 
Wests company 



Capt. Sabree's company 



Roll Terrell 
John Tour 
Thos. S. Crow 
Joseph Day 



Wounded 



4 

Killed 

1 



John Vinsant 

Left Column, commanded by ^Lajor 
Capt. Hamilton's company 5th Regt 

Killed 

James Risly 

Luke Fielas 2 



Wounded 



Charles Scarles 
Charles Bradford 
James Viel 
John Bcckley 
Robert E. Kelly 
William Daviess 
CI. Barker 
Alfred Cheiner 
Nathan Cheiner 
Willis Colbert 

Capt. William's 
William Frame 
John W. Daniel 
Sgt. Darnel 

Ficklin 

William Simpson 
John Davenport 
Robert Rings 



Sabree company 



Morrison's Co. 



Benjamin Graves 
. K. V. M. 

Harts company 
Hamiltons 

Harts company 



Hamilton's 



10 
Wounded 



Williams company 



324 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Cnpt. Kelly's company 

Obodiah AVoodson 
Gcorgo Barr 
Edmund Undoinvood 
Thos. Wood 
James Peoples 
Sergt. Lyanor 
B. Morris 



Wounded 



Price's company 

Kelly's Company 
Martin's Company 



Advance Guard commanded by Capt, Ballard 
Capt. [Michael] G laves 1st Regt. K. V. M. 

Wounded 
Albert Annnerson 1 Glave's company 

Thos. Graves 2 Wirts " 

Capt. Hickman's company 1st Rifle Regt. 

Killed 



Moses Morgan 

Capt. Hickman 
Lieut. Cbeiner 
John A. Holton 
Irvcnne Brown 
John Cox 
Saml Smith 

Recapitulation 
Killed 
1 Sergt. 
11 Privates 

Wounded 
3 Captains 
1 Lieutenant 
1 Ensign 
3 Sergts. 
1 Co)])oral 
46 Privates 

55 



Wounded 



Bledsoe's company 



Watson's company 



Signed 



John W. McCalla 5ih Regt. Kij. V. N, 
& Acting adjutant to the detacJmient 



Total G7 



 

Winchester to Harrison 
French Town River Raison 21 Jany 1813 

Har. Pa. S92, 893 

Sir: 

Your commiuiication of yesterday by Cap. Hart I have just 
had the honor of receiving. I am not yet able to give you 
any certain information as to the quantity of provisions which 
can be collected from the citizens of this place. I have taken 
measures to ascertain the quantity which can be had and as 
soon as information can be reed, it shall be communicated to 
you. My present opinion is that it will not be considerable 
perhaps three or four hundred barrels of flour and some beef. 
I would rather that my force was increased to 1000 or 1200 
efl"ective men, suflicient to repel any force that could be 
brought against me. 

The ground I am compelled to occupy is not very favorable 
for defence and wood not convenient but it is my only alter- 
native unless I abandon the protection of the village. No 
pains or reasonable expense shall be spared to acquire the 
necessary information concerning the enemy. 

A quarter master stationed at this place might render ser\^- 
ice by purchasing forage as well as procuring the means of 
transportation of supplies from the Rapids which could be 
done by sleds, put in requisition here, on good terms. Axes 
are much wanted as well as fixed ammunition, the one for 
defensive, the other for offensive operations. 

I am with sentiments of high respect Your Obt. Servt. 
J. Winchester B. Gen. Com. L. W. N. W. Army 
True Copy L. HUKILL Aid de camp 
Genl. W. H. Harrison Comd. N. W. Army 



Winchester to Harrison 
French Town River Raisin 21 Jany. 1818 

Har. Pa. S9S 

Dear Gen. 

In my last communication 1 had the jileasure of announcing 
to you, tlie honorable result of an action wliich took place in 
this village on the 18th Inst, between a detachment of our 
troops under the comniand of Col. [William] Lewis of the 



 

5th Rcgt. of Ky. volunteers and combined force of British and 
Indians. 

I have now the honor to transmit to you an official account 
of that action, tog'ether with a report of the killed and 
wounded I have to lament tliat their number is more consid- 
erable than I at first was informed of. There was taken in 
the public stores of the enemy thirty barrels of flour, two thou- 
sand pounds of beef, and twelve blankets; but no arms or 
ammunition. All accounts from Brownstown and IMalden 
agree in stating that the enemy is preparing to retake this 
place, if he effects his pui-pose he will pay dear for it. A few 
pieces of artillery however would add to our strength and give 
confidence to our friends in this quarter. 

I have the honor to be with considerations of respect 
Your obt. servt. 
J. Winchester B. Genl. Com. L. W. N. IF. Army 
Genl. W. H. Harrison, CojucI. N. W. Army 
True Copy L. Hukill Aid de Camp 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department January 21st, 1813 

General Wm. H. Harrison ^''''' ^"" ^^ 

Sir: 

My last of the 17th Instant acknowledging yours of the 3d 
and 4th, [see these letters above] contained such observations 
as grew out of your statement of the progress and prospects 
of your military operations. 

The Strait at Maiden being now frozen and the Roads much 
improved by the frost, as is presumed from the state of the 
winter here, may have afforded the favorable opportunity 
which you have sought for an attack on that place. It is 
hoped that the posture of affairs under your command, is such 
as to admit of it, and of successful operations also against 
Detroit. By this however you will not infer it to be the wish 
of the President that you should undertake any rash enter- 
prize. He reposes entire confidence in your judgTiient and in- 
formation with respect to the course most proper to be pur- 
sued, and which it is so much more difficult to decide on at 
this distance. The destruction of the British force on the 
Lake should be kept constantly in view. 



 

I transmit to you a copy of a Law/ which passed yesterday, 
relative to which the Adjutant General will give you Insti'uc- 
tions. 

J. M. 

Isaac Baker to Harrison 

Ret. of Prisoners Killed at Raisin 
January 22, 1813 

Niles' Re girder V, 125 

1. Pascal Hickman, captain; 2. James E. Blythe, private; 
3. Charles Gerles, do. 4. Thomas S. Crow. do. 5. Daniel 
Darnell, do. 6. Thomas Ward, do. 7. William Butler, do. 8. 
Henry Downy, do. 9. John P. Sidney, do. 

In addition to the above number I saw two others toma- 
hawked at Sandy creek myself, and find that the prisoners 
now in the hospital in Sandwich saw, say fifteen or eighteen 
others, treated in the same manner. Two men tell me they 
saw one who had the appearance of having been burned to 
death. Those men who saw Henry Downy and William But- 
ler killed, tell me that the Indians left them without scalping. 
[See Feb 25 below] 

Isaac L. Baker, Ensign 2d. U. S. infantry 

Winchester to Secretary of War 

Malden, Jan. 23, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, 10 

Sir — A detachment from the left wing of the North-Western 
army, under my command, at Frenchtown on the river Raisin, 
was attacked on the 22d inst. by a force greatly superior in 
number; aided by several pieces of artillery. The action com- 
menced at the dawn of day ; the piquet guards were driven in ; 
and a heavy fire opened on the whole line, by which a part 
thereof was thrown into disorder; and being ordered to retire 
a small distance, in order to form on more advantageous 
ground, I found the enemy doubling our left flank with force 
and rapidity. 

A destructive fire was sustained for some time; at length 
borne down by numbers, the few of us that remained with the 

1. This was a supplementary act for tlie organization of the Army. Annals IZ 
Cong. Ill, 131S. 



 

party that retired from the Hnes submitted. The remainder 
of oui* force, in num1)er about four hundred continued to de- 
fend themselves with great gallantry, in an unequal contest 
against small arms and artillery, until I was l^rought in as a 
prisoner to that part of the field occuped by the enemy. 

At this latter place, I understood that our troops were de- 
fending themselves in a state of desperation, and was informed 
by the commanding officer of the enemy, that he would afford 
them an opportunity of surrendering themselves pi'isoners of 
war; to which I acceded. I was the more ready to make the 
surrender from being assured, that unless done quickly, the 
buildings adjacent would be immediately set on fire, and that 
no responsibility would be taken for the conduct of the sav- 
ages, who were then assembled in great numbers. 

In this critical situation, being desirous to preserve the lives 
of a number of our brave fellows who still held out, I sent a 
flag to them and agreed with the commanding officer of the 
enemy, that they should be surrendered prisoners of war, on 
condition of being protected from the savages, allowed to re- 
tain their private property, and having their side arms re- 
turned to them. 

It is impossible for me to ascertain with certainty the 
loss we have sustained in this action from the impracti- 
cability of knowing the number who have made their escape. 

Thirty-five offiicers and about 487 non-commissioned officers 
and privates are prisoners of war. A list of the names of 
the officers is herewith enclosed to you. Our loss in killed is 
considerable. 

However unfortunate may seem the affair of yesterday, I 
am flattered by a belief, that no material error is chargeable 
upon myself, and that still less censure is deserved by the 
troops I had the honor of commanding. 

With the exception of that portion of our force which was 
thro^Mi into disorder, no troops have ever beha\ed v ith moi'e 
determined intrepidity. 

I have the honor to be, with high respect, your obedient 
servant. 

A list of officers taken at French-town, Jan. 22, 1813 

James Winchester, brigadier-general; William Lewis, 
Lieutenant colonel; James Overton, jun. aid-de-camp; George 
Madison, major; James Garrard, Jun. brigade-inspector; John 



 

M'Calla, adjutant; Pollard Keen, quarter-master; John Todd, 
surgeon. 

Captains: Richard Hightower; John Hamilton; Bland W. 
Ballard; Samuel L. Williams; Coalman Cholier; Uriah Sabrie; 
Henry James; Richard Bledsoe; Joseph Kelly. 

Lieutenants: Caleb Holder; Ashton Garrard; Byran Rule; 
William ]\Toore; William M'Guire; John Higgins. 

Ensigns: Lynden Comstock; James Mundj^; W. 0. Butler: 
James Herron; Thomas Chin; William Nash; Jos. Harrow; 
Jos. Mooring; John W. Nash; William Fleet; John Botts; Geo. 
Cardwell. 

Total 35 prisoners at Maiden. 

The Indians have still a few prisoners in their possession, 
which I have reason to hope will be given up to colonel Proctor 
at Sandwich. 

James Winchester, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army 
Hon. Sec. of war 

Harrison to Meigs 
Headquarters Carrying River Jan 24, 1813 

Niles' Register III, 381 

Dear Sir: 

The event of which I expressed so much apprehension in 
my letter to you, from Lower Sandusky, has happened. The 
detachment under col. [William] Lewis was reinforced by 
general Winchester with two hundred and fifty men. He at- 
tended it, and took the command at the river Raisin on the 
20th, and on the 22d he was attacked at reveille, by a consid- 
erable British and Indian force with six pieces of artillery; the 
troops being surprised, and the ground unfavorable, had but 
little opportunity of forming to advantage. They were sur- 
rounded and broke in twenty or twenty-five minutes. A major 
and captain and about twenty five privates were all that ef- 
fected their escape. 

I had but three hundred and sixty men with me about three 
miles above the Rapids where the news first reached me. I 
immediately ordered them to prepare to march; and set out 
with my staff to overtake a detachmciit of three hundred men 
that had set out that morning for the river Raisin. I over- 
took them at the distance of six miles, but before the other 
ti'oops (colonel Andrew's Ohio regiment) came up, it was as- 

24— 226C4 



 

ccrtained tliat the defeat was complete, and it was the unani- 
mous opinion of generals [John] Payne, [Simon] Perkins, 
and the field officers, that we should return. A detachment 
to the amount of one hundred and seventy of the most active 
men, was sent forward with directions to proceed as far as 
possible to assist those who were fortunate enough to escape ; 
there were however but fevr, the snow was so deep that the 
fugitives were entirely exhausted in running a few miles; 
those that did get off effected it by turning dowTi to the lake 
and secreting themselves. I believe there were not more than 
forty or fifty that got a mile from the scene of action, and 
the greater part of them were overtaken. 

Never were the aft'airs of anj^ army in a more prosperous 
situation than ours before the unfortunate step of marching 
the detachment to the river Pvaisin; it was made not only 
without any authority from me, but in opposition to my views. 
Everything, in my power was done to prevent any disaster, 
and reinforcements were pushed on with as much rapidity as 
possible; major [W. W.] Cotgrave's battalion, the first in the 
army, was within fourteen miles of the scene of action, when 
he heard of the defeat, and three hundred regular troops were 
also on their way. I remained at the Rapids with one regi- 
ment only. In justice to general Winchester, I must observe, 
that I have understood that the measure (marching the de- 
tachment to the Raisin river) was forced upon him by his 
officers ; but, whatever may have been the cause, and however 
great the calamity, both as it regards the nation and indi- 
viduals, it is certainly not irreparable. By the unanimous ad- 
vice of the general and field officers, I took this position yes- 
terday, for the purpose of forcing a junction with the troops 
in the rear, and to cover the very valuable convoy of artillery 
and stores that are coming from Upper Sandusky. Unless the 
weather is very unfavorable, I shall be at the Rapids again 
in four or five days, and shall certainly give the enemy an 
opportunity of measuring their strength with us in another 
contest. For myself, I feel no doubt as to the result, and if 
I can judge of the disposition of the troops, from the maimer 
in which they received an address from me yesterday, a desire 
of avenging their lost companions and retrieving their coun- 
try's disgrace is the predominant passion that occupies their 
minds. 



HARRISON: IMESSAGES AND LETTERS 331 

I know not what proportion the prisoners of general Win- 
chester's late troops bear to the killed; some of the French 
who have come in, report the latter at five hundred and others 
at eight hmidred. The detachment amounted to near one 
thousand. 

I am, with much regard, dear sir, your humble servant, 

Wm. H. Harrison 
His excellency governor i\lElGS 

Harrison to Secretary of \Var 
(No. 37) 

Head Qr. Portage River 15 :\Iile5 from ^Iiami Rapids 

24th Jany. 1813 

Har. Pa. S72-S77 

Sir: 

It is with the deepest regret that I have to inform you Sir 
that the Detachment under General Winchester has been en- 
tirely destroyed by an Indian and British force on the morn- 
ing of the 22nd. Inst, at the River Raisin. About 12 o'clock 
on that day I was informed at the Rapids by a messenger from 
an officer who was marching a Detachment to reinforce Genl. 
Winchester that the General had been attacked that morning 
and that the Frenchman who brought this intelligence sup- 
posed that our troops were retreating. I had then with me 
a Regiment of Ohio IMilitia about three hundred and fifty 
strong two detachments were on the way to join Genl. Win- 
chester but had taken different roads. One of two hundred 
Ohio troops were marching on the edge of the Lake and the 
other three hundred strong were pursuing Hulls road. Leav- 
ing directions for the Regiment in camp to follow me I pro- 
ceeded on and overtook the Detaclmient of Kentucky troops 
in about five miles. Additional information was now received 
that French Citizens were flying in considerable numbers in 
carioles upon the ice and about 3 o'clock some of the fugitives 
began to arrive. All agreed that the defeat was total and 
complete that the Troops were nearly all surrounded and cut 
off or taken by 7 o'clock that Genl. Winchester was seen re- 
tiring a few miles from the River Raisin along Hulls trace 
with a few men and two or three officers all of whom were 
entirely exhausted that they ^^'erc pursued by Indians on horse 
back who were constantly thinning their numbers by filing 



 

upon them and that our men were unable to resist as almost 
all of them had thrown avv'ay their arms. I could not hesitate 
as to the propriety of hurryinf^ to their assistance, as long as 
there was a possibility of being able to afford any but I v/as 
much embarrassed in the choice of the road which it v\'as 
proper to take. That u.]>on the ice would affoi'd the most easy 
and expeditioiis march and that route Major Cotgrove with 
the Battalion before mentioned had taken ; on the contrary all 
the accounts agreed that Genl. Winchester had taken the land 
road. But in a short time from the fugitives who began to 
drop in I learnt that Genl. Winchester and the forty or fifty 
men who were with him were all cut off a few excepted who 
had broken off to the margin of the Lake and from those who 
were last from the scene of action I learnt that all resistance 
upon the part of the Troops that had remained there had 
ceased before 8 o'clock. The question then to be determined 
was whether it would be proper to advance to the scene of ac- 
tion or not. The force with me when joined by Col. [V/. W.] 
Cotgroves Battalion w^ould amount to nearly Nine Hundred 
men. This Battalion had made a forced march of twelve 
miles the morning of the action and had arrived within about 
15 miles of the River Raisin v/hen the Major received such 
certain information of the total defeat of the troops that he 
had thought proper to return and was then within a few miles 
of us. Genl. Payne, Genl. Perkins and all the Field Oihcers 
were consulted, and it was unanimously determined that as 
there could be no doubt of the total defeat of Genl. Winchester 
there was no motive that could authorize an immediate ad- 
vance but that of attacking the enemy who ^^'cre rejDorted to 
be greatly supei-io]- in numbers and were certainly well pro- 
vided with artillery; that after a forced march of Thirty-two 
miles (the distance from our then position) from the River 
Raisen the troops would be too much exhausted to encounter 
the enemy that Cotgroves Battalion from having already 
marched twenty-five miles that day would be unable to ac- 
company us. It was therefore determined to return to camp 
with the troops. But large detachments of the more active 
and vigorous men were sent along the different routes to as- 
sist and bring in the fugitives. I had dispatched Col. \A'ills 
early in the evening in a cariole to jn-ocure intelligence. He 
progressed within t^\'elve miles of the scene of action and re- 



nArvPJSON: :\IESSAGES AND LETTERS 333 

luiTiod about o'clock. A council of war was then called con- 
sist inp: of the General and field olTicers and two questions 
submit tod to them viz. whether it was probable that the enemy 
would attack us in our then situation and if they did could we 
resist them with effect. 

At this council ]\Iajor ^IcClanahan of the Kentucky Volun- 
teers who escaped from th.e action assisted. He was of opin- 
ion that there v;ere from sixteen hundred to t^vo thousand 
British and Indians opposed to our Troops and that they had 
six pieces of artillery principally Howitzers. It was the 
unanimous opinion of the council that under all circumstances 
it would be proper to return a short distance on this road upon 
which the artillery and reinforcements were approaching for 
should we be able to maintain our camp by getting in our rear 
the enemy would defeat our Troops in detail and in spite of 
all the efforts we could make would take the all important 
convoy of artillery and stores coming from Upper Sanduskj'. 
The march to this place was accordingl}^ made yesterday, 
wher(^ I shall wait for the artillery and a detachment under 
Genl. Leftwich. I hope in a few days again to be at the Rap- 
ids. 

With respect to the disaster that lias happened and the cause 
which has produced it it is proper that I should say that the 
movement which led to it was not only without my knowledge 
01- consent but entirely at variance with the instructions that 
I had g-i\'en to Genl. Winchester. As soon as I was informed 
that it had been made every effort in my power was used to 
increase their strength. Three hundred men more than the 
General had asked for were on their march to join him. As 
his situation enabled him to obtain the most correct informa- 
tion of the strength and position of the enemy I could not 
doubt of his having obtained it. In justice to Genl. Win- 
chester however it is my duty to observe that I have under- 
stood that the detachment under Colo. Lewis was made at 
the earnest solicitations of his ollicers and perhaps contrary 
to his judgment. Hov.'ever deeply to be lamented Sir the de- 
struction of the detachment under Genl. Winchester may be 
.''-s a national calamity and as it regards the families of the 
^•aluable individuals who have fallen it has by no means de- 
stroyed my hopes of success with regard to the accomplish- 
inont of the principal object of the campaign — unless the 



 

weather should be uncommonly unfavorable. I shall return 
to the Rapids in a few days with a force considerably supe- 
rior to any that the enemy can collect in the upper district of 
Canada. I can discover no dispondance amongst the Troops 
that are with me, and I trust that something may yet be done 
to compensate for the hardships and difficulties which we 
every moment sustain. 

The account given by Llajor LlcClanahan and Capt. Glaves 
of the action of the 22nd is that the enemy commenced just 
after Reveille to throv/ shells amongst our troops before the 
officers and men had risen from their beds. They were how- 
ever formed but very inconveniently posted and being entirely 
surrounded they were broken in twenty minuits. The Gen- 
eral endeavoured to rally them after they had passed the river 
but without effect. Forty or fifty with the General broke 
through in that direction but from the depth of the snow 
those on foot were soon exhausted and were in a short distance 
overtaken by the Indians. The General frequently attempted 
to form them to oppose the Indians but his efforts were in- 
effectual. I am unable to say what is the proportion of the 
killed and prisoners, some of the Frenchmen whom I have 
seen assert that five hundred were killed others eight. I am 
still however in hopes that the greater part are prisoners. I 
have seen one man who asserts that he saw Genl. Winchester 
killed scalped and his bowels taken out; such are the allies 
of a power which boasts its attainments in every art and 
science and such the war associates of British officers who 
claim distinction for their nice feelings and delicate sense of 
honor. 

I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Sir Yr. 

Hbl. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. James Monroe Esq. Acting Secy, of War 

But 2 officers and 25 or 30 privates reached my camp from 
the Battle of the River Raisin. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Qrs. Portage River 21th Jany. 1813 

Sir: Har. Pa. sjs 

In a conversation I had with Gov. Meiggs some time siiico 



 

he mentioned his desire to enter into the Army as a Brigadier 
and I promised to communicate his Vvdshes to you. His merits 
are I presume well Ivnown to the Genei-al Government. There 
never was a more ardent patriot. His talents are very re- 
spectable and he has devoted a considerable share of his at- 
tention to military pursuits. 

I have the honor to be with gi'eat respect Sir 
Yr. Hb. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. James Monroe Esq. Acting Secy, of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(38) 

Head Quarters N. W. Army 
Portage River 15 Miles from the Miami Rapids 

26 Jany. 1813 

Har. Pa. 879-885 

Sir: 

I have the honor to enclose herewith a duplicate of my let- 
ter of the 25th Inst, together with the official report of Col. 
Lewis to Genl. Winchester of the action of the 18th Inst. (No. 
1) [see Jan. 20 above] 

That you may be enabled to judge of the propriety of the 
steps which were taken by me previously to the unfortunate 
event at the River Raisin I proceed to give you an account of 
the situation of the troops and the arrangements I had made 
for their advance. The left wing of the army under the im- 
mediate orders of Genl. Winchester consisting of the 6th 
Regts. Kentucky troops a Battalion of Ohio Infantry and a 
Detachment of Regulars under Col. [Samuel] Wells. The im- 
portance of keeping a considerable force on this line After the 
advance of the Army from its vicinity to the Indian tribes of 
the Wabash and Lake Michigan induced me to direct Genl. 
Winchester to take with him 3 Ky. Regts. and the Regular 
Troops only with these, amounting to about thirteen hundred 
men, he marched from his camp 5 miles below the mouth of 
the AuGlaize River on the 31st ulto. on the evening before 
he dispatched an expi'ess informing me of his intention to 
march the next morning. This express was sent thro the 
v/oods to Genl. [Edward] Tuppers Camp dl miles advanced 
of Urbanna upon Hull's road. A violent snow storm prevented 



 

it from reaching' Genl. Tupper untill 9th Inst, and it was not 
untill the 11th that it came to me at L^^per Sandusky. I im- 
mediately gave orders for several droves of Hogs whicli had 
been stopped on their Route to proceed towards the Rapids 
and I directed the Artillery to be prepared to progress as soon 
as the General's arrival at the Rapids should be announced, 
which I directed him to do by an express to be sent immedi- 
ately to U. Sandusky. Not hearing from the Gen, for soma 
days I began to conclude that his progress had been stopped 
by a considerable thaw which took place about the 1st of the 
month. On the evening of the 16th inst. I received a letter 
from Genl. [Simon] Perkins enclosing one from Genl, Win- 
chester to him of the loth informing of his arrival at the 
Rapids on the 10th; that it was his intention to advance 
against the enemy and dii'ecting him (Genl. Perkins) to send 
a reinforcement to the Rapids of one Battalion, Allarmed at 
this information I dispatclied an express with the enclosed 
Letter (No, 2) [see Jan, 16 above] by the direct route to the 
Rapids and set out myself to Lower Sandusky and reached it 
on the evening of the 17th. On the morning of the ISth the 
Battalion wdiich Genl, Winchester applied for marched from 
Lower Sandusky. About 2'oclock on the morning of the 19th 
a Letter from Genl, Winchester was received of which the en- 
closed is an extract. (No, 3). [see Jan 17 above] I gave 
immediate orders for the 2nd Regt. of Perkins Brigade (which 
consists of two Regts. only) to marcli immediately for t::e 
Rapids and hastened thitlier myself. On my way I received 
the Genl's. letter of the 19th [see Jan. 21 above] informing 
me of the success of Col. Lewis a copy of which I had the 
honor to enclose you from the Rapids, L'''pon my arrival at 
the latter place on the morning of the 20th I found that Genl. 
Winchester had marched the preceding day having left Ger.l. 
Payne with about throe hundred of the Kentucky troops. It 
was not untill late on the 21 inst. that :\Iaj, [V\^ V/,] Cotgreve 
was enabled to extricate his Baggage and the pieces of artil- 
leiy he had in charge irom the Horrid Svramp Avhich sepa- 
rates the Miami and Sandusky Rivers. He encamped that 
evening near the ]\Iiami Bay and by marching early on the fol- 
lowing morning he had arrived within fifteen miles of the 
River Raisin when he was informed of the total defeat of our 
Troops there. 



HARRISON: ]\IESSAGES AND LETTERS 337 

The 2nd Regt. of Perkins Brigade arrived on the 21st and 
I innnodiatcly ordered the remaining part of the Kentucky 
troops under Genl. Payne to proceed witli all possible expedi- 
tion to the River Raisin. I was uneasy for the Troops there, 
but supposing that Genl. Winchester had obtained the best 
infer nation of the strenglh of the disposable force of the 
enemy and as I had sent him three hundred men more than 
he deemed sufficient for maintaining his ground (See his let- 
ter of the 21st. No. 4). and as there were a thousand reasons 
which made it necessary to maintain it if practicable I did 
not think it proper to order him to retreat altho the advance 
in the first instance was contrary to my wishes and opposed 
to a principle by whicli I have been ever governed in Indian 
warfare i. e. never to make a detachment but under the most 
urgent circumstances. Amongst the many reasons why the 
Post at the River Raisen should be maintained, the Protection 
of the French Inhabitants was not the least. The greater 
part of these people had received our Troops with open arms 
many of them had sallied out of their houses upon the arrival 
of Colo. Lewis with their arms in their hands and had even 
in the opinion of some of our officers won the palm of valor 
from our troops, they attacked and killed the strugling In- 
dians wherever they met them. Their Houses were all open 
to our men, they offered to give up the whole of the provi- 
sions which yet remained to them upon condition that they 
should not again be abandoned to the fury of the savages, or 
subjected for what they had done to be immured in the Pris- 
ons of Maiden. I had also been informed, that the supplies 
to be procured there were considerable. (See Days's letter 
enclosed in No. 3). [Jan. 12, above] and the assistance to 
be derived, from the carioles of the inhabitants was an object 
of the greatest importance. The former of these motives had 
made so strong an impression upon the minds of the Genl. 
and his Troops, th;,1 I am persuaded, that notliing but a re- 
iterated order to re. .'at would have produced obedience upon 
the part of the latter. These reasons togethei- with the re- 
spect which it was necessary to show to the opinion of an 
officer of higli rank and experience where opportunity of pro- 
curing the most correct information was much better than 
ininc, produced the determination to sup])ort ratlier than with- 
draw the detachment from the River Raisin. Indeed it ap- 



 

pears that tliere Avas not time for either, after my arrival at 
the Rapids. When I left Upper Sandusky the artillery was 
ordered to be sent on immediately to the Rapids escorted by 
three hundred men. Detachments were also ordered for the 
Pack Horses, Waggons and Sleds, which were constantly pro- 
gressing thither. Another Battalion could also have been 
drawn from Lower Sandusky so that the troops at the Rapids 
would have been almost daily increased. On this day they 
would have amounted to twenty-five hundred with two pieces 
of artillery and in four or five days more the Virginia Bri- 
gade and Pennsylvania Regt. would have increased them to 
Thirty eight hundred, with a further supply of artillery. By 
the 5th of Feby. the whole force of four thousand five hundred, 
which I contemplated assembling at the Rapids would have 
been there; and provisions and munitions of war in abun- 
dance. 

I should have been enabled to advance to the Rapids again 
this day or tomorrow but for a most unfortunate rain which 
has broken up the roads so as to render them impassable for 
the artillery altho it is fixed on sleds. The whole train is 
stopped twenty five miles from this. I have reasons to be- 
lieve that the Miami ilver has broken up. I have the honor 
to enclose you a report [immediately following] made to me 
by Major ]\IcClanahan, the senior of the two oflicers, wlio es- 
caped from the action of the River Raisin. It requires no 
comment from me. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Yr. Obt. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. jAMES Monroe Esqe. Acting Sccfy of War 

McClanahan to Harrison 
Camp on Carrying River Jan. 26th 1813 

Har. Pa. 8S6-8S9 

Genl. Wm. H. Harrison Sir: 

As the senior oflicer who escaped from the disaster which 
befell our troops under Genl. Winchester on the 22d Instant 
it becomes my duty to report to you so much of that allair 
as comes within my knowledge. 

On the morning of tlie 19th Inst. I marched fi'om the camp 
at the rapids of the Miami with the detachment under Col. 



 

[Samuel] Wells consisting* of about 800 men inclufling olUcers, 
to reinforce Col. Lewis at the River Raisin. Shortly after we 
left Cam]) Genl. Winchester passed us in a carry all and as 
I understood reached the advanced troops that night. Our 
detachment arrived there about 3 o'clock P. M. on the 20th ex- 
ce])t Capt. Morris's company. It had been left as a roar guard 
with the baggage, and did not join us at all. 

We found the detachrnent under Lt. Col. Lev/is encamped 
in the gardens on the north side of the river Raisin at French- 
town not in any regular order and apparently as they had set- 
tled down in the night after the battle of the 18th. The field 
officers were generally in houses. Genl. Winchester had taken 
up his quarters in the house of a Mr. Navarre about three 
quarters of a mile from the t)'oops and on the opposite side 
of the river. 

The land was cleared and entirely open except fencing and 
some buildings for near a mile on every side [Illeg.] 

The detachment under Col. Wells encamped below and on 
the right of the other troops about one hundred yards from 
them, in ground entirely open; three companies in a line lead- 
ing fi'om the liver the fourth at right angles to those three 
and leading down the river. These troops had about ten 
rounds of ammunition. They paraded and called their rolls 
as usual ; the others did not. 

On the morning of the 21st there was a talk of moving and 
encamping on better ground, and in regular order, the gen- 
eral and some of the field officers went out to view ground foi- 
that purpose but nothing was done. 

Our spies were not sent out to my knowledge after I reached 
camp. I saw them on the 21st and understood that on that 
morning the general gave orders for their going out on the 
22d. 

The fixed ammunition which was sent from the rapids on 
the 21st was tal:en to Genl. Winchester's quarters at Mr. 
Navarre's on that morning. It remained there and was not 
distributed. 

On the evening of the 21st Col. Wells returned on some busi- 
ness to the cam]! at the Ra])ids and left the detachment under 
us to my comniand. He advised tliat the ollicej-s and men 
should remain at thcii- posts as there was a probability of an 
attack. 



340 INDIANA lIISTOri;C/J. CX:)LLECTIONS 

That evening- a rumour reached us that tlie enemy were 
coming against us with 3 or 4000 men ; and would be with us 
before day. I expected that the field officers would have been 
called together and a consultation held aud instructions given 
to meet the event should it happen. It v/as not done. I di- 
rected the officers under my command to form in case of an 
attack so as to close the vacancy between us and the other 
troops. 

At daybreak on the next morning and during the beating 
of Reveille two of our centinels fired alarm guns and imme- 
diately the enejny commenced a heavy cannonade from six or 
eight pieces, with bomb shells and canister shot, followed up 
by small arms. The troops under my command and appar- 
ently throughout the line were soon formed, and returned the 
fire very briskly. The enemy consisted of British forces in 
the center as extensive and apparently in closer order than 
we were; and Indians on both flanks extending Cjuite to our 
rear. 

The action was warmly contested for near half on hour, at 
which time the Indians had under cover of some fencing and 
a barn, approached so near as to galled us severely in the 
flanks, whilst the British kept up an incessant fire in front. 
Our troops then began to give way. They retreated to the 
river. I then for the first time during the action saw Genl. 
Winchester. He directed in a voice not loud to form under 
the north bank of the river. Lt. Col. Lewis and Allen were 
present and assisted in rallying and forming the men. A 
considerable number took their position and some of them re- 
newed the fire but it was not long kept as the Indians were 
still on our flanks and fast gaining our rear, 

A second attempt was made to form the troops about sixty 
yards on this side of the river along some fences but not many 
of them formed, A third effort was made in some woods after 
crossing a branch about a mile and a half from the place of 
action. Col. Lewis was the only other field officer 1 saw there. 
We used our endeavours to rally the men, but they could not 
then be stoped. The pursuit was then very hot. After con- 
tinuing with the men about half a mile further raid finding 
nothing more could be done I took Capt, G laves, who was 
wounded behind me and my son by the hand and left the road 
and reached camp with them. 



Sa&tJiSi^&JiiUiiSxaiiia 



HARRISON: MESSAGES^ AND LETTERS 311 

Gcnl. Winchester and Lt. Col. Lewis were riding slowly at 
the head of the retreat when I saw them last; they could to 
all api^earance easily have left the footmen and made their 
escape Kad they intended leaving the men. 

I have been informed from sources I cannot doubt that fre- 
quent enquiries were made for ammunition during the action. 
The men appeared ardent and obedient to orders Vvdiilst it 
lasted. 

Glaves to Harpjson 
Camp on Carrying River Jany. 26th. 1813 

Ha')\ Pa. 891 

Genl. Wm. H. Harrison 
Sir: 

I have had an opportunity of seeing the report of Maj. Mc- 
Clanahan of the affair of the 22d inst. at the river Raisin. I 
concur with him in all the material parts of his statement. 

I have the honoi* to be your most obt. 

Michael Glaves, Cavt. 1 Rcgt. Inf. K. \ . M. 

Harrison to Shelby 

About Jany. 1813 
Dawson, Harrison, 375 

My sentiments upon the subject of the force necessary for 
the prosecution of the war, are precisely similar to yours. It 
will increase your surprise and regret, when I inform you that 
last night's mail brought me a letter from the secretary of 
war, in which I am restricted to the employment of the I'egu- 
lar troops raised in this state to reinforce the post at the 
rapids. There are scattered through this state, about 110 
recruits of the 19th regiment, and with these I am to supply 
the place of the two brigades from Pennsylvania and Virginia, 
whose term of service will now be daily expiring. By a letter 
from governor Meigs, 1 am informed, that the secretary of 
v/ar disapproved the call for militia, whicli I had made on this 
state and Kentuck'y, and was on the point of countcrmandiiig 
the oi-ders. I will just inention one fact, which v.^ill show the 
<■■ on .sequences of such a countermand. TJiere are u])on the 
Auglaize and St. Marys rivers, eight forts wliicli contain 
^'•in.m lh(;ir walls property to the amount of half a millioii 



 

of dollars from actual cost, and worth novr to tlie United 
States four times that suiii. The v.-hole force which vs-ould 
have had charge of all these forts and property, vrould have 
amounted to less than 20 invalid soldiers, [see letters imme- 
diately below] 

to the imllitia of kentucky ix the n. w. army 

Fellow-Citiz-^ns and Soldiers in Arms 

Jan. 29, 1S13 

Kilts' Kigi-ier III, oS9 

When the first sound of war w?s heard, at the call of yor.r 
country, you crowded voluntarily to the standard, and asked 
to be enrolled in defence of her rights — gain was not your 
object — you gloried in the precior.s inheritance so nobly vs'cn 
by the revolution — your bosoms glowed v\ith the ardor of free- 
men — you were not goaded on by a tyrant hand to fight the 
battles of ambition or dominion; but the spirit of your fathers 
aroused you from the slumber of indolence, to undertake the 
turmoils, and surmount the labor and hardships of camps, to 
shew our ancient enemy that you knew how to value and mair.- 
tain the independence we held as the gift of heaven only, to 
wipe off the foul stain which had been cast upon the American 
name, by the base surrender of one of our armies — to avenge 
the shades of our slaughtered brethren, of helpless women and 
infants — to drive back that audacious enemy and her savage 
allies, who had profaned our soil with her hostile and trium- 
phant steps — to make them feel the evils of the vrar at their 
o\Mi doors, in a word, to plant the standard which bears your 
country's eagle, on the walls of I\Ialden. These were your 
objects when you grasped your arms, and demanded battle. 
Your progress has been retarded by obstacles not under your 
control, or that of your general. You have with heroic forti- 
tude, borne cold, hunger and fatigue. Youi- state has sympa- 
thised with you, and your brave associates in suffering. Your 
fellow-citizens and fair countrywomen have endeavored as far 
as in their power by voluntary contributions to assist in 
shielding you from the inclerneiicy of an inhospitable climate, 
knowiiig that whenever the enemy has been tangible, you have 
made him not only respect, but feel you. You have shewn that 
you are Kentuckians, firjn and invincible — success has dav.-iied 
upon you — the object you sought in taking the field is just in 



HAPwRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 343 

sij-jht; your anxiety to return to the embrace of your friends 
and families are felt and appreciated. But would not the joy 
of your return be damped, when the reflection should arise, 
that you had surmounted the greatest difficulties in your way 
— your general was just about accomplishing the important 
object of the campaign — IMalden was in view — victory beck- 
oned you to follow on, and you retired ; when two months had 
been wasted, and your fellow soldiers were left surrounded by 
dangers ? 

Your state or your country cannot demand of you to remain 
a few months longer, as an act she has any legal right to claim 
of you ; but your state asks it, as what would redound to the 
honor of you, her sons, and her own character. Every rea- 
sonable means will be resorted to in order to supply your 
places at the earliest possible period. In the mean time, your 
state, from her sense of the merits of such of you as will re- 
main at your posts, after the expiration of your tenn of serv- 
ice, have authorised seven dollars per month to be given out 
of her treasury, to each non-commissioned ofiicer, musician 
and private, to the number of fifteen hundred, in addition to 
their regular pay from the general government during such 
additional time of service. 

Fellow-Citizens and Soldiers 

Such another opportunity may never again occur to crown 
yourselves ^^ith honor. The eyes of your state, your country, 
are on you. Act worthy yourselves and all will be well. 

Resolved., That the governor of this state, be requested to 
cause so many copies of the foregoing address, to be printed 
and transmitted to general Harrison, and such other officers 
commanding the militia of this state, as he may deem right, 
in order to be connnunicated to said troops. 

Joseph H. Hawkins, 
Speaker of the Hoitse of Reirresent-atives 
R. Hickman 
Sjje-akcr of the Senate 

Encouragement of Volunteers in Kentucky 

Frankfort Jan. 29, 1813 

Nilcs' Register III, 3S9 

An Act making and additional compensation to the detach- 



 

iiieiit of volunteers from this state, in the service of the United 
States in the event therein specified. 

Whereas, from information officially communicated to the 
lci?i.=^lature, it is deemed important to the success of the pres- 
ent cam])aig-n of the north v/estern armj'-, under tlie command 
of general William H. Harrison, that part of the militia of 
this state now in that army, should continue in service for a 
longer time than that for which they are at present engaged. 
Therefore, 

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the general assembly of the com- 
monwealth of Kcntuchy, That each non-commissioned ofilce, 
musician and private, belonging to the said detachment not 
exceeding fifteen hundred men, to be received or selected and 
organized and enrolled by the commander in chief, who shall 
remain in the said army, under the command of their re- 
spective ofiicers, or such ofiicer who may take the command 
thereof, with the approbation of the commander in chief, after 
the expiration of the time of service for which they were or- 
dei-ed out under the authority of the president of the United 
States, or shall have been killed, or died in the same, shall be 
entitled to receive, upon the application of such person, if 
living, or his legal representatives in case of death, a warrant 
for a sum equal to seven dollars ])cr month, not exceeding 
three months, that such non-commissioned officer, musician 
or private shall have remained in such service, and have been 
legally discharged therefrom, after the expiration of the term 
for which they wei-e so called out, in addition to the pay now 
allowed by the laws of the United States. 

Sec. 2 And he it further enacted, That the auditor of public 
accounts shall, upon the producing to him the pay rolls from 
the officers commanding companies in the detachment, certi- 
fied in the manner prescribed by the acts of congress, issue his 
war]-ant upon the treasury for the amount of the sum there- 
upon appearing due, to each of the non-commissioned ofiicers, 
musicians and privates or his or their representatives, agree- 
ably to the provisions of this act. 

J. H. Hawkins 
Speaker of the house of rejoresentatives 
R. Hickman, 
Approved Jan. 29, 1913 Speaker of the Senate 

Isaac Shelby, Gov. of Ken. 



 

Shelby to Hariuson 

Jany. 30th, 1813 

From Governor Isaac SJiclby's "Letter Book A" 39 

Dear Sir: 

I have to acknowledge the receipt of j^our Excellency's let- 
ter of the 19th in;:;t., and to inform you that the same \vas sub- 
mitted to the Legislature of tliis State (v/ho were then and 
still are in session) for their consideration, and who have in 
consequence thereof passed an Act allowing additional com- 
pensation to such of the Kentucky militia not exceeding fifteen 
hundred who may consent to continue in service not more than 
three months after theii- pi-esent Term of Service expires. 
[see Jan. 26 above] The General Assembly have also passed 
a resolution addressed to the militia of Kentucky nov/ under 
your command appealing to their patriotism and love of coun- 
try, on this very interesting occasion, both, of which I am in- 
structed to fonvard to you without delay, that you may avail 
youi'self of such means as they may afford to aid you in in- 
structing that number of militia from this state to remain in 
service for a greater length of time after their present en- 
gagements expire, [see Jan 26 above] 

The General Assembly have' been induced to adopt this 
course under the impression that it would be morally impos- 
sible at this inclement season to collect and marcli from this 
state the force which you require in time to relieve those 
now on duty. It may be important if possible to advise me by 
return of the Express, what success these two measures have 
had in inducing the militia of this State to agree to remain 
with you after the expiration of their Term of Service. And 
what aid you will still need from this state, in order that my 
earliest exertions may be directed toward raising the men and 
sending them on in case you should need such aid, an address 
from you to our militia stating as far as proper your situation 
and the urgency of the occasion inclosc^d to me to be published, 
might have a considerable effect. Col. Anth. Crockett, who is 
the bearer of tins dispatch is also charged witli sundry copies 
of the la^v and resolution above stated for the purpose of your 
distributing them generally amongst the Kentucky militia, to 
afford them a clear understanding of t)ie views and wishes of 

25—22664 ■ . 



 

the Genc)-al Assembly. Col. Crockett is directed to wait until 
such tiiue as you may find it convenient to dispatch him back. 
I am, &c., 

Isaac Shelby 
To Gen. Wm. H. Harrison 

Harrison to McKeehan 

Head Quarters 31st Jany, 1813 

Mich. Hist, and Pion. Pa. XV, 2J5 

Sir: 

You will proceed with the two men who are to attend you, to 
the River Raisin, bearing a flag of Truce. The object of your 
Trip, is to ascertain the situation of the vv^ounded which were 
left as it is said at that place. If a British officer should be 
there, you will deliver him the letter with which you are 
charged, and proceed to give such assistance to the sick, as 
they may need and you be able to procure. You are furnished 
with one hundred Dollars in Gold, for the purpose. Should 
there be no British Officer on fhe River Raisin, you will pro- 
ceed towards Maiden, until you meet with one, unless there 
should be great danger from the Indians. Indeed it is my 
wish that you should go onto IMalden, if you are permitted to 
do so, to bring Dispatches from General Winchester, or the 
Senior officer remaining with our prisoners. 

If your ])rofessional services are wanted with the Vv'ou]Kled 
you will i-rmain with them, and send back the two men to 
bring me an account of your proceedings. 

I am Respectfully 

Your Obedt. Servant 
To Dr. Samuel McKeehan ^^^- ^^^^^ Harrison 

Gibson to Indiana Assembly 

February 2, 1813 

Mss. in Secrelari/ of State's Office 
Western Sun, February 6, ISl.J 
Dillon, History of Indiana, 517 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Coimeil, and Gentlemen of the 

House of Re^nesentatives 

THE governor of the territory having been for some time 
fibscnt from us, the gubernatorial functions consequently dc- 



-17 

volviiig upon, have been exercised by me. In my discharge 
of this important trust, I have been actuated by none other 
than a wish to preserve pubhc rights and protect pi'ivate prop- 
erty. If I have at any time failed in my oHlcial duties, or erred 
in my plans, you must attribute it to the head and not the 
Iieart. 

My address to you, gentlemen, shall be laconic, for I am 
not an orator nor accustomed to set speeches; and did I pos- 
sess the abilities of Cicero or Demosthenes, I could not por- 
ti-ay in more glowing colours our foreign and domestic polit- 
ical situation than it is already experienced within our own 
breasts. The United States have been latterly compelled by 
frequent acts of injustice, to declare war against England; I 
say compelled ; for I am convinced from the pacific and agri- 
cultural disposition of her citizens, that it must be a case of 
the last necessity that would induce such a measure. For the 
deUailcd causes of the war, I beg leave to refer you, gentle- 
men to the message of his excellency the president, to con- 
gress, at the commencement of its present session ; it is highly 
worthy the serious perusal of the sage and the patriot. It 
does honor to the head and the heart of mr. Madison. 

Although I am not an admirer of wars in the general, yet, 
as we are novr engaged in a necessary and justifiable one, I 
can exultingly say that I am happy to see in my advanced 
days our little but inimitable Navy, riding triumphant on the 
seas, but chagrined to find that our armies by land are so lit- 
tle successful. The spirit of '76 appears to have fled from our 
continent, or if not fled, it is at least asleep, for it appears 
not to pervade our armies generally. On the contrary lassi- 
tude, and too often schisms have crept in, and usurped the 
place of patriotic ardour. 

At your last assemblage, gentlemen, our political horizon 
seemed clear; our infant territory bid fair for rapid and ris- 
ing grandeur ; our population was highly flattering; our citizens 
v/ere becoming prosperous and happy, and security dwelt 
everywhere, even on our frontiers. But alas! the scene has 
changed and whether this change as it respects our territory, 
has been owing to an over anxiety in us to extend our domin- 
ions, or to a wish for retaliation by our foes or to a foreign 
influence, I shall not pretend to decide. But that there is a 
change, and that too, a distressing one, is evident. For the 



 

aborigines, our former neiglibors and friends, have become 
our most, inveterate foes. They have drawn the scalping 
knife and raised the tomhawk, and shouts of savage fury are 
heard at our thresholds. Our former frontiers are now wilds, 
and our inner settlements have become frontiers. Some of our 
best citizens, and old men worn dov\-n with age, and helpless 
women and innocent babes, have fallen victims to savage 
cruelty. Our citizens, even in our tov.ms, have frequent alarms, 
and constant apprehensions as to their preservation. 

I have not been inattentive to my duty, gentlemen, but have 
liillierto, and shall continue to exert every nerve to afford to 
our citizens all possible protection. And it is to be hoped that 
the allwise and powerful creator and governor of the universe, 
will not forget his people, but cover us from our savage and 
sanguinary foe by his benign interposition. 

For the state of our fiscal affairs, I refer you, gentlemen, 
to the reports which are required by law and which no doubt 
will be made to you early in the session, by the auditor and 
treasurer. What amount has been drawn from the contingent 
fund by governor Harrison previous to his departure from the 
territory, I know not, gentlemen, but that fund remains un- 
touched by me. Our present militia law is complained of as 
being still very defective. Our present Adjutant General, who 
is pretty much the disciplinarian, and I believe tolerable ac- 
quainted with military tactics, will no doubt, if called upon, 
detail to you some of its most prominent defects, and suggest 
the proper remedies. To me it seems that the principal defect 
is owing to the execution, not the law. It is an old, and I be- 
lieve a correct adage, that ('good officers make good soldiers.') 
This evil having taken root, I do not know how it can be erad- 
icated; but it may be remedied. In place of men searching 
after and accepting of commissions before they are even toler- 
ably qualified, thereby subjecting themselves to ridicule, and 
tlu'ir country to ruin, barely for the name of the thing, I think 
it may be remedied by a previous examination. This, however, 
amongst other important territorial concerns, rests with the 
legislature. 

Gcntktucn of the House of Representatives: 

As the immediate guardians of the public purse, I would 
recommend a reconsideration of the revenue laws. Enquire 
whether the authority given to the several oflicers concerned 



HAKKISOX: MESSAGES AND LETTEllS ;V1<) 

i'l lii- !r\'yir.;r and collectinp: the tax is ample and complete as 
,\ ..liMiild !)c to meet the exigencies, and give energy and re- 
,;., vt to our govcnnnent ; for our public credit is yet at a low 
. j-|.. I also i-ecoinmend an enquiry into the salaries of our 
'. rr it oi-jal oilict rs-- whether are the salaries an adequate com- 
j.. t.sation for the duties performed? for the good old maxim 
! . '(ic-.ii work good pay,' and liberal salaries are the only sure 
n;.-.inn of securing good officers; consequently a faithful dis- 
« hai}.r<' of duties. 
Ct }:fl'i>irti of the Lffiislative Council 

Wit)! \<)u rests the imi)ortant task of guarding in a more 
>]y'.K ial manner the rights and liberties of your fellow citizens, 
iiful I have no doul)t that in the discharge of your iniportant 
(I'.ititH \()U will 1)0 governed by moderation, and a due regard 
to th'- trust reposed in you. 

(/% iJIrnii n of thi' Legislative Council and House of Reqn'csent- 

In yiiur deliberations I recommend a conciliatory disposition 
tow.Hrds each other, and as to myself suffer me to assure you, 
\)u\i you shall have my cordial co-operation, in any measure 
fliai may tend to the public good. 

SIjouUI anything of moment and public concern transpire, 
$'• ntit mrn, you shall be duly informed thereof, from time to 
tini'-. John Gibson. 

Gibson to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, Feb. 3, 1813 

Har. Pa. 252-25^ 

Sin : 

T!ie exposed situation of our country has induced me to 
authorise the Adjutant General of the Territory to raise by 
\ oiunteer Oiler three complete companies of IMountcd ]\Ien 
!'<>r two months, who I intend shall range and patrole through 
tii',- frontiers. But in case he may not be enabled to effect the 
'■■»i- ing of the three companies of mounted men, I shall then 
ii.'.ve organizf'd that number of Infantry. I have pledged my- 
' li tiiat they shall be paid as Infantry at the expiration of 
'!:!• two months or sooner if sooner discharged. Should the 
♦'onipanies be organized of Mounted Men, they will furnish 
their own horses and foi-age themselves, in which case, I rec- 



-t-j^mmnt faHl 



 

ommend their receiving an adequate allowance or compensa- 
tion. And should the plan of Rangers for the protection of 
our Frontiers be still adhered to bj^ Government, suffer me to 
suggest to you the propi'ictj^ of having officers over them who 
are well acquainted with our local Geography. 

It appears that the officers who served in Governor Harri- 
son's campaign of 1811 up the Wabash, owing to their not 
having forwarded their subsistence and forage accounts are 
likely not to draw any thing for those items, Inasmuch as 
Cap, [Ambrose] Whitlock the Dep. Pay Master says He's not 
authorized by the Pay Master General to pay them. 

By request of Gen, W. Johnston Esq, of this place (now my 
aid) I herewith transmit you his accot, as Quarter IMaster in 
Major [Jo] Daviess' squadron of Horse and earnestly request 
of you, that you will be so obliging as to have the proper steps 
taken in order that he may receive the amount, Mr, Johnston 
is not the only officer in this situation, I have been spoken to 
by Col, [Luke] Decker and others, to forward on their's but 
the present is the only one that has yet been handed to me. 

By the request of Luke Decker late Colonel of the 1st Reg, 
of Inda, Militia and a residenter in this country since the year 
1785 I have the honor of herewith transmitting you a ]\Ie- 
morial to his Excellency the President of the United States, in 
favor of Gen, W, Johnston for the appointment of Major, JNIr. 
Johnston has lived upwards of fifteen years in the country — 
is about thirty- five years of age, and is active and enterpris- 
ing and possessed of a good general knowledge. It would 
please me to see that such men were encouraged by our coun- 
try and permit me Sir, to recommend to yourself and through 
you to His Excellency, the President, Maj. Davis Floyd of 
this Territory, as a Patriot and soldier. He has since his un- 
fortunate connection witli A, Bui'r proven to his country upon 
several occasions his attachment and fidelity to her and I've 
no doubt Vv^as an opportunity afforded him, he would by his 
patriotic ardour wipe off every stain from his character. He 
is well qualified for a Military Command, I thei-efore take 
the liberty of soliciting that he may be appointed a Major or 
at the least a Captain in the Regular Service. 

I have the honor to be Dear Sir with High 
Consideration Your Obedient and very Humble Servt 

rru TT >ui rr.1 o 4 r ixr JOIIN GiBSON 

The Hon'ble, The Secretary of War 



 

Territorial Council to Gibson 

Februaiy 5, 1813 

Har. Pa. £65, 2GG 

John Gibson, Acting Governor of the Indiana Territory 
Sir: 

In ansvv'er to your communication to both Houses of the 
Legislature, the legislative council sympathises vdth you on 
the unhappy state of war which the United States have beeii 
forced into, in defence of our national and individual rights, 
and particularly the savage warfare, which the Territory has 
been forced into from irratable causes for some years past. 

The ruin and misery which individual families suffer on our 
frontier, indeed even in the interior of our infant settlement, 
and some times, that too, by those persons whom oui- Govern- 
ment have called into service for the protection of our fron- 
tier. 

The ruin inflicted by our means of protection, we are con- 
vinced arises from the want of individual morality and par- 
ticularly from the want of a salutary discipline among the 
Troops. To avoid the same evils taking place on the part of 
the Militia of the territory, to render them as efficient as pos- 
sible, at the same time to have a due regard to the rights of 
the militia man, we agreeable to your advice, shall attempt to 
make such salutary amendments of our ]\Iilitia Law, as to 
produce the desired effect, for we are fully convinced, that in 
a state of War the energies of the Government ought to be 
applyed with a strong and a steady hand. The other subjects 
to which you have recommended our consideration, shall be 
duly attended to. Please to accept the good wishes of the 
Legislative Council for your individual Welfare, hoping that 
by your continued and increased exertions for the protection 
of our Country, the unwary setler on our frontier may in 
some measure pass the light of day and the gloom of niglit, 
without the continued terrors of savage cruelty. 

Jas. Beggs, President of the Leg. Council 



 

House of Representatives to Gibson 

February 5, 1S13 

Hor. Pa. ^69 

To His Excellency John Gibson, Governor of flic Indmna 

Territory 
Sir: 

We have heard with pleasure the communication you have 
been pleased to make to the Legislative Council and House of 
Representatives at the opening of the present session. And 
remark that your patriotism has long drawn down the atten- 
tion of the only Nation upon the Earth enjoying the liberal 
Excercise of rational liberty. We are happy in congratulating 
you, that nothwithstanding the many years that the critical 
eye of envy has had an opportunity of observing you in the 
discharge of your duties of a National concern and important 
trusts confided in you by your Nation, that yet, for the most 
cogent reasons, National patronage is extended to you in the 
Evening of your life. Your communication Sir, whilst it 
evinces strong intelecutal endowments, convinces us that you 
have marked the defects of our Legislative provisions. We 
regret sir, w^ith you that our country has been forced to ap- 
peal to arms in vindication of our National rights. The con- 
sequences of which, probably are equally fatal to this section 
of the Union as any other, and which without energetic meas- 
ures will soon be in a state of confusion. But we rejoice Sir. 
that there are reasons for believing that ample provision will 
be made for our defence and that our Citizens are willing to 
submit to all those privations and difficulties attending a coun- 
try under the pressure of an Indian Warfare, and that our 
Government will not stop short of the establishment of those 
principles of right of which we have too long suffered the vio- 
lation. 

We have. Sir, witnessed the defect of our ]\Iilitia system 
and to co-operate with you in rendering the ]Militia more effi- 
cient, will be one of the first objects of our attention. We also 
regret the defects that exist in our Revenue Laws, and as far 
as is expedient will endeavor to remedy those defects. We 
believe Sir, that your communication on those points is the 
result of judicious deliberation, and it is our intention to treat 
with ])ropcr regard evciy suggestion that your Excellency 
through your ardent desire to promote the public weal, lias 



 

been prompted to make, And Sir, when throu(>-h you, vre ex- 
press the liighest approbation of tlic Constituted authorities 
of our country we choose a medium meritting the respect that 
the Representatives of an Independent people intend to con- 
fer. 

Please to accept Sir, our warmest wishes for your welfare. 

House of Representatives 
Jai^ies Scott, Si)C{iker of the House of Represenkitives 

Shelby to Harrison 

Feby. 9, 1813 

From Governor hiuic Shelbij's "Letter Book A", Jtl 

]\IY Dear GeneRx\l: 

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your favour 
of the 22nd ult., informing of the action fought at French 
Town the 18th ult., and also that of the 25th by Col. Wells who 
arrived at this place on the evening of the 2nd inst., with the 
distressing intelligence of the defeat of Genl. Winchester's de- 
tachment at the same place. This melancholy event has filled 
the state with mourning, and every feeling heart bleeds with 
anguish. The Legislature of this st-ate was on the point of 
rising at the moment when Col. Wells arrived but continued 
their session during the whole of the 3rd inst., in consequence 
of the intelligence contained in your dispatches by him and 
passed an act, authorizing the organization of three thousand 
militia for any term not exceeding six months and for any 
service of the United States, (which exigencies) of the pres- 
ent war, may in the opinion of the Executive require. I in- 
close you a copy of the act for your information. Altho I am 
not able to judge at this moment, what portion of this num- 
ber may be deemed necessary to call into service I shall pro- 
ceed to organize and detach the whole for any emergency that 
may require them. 

The General Assembly by their joint resolution has author- 
ized and requested me to command this force, which I have 
consented to do should the whole be ordered at once into serv- 
ice. 

With &c., &c., 

Isaac Shelby 
To Gen. Wm. H. Harrison, 



 

Gibson to Indiana Assembly 

ViNCENNES February 9, 1813 

Ms!^. in Secretary of State's Office 
Wcsteni Sun, March 6, ISIJ 

Gentlemen- of the Legislature 

However painful and much to be lamented transaction, I 
conceive it a duty I owe you to communicate thus promptly, 
a letter I have just received from Maj. Wm. Prince, informing 
me of the loss of a detachment of our northwestern army. 

To secure peace, gentlemen, we should at all times be pre- 
pared for war. And altho' our territory is but thinly popu- 
lated, yet what men we have able to bear arms, are at my 
command : and entertaining no doubt, that upon your recom- 
mendation, as their immediate representatives, they v\'ill turn 
out with alacrity to serve their country, wherefore, I request 
that you advise me immediately, what number of our militia 
should be ordered into service, and where they should be 
placed, the better to protect our extensive and exposed fron- 
tier. Jn. Gibson. 

Wilson to Gibson 

February 9, 1813 

Har. Pa. 259 

To His Excellency General John Gibson 

Acting Governor and Conimander-in-Chief of the Indiana 
Territory 
The Legislature have taken into consideration the written 
communication made to them this morning, on the alarming 
and defenceless situation of our Frontiers, together with en- 
closures from Major [William] Prince and think with you, 
that to secure peace we ought to be prepared for War. They 
therefore beg leave to suggest the adoption of the following 
plan i]nmediately, as in their opinion best calculated to render 
security to our defenceless Frontiers, taking into view the 
paucity of our numbers, to wit fi'om the County of Wayne two 
Companies, from the County of Franklin two Companies, from 
the County of Dearborn two Companies, from the County of 
Jefferson two Companies, from the County of Clai'k two Com- 
panies, from the County of Hai-rison two Companies and fiom 
the County of Knox four Companies. All of which Companies 
to be full and complete and to be drafted and organized agree- 



 

able to the provisions of our INIilitia Law. With this force a 
chain of small Forts or Garrisons could be erected, having a 
constant communication with each other, throughout the ter- 
ritoiT, and in our opinion secure the inhabitants from all 
small parties of Marauders, who may be likely to infest the 
fi'ontier. We would also beg leave to suggest that untill the 
i'\n-ts are completed, the force of each County should be under 
the controle of its immediate commanding officer and that 
when those are completed as the command will justify the 
organization of proper Field Officers, such should be selected, 
unde)- the command of whom if active and intelligent, such 
arrangements can be made as are above suggested, with re- 
gard to ranging or patroling. The Orders given to those 
Field Onicers ought to be particularly rigid and strict, ob- 
liging him or them to visit frequently the whole chain of 
Forts, and pay particular attention that the subordinate offi- 
cers and men were puncutal in performance of their duty. 
Those ari-angements will necessarily suggest the propriety of 
instructing the Contractor to be prepared to furnish the 
pi'0])er Provisions at the different Posts and also that pro- 
vision be made for some mode of supplying the necessary 
equipment, arms and Amunition. 

It may not be improper here to observe that should the plan 
above suggested be carried into execution, it will be well to in- 
stj-uct the Commandants of the diffei'ent Counties, that in the 
erection of their Forts, they should have due regard not only 
to the safety of their own Counties, but the facility of com- 
munication which is to be kept up with the adjoining Coun- 
ties. 

All which is respectfully Submitted. 

Walter Wilson, Chairman Committee 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department February 11th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 52 

General Wm. H. Harrison. Sir: 

Your letters of January 20th and 24tli [see above] have 
been received. When the service requires Colonel [James] 
INIorrison and Captain [John H.] Piatt Deputy Qr. IMaster 
Generals on duty together. Col. IMorrison being the Senior offi- 
cer will command. 



35G INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No. 39) 

Headquarters Fort of the IMiami Rapids 

11th Fcby. 1813 

Har. Pa. 015-025 

Sir: 

Having becai joined by Genl. Lcftwitch with his Brig-ade and 
a Regiment of the Pennsjdvania quota at Portage River on 
the 30th Inst. I marched from thence on the 1st Inst and 
reached this place on the morning of the 2nd with an effective 
foi'ce of about seventeen hundred men. I have been since 
joined by a Kentucky Regiment and Genl. [Edward] Tup- 
I)e)''s Ohio Brigade which has increased our numbers to two 
thousand non-commissioned officers and privates. Your let- 
ter of the 17tli ulto. [see above] was received before I left the 
Camp at Portage River and altho the injunctions contained 
in it were such as to produce many doubts of the propriety 
of ])ushing on the arrangements calculated for the accom- 
l)lishmcnt of the principal objects of the campaign during the 
present winter, yet there were other considerations which 
produced a preponderance in my inind in favor of prosecuting 
llu'm with vigor as long as a hope remained of their being 
successful. I accordingly ordered the whole of the Troops of 
the l<-ft wing excepting one company for each of the six Forts 
in that Quarter, the Balance of the Pensylvania Brigade and 
tlie Ohio Brigade under Genl. Tupper and a detachment of 
Regulars Troops and twelve month volunteers under the Com- 
mand of Lt. Col. [John B.] Campbell to march to this place as 
soon as possible believing that I should be able to advance 
from hence by this day or tomorrow and if it were not in my 
pow( r to take on heavy artillery for the siege of Maiden, I 
should be enabled to scour the whole country disperse the In- 
dians, destroy all the shipping of the enemy and the greater 
part of theij- provisions and secure a position at or near 
Browns Tov/n untill a further supply of Cannon and stores 
could be brought up. Such was my plan when I marched from 
Portage River on the 1st Inst, and my situation was such as 
to authorize the strongest hopes of success, altho the agrcgatc 
amount of all the effectual men in all the coi'ps above men- 
tiojied was only about 3,300 a number that will greatly sur- 
prise you to be furnished by so many nominal Brigades and 



 

the period of service of the Kentucky and Ohio Troops was 
fast ai)proachin^, that for some of them expiring about the 
ini(]dle of the month and of all before the last of it. I had 
established with them the principle that I had the right to 
jn;irch them to any point before the day which would com- 
plete their six months tour and I kne\v them too well to bc- 
li(>ve that they would abandon me in the country of the enemy. 
Pi-ovisions and ammunition were also on the road from the 
two San dusky s and LIcArthurs Block House in considerable 
(luantities and measures taken to supply the means of trans- 
l)ortation for the advance from this place. These fair pros- 
pects have been entirely destroyed by circumstances which no 
human being could controle. The present is precisely the sea- 
son in common years when the most intense frosts prevail in 
tiiis countiy giving the most perfect security and facility in 
passing the lakes and swamps with which it abounds. For 
the last twelve or fifteen days however it has been so warm 
that the roads have become entirely broken up and for a con- 
siderable distance in our rear are alDsolutely impassable for 
waggons or sleds and can with great difficulty be traversed 
with single Horses. A number of waggons and sleds loaded 
with ammunition and other munitions of war have been eigh- 
teen days coming from Upper Sandusky and are Twenty five 
miles off — for eight days they were stopped by an uncommon 
fresh in the Tymocta and have been ten more getting twenty- 
five miles. The weather has even effected the ice of the Lake. 
Oji the evening before last 1 went with a detachment in pur- 
suit of a body of Indians who were driving off the cattle from 
a small French settlement about fourteen miles from this 
place. We pursued them for twenty six miles upon the ice 
which was so weak in many places that a six pounder which 
was taken with us broke through and was nearly lost, as did 
sevei'al of the officers who were mounted. I have waited with 
an anxiety which I cannot describe for a change in the 
weather and until this day I nevei- abandoned the hope of 
being able to execute the plan which I had formed. It is now 
however the 11th of the month, the period for which the Ken- 
tucky troops (which first took the field) were to serve expires 
in four days as does that of four fifths of Tupper's Brigade. 
These poor fellows have suffered so much that they have re- 
sisted the strong appeal to their patriotism backed bv a most 



 

liberal ofTer of pay which has been made by their respective 
states. They will not engage for two or even one month but 
if 1 ^vere ready to advance I am satisfied they would not hes- 
itate to follow me. To pursue longer under the expectation 
of accomplishing the objects, of the campaign during the win- 
ter is in my opinion no longer proper considering the enor- 
mous expense which a continuance of these efforts at this sea- 
son daily produces and which could only be justified by a rea- 
sonable hope of success — under present appearances I can no 
longer indulge such hopes. Indeed I fear that I shall be cen- 
sured for having cherished them too long and that I have sac- 
rificed the public interest in a vain pursuit. I have no hesi- 
tation however in asserting that I have it in my power to 
satisfy the Government that their wishes would have been ac- 
complished but for the unfortunate event at the River Raisin 
and others over which I could have no controle and that untill 
a few days since my calculations of succeeding were supported 
by the opinion of every General and Field officer in the Army. 
It remains for me Sir to inform you of the disposition I shall 
]nake of the Troops for the remaining part of the Winter. A 
Battalion of the Militia lately called out from this State with 
the Company of Regular Troops now at Fort Winchester will 
garrison the posts upon the waters of the Auglaize and St. 
]\Tarys, the small blocldiouses upon Hulls trace will have a 
subaltern command in each, a company will be placed at Up- 
pei' Sandusky and another at Lower Sandusky. All the rest 
of the Troops will be brought to this place amounting to from 
fifteen to eighteen hundred men. I am erecting here a pretty 
strong fort capable of resisting field artillery at least. The 
troops will be placed in a fortified camp covered on one flank 
by the Fort. This position is the best that can be taken to 
cover the frontiers and the small posts in the rear of it and 
those above it on the Miami and its waters. The force placed 
hei'e ought however to be stong enough to encounter any that 
the enemy may detach against the Forts above. Twenty five 
hundred would not be too many. But anxious to reduce the 
exj^enses during the winter within as narrow bounds as possi- 
bl(^ 1 ha\e desired the Govr. of Kentucky not to call out but to 
hold in readiness to march the fifteen hundred men lately re- 
quired of him. All the teams which have been hiied for the 
public service will be immediately discharged, and those be- 



 

longing to the public which are principally oxen disposed of 
in the settlements, where forage is cheaper and every other 
arrangement made which can lesson the expenses during the 
winter. Attention will still however be paid to the deposit of 
supplies for the ensuing campaign. Little remains to com- 
plete these. Immense supplies of provisions have been ac- 
cumulated upon the Auglaize River and boats and perogues 
prepared to bring it down as soon as the River opens. I shall 
have the honor to give you a more particular account of these 
in a few days. 

I regret that I had the misfortune to be misunderstood by 
Colo. Monroe in his Letter of the 17th ulto. in supposing that 
I had asserted in mine of the 4th that IMalden could not be 
taken by first marching to Detroit and crossing the strait 
there with an army sufficiently strong and taking with it 
everything which it would Vv'ant either for its subsistence or 
for annoying the enemy, it would certainly not be material at 
what point it would cross the strait. The whole tenor of my 
argument whenever the subject has been mentioned in my 
letters is that by going round by Detroit more time would be 
required to eflfect the object more provisions of course wanted 
and that if supplies of these were to be drawn from the rear 
each convoy must be strong enough to resist the whole of the 
enemy disposable force because the line of operation upon 
which these convoys would move passing almost in sight of 
Maiden and the enemy having the means of crossing the Strait 
thej'" could attack them when and where they pleased. I never 
doubted that our army would be able to go anywhere if sufii- 
ciently strong, and having with it such a quantity of pro- 
visions and other necessaries as to require no supplies from 
the Deposits in the rear. I have the honor to enclose you the 
deposition of a certain Medard Labbadi who was at the River 
raisen on the 22 ulto. and remained there until the 6th Inst. 
His account of the loss of the enemy in the action is corrob- 
orated by several others nor is there the least reason to doubt 
his statement as it regards the horrible fate of our wounded 
men. There is another circumstance which plainly shows that 
the British have no intention to conduct the Vv^ar (at least in 
this quarter) upon those principles which have been held sa- 
cred by all civilized nations. On the 30th ultimo I dispatched 
Doctor [Samuel] McKeehan a surgeons mate in the militia 



 

with a flag to ascertain the situation of our wounded. He 
was attended by one of our I\Iihtia men and a French man. 
On the night after their departure they halted near this pk\ce 
for the purpose of taking a few hours sleep in a vacant cabin 
upon the Bank of the River. The Cariole in vsiiich tliey trav- 
elled was left at the door, with the flag set up in it. They v\-ere 
discovered by a party of Indians (accompanied it is said by a 
British offlcer) and attacked in the manner described in the 
Deposition. Lemont the jMilitia man was killed and scalped 
the Doctor and the Frenchman taken, Doct. -\IcKeehan was 
furnished with a letter addressed to any British Ofiker vrhom 
he might meet with describing the character in which he wen-t 
and the object for which he was — (retained at some of the 
oflices in consequence of its being too heavy for the ordinary 
conveyance. The envelope which covered the appointments of 
Captain Chunn and his subalterns had the Washington post- 
mark of the 16th ultimo but it did not reach this place until 
yesterday.) 

I have the honor to be with great respect sir your Humble 

■ William Henry Harrison. 

P. S. The information given by the party of Potawatamies 
mentioned in my last to Captain Taylor at Fort Harrison was 
that the Prophet was in the neighbourhood of his former res- 
idence with about 300 Winebagoes and about 200 of other 
Tribes and that he was daily gaining strength. 
The Honble William Eustis Secy, of War.^ 

P. S. I have the honor to inclose you herewith an abstract 
of the reports shewing the state of the effective force at dif- 
ferent dates at this place. [Not found] . ,^j tt tj 

\\ . xl. xl. 

Medard Labbadi to Harrison 

Head Quarters foot of the :\Iiami Rapids 

Feby. 11th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 92S-930 

The affidavit of Medard Labbadi late resident near the 
River Raisin in the I\Iichigan Territory. He being svrorn saith 
he was in his house when he heard the guns at the commence- 

1. The part enclosed in parenthesis is evidently a misplaced pSKC. It is given here 
as in the archives. The last \\ S. belongs to the letter. 



 

ment of the action at the River Raisen on the 22d Jany 1813 
between the American forces under GenL Winchester and the 
Bj-itish Canadians and Indian forces said to be commanded 
by Col. St. Georg-e. After some little time he learned that the 
Indians were killing the inhabitants as well as the Americans, 
upon which he went toward the scene of action in order to 
save his family. As he went on the way with one other in- 
habitant [he was] taken prisoner by two Wyandot Indians, 
and carried to the Indian lines from which he saw great part 
of the action. The right wing of the Americans had given 
way before he got a sight of the action. 

It terminated after the sun was some hours high not far 
fi-om 11 o'clock. A. M. by the surrender of the American 
forces that then remained on the ground. He saw the flag 
hoisted by the British sent to the American forces and saw 
it pass three times to the Americans before the sui-render. 
He could not understand English, but understood that Genl. 
Winchester v/as taken prisoner before he got to the lines of 
his own men. That he was compelled to carry the flag to his 
own forces after he was taken. That he understood the rea- 
sons of the flag passing so often was that the Americans re- 
fused to surrender upon any other terms than that the wounded 
should bo taken care of. The dead buried and the inhabitants 
protected in their property. That the British first refused to 
agi-ee to these terms but finally did agree to them. He also 
understood that the loss of the British and Indian forces in 
that action was about 400 killed. He also understood that 
the loss of the Americans in the action was about one hundred 
and eighty killed. 

He knows that on the day of the action all the prisoners who 
were able to march were marched oft^ tovv^ards Maiden, the 
wounded about 60 or 80 in number left in two houses without 
any of their friends or a physician to take care of them and 
without any British ofiicer or men, about 10 Indians remained 
behind upon the ground. The balance of the Indians went 
off with the British, and he was told by some of the Canadian 
I^Iilitia that the British had promised the Indians a frolick 
Ihat night at Stoney Creek, about six miles from the River 
liaisin. 

He was liberated after the line of march was formed for 
Maiden. The next morning he was in the houses where the 

2&— 22004 



 

wounded were. That morning- about fifty Indians relumed. 
They brought whislvy with them. They drank some and gave 
some to tlie other Indians lliere between nine and ten o'clock 
A. ]\r. commenced kilhng the wounded and then set fire to the 
liouscs the wounded we)-e in and consumed them. He was at 
his fathers on tliis side of the Detroit river about seven days 
after the action and saw across the river the prisoners 
marched off for Niagara, from ]\Ialden. 

He saith tliat he saw t<^ken by his house by Capt. Elhott 
and nine Wyandotos Indians, two men that he understood had 
been sent by Genl. Harrison with a flag to the British. One 
of the men ]Mr. Tessier he knew. The other lie did not knovr, 
but understood it was a doctor. He had not an oppoi'tunity of 
conversing v.-ith them but understood from an inhabitant to 
whom I\Ir. Tessier communicated tliat they stopped for the 
night and left the flag hoisted on the cariole. That the flag 
was taken away unknown to them and then the Indians fired 
on them. That he, Tessier, told them they were Frenchmen 
and surrendered, upon which the Indians ceased firing and 
toolv them. They then mentioned that they were sent with a 
flag. The Indians said they were lyars and took them olf. 

Mr. Tessier was set at liberty at the River Raisin and re- 
mained two days expecting the Doct. to return. At the end 
of which time Tessier was sent for by the British and taken 
to I\Ialden. He understood that the Doct. was to be sent off 
innncdiately to Niagara. The Doct. was wounded in the ancle. 
He understood the British charged the Doct. and Tessier with 
being spies and farther he saith not. 

his 
Signed Midard X Labbardi 
marque 
Witness : C. Gratiot, Cap. of Art. and Inf. 
Sworn to before me this 11th day Feby. 1813 Camp Foot of 
the i\riami Rapids. Signed C. L. Todd, 
A true copy Rd. Graham, aid de Camp 

Gibson to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES, Feb 17th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 25'J 

Sir: 

Upon the reception here of the defeat of Gen. Winchester 



(33 

and his detachment by Maj. [William] Prince, I immediately 
;tn(i ollicially communicated it to tlie Legislature of the Terri- 
tory (who are now in session) and requested their advice to 
which they returned me, the enclosed answer. [P^'eb. 9 above] 
In consequence whereof and considering myself authorized by 
the General Instructions given to Governor Harrison previous 
to his departure from the Territory I have ordered into im- 
mediate service sixteen complete companies of the JMilitia of 
the '■J'eri-itory, which I shall have stationed in a line of (Block) 
Houses fi'om the one extreme of our Territory to the other. 
Suffer me Sir, to remark that unless our Frontiers are pro- 
tected by this or some other means, the whole of our Territory 
must Ijreak. For what are now our inner Settlements will 
bt'comc frontiers and adfinitum until the Ohio River v/ill be 
the line of safety. 

Perjnit me, Sir, to call your particula)- attention to my let- 
ter to the Hon. the Secretary of War, of the 13th, Ulto [see 
above] and indulge me here to reiterate the recommendation 
of those Gentlemen named in that letter as ofliccrs. 

I have the honor to be Sir, with considerations of Respect 
and Esteem, Your Obed. and Humble Servant, 

John Gibson 
The Hon. Secretary of War 

P. vS. Should Gov. Harrison be successful, so soon as that 
ciiTunistance is known here, the Company will be immediately 
disch.arged. 

Gibson to the President 

ViNCKNNES I. T. February 17th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 2G3, 2GJ/. 

Sir: 

I take the liberty of transmitting to your Excellency my 
addi'ess to the Genei'al Assembly of this territory at their 
meeting the first week in the present month, and the answer, 
of the two Houses, [see Feb 2, 3, 5 above] I should not 
liave ti-oubled your Excellency with a perusal of those papers, 
liad it not have been that I have been informed that the tongue 
of slander has been let loose upon me and in order to wipe 
oil any impression that may have been imjn;opcrly made upon 
your mind, or that of my Honble. Friend Mr. Jefferson, 1 



3(M INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIOxMS 

have thus trespassed upon your leisure. Having served and 
acted a pretty conspicuous part in our Revolutionary struggle 
and served as secretary of the Indiana Territoi-y for upwards 
of twelve years, I should regret extremely that in the evening 
of my life any part of my conduct should be viev/ed in such 
a light as that I should forfeit the esteem of my country. 

I have the Honor to be With considerations of Respect Your 
Excellency's Most Obed and Very Humble Servt. 

John Gibson 
His Excellency, James Madison, 
President of the United States 

IlARrxisoN TO Secretary of War 
No 40 

Headquarters lliAMi Rapids IStli Feby. 1813 

Har. Pa. 932-03U 

Sir: 

I can not make any great calculations upon getting 12 
months volunteers from the Militia now in the field. There 
ai'c many of them who express a great willingness to serve but 
having been so long from Home they must return first to see 
their families. 

I have explained my opinion so fully upon the subject of 
the proposed operations in the spriiig that it remains only for 
the Gove]'mnent to determine whether the attack upon Maiden 
and Detroit shall be made as early as possible round the Head 
of the Lake or whether we shall wait the construction of a 
na\-al force capable of opposing that of the enemy with suc- 
cess and assisting the operations of our Troops in the same 
direction or transport them to the Northern shore. 

If the former plan is adopted a much larger force would 
be required, but the object would be sooner attained. From 
what I learn of the state of the feelings of the people both in 
this state and Kentucky there will be a vast body of volunteers 
ready to take the field early in the spring. They will however 
be principally mounted. I am informed today by Genei-al 
Meade from Meadsville Pennsylvania that a number of volun- 
teer corps could be jn-ocured in that part of the State to join 
this army and that these corps that behaved so illy last year 
at Bulfjdoe are particularly anxious to serve in this direction 
to wipe ofi" the disgrace of their former ill conduct. I daily 



HAEUISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 365 

v'Cfivc applicatious fi'om persoTT^ who wish to join the army 
iri tlio i^priiig" with jrioiijiteci covps. ])ut lh(»]-e scoins to be a 
i;jcat (lisiucliuai;- an to sej'\e on fool. 

1 have not yet received the late L:nv for raising an adcli- 
li uial Lliiitary force, as soon as it r-.^ches n;.' and I receive 
> luir instrnctions as to the number and description of Troops 
tn;it arc to be employed I will put in motion every engine 
in uiy po^s'ci to procure them. Tv,'o men from the River 
Uriisin who arrived here on the sixteenth confirm the accounts 
Isfrctofore communicated of the unhappy fate of our wounded, 
.;!)!! {lie imi iisonment of the bearer of the Flag of trace I 
s< jit in. Jt is also certain that IMalden has received an ac- 
ccs.siori of force from below. The accounts as to its strength 
vjiries fiom one hundred and twenty to six hundred Regulai's 
;n;;i one account adds a considc}'able body of Indians. 

I have the Honor to be very ro; pectfully Sir yr. 

Obt. Scrvt. 

William Henry Harrison 
H-.iible John Ail:^TSTRONG, Es;;. Secretary of }Var 

HARinsoN TO Secrej'ary of War 
!\o. U.) 

Headquarters ]Miami Rapids 20th Fcby. 1818 

Har. Pa. 931 

Last iiiglit Inice respectable F]"e!:( l^nen cam;' into camp 
Horn the River Raisin and rcturnei; ; ain before day. The 
;^'''0i;'U5J given by them with regard ^- the events of the late 
• •■ ••')•■> .laii ui' mui'dcr of our prii^on^i: • onfirm tlU'Se given in 
My last, [see Feb. 11 above] The British have been rein- 
forced at iMalden, but they could not ascertain the number. 
/M>ou:: 3 v/eeks ago the keel of a vessel of war much larger 
tluui liie Queen Charlotte Vv^as laid at Maiden. 30 men work 
u|)oa her and 300 Si'ilors and workmen are expected from 
Quebeck dmXy. One of the Frenchurjn above mentioned wa^ 
toVI by a British orficer tluit the vessel would be completed b\' 
tiio last of June. 

i luivo tJiC honor to b.e with gi'cal respr-ct 
Sir your humble Svt. 

Vv^M. Henry Harrison 
The Honble The Secv. of War 



 

Ohio Militia Officers to Harrison 
Head Quarters camp, Miami Rapids Feb. 20, 1813 

Dawson, Harrison, 376 

Sir: 

The service of the troops under our respective commands, 
in manj^ cases having expired, and in all being about to close, 
it becomes necessary that we should shortly retire from the 
field. Permit us. Sir, (the general and field oflicers of the 
two brigades from the state of Ohio,) to address you at a 
moment in which the eyes of the whole people of the United 
States are directed towards your movements; at a time the 
inhabitants of the state of Ohio have everything to hope from 
your success, and every thing to dread from unfortunate 
events, should such attend your opperations. The misfortunes 
attending the capitulation at Detroit, were not confined to 
the disgrace of that surrender, the loss of service of so con- 
siderable a force, the property give up or territory abandoned ; 
it effects wounded us still deeper — it rendered the soldiery 
suspicious of the skill and integrity of their commanders, ex- 
cited jealousy and distrust, which the enemies of our govern- 
ment were spreading through the country, with views most 
wanton and disgraceful. At such a moment. Sir, and under 
those unpleasant circumstances, you were appointed to the 
comniand of the northv/estern army, to regain the territory 
so shamefully yielded up, to wipe off the stain from our arms, 
and to teach our enemy that he who could descend so far below 
civilized warfare, as to associate with savages, and mark his 
track with the blood of innocent victims, (sheathing his scalp- 
ing knife in the hearts of defenceless women and children) 
should not find a resting place within the reach of our ai'ms. 
Great was the undertaking, and numei'ous the obstacles which 
oppos(!d your progi'ess; a wilderness of nearly one hundred 
and fifty miles was to be traversed, which with its swamps 
and morasses presented difllcultics far greater than the Alps, 
Great as were these obstacles, relying on the willingness of 
your troops to endure any hardships, to reach the enemy, you 
rightly judged that they might be sui'mounted. A few weeks 
past, every circumstance united to promise you an immediate 
accomplishment of your designs.' Large supplies of provi- 
sions, and numerous munitions of war were so far advanced 
as to be within your control; your troops, with an unbounded 



 

reliance on your judgment and skill, were eager to be led up 
to the enemy, and waited but your order to march; your 
exertions had been great, and everything promised the suffer- 
ing soldier a speedy reward for his toils. At this important 
moment the unfortunate movement of general Winchester to 
the river Raisin, with its unhappy consequences, (a movement 
we believe without your orders or concurrence) broke the 
successful chain of operations, and presented new and un- 
looked for difficulties before you. . ; - 

On retiring from service. Sir, we are happy in assuring 
you of our fullest confidence, and that of our respective com- 
mands, in the measures you have taken ; they have been cau- 
tious, skilful, and guarded such as would at this time have 
carried our anns to the walls of Maiden, had not the unhappy 
occurrences at the river Raisin checked your progress, and 
for a short time thwarted your plans of operation. That you 
may soon teach the enemy the distinction between an honor- 
able and savage warfare, by planting our standard in the 
heart of their country, and regain the honor and territory we 
have lost, and as a just tribute to valour, toils, and suffering, 
receive the grateful thanks of a generous and frw people, is 
among the first, the warmest wishes of our hearts. 
,r^vy\^V^:--iV-r Edward W. Tupper, Brigadier General 

Simon Perkins, Brigadier General 

CUARLES Miller, Colonel :,: /^ 

John Andrews, Lieutenant Colonel 

William Rayen, Colonel 
=^; ,; . Robert Safford, Lt. Co. 2d regt Ohio quota 
- N. Beasley, Major -^>-'-^--'A<^^0yy'< ■■ 

James Galloway, Major " "'' % i!-^!^'^,. 

Solomon Bentley, Mayor 5 J J 

George Darrow, Major 

W. W. COTGREAVE, Major 

Jacob Frederick, Major 
His Excellency William Henry Harrison, Commander in 
Chief of the North Western Army 






"■^wr- '■-afr'fiTJft. 



3G8 • INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

No 42 

Head Quarters (Camp Meigs) Miami Rapids, 
■•■S -^ ^.-^ 24th Feby. 1813 

.,:■... ,. :•<.'■■ ' Har. Pa. 939-942 

Sir: V'"' ^^>' ' ■■^''^-- ' " - 

I had not the honor to receive the letter of Colo. Monroe of 
the 21st ult. [see above] until this evening. 

I am still occupied in Fortifying the Camp at this place. 
A few days will place it in a situation with twelve or fifteen 
liundrcd men to bid defiance to all the force in Upper Canada. 

Tlie destruction of the enemy's naval force in Lake Erie has 
never ceased to occupy my attention and after having exam- 
ined in my mind every prospect which occured to myself or 
those whom I consulted there appears to me to be no other 
practicable but that of crossing over Lake Erie from the 
mouth of the Sandusky Bay along the chain of Islands which 
extend at small intervals from that bay to within eighteen 
miles of Maiden. The intention is to put from one hundred 
and fifty to two hundred men in sleds to pass to the norther- 
most island in one night and on the succeeding one to reach 
the vessels some hour before day. The Detachment is selected 
and combustible matter preparing. The command will set out 
from hence the day after to morrow for Lower Sandusky. 
Last year sleds frequently passed over the Lake in this di- 
rection. I have procured a pilot who is or who says he is 
well acquainted with the Islands. A respectable man whom 
I some times since selected for the purpose and who resided 
many years on one of the islands unfortunately died ten days 
ago and it is only within a few days that I have been able to 
find another. I have no Field ofiicer who possesses all the 
qualities I could wish for such an enterprise. A very young 
man Capt. [Angus Lewis] Langham of the 17th Rcgt. will 
have the command of it. The season is a little too far ad- 
ranced — but I have strong hopes that it may succeed. lii my 
last I informed you that the British had commenced building 
another vessel of War of larger size than the Queen Charlotte. 
Expedition in the building and equipment of our vessels may 
prevent this vessel from being useful to them. 

The whole of the Troops are now actively engaged in forti- 
fying the Camp here in such a manner as bid defiance to any 



i  

cfTort of the enemy. A few days will complete it. As soon 
as it is done I shall leave the command here to Genl. Leftwitch 
of the Virginia Brigade and proceed to Franklinton and 
Chillicothe for the pui^ose of receiving your instructions and 
facilitating the organization and equipment of the force des- 
tined for the operations in the spring. I cannot at present 
tell what may be done in the western country under the late 
law of the U. States for raising 12 months men, nor of course, 
what auxiliary force, will be wanted from the Militia. From 
the letters I have received from Kentucky I believe the ardor 
for the service has not abated and I am persuaded that volun- 
teers for the campaign can be procured to any amount if they 
are allowed to sei^ve on horseback. The body of the army 
must however be Infantry and if a sufficient force cannot be 
procured in Kentucky and Ohio I would recommend detach- 
ments from the Virga. and Pennsylvania Militia. The Ken- 
tucky Troops that were with this army have all been dis- 
charged excepting a few companies that are in garrisons. The 
last of those from Ohio will be dismissed to day. Those from 
Virginia, Pennsylvania and a few regulars are all that will 
remain, they however will be sufficient to protect the posts. 
But I fear that the Kentucky Troops may not be here in time 
enough to relieve them by the first of April when the term of 
sen'ice of the Pennsylvanians and Virginians will expire. 

I have not received the return of the quantity of provisions 
on hand at the several posts, the supplies however are immense 
and quite sufficient for the operations of the coming summer. 

I am Sir with great respect and esteem your obt. Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
llonble John Armstrong, Esq. Secretary of War 

S. G. Hopkins Jr. to Harrison 

Upper Sandusky, Feb. 24, 1813 

Dawson, Harrison, HO 

Dear General: I had hoped to have had the pleasure of 
waiting on you in person before I again return to the in- 
terior. It seems the malice of some mischievous and unprin- 
cipled person has represented to you that I had so far acted 
the hypocrite and poltroon, as to have spoken disrespectfully 
of and attempted to injure you, after your departure from 



 

Kentucky. To colonel Campbell, whose friendship for me in- 
duced him to communicate this intelligence, I promptly and 
unequivocally declared its utter destitution of truth, and 
solicited him on his return from the expedition to Mississin- 
away, to make known this denial to you. At the period you 
received the appointment of major-general of the Kentucky 
quota of militia from general Scott, (an appointment to which 
my father had been regularly commissioned some time before) 
I confess my feelings were severely stung. I thought the 
measure calculated not only to inflict a tacit censure, but an 
egregious outrage upon the reputation and sensibility of him 
whom it was my duty most to venerate. 

It is probable, and I hope it is the fact, that being ignorant 
of the train of circumstances that led to this event, I may 
have looked upon it improperly : but it is certain I still think 
it sufficient to dissolve all the ties of friendship hitherto exist- 
ing between general Scott, the gentleman who advised it, and 
my father. Delicacy enjoined that I should be silent as re- 
lated to every person concerned, and I aver most solemnly I 
was strictly so: common prudence, General, required that I 
should particularly seal my lips as it regarded you, for it is 
known to all, who know me, how ardently and sincerely I had 
been your advocate in every situation of life in which I have 
been placed. I was so from principle, and consequently claim 
no obligation from you for anything of this kind. Apart too 
'-^ from this consideration I here assure you that I had discov- 
, '\ ered nothing in your conduct to merit either my censure or 
resentment, and, so help me God, you never had either. It is 
due to truth and my feelings that I should request you to ac- 
quaint me with the name of the person who has so unjustly 
and insidiously assailed me. If consistent with your situation 
towards him, I trust I shall be gratified in this particular. 

- A court of enquiry on the conduct of my father will, I am 
informed, be held in Frankfort on the fourth of March next. 
With your permission I will request major [James V.] Ball 
for a furlough to attend there at that time. The major will 
judge of the propriety or impropriety of granting the appli- 
cation at the period at which it will be solicited. It is the 
first indulgence of the kind I have ever sought, and you will 
at once appreciate the feelings which dictate it in this in- 
stance. A line from you (directed to Lebanon) as soon as 



 

your convenience may permit, will be most thankfully received. 
Pardon the trouble I am giving you : and the confusion with 
which I am surrounded must plead my apology for the im- 
perfect manner in which I have addressed you. I have the 
honour to be, most respectfully, your friend and servant. - 

S. G. Hopkins 

Baker to Winchester 

British Niagara, Feb. 25, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, 54 

Bi-igadier-General Winchester 

Sir: In compliance with j'our order of the 29th, January 
directed to Dr. Bowen and myself, I took charge of the Amer- 
ican prisoners at Sandwich on the 30th of the same month. 
On the 15th inst. I was ordered on to this place by col. Proctor; 
having arrived I deemed it my duty to report to you whatever 
transpired with the prisoners under my charge, and the in- 
formation I was able to collect concerning the other prisoners 
taken by the Indians. 

The enclosed report marked (A) gives you a view of all the 
prisoners who were under my charge during my stay at Sand- 
\vich, their respective companies, regiments and physical con- 
dition, along with the names of the British officers, by whom 
they were sent to Sandwich. 

From this report you will discover that of the fifty-two 
prisoners thirteen were at Sandwich. On my arrival from 
Detroit, 7 men were sent from Maiden by col. Elliott, one was 
obtained by Col. Baubee, and 33 including those who came 
over with Dr. Bowen and myself, were sent from Detroit by 
Major Muir, British commander of the American fort there. 
For the greatest number of our unfortunate fellow soldiers 
being sent from Detroit, we are indebted to the exertions of 
our prisoners, fellow-citizens there, who with an unexampled 
generosity, when they saw their countrymen driven through 
the streets like sheep to a market, lavished their wealth for 
their ransom; nor was the procuration of our liberty all — we 
had been almost entirely stipped by the Indians ; cloathes such 
as the exigence of the occasion permitted to be prepared, were 
furnished us. 

Enclosed I send you a roll of 33 prisoners who were sent 
from Sandwich on the 8th inst. as well as eleven who came on 



 

to this place with Dr. Bowen and myself, and of 5 others who 
remained at Sandwich under the care of Dr. Samuel IM'Kee- 
han, surgeon's mate 2d regiment 2d brigade, Ohio volunteers. 

The prisoners at Sandwich with the exception of Josse Green 
will all recover, and much is to be hoped for him. 

One man died on the 1st instant, Martin Netherford, a pri- 
vate in capt. Bland W. Ballard's company, 1st regiment Ken- 
tucky volunteer riflemen. 

On the 8th inst. col. Proctor ordered me to make out a re- 
turn of all the prisoners who were killed by the Indians subse- 
quent to the battle, agreeable to the best information I could 
collect. The enclosed return marked (B) [see Jan 22 above] 
was produced by this order; I might have added the gallant 
capt. Nathaniel Gray S. Hart, deputy inspector-general; cap- 
tain Virgin M'Cracken, of col. Allen's regiment; captain John 
H. Woodfolk, your secretary ; ensign Levi Wells of the 7th U. 
S. infantry, and a number of privates, who I find by subse- 
quent information have been massacred. The memory of past 
services rendered me by captain Hart's family, made me par- 
ticularly anxious to ascertain his fate, I flattered myself he 
was alive, and every information I could get for some time 
flattered my hopes; but one of the last prisoners who was 
brought in told me that the captain was certainly massacred ; 
he was so badly wounded as to prevent him from walking; 
the Indians took him some distance on a horse, but at length 
took him oft and tomahawked him. 

About the 10th instant, and Indian brought captain 
M'Cracken's commission to Sandwich ; the paper was bloody. 
The fellow said be took the captain in trust, but some time 
after when stripped and examining him, he found an Indian 
scalp in his bosom, which induced him to kill him. This you 
cannot but be assured is an humbug of the fellow's own mark- 
ing to screen himself from the odium of barbarity. The cap- 
tain's character and the danger that attended his carrying 
such furniture in a disastrous battle, gives it the lie. 

Captain Woolfolk after having been wounded in two places, 
by some means had got refuge in one of the French houses on 
the Raisin — he was discovered next day and dragged from his 
asylum — he was taken to the house of a Mr. Lassclle, where 
he said he would give one thousand dollars to any one who 
would purchase him. Mr. Lasselle said it was not in his power, 



 

but he had no doubt his brother would do it who lived at hand 
-he directed his owners to the house of his brother, but as 
Ihcy were on their way an Indian from a waste house shot 
him through the head. 

Iji.sijxn Wells was taken from my side unhurt. I consid- 
iTt.d him alive until on my arrival at this place, captain Naggs 
told me he was killed by a puttawatamie Indian, not long after 
h" v.-as taken. 

Many fresh scalps have been brought us since the battle, 
and dead bodies seen through the country, which proves that 
other.s have been killed, whose names I have not been able to 
(jnd out; independent of those reported to colonel Proctor. 

This sir, is all the information I have been able to collect 
concerning those who were massacred. The fifteen or eigh- 
teen mentioned in the remarks to the return made to colonel 
rrwtor, wliose names do not appear, were not known by those 
who saw them killed. '^ 

Major Graves of the 5th regiment of the Kentucky Volun- 
teers I liave been able to get no information of, further than 
that he was brought to the river Rouge on the 25th or 26th 
of .lanuary, in a sleigh; I fear from our not having heard any- 
thing of him since, that he is no more and that valuable offi- 
< er is forever lost to his country. 

lOnclosed (C) gives you the names of those who from good 
information are still in the bush. At a rough guess founded 
on the few facts I have been able to glean. I may say, with 
.«ome certainty that there are still thirty or forty alive with 
the Indians. 

The prospect of a speedy return of those poor fellows I 
think but gloomy, as colonel Proctor has issued an order, en- 
joining individuals to purchase no more; and the Indians have 
been paid a greater price for those already delivered, than the 
Kovernment will give. Colonels Wells, Lewis and Allen's serv- 
ants are acting as valets to Indian chiefs. Captain Hart's 
.'••ervant is alive, but where he is is uncertain. 

The dead men of our anny are still denied the rites of 
bcpulture; at the time I left Sandwich I was told that the hogs 
were eating them ; a gentleman told me he had seen them run- 
ning about with sculls, arms, legs and other parts of the 
human system in their mouths. The French people on the 
river Raisin buried captains Hart, Woodfolk, and some others, 



 

but it was more than their lives were worth to have been 
caught paying this last tribute of humanity to the dead. 

I several times agitated the subject of burying the dead 
while in company with British officei's, but they always an- 
swered, that the Indians would not suffer it. 

Before I close this communication, I must in justice to my 
own feelings, mention those of our fellow citizens of Detroit, 
who were most serviceable to us. Colonel Elijah Brush, Mr. 
Richard Jones, Henry L. Hunt, esquire. Judge May, major 
Mack, and Mouse Godfrey, were most active; Oliver William- 
son, esquiie, Mi". Chittenden, Mr. Ten Eyke, Mr. Smart, Doc- 
tor Brown, Mr. Miller, Mr. M'Daniel, Monsieur Odrain, 
[Audrain] lieutenant Reed, Mr. M'Comb and many others pur- 
chased provision and aleviated our wants; others befriended, 
whose names through ignorance or want of retention are not 
inserted. But in paying a just tribute to our patriotic fellovr 
citizens, who for their services to us, are driven from their 
homes, our fair countrywomen should not be forgotten. 
Young ladies were frequently seen soliciting their fathers for 
horses, and when they had gained their point, exchanged their 
presents for Kentuckians. Mademoiselle Lasselle and Labadie, 
Miss Scott, M. Hays and others deserve to be mentioned. 

The exertions of these worthy people were directed and point 
given to them by our ever-to-be venerated countryman, Augustus 
B. Woodward, who with unwearied zeal exerted himself in 
our behalf at Detroit; he was the life and soul of the remain- 
ing Americans, t-o man to whom they all looked up for succor 
in the hour of difficuty; for advice in every occasion. This 
added to the influence he at first had with some of the British 
officers, enabled him to do wonders for us. This gentleman, 
whose exalted understanding entitles him to the first consid- 
eration for talents, appears to have no wish separate from 
the interests of his country; though eminenty qualified to en- 
joy society ; he gives up all its sweets to shield the unfortunate 
of his country from savage cruelty and British oppression. 

In the admiration of our countrymen, the deeds of our gen- 
erous enemies should be remembered. Colonel Baubee took 
an active part in providing for our welfare, and showed that 
he possessed a generous nature, the noblest attribute of a 
soldier. 

Colonel Eliott was serviceable in rescuing some prisoners 
from the Indians. 



 

Major Muir is truly a gentleman and showed every dispo- 
sition to serve us. 

The reverend Mr. Pollard of Sandwich visited the hospital 
fi-equently, and read the service over Wetherford when he was 
ill! erred. Captains Aikins, Curtish and Barrow, who com- 
manded the guard of our prisoners, all deserve my thanks. 
Dr. Cowen was unwearied in his attendance upon our 
wounded, and during our stay studied only to aleviate their 
pain. He was ordered on to this place with me. 

Dr. M'Keehan, is the gentleman who was sent through by 
general Harrison with a flag of truce, to attend the wounded. 
His wound had prevented him from doing much while we re- 
mained. He is a M^orthy man, and I have no doubt but the 
l)risouers will do well under his care. 

Wishing you health, and all the happiness your situation 
peiinits, I remain sir, with great respect, your obedient serv- 
ant. % 
Isaac L. Baker Ensign 2d. reg. U. S. Inf'y 

Secretary of War to R. M. Johnson 

Feb. 26, 1813 

McAfee, History, 2S6 

Sir: 

You are hereby authorized to organize and hold in readi- 
ness a regiment of mounted volunteers — the organization as 
to the number of officers and men, to be conformable to the 
military establishment of the United States. The governor 
of the state of Kentucky will be required to commission the 
oflicers when selected, to serve four months after being called 
into actual service; and six months if required by the United 
States — the pay of officers and men to commence from the 
actual service and march of the corps, under the direction of 
tlio war department. After marching oi'ders, the contractors 
and commissaries' agents in the difl'erent districts through 
which it passes, will supply the regiment with forage for the 
horses and provisions for the men, if required so to do. The 
keepers of military stores, will also furnish said corps with 
anununition on regular returns of the effective force of the 
regiment. If any difficulty arises as to rank, the commanding 
general will settle the same, after the corps shall have reached 
it place of destination. Armstrong 



 

Jennings to Constituents 

Washington City 27th Febj-. 1813 

Har. Pa. 450-452 

Fellow Citizens of Indiana 

Tlie General Government has authorized me to inform you 
that four additional Companies of Rangers may be raised in 
our Territory for the protection of its frontiers. Each com- 
pany to consist of one Captain three lieutenants an ensign, 
five sergeants and six corporals and ninety privates. Those 
four additional companies of Rangersare to be raised by ac- 
ceptance of Volunteers, who will of course choose their own 
ofTicers. After any company shall have been thus formed, and 
shall have selected their officers, it will be necessary for them 
to signify the same to the Governor or Secretary of the Ter- 
ritory in an authenticated manner and tender at the same 
time their services as a company of Rangers through the Gov- 
ernor or Secretary to the President of the U. S. The pay of 
the officers will be the same as others in the army of the U. 
S. and the privates if mounted will receive one dollar per day, 
if not, seventy five cents.^ 

It is much to be desired, that every exertion will be made 
to have those companies organized as soon as possible and that 
tlioy may be raised in such a manner, as will give to every por- 
tion of the Territory, that safety and that satisfaction so 
advantageous and desirable to its citizens. 

Upon the subject of the protection of our frontiers, I have 
received numerous communications from you, but until now, it 
has been impossible for me to return any satisfactory or cer- 
tain answer. 

The house of representatives has passed a Bill giving 
further time to the purchasers of public lands to complete 
their payments. In its provisions it is similar to the acts 
passed the last session of Congi'css for that purpose and I 
have no doubt of its finally becomeing a law. 

When we shall realise the return of peace I am unable to 

1. This act provided for ten companies of ranKCis and bears date Feb. 25, 1813. 
Annnig 12 Cong. Ill, i.tSi. The first company was orpanizcd Apr. 12. 1818. William- 
Bon iJunn, capt., Henry Urenton, Henry Ristine, David Hillis, and Grcon B. Fields sub- 
alterns. The Beciind comr>aiiy, same date, Pierre Andre, capt., Hyacinthe Lasselle, 
llnmcr Jolinson, John lladden, and David Gre;-rK, subalterns. Third company,' Apr. 30, 
Jnmes Hipjcer. rapt., John Carr, James Currey, Wm. P. Meredith and John Owens 
Bubaltcrns. May IIO Frederick Shoults was appointed a capt. 

Ex. Jour. V. S. 370 






 

say, though I hope and expect that another year or less will 
in a great measure remove the dangers to which we have been 
exposed from the indiscriminating Tomahawk and scalping 
knife of the savage. 

Most respectfully 
I am your obedt. HI. Servt. 

Jonathan Jennings 
A true copy of the Original , . 

Basil Pratiter . W& 



Secretary of \Var to Harrison 

War Department March 3d, 1813 

Har. Pa. 53, 5^ 

To Wilkinson Major Gl. Same letters to Generals. Lewis, 
Harrison, Hampton, Davy, Ogden • 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that on the 2d instant the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate 
appointed you a Major General in the Army of the United 
States.^ 

P. S. You will be pleased, on receipt of this letter to sig- 
nify to this Department your acceptance or non-acceptance 
of this appointment. 

, .. Posey to Secretary of War 



ViNCENNES, Ind. Ter, 



The 4th March 1813 
' ' . , ^ Har. Pa. U3-U5 

Dr. Sir : -' ' ■■■• ■ ^ ^^"' '-' --vr^ ■ 

I arrived at Jeffersonville in this Territory on the 7th ult. 
after a very fatiguing journey, tho' I enjoy my health very 
well.^ We have no news here worth communicating — the In- 
dians in small parties are frequently seen, and they commit 
some depredations — their chief object appears to steal horses. 
They have killed a few of the inhabitants and some of the 

1. The following brigadier gcneral.s were promoted under appointment of Feb. 27 
James Will^inson, Wade Hampton, "William R. Davy, Morgan Lewis, William Henry 
Harrison, and Aaron Ogdon. These wore confirmed March 1. 

Ex. Jo. U. S. II. 329, SSO 

1. The appointment of Posey to be governor of Indiana Territory was sent to the 
«enate along with that of Han-isoii to be major general Feb. 27. Posey was not con- 
firmed till Mar. 3, and then on a roll call 18 to 8. Roth Ohio t^enators oiiposed him, 
and one each from N. Hami>., N. Car., N. Y., R. I., Pciin., and Muss, 

27—22664 



 

rangers. Tlie rangers had a skirmish with the Indians six 
miles above fort La Mott, 25 miles above this, upon the north- 
west side of the Wabash in the Illinois Territory, in which 
two Indians were killed, and three of our men killed, and one 
wounded, this took place about ten days since, there were not 
more than ten of our men engaged and about 12 or 15 In- 
dians — the Indians had the first fire. The Indians at differ- 
ent times have taken a 'good many horses. It is conjectured 
to move their families within the limits of Canada as well as 
to mount their warriors. 

We have no news of what is passing at the City of Wash- 
ington or anywhere eastwardly, owing to the eastern mail not 
coming on for three weeks. I hope our armies will be ready 
to take the field and make a descent upon Canada by the last 
of June if not before. I am making every exertion to get the 
militia in a good way. A regiment of militia have been sta- 
tioned in various places, in stockade, and blockhouse fortifi- 
cations, which afford considerable protection to the inhabi- 
tants. The turn of service for which they were ordered will 
shortly expire, and their places supplied by the rangers under 
the comm.and of Col. [William] Russell. There are something 
upwards of an hundred regulars who are engaged in erecting 
a fortification in this town. Fort Knox being dismantled ; and 
there are forty at fort Ilarrison. The Col. informs me there 
are five companies of rangers in the Territory, this with the 
regulars above mentioned are the whole of the force in addi- 
tion to the militia in the Territory. No late information from 
Harrison's army. 

I am with respect and esteem your obt. servt. 

Th. Posey 

^ ; Secretary op War to Harrison 

War Department, March 5th 1813 

Har. Pa. 55-57 

I\rajor Gcnl. W. H. Harrison. 
Sir: 

I have the honor to acknovvdedge the receipt of your Dis- 
patches of the 11th, and 20th ultimo, [see above] 

The suspension of youi- movement in advance appears to 
have been necessary — but though this may be the case, your 
demonstrations against Maiden should not cease. These you 



 

will make in such way as shall be best calculated to keep up 
the enemy's alarm for the safety of that post and of the ships 
of war wintering there. You will be more able to appreciate 
the value of this policy when I state that we shall very soon 
be iu motion on the Niagara and the St. Lawrence. 

You did well in stopping the march of the two Regiments 
from Ohio. To have added to your force so long as your 
object is restricted to the maintenance of your present posi- 
tion, would have been a very useless expenditure of both 
public spirit and public money. 

As your campaigii is now at an end and is nearly ap- 
proached to that which is coming, it may be proper to com- 
municate to you the President's views in relation to your sub- 
sequent movements. 

It w^ould appear that Maiden can only be successfully ap- 
proached by the route you are now upon at two seasons of the 
j'car — mid-winter and mid-summer. The former is gone and to 
wait for the latter would be hardly less disasterous than de- 
feat itself. What remains for us to do is to keep our present 
ground till the Lake opens, and then to approach our object 
by water, and under convoy of the Vessels of War building at 
Presque Isle. These will be afloat and ready to operate by the 
middle of May. By the same time boats for the transporta- 
tion of the Troops a train of artillery, baggage, etc. may be 
constructed. Cleveland is believed to be the place best fitted 
for this purpose. It will also be made the Depot for the 
Troops to be employed on the expedition, which will be the 
24th Regiment now at Massac [southern 111.] and three of the 
twenty new Regiments provided by an Act of the Session of 
Congress w^hich closed yesterday. Two of these will be raised 
in the State of Ohio, and the third in that of Kentucky. 

Whatever these troops may fall short of the number and 
strength contemplated by the Law^s under which they shall be 
raised, must necessarily be made up from the militia and vol- 
unteers. Whence will arise the necessity of strictly attending 
to the progress of enlistments so that in the event of their 
failure, w^hich may be readily forseen, time may be left for 
resorting to the other expedient. 

The disbursements attending the employment of militia are 
so enormous, as to render indispensable some general rules 
which you will be careful to observe, and which are as follows 
viz. 



 

1. All Militia Detachments in the Service of the United 
States must be made under the requisition of some Officer of 
the United States (regularlj^ authorized to make such Requisi- 
tion) on the Executive Authority of the State or of the Terri- 
tory, from which the Detachments shall be drawn. 

2d. In these requisitions shall be expressed the number of 
privates, non-commissioned and connnissioned officers re- 
quired, which shall be in the same proportions to each other 
as obtain in the regular army. The looser method of requir- 
ing Regiments or Brigades will be discontinued. 

3d. So soon as one hundred privates, Eight non-commis- 
sioned and five commissioned officers shall have been organ- 
ized as a company under any requisition as aforesaid, they 
will be mustered, inspected and received into the Service of 
the U. States, and upon the rolls and reports made in conse- 
quence thereof, they will be entitled to pay, etc. and — 

4th. Payment will be made through the Regimental Pay- 
master in all cases in which the corps shall be organized as a 
Regiment, and in all cases in which it shall fall short of the 
number necessary to that organization, by the paymaster ac- 
companying the Army or Division to which it may belong. 

The Staff of your Division will be organized and instructed 
under the Law of which the inclosed Bill is a copy. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

; ;/,,■. ::,v War Department March 7, 1813 

Har. Pa. 5S, 59 

Genl. Wm. H. Harrison 
Sir: 

Your letter of the 18 of February [see above] was from 
some cause delayed much beyond the usual course of the mail 
and even some days after the receipt of your Dispatch of the 
20th. 

You will find by my letter of the 5th Instant [see above] 
the plan prescribed for your part of the ensuing Campaign, 
and to prevent any ill effect arising from its miscarriage, a 
second copy is herewith inclosed. 

It is probable that Colonel's [Duncan] McArthur and 
[Lewis] Cass will both be promoted to the Rank of Brigadier 
and will be assigned to the command of the two Brigades in- 
tended to form your Division of the Army. In the enumera- 



 

tion of Corps making parts of this Division I did not men- 
tion the two Regiments of the Line, the 17th and the 19th, 
parts of which are ah-eady with you. The filhng up of these 
would be an important service and you are requested to pro- 
mote it. 

If you are at ease with regard to the safety of your present 
post against the attacks of the enemy, and have secured to 
yourself the means of subsisting it, there can be no motive for 
either reinforcing it by new drafts from the militia, or retir- 
ing from it. If on the other hand your force should be so 
reduced as to make your stay perilous without a further rein- 
forcement, you may employ the two Regiments raised in Ohio, 
or so many of them as may be necessary to your object. If 
again the policy of adding to your force be forbidden by the 
difiiculty of subsisting it and there arises a combination of 
both facts, viz. a want of force to maintain your present posi- 
tion, and a want of means to subsist a larger one in that case 
and in that alone, you will retire to the frontier settlements 
and interpose the wilderness between you and the enemy. 
These directions have not grown out of any suggestions to be 
found in your letter but have been produced by a circumspec- 
tion which it is always proper to extend beyond the mere 
limits of existing circumsances. 

Gibson to Secretary of War 

, ' . . ViNCENNES; March 10th, 1813 

•"/•■ ■: ^::.■^ ■..'-■- Har. Pa. 260-262 

Sir : 

In pursuance of the authority given me by the Hon. Doctor 
Eustis, your predecessor I have succeeded so far in removing 
Fort Knox to this place as to have a considerable part of the 
necessary timber brought down, and the men quartered in 
tovvn. But I am fearful that I shall not be enabled to progress 
in or complete the erection of the Fort in this place because of 
the great opposition made to my orders by certain ofhcers of 
the Military here. They openly declare that they are not 
subject to my orders and act accordingly, to so great a de- 
gree do they contemn my orders, that Capt. [John F.] Chunn^ 

1. For a biography of John F. Chunn see article by A. C. Duddleston on Fort Har- 
rison, Am. MaK. of Hist. XXVIII, 20. Robert Buntin Jr. was the son of the old 
recorder at Vincennes. I , |1 j J^^^^ 



 

has gone from here with the few men under his command, 
notwitlistanding I had positively ordered him to remain here 
untill I should receive your answer upon the subject of him- 
self and Lieut. [Robert] Buntin^ of which I had tlie honor of 
apprising the Hon. Secty. of War upon a former occassion. 

Altho I have caused a number of detachments from our 
.Militia to be placed out upon our frontiers still marauding 
juirties of Indians slip into our settlements and murder and 
plunder. A few days ago two of the Militia men a part of a 
detaclnncnt stationed at the river Embarras, went out (con- 
trary to orders) about half a mile from the Block house and 
were killed and scalped. A man has been killed at his sugar 
camp near the Grand Rapids (about 30 miles from here) and 
another near the Bomepart (about 50 miles) below here on 
the Wabash — and a number of horses have been stolen out of 
the settlements in this neighbourhod. An act of bravery worth 
being recorded took place the other day. The Indians had 
stolen some horses from the settlement on Busseron. They 
were immediately followed by a small detachment of United 
States Rangers. They however all gave out except two, ie, 
Sargt. James Stewart and another man, who followed on 
untill they arrived within sound of the Indian Camps and 
finding that the Enemy were too numerous they stole off two 
of the Indian's horses and returned. 

Col. Russell, who has been absent from hero since last De- 
cember has not yet returned. 

I have the honor to be with consideration of Respect and 
Esteem 

Sir 
Your Obt. and very hbl. Servant 

John Gibson 
The Honble. John Armstrong, Secty. of War. 



No. 43 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Headquarters Franklinton 12th ]\Iarch 1813 



Har. Pa. 9JtS-9.',5 

'-'' (Duplicate) 

Sir: 

I had the honor to inform you in my letter of the 25th ulto. 
[see Feb 21 above] that I had organized a Detachment for 



 

tho purpose of striking a blow at the vessels of war of the 
enemy laying near ]\Ialden. Captain [Angus Lewis] Lang- 
ham with about 250 men in thirty sleds and sleighs set out 
fi-om Lower Sandusky on the 2nd Inst, and proceeded as far 
as Bass Island in the Lake without difficulty. Contrary how- 
ever to the experience of former years the Lake beyond was 
found to be entirely open. He was therefore obliged to return 
to the ]\Iiami Bay, where I met him with a detachment that 
was intended to cover his retreat. Finding that the original 
design was rendered abortive I had determined upon an ex- 
pedition to the River Raison for the purpose of burying the 
remains of our unfortunate countrymen who fell on the 22d 
Jany. But the ice was so weak as no longer to afford a safe 
passage along the edge of the lake. Our horses were con- 
stantly breaking through and one man v/as unfortunately 
drowned. I therefore returned to camp with the whole of the 
detachment. And on the 7th Inst, set out for this place. I 
left Genl, Leftwich in command at Camp Meigs. The fortifi- 
cations of which were so far completed as to render it per- 
fectly secure against any attempt of the enemy. Indeed the 
cause which prevented the advance of my detachment to the 
River Raisin would also prevent the Enemy from approaching 
the Rapids at least with artillery. I have the honor to enclose 
herewith a plan of Camp Meigs, The Redoubt Marked F is 
yet to be erected. Col. [James] Morrison has dctermmed to 
resign his appointment as Deputy Q. M. Genl. There is not 
a man in the United States who is in my opinion capable of 
discharging the duty of that department with as much ad- 
vantage to the public as himself. He is lost to the service in 
consequence of the singular arrangement which was made by 
the late Secretary of War of sending on another Dept. Q. M. 
Genl. with equal powers to those vested in Colo. Morrison. 
Since the departure of Captain [John IL] Piatt I have used 
my utmost endeavours to prevail upon Colo. Morrison to con- 
tinue in service, but he perseveres in his determination to re- 
tire at the end of this month. A report has reached us this 
morning that Genl. [Morgan] Lev/is is appointed a Major 
Genl. Should this be the case I am convinced that the interest 
of our country v/ould be greatly promoted by the appointment 
of Colo. Morrison to succeed him, The duties of Q. Master to 
the North Western Army do not require so much Military 



 

information as is necessary for the officer or the head of that 
Department in the other sections of the Union. An intimate 
knowledge of the Western country and its resources with in- 
tegrity and activity are the essential qualifications. These are 
possessed by John C. Bartlett^ Esq. acting at present as Field 
Comissary in an eminant degree. He would possess moreover 
the confidence of the Western country— particularly of Ken- 
tucky. 

I have not yet had the honor to receive any communication 
from you upon the subj. of the organization of the force for 
the ensuing campaign. 

With great respect I have the Honor to be Sir Yr. Hb. Sv. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

I have understood that the duplicate of this has been lost by 
the person who had charge of it in the Scioto [river]. 

W. H. H. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

No. 44 
, . , , .; Headquarters Franklinton 13th March 1813 

- "" ;• Ha/r. Pa. 9^6, 9h7 

Sir: . - / .■- ■'.:-\. ^-v-;^-^-"'-:. • ■ " 

I had the honor this day to receive your favor of the 3d 
Inst, [see above] I must beg you to believe that I properly 
appreciate the distinguished mark of the President's confi- 
dence, manifested by my appointment to the rank of Major 
Genl. in the army. 

I found at this place about eighty of the Militia which were 
lately called into service from this state. And as it is abso- 
lutely impossible for them to proceed by the Sandusky route 
I have ordered them to St. Marys there to be embarked upon 
that river. Two out of the four divisions of Militia in this 
State have turned out but a small proportion of their quotas. 
One fourth of the whole number called for is required to gar- 
rison the Posts on the St. Marys and Auglaise and nearly 
an other fourth for those of upper and Lov/er Sandusky and 
Foils ]\IcA)-thur and Findlay upon Hulls road. The remain- 
ing Five or Six hundred were intended for the Rapids and 
would have been sufficient with the regular Troops and volun- 
teers now there to have maintained the post untill the last of 

J, John C, Bartlctt of Ky. was appointed Quarter Master Gen. Apr. 12, 1813, 



S5 

April. Cut the deficiency above mentioned has obliged me to 
order in all the recruits of the 19th Regt. that have been en- 
listed in this State and to send an express to Govr. Shelby 
requesting him to forward a part of the i\Iilitia formerly 
called for as speedily as possible. I fear however that they 
v.'ill not be able to reach the Rapids, before the expiration of 
the term for which the Virginia and Pennsylvania INIilitia was 
called out. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr ,„, ' 

Hb. Sevt. 
WiLLTki. Henry Harrison 
llonb. John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of TT'ar ;. '; 

(Endorsed) 

H. Q. Franklinton 13 Mar. 1813. Genl. W. H. Harrison ack. 
letter of the 3d inst. Has ordered in the Recruits of the 19th 
Rcgt. from Ohio and made a requisition on the Gov. of Ken- 
tucky for a detachment of IMilitia to secure his posts. 

Posey to Secretary of War ' v 

- - City of Washington 14th March, 1813 

Har. Pa. 277, 278 

Sir; 

It would have given me pleasure to have had a shoi-t con- 
versation with you upon the subject of ]\Iilit-ary supplies for 
the Territory of Indiana, but circumstances have not admitted 
it. 1 am urged on my journey from imperious necessity. 

The information that I wished was as relates to milit-ary 
supplies of arms and other munitions of war that may have 
been ordered on, or may be in contemplation to be ordered on 
by the Gen. Government. I would have seen you this morning 
but know you must have recourse to the records of the de- 
partment of war which probably w^ould cause delay and com- 
pany is waiting. You will much oblige me by a few lines upon 
the subject as early as possible direct to me at Vincennes. 

I have the honor to be with much respect 

Your Humble Servant 

Th. Posey 



 

Secretary of War 

War Department March 17, 1813 

Har. Pa. 61 

Sir: 

Careful store-keepers should be appointed at the several 
places at which provisioiis have been deposited and the pro- 
visions themselves should be inspected and re-packed. 
]\Iajor General Wm. II. Harrison 

Secretary of War 

War Department March 17, 1813 

Har. Pa. 62, 63 

Sir: 

Your last Dispatch received at this Department is of the 
24th ultimo. The services of the Troops under your command 
having become those of posts and little probability existing 
that their more active operations when resumed, v/ill be on 
a route requiring the aid of draft-horses or draft-oxen you 
will no doubt have disencumbered yourself of the heavy train 
of these which was unavoidable so long as you expected to 
have reached Maiden by land. 

Your supplies also being abundant and even co-extensive 
with the consumption of the next summer, all further expendi- 
tures of this description will be forborne. 

The frequent and heavy demands made by your agents and 
other reasons of a public nature, render it necessaiy to limit 
their drafts on this Dept. They will hereafter not exceed 
twenty thousand dollars per month until their accounts are 
settled. 

You will therefore direct all such officers as have been em- 
ployed in the Qr. Master's Department and all pui'chasing 
agents for the north western army to prepare and forward 
their accounts and vouchers to the accounting of this Depart- 
ment for immediate settlement. 

A Brig. General will be appointed to command the District 
composed of the Territories of Indiana Illinois and jMissou]"i 
and to him will be confided the command of the Rangers and 
militia within these territories. 
Major Genl. Harrison , .\ 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Chilacothe 17th Maj-cli 1813 

Sir : 

I had the honor tliis day to receive your communication of 
tlie oth Instant, [see above] I have in a former letter informed 
you that I thouglit it necessary to reiterate my application 
to the Governor of Kentucky for the two Regiments which I 
had requested him to organize for immediate service. This 
step was taken after the most mature deliberation and upon 
the fullest conviction not only of its propriety but of its abso- 
lute necessity. With the exception of two Remnants of Tribes 
and a part of another we are nov/ at war with all the Indians, 
which fonned the confederacy that was opposed by the army 
under General Wayne, Avith the addition of Several numerious 
and warlike Tribes and the wiiole of this savage force di- 
rected by the skill of British officers and supported by the 
steady valour of British vetei'ans. Several important posts 
have been established in the immediate vicinity of the enemy 
in which and in those which connect them with the settlements 
large supplies, have been deposited of immense value from 
their actual cost and of vital importance to our future opera- 
tions. With a frontier so extensive to protect and a deposit 
so sacred to guard against the attempts of any enemy as sub- 
tle and formidable as Indians and British when united cer- 
tainly are — I could not think that a force which in the agre- 
gate would not exceed three thousand and which from experi- 
ence 1 knew would not amount to two thousand effectives 
w^ould be two large. The post at the Miami Rapids may be 
maintained for some weeks with Five hundred or six hundred 
men. It ought not hov/ever in my opinion to have less than 
twelve hundred. The Forts upon the Auglaize and St. Marys 
seven in number including Fort Wayne must be kept up to 
pi'eserve our convoys. That of Lower Sandusky is so impor- 
tant and so easily assailable as soon as the lake is navigable 
that I feel great apprehentions for it altho' protected by two 
companies. That at Ujjper Sandusky has now within its walls 
upwards of three thousand barrels of Flour Twelve thousand 
bushels of forage and othei- valuable stores, surrouiided by 
three hundred Wyandot Warriors whose friendly disposition 
can not be considered unequivocal. I could not commit its 



 

protection to less than two weak companies. At Mc Arthurs 
and Findley's Block Houses there are nearly three thousand 
barrels of flour which also require protection and the Five 
thousand which are at St. Marys (Girtys Town on the Map) 
and Amanda (Tawa Tov/n on the Augiaize) cannot descend 
to the Rapids in safety without escorts even if it were not 
necessary to send Troops to the Rapids to supply the place of 
the Virginia and Pennsylvania Militia whose term of service 
Vv'ill expire in fifteen days. 

*The known candour of your character is a sufficient se- 
curity for my receiving your pardon for the liberty I take in 
making objections to the plan of operations communicated 
in your letter of the 5th Inst. If there is a positive certainty 
of our getting command of Lake Earie and having a regular 
force of three thousand five hundred or even three thousand 
well disciplined men the proposed plan of setting out from 
Cloaveland and landing on the northern shore below Maiden 
would perhaps be the one by which that place and its depend- 
encies, could be most easily reduced. I am unacquainted with 
the extent of the preparations that are making to obtain the 
naval superiority upon Lake Earie, but should they fail and 
the Troops be assembled at Cleveland, it would be dificult to 
get again upon the proper track for making the attack round 
the Head of the Lake. The attempt to cross the Lake from 
Clcaveland should not be made with any other than well dis- 
ciplined Troops. A comparatively smaller number of men of 
this description could effect the object and for those the means 
of conveyance might be obtained. But the means of trans- 
porting such an army as would be required of Militia or un- 
disciplined regulars could not be procured. I can see no rea- 
son why Cleaveland should be prefered as the point of em- 
barcation for the Troops or the deposit of provisions and 
stores. These are already accumulated at the Rapids of 
]\Iiami or in situations to be easily sent thither to an amount 
nearly equal to the consumption of a protracted campaign. 
Altho the expence and difficulty of transporting the provisions, 
artillery and stores, for an army round the head of the Lak(i 
would be very considerable, the Lake being possessed by our 
ships and the heavy baggage taken in boats along its margin 
the troops would find no difficulty in the land route. The 
force contemplated in your letter is in my opinion not suffi- 



 

cicnt to insure success. Admitting that the whole should be 
raised by the time pointed out they would be very little su- 
perior to militia, the officers having with scarcely an excep- 
tion to learn their duly before they could instruct llieir men, 
we have therefore no alteniative but to make up by numbers, 
the deficiency in discipline. I am well aware of the intolera- 
ble expence which attends the employment of a large militia 
force. We are now however in a situation to avoid the errors 
which made that of the last campaign so peculiarly heavy. 
Our supplies are procured and so deposited that the period for 
the march of the army from the advanced posts can be ascer- 
tained to an hour; and of course the troops need not be called 
out until the moment they are to act. Experience has con- 
vinced me, that militia are more efficient in the early than in 
the latter part of their service. Upon the whole it is my 
decided opinion that the Rapids of Miami should be the point 
of Rendezvous for the Troops as well as the principal depot. 
Indeed it must necessarily be the first deposit, the provisions 
for the army being so placed that they can be taken to the Lake 
in no other way. The Artillery and a considerable supply of 
ammunition are already there. Boats and perouges, have 
been built in considerable numbers on the Auglaize and St. 
Marj^s Rivers and eveiy exertion is now making to increase 
them, intended for the double purpose of taking do^\^l the pro- 
visions to the Rapids and for coasting the Lake with the bag- 
gage of the army in its advance. I had calculated upon being 
able partially to use this mode of transportation even if the 
enemy should continue their naval superiority on the lake — 
but with this advantage on our side the whole baggage of the 
army could be safely, and expeditiously carried along the coast 
in the boats and Perouges which could be taken into the Strait 
to transport the amiy to the Canada shore. As I have before 
observed, the army unincumbered with heavy baggage would 
find no difficulty in marching round the lake at any season, 
but what the enemy would create; and we have the means of 
subsisting a force that vrould be irresistable. The objection to 
proceeding in this way stated in my letter to I\Ir. IMonroo arose 
from the time that would be necessary to construct boats after 
"we should have arrived at the Strait but this objection is en- 
tirely obviated by our obtaining the command of the Lake as 
the boats and perouges built upon the Miami will answer the 
purpose. ■ . 



 

With regard to the quantui'n of force, my opinion is that 
not only the rcg'uhir Troops, dcsi<!;nated in your Letter, but 
a large auxiliary coi'ps of Militia should be employed. The 
only objection arrises from the expensiveness of troops of that 
description. This however could not be an object considering 
the very short time that it would be necessary to employ them. 
Let the moment for the commencement of the march from 
tlie Ilapids be fixed, and the Militia might be taken to that 
point proceed and accomplish the object and return home in 
two months. Amongst the reasons which makes it necessary 
to employ a large force, I am sorry to mention the dismay and 
disinclination to the service which appears to prevail in the 
western country. Numbers must give that confidence which 
ought to be produced by warriors valour and intrepidity which 
never existed in any army in a superior degree than amongst 
the greater part of the militia which were with me through 
the winter. The new drafts from this State are entirely of 
another character and are not to be depended upon. I have 
no doubt however but a sufficient number of good men can be 
pi'ocured and should they be allowed to serve on Horse Back 
Kentucky would furnish some regiments that would be not 
inferior to those that fought at the River Raisin and they were 
in my opinion superior to any militia that ever took the field 
in modern times. Eight troops of cavalry have been formed 
in Kentucky to ofi'er me their services and several of them 
were intended for 12 months volunteers. Gov. Shelby has 
some thoughts of taking the field in person; a number of good 
men will follow him. He thinks that an address from me to 
ihc i)eople of the state would produce a good effect. I have 
strong objections to those addresses but will nevertheless have 
recoui'se to one should other means fail of bringing forward 
a snfTicient force. 

l'A-(M'y exertion shall in the mean time be used to forward 
tlic i-ecruiting service. Foi' a fev/ weeks I think that my 
services would be more useful in that than any other employ- 
ment.=*^» 

For the Wiuit of another ofiicer wlio is qualified for so im- 
po)-t;int a charge I hav(! been obliged to order Colo. [John] 
Millo)- of the IDth to Camp Meigs and have committed the re- 
ci-uiling disti-ict to Major [John] Whistler until the arrival of 

I. 'J'hr I'ait-i of this letter Ijclwcen the two *'s wcro umlci .scoif<l by the sccrftaiy 
of v;tr anrl foiinci) the basis of the eiiMiin!,' campaign. 



 

Lt. Col. [John B.] Campbell who is hi the southern part of 
Kentucky on furlough. 

The British emissaries have been throu.'^hout the winter 
amongst the Indian Tribes engaging them for the service of 
the present spring. The Potav\'atimies and Miamies alone 
have agreed to furnish 1000 wari'iors and the British have 
promised to meet our army between the Miami Rapids and 
Maiden. The Indians will not want to be cooped up in Maiden, 
Knowing then the point, and having it in our power to fix the 
hour Y/hen the decisive action will be fought — why with such 
a population as the western country affords should we not 
have a force that will leave nothing to chance? I must again 
intreat your pardon for the freedom with which these obser- 
vations are made and beg you to believe that whatever may 
be your final orders and however oposcd to my own opinions 
they shall be executed with promptitude and fidelity. I shall 
be thankful for as early information as may be convenient 
as to the extent of the command which is intended for me and 
whether any cooperating expeditions to the westward are in- 
tended. Upon this subject my opinion is that feints well 
supported will answer every purpose of making divertions. It 
is the intention of the British to assemble for the protection 
of Maiden all the Indians they can get. I do not therefore 
believe that any attempt Vv^ill be made by a considerable force 
upon our settlements to the westward until late in the sum- 
mer. They may however make demonstrations in that direc- 
tion to cause a division of our force. Col. [William] Russell 
of the 7th Regt. has hitherto commanded under my orders in 
the Indiana Territory. He is I believe now in Kentucky. I 
shall order him to Vincennes immediately. I am convinced 
that I can render more service by remaining within the set- 
tlements in forwarding the recruiting service and organising 
the new army than by returning to the frontier. I beg leave 
to recommend that a Brigd. be sent on to take the command at 
the Rapids. I have understood that Genl. William Clark is to 
be appointed a Brigd. Having served several years with this 
gentleman and having a perfect knowledge of his character 
and talents I do not hesitate to say that in the kind of warfare 
in which we are engaged I had lathei' have him with me than 
any other man in the United States. 

From the concluding paragraph of your letter I have sup- 



 

posed that it was the intention of the Pj-esidcnt to ix^i-mit me 
to nominate the staff of the N. Western army. I have not 
however done so, and shall wait your further instructions upon 
the subject. 

I have the honor to be with perfect respect 

Yr. lib. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Ilonble. John Armstrong Esq. Secy, of War 

Indorsed : 

Chilicothe 7th March 1813. Major Genl. Harrison. Has reit- 
erated his request to the Gov. of Kentucky for' additional 
forces — states forts and their strengths — thinks the Rapids a 
point of rendezvous preferable to Cleveland — Does not think 
the force assigned him sufficient for the object, cannot at first 
be better than militia — states the great advantage of com- 
manding the Lakes — Col. Russell ordered to Vincennes. 

. . Shelby to Harrison 
> ,;„ .r: > . : Frankfort March 20th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 970-976 

Dear Sir: 

By the mail of last evening I was favored by the receipt of 
your letter of the 12th inst. At the time it came to hand 
Brigdier Genl. Green Clay, and the Field officers of the De- 
tachment now ordered from this State to the Rapids was in 
council at Lexington to determine on the most suitable places 
to assemble the troops on the rout to Limestone. Their ren- 
dezvous having been previously ordered by my self to be on the 
29th inst. Immediately on the receipt of your letter I dis- 
patched an express to General Clay, who will command the 
detachment, inclosed him a copy of your letter to me and di- 
rected him to fix upon such places for the rendezvous as 
would facilitate the movement of the troops on the rout to 
Cincinati as you request except such of them as would neces- 
sarily come by Limestone from the northeastern part of the 
state the whole of this detachment being ordered from the 
north side of Kentucky as it was believed they could join you 
from eight to ten days sooner than if ordered from the south- 
ern quarter of the state. My express to Genei'al Clay was 
instructed to arrive in Lexingtoji this morning by daylight 



BlrtfjnrMatfa^*^ 



 

before tlie board of officers should disperse. I cannot say 
exactl^^ vvhat poi'tion of the troops maj' assemble at Limestone 
but probably not more than one Batalion. 

The Residue of the Militia directed to be organix'Xi and 
detached by the Act of the 3d of Feby. last say 1500 infantry 
now stand detached from the Militia of this State in pursu- 
ance of that Law subject to any future requisition from the 
General Government. 

It was truly unfortunate that you could not accomplish the 
destruction of the Queen Charlotte as without the command 
of Lake Erie it is evident to every reflecting- mind, that no 
decent upon Upper Canada by way of ]\Ialdcn, can promise a 
favourable issue, and it will be madness in the extreme to put 
to hazard the best blood and interest of our country to attempt 
it until that event is effected, very many considerations might 
be urged in support of this opinion v/hich have no doubt oc- 
curred to you, and are unnecessary for me now to repeat. I 
fear however that the British are also constructing vessells 
of War and that when the Spring opens they will be able to 
counteract us upon the Upper Lakes. It is said by some of 
the prisoners taken at River Raisin that seventy ship carpen- 
ters were met on the way to Maiden by our men on their 
march to Fort George besides the enemy have many harbours 
of Vv'hich we know nothing and at which they may be erecting 
vessels of war, whose timber and etc. are at places entirely 
out of our reach or conception. 

The citizens of Kentucky feel a deep interest in the event of 
future operations against the enemy and I have no doubt if 
such measures for the reduction of Maiden was adopted, as to 
promise success to the enterprise that the inhabitants of this 
state would litterall.y rise in mass to effect its destruction, and 
revenge the massacre of our fellow-citizens. It would be the 
extreme of folly and madness to enter upper Canada with a 
force barely sufficient to effect the conquest of any particular 
place. Our force should be an imposing one aii army in which 
all would have confidence and success not less than from ten 
to fifteen thousand men — This would draw out men of talents, 
wealth, and influence, from whose exertions and enterprise 
everything might be expected that can be achieved by any 
set of men on earth. But my dear Sir, if our success is to 
d('])end on half measures such as have been too often experi- 

28— 22CG4 



?m INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

cnced during the late campnigii, nothing more need be ex- 
pected from Kentucky tlian what will be coerced bj' the Law 
of the Land, 1 wish sincerely tliat tliis subject could ])c im- 
pres.sed, deeply impressed upon the mind of our beloved Pres- 
ident, that when he does invest you with power to make a 
d.'ccnt u])on Canada, that he would also authorize you to call 
for a force competent to the great object in view nor do I 
believe that any force ought to cross above until a sure foot- 
hold was obtained below to keep the enemy imployed in that 
(iu'\rter. 

Governor Edwards has recently informed me that he has 
obtained satisfactory information that the British agents are 
cxlcemi^ly busy about the Lake Michigan and that quarter. 
That Dixon is embodying the Indians and has artillery, mili- 
tary stores etc. at Chicago. The proximity of this place to 
I"\nt Wayne makes it highly probable that it will be an object 
of attack early this season and renders prudent every precau- 
tion which can be taken to strengthen and secure it. Should 
tlie savages with the aid of a few pieces of artillery once 
succeed in taking one of our forts, particularly as important 
an one as that of Fort Wayne it will add much to their Spirit, 
for enterprise and plunder, and give them a confidence in 
thiMi* own sti-englh which as yet they do not possess when 
bi'ought in contact with the more common fortifications. It 
\\ould also have a very alarming effect I fear upon our fron- 
tiers. 

WTthin a few weeks past several volunteer troops of six 
months cavalry have been raised and have reported them- 
selves to me and make applications for commissions and as 
yet I have not acted on them, not knowing that you v/ould 
want them. You will be pleased to notify me of your wishes 
on this subject and if it is desirable I will proceed to organize 
and connnission as many as may offer, or as you may suppose 
you may stand in need of. 

I have v>'ith considerable concern learned that the ]\Iilitia 
who served under you, have not received their pay. I do not 
know where the fault lies, nor that it will be in your power 
to i-emedy it, should it be, I know you will interpose with 
cheerfulness. I undei'stood that Mr. [Jesse] Hunt of Cin- 
cinati was by stipulation to have come to this state, and paid 
over the money to the Regime ntal paymasters but has failed 



HAIIRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 395 

to do so. I am also informed that the three Regiments of De- 
tached Militia who served under Genl. [Samuel] Hopkins are 
in a similar situation. I have to acknowledge the receipt of 
your several letters of the 11th 16th 18th and 24th covering 
your extensive correspondance with the Secretary at War. 
I am highly pleased with the views you have taken of our sit- 
uation, their general scope and tenor meet my entire appro- 
bation. 

Accept my Dear Sir the Consideration of my high esteem 
and regard and remain Yr. Mo. Ob. Servt. 

Isaac Shelby 
General Williaim H. Harrison 

Com-manding the Northwestern Ariity 

Edvv^ards to Shelby 

Kaskaskia, (I. T.) March 22, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, H8 

A few days ago I transmitted to you important informa- 
tion relative to the British and Indians in the upper parts of 
this territory. An express yesterday brought me informa- 
tion that eighteen pieces of cannon and a British ofllcer had 
arrived at Prairie de Chien. The ice is now completely out of 
our rivers. Some spies that I sent up the Illinois river are 
returned, reporting that they saw too much Indian signs to 
proceed as high up as they were directed. The express states 
that an Indian was discovered a day or two past very near to 
Fort Russell — he evidently was a spy. 

I have melancholy presages of what is to happen in the coun- 
try, particularly at Prairie de Chien, or rather at the mouth of 
the Ouisconsing. Should the British take possession of that 
place, I need not point out to you the difficulty of retaking it, 
or the importance of it to them. By water we should have to 
ascend 700 miles, by land not less than 400. Seven thousand 
Indians may easily be assembled at that place. Last year, in 
time of peace, there were 3377 there in the months of April 
and May. The following facts, which you need not doubt, 
will shew its importance: goods can be carried there fi'om 
Montreal by the way of the Utawas river, more expeditiously, 
with less expense and more safety, than by way of the lakes. 
It is a fact that a canoe from Montreal by this route, arrived 



^'M INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

with clisi)aU]ics to a gentleman in Cahokia in 30 day^. On Jiis 
nlurn lie went in llie same canoe to I\Iakanac, by the Illi- 
nois ri\er and could thence have descended to I\Iontreal in 
nin(; days. The traders of ]\Iontreal have passed from lake 
8up':)-ior to the Llississippi, thence into the North V\"'est. and 
have been brought into collision with the Hudson Hay Coni- 
jsany. The British can easily push a trade up the 'olumbia 
live)-. And combining all these facts, a person tolerably ac- 
quainted with geography of the country, the nature of the fur- 
trade, the inducements v.'ith the North-west Company to retain 
it, and the evident policy of the British in supporting it, can 
have no doubt of their inducements to occupy the mouth of 
the Ouisconsing. 

These anticipations make me feel for my country's honor: 
certainly it must be destructive of its reputation to permit 
such plans to be realized. The point I have mentioned, once 
fortified, will be more difTlcult to take than ]Malden. I am well 
ai)prized of all the objections that may be made to these 
speculations, on the score of provisions ; but those who make 
them cannot know much of the supplies that can be furnished 
by the settlements of Green bay (where there is an elegant 
mercliant mill, fine farms, &c.) and Prairie de Chien itself. 

T never c-ould see the advantage of so great a struggle for 
Maldi-n. ^Montreal once taken, it would fall of itself; and one 
single expedition would drive to the I\Iississippi country all 
the Indians that ever had intercourse v/ith that place. It 
would not cut off the intercourse as has been supposed. 

Notwithstanding I have regularly communicated inforn.ia- 
tion which must have' shown what our situation would be ;.t 
this time, and notwithstanding our present difiPicultics, I a'li 
now as I v,-as last year, totally without any instructions, act- 
ing upon my own responsibility. I have had great success in 
raising volunteers fj'om the local militia; and neither they nor 
myself luive been idle. I again set out tomorrow for the 
frcDitiers. 

[NiNiAN Edwards] 

Floyd to Gibson 

- ;■■-. - ' .•- K v^ Charles Town, ]\Iarch 21, 1S13 

Har. Pa. 27J,-~76 

Di:ar Sir: 

On the night of the twenty first about one o'clock at night 



*AJB»^aawiiitari*t iifti» tftlii* Wi^iCt«^pWiW.ll;iA-> 



PIARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 397 

I IukI informatioii that the Lidiaiis had attacked a house about 
7 miles from this phice and had kiHed and wounded several 
of the family I ai'ose tho in veiy ill health and at sun up was 
at the place with about twenty men. We found the owner of 
the liouse a Mr Huffman killed, his wife badly wounded and 
one of his daughters slightly wounded and a little boy his 
grandson, missing, the Indians had also killed two horses and 
stripped the saddle, and bridles off them and taken them off 
after a little examination \ye found a ti'ace made by horses and 
pursued it after a very forced march of about 20 miles came 
up with the Indians four in number, they had been detained 
crossing T^Iushkaqueteck which v^^as very high and when we 
came in sight 1 believe that they were just getting out of the 
I'iver on the opposite shore. I put spurs to my hors and be- 
foi-e they had time to mount was on the oposite bank say thirty 
0]- forty yards apart one of the Indians who was either more 
unwilling or more unable to leave the horses than the rest 
was in the act of picking up his little cloathing and before 
I was prepared to fire he had retreated say twenty steps he 
again halted and stooped down appearing to be trying to get 
on a mokison and while in that attitude I took deliberate aim 
at his body perfectly fair as soon as my gun fired he sprung 
to his feet and turned and walked off from all appearance un- 
able to run and where he had halted left one leggin his knap- 
sack with all his little trinkets, I immediately ordered such of 
the men as were riding the stoutest horses to plunge in and 
swim across but in doing so out of five who made the attempt 
(myself amongst the number) only two guns were dry and 
two of that number were like to be drowned upo]) attempting 
to pursue I found that they had scattered and made to poor 
dry ridges where they could not be tracked. The bottom of 
the crick was all covered with water and we could find no 
blood. After I shot I believe there were nine or ten others 
fired at the same fellows back and him ',\'alking ofi' before he 
got out of our gunshot. We brought in the horses and all the 
little plunder which they had. 
In great haste I am Respectfully 

Your Obedient Servant 

Davis Floyd 



 

Shelby to Harrison 

March 27tli, ISir. 

From Gorciio-r Is<uic Shclbii's "Leflcr Dnok A", 70 

Dr. Sir: 

1 have the honour to aclmowlodgc Llic receipt last evening 
of \oiu- favor of the 23rd inst., together with a copy of the 
letter of the Se::retavy of War of the 5th inst., to you and copy 
of your answer thereto also duplicate of your letter to me of 
the 12th inst.. Ou the 20th inst., I had the honour of answer- 
ing your letter of the 12th and of giving you some of my vievrs 
of liie (M-isuing campaign. On the same day I addressed a let- 
ter to tlie Secrc'tai-y at War on tlnit subject I inclose a copy 
of it for your information. 

In these letters you v/ill see tliat I have expressed in strong 
language my opini'.^.ss of the importance of urging a much 
stronger force for the invasion of upper Canada tlian is con- 
templated by the Secretary at War. I see no cause to change 
my opinions on this subject. It is to be hoped that our orders 
which will arrive near about the same time, strongly urgin 
tlie same measure and written without any interchange of 
ideas between us, may induce our venerable president to think 
din'ert-ntly on the subject should it not I have serious doubt 
of tlie issue of tlie campaign. 

It is extremely gratifying to me to learn that there is a 
prospect of our obtaining the command of Lake Erie and the 
waters above, the importance of this measure is incalcuable. 
I onl.N' v/onder that it was not sooner duly appreciated — v^ith 
the perfect command of the lakes and suflicency of v^atercrafi 
It does not seem to me very important where is the point of 
embarkation that it must be in part from the rapids I ha\(; 
!io doubt because the mih'tary stores &c., are alread:,- too far 
in advance to be taken to anothei' Point. I am not sunicienti>- 
ac'iuaintc^d with the Canada side of lake Erie to say whether 
it will be l)est to commence the attack below Maiden in pref- 
ei-ence to going round the head of the Lake. I am thoroughly 
convinced of the absolute necessity of a consido'able force of 
Cavalry or mounted Infantry in the advnnce without it you 
v/il! l.x- pe]'petu;dly hai'rassed by small parties of Indians who 
v>ill defy tlie pursuit of footmen— as they retreat singly that 
is each warrior at his own will and on his own force — and 



PIARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 300 

can only be pursued by a reguliu' force or the pursuit will al- 
ways be in danger of being- cut off. If this body of horse can- 
not with perfect safety be taken across the Lake the embarka- 
tion at Cleveland should in my opinion be given up. 

One advantage i-csulting from the plan of the Secretary at 
War will be that our preparatioiis will be much better masked 
and there will be a strong probability that you v/ould so far 
take them by surprise as to avoid the meeting of a very strong 
force befoi'e you readi ^Maiden, you would also in all probabil- 
ity stand a better c" mce to have an equal selection of the 
ground for a general action, should one be offered you, than 
if you were to go round the Lake — Should you on the other 
hand go round the head of the Lake & have a General action 
v:ith the British and Indians and gain a decided victory, it 
will in my opinion if well follovred up decide the Indian War 
and the fate of upper Canada, particularly if in the meantime 
the forces on the Niagra should make good their attack upon 
Fort George and the adjoining country — 

As much as I deprecate the mode of warfare pursued by 
the savages, I deem it indispensible that you should employ 
as many of those that remain friendly to us as you can, noth- 
ing but a clean ignorance of the true Indian character could 
induce a belief that they can be kept neutral, and if they 
could some will always be found among them who would carry 
news to our cr.emies, employ them and let them commit them- 
selves by acts of hostility and they will in their own defense 
be faithful to us, 

After the cold blooded masacre at Raison in violation of 
the solemn stipulation of a capitulation, to refrain from em- 
ploying them against the enemy out of refined ideas of human- 
ity would be folly in the extreme. Our enemy can never be 
taught the rules of civilized warfare but by retaliation. 

I feel also well satisfied that tlr'ough the number you will 
be able to engage they will be amongst the most valuable of 
your troops, and I am much mistaken if they will not be found 
as cheap as any other forces employed — But were that not 
the case ^ve must meet the enemy in his own mode of v/arfare 
if he is bountiful to the Indians on his side we must not be 
nigardly to those on ours. It is certainly more economical to 
pay say 500 warriors two prices than to have to pay the addi- 
tional troops which would be required were they to go over 
to the enemv. 



 

A considorable number of Cavahy and mounted Infantry 
can no doubt be raised and organized liere in a Short time, 
it will take a longer period to organize ordinary Infantry — 
and there can be no doubt but you will stand in need of thein 
I know not v>diat steps may be taking to raise the two Ohio 
Regiments spoken of by the Secretary at Wai^ in his letter to 
you as to the regiment to be raised in this State I am not yet 
informed that the appointments of any of the Officers have 
been made I am positive you need not calculate anything on it 
for certain by the middle of May, men cannot be so easily 
inlisted as to fill the ranks in less time than it took Congress 
to pass the bill. 

If you should be authorized to make a further call on the 
Executive of this State, I shall hold myself in readiness to raise 
and organize with the least possible delay the forces that may 
be required should it afford me an opportunity of seeing you 
personally, I shall my dear sir feel myself highly gratified. 

I received on last evening by Express a letter from Col 
[William] Russell of the 7th U. S. Regt. requesting my co- 
operation in a contemplated expedition against the Indians on 
the Wabash — as I forward by this mail a letter from Col. 
Russell to you brought by the express it will no doubt give 
you his views, a copy of my answer to him, I have the honour 
to enclose for your information. 

Isaac Shelby 
To General Wm. H. Harrison 

' - '^ . ' Harrison to Secretary op War 

. Headquarters CINCINNATI 27th March 1813 

', .■ : • -■ Har. Pa. 900-969 

(No. 47) ' ; 

Sir: 

I had the honor to receive your favor of the 7th Inst, [see 
above] on Tuesday last, and should have ansv/cred it by the 
return of the mail but was misinformed as to the time of its 
departure. 

Those of the 15th and 17th [see above] arrived last evening. 
Had your letter of the 5tli been received before the measures 
foi' bringing out the Militia which I had requested from the 
State of Kentu( ky had ])rogressed so far that the day of Gen- 
eral Rendezvous had been ai»pointed and the men left their 



 

Homes, I should have requested Govr. Shelby to countermand 
the order for calHng them out altho I am well eonvined that 
if they are delayed four weeks we shall scarcely have a post 
remaining upon this frontier. The Militia which have been 
embodied from this state upon my last requisition are not 
sufficient to garrison the small posts. 

One of the Divisions furnished Forty instead of Two hun- 
dred and fifty men. 

In your letter of the 5th Inst. I am authorized to maintain 
or abandon the post at the Rapids of Miami as the o]i.e or the 
other may appear most proper under the circumstances which 
you mention. 

It could not be abandoned without sacrificing the Artillery 
and valuable stores which are there, and which no Human 
Means that I know of could bring off through the Swamps 
that soround that place at this Season, to attempt to bring 
them up the Miami and Auglaize Rivers would from the length 
of time that it would take, expose the Detachment escorting 
them to inevitable destruction. I had therefore no alternative 
but to maintain the post. It is safe from the attempts of the 
enemy untill Lake Erie is navigable and as long as the Vir- 
ginia and Pennsylvania Brigades of Militia remain there. On 
the 2d proximo, however the last of these Troops will be dis- 
charged. If it is not then strongly reinforced it will be in 
considerable danger. A smaller work would have been more 
def en sable. 

But I must confess that the Idea never occurred to me that 
the Government would be unwilling to keep in the field at least 
the semblance of an army of Militia until the regular Troops 
could be raised. A regular strong work calculated for Three 
or four hundred men could have been erected but with that 
force only at the Rapids there could be no possible impediment 
to the enemy in taking all the small Forts in the rear, except- 
ing McArthurs Findleys and Upper Sandusky wliicli are 
sorounded by a swamp. There are Three hundred Indian 
Warriors in the neighbourhood of Upper Sandusky (Wyajidots 
and a mixture of Delawares and Munsees). Their fiicndship 
towards us is by no means unequivocal. An army of ours in 
their front will ensure their neutrality, but that army dis- 
missed and a British and Indian force appearing amongst 
them nine tenths of these warriors would inevitably join them. 



 

The posts of Upper and Lo^vo^ Snncliislcy would fall and the 
vviiole frontier as far as Delaware at least, would be swept of 
its inhabitants. Further west in the immediate vicinity of 
Fort McArthur whore we have a large deposit of stores there 
are one or two hundred Shawanoes and a mixture of Iroquois. 
Their friendship for us is more to be depended on. But 
should the enemy appear in force a great part of the young 
men would certainly join them. Fort McArthur has not a 
man to defend it. Gov. Meigs sent there two companies called 
out for thirty days and they abandoned it at the expiration 
of that time. Still further v/est upon the Head of the Auglaize 
River is the large Shawanoe village of Wapochkonneta the 
chiefs of which, are altogether in our interest and may be re- 
lied upon. But the warriors like all others of their descrip- 
tion might be easily seduced. Near to the village of Piqua 
the Delav/ares to the amount of nine hundred souls and up- 
wards of two hundred warriors are encamped. Their chiefs 
are men of principle, but the greater part of their warriors 
are attached to the enemy and would join them whenever an 
opportunity offered. The disaffected can at any time they 
please communicate with the Hostile Indians. The posts of 
Wapockkanata Lorimers — St. Marys — Amanda — Jennings — 
BroMTi and Winchester (consisting of Block Houses, connected 
by pickets and having the immense supplies of provisions con- 
tained in the enclosed schedule) are immediately in the front 
of these people. Untill the arrival of the newly drafted Mili- 
tia from this state the force for the defence of all these posts 
consisted of eighteen invalid regulars and a weak and worth- 
less company of dismounted Rangers. As soon as Lake Erie 
is navigable the enemy could in six hours reach the post of 
the Miami Rapids or Sandusky bay with all their disposable 
force, and with any quantity of Artillery which they choose 
to bring. Admitting that the post at the Rapids could not 
have been taken (but what work with no greater natural ad- 
vantages than that possesses could long resist a superior force, 
with the immense train of battering Artillery which the enemy 
could with such facility bring to bear upon it) without an 
army there capable of opposing the enemy in the field, nothing 
could prevent them f]'om taking all our posts in the i-ear and 
I have before stated that they would find friends \hviv willing 
to assist them in all tlieir enterprises. It may be objected that 



:; 

Ui.> retaining the post at the Rapids was injudicious. I an- 
swer]- that at the time it was occupied I had the strongest liopes 
oi" being enabled to advance against Maiden and having gotten 
on tliere the artillery and stores when the ground was frozen 
llipy could not have been taken back, But there were many, 
\rr\- many, other considerations which determined me to re- 
l.-n'ii tluit ])osition. It is only necessary for me to mention 
one of tliem. The greater part of the supplies for the oper- 
ation of the ensuing season v\^ere placed upon the Auglaize and 
St. Marys. Those rivers arc navigable in the spring only. At 
that season they could be transported in boats to the Rapids 
for one-twentieth part of the expense which it would cost to 
take them by Land. Should the Rapids be abandoned they 
could not be reoccupied until the season for navigating the 
small rivers v/ould have passed. With this view of the sub- 
ject I could not hesitate (as I conceived that I possessed the 
P}"esidents authority for doing it) to call for a sufiicient num- 
ber of ]Militia to ensure an effective force at the Rapids of from 
hiteen hundred to two thousand and I regret that I have not 
the power of calling for as many more men effectually to cover 
Foit Wayne and the other posts in that direction. For the 
former I entertain great apprehensions. In a letter addressed 
to Colo. Monroe in January last, I explained the facility, with 
which an attack upon that place may be made from Chicago. 
I flid not believe however that there would be much danger, 
until Lake Michigan was navigable but if the information 
[x\lar. 22 above] received by Govr. Shelby from Govr. Ed- 
wards is correct, it may be invested much earlier. I have v/ith 
the army two Capts. of Engineers (one of them Capt. 
[Charles] Gratiott) has been ill for many weeks, Captain 
[Eleazer Derby] Wood was sent to improve the work at Lower 
Sandusky. I shall order him immediately to Fort Wayne for 
the same purpose. The latter was once a strong i-egular work 
a fatal and false econimy caused it to be destroyed and a small 
picketted v/ork substituted. 

The order to the Q. blasters and Commissarys for the set- 
tling their accounts has been given; the measure is no doubt 
a proper one altho the high character of the principals of those 
Departments is a warrant for the correctness of their conduct. 

The pack Horses which were uiifit for service have been 
sold. The rest together with those purcha.sed for the Artillery 



tOI INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

tsa%'c !>oi-n ])laccd in situations where they can be cheaply fed 
\<) Vivrwli. This direction was given before I received your 
loiter inlorniin^ me that means were taken to obtain the naval 
-.u!Krio)'iiy upon Lake Erie. As I am still apprehensive that 
\v=< may fail in tliat desirable object, the Horses Vvill be kept 
iiS liuy arc until your further order is received. 

Thr construction which is put upon the last law raising the 
p.\y of tiu' Troops excludes the volunteers vrhich were in serv- 
jre before the 31st of December last from its benefits. Noth- 
snj? could be more galling to the feelings of this small but 

• iatriuiic and gallant band than such a distinction. A com- 
l»;usy or ivaop of this description are in the same camp with 
mhc of Regulars and one of Militia. The former enlisted at 
tho ^.lUiH" time vrith the volunteers and perform duty in com- 
n.x.tn with tliem, yet the services of the regulars are considered 
.'.s wortit three dollars per month more than the volunteers, a 

• ju?*,jiari.son with the situation of the IMilitia is still more 
.vJiou.^ to the volunteers. The former have been forced into 
?-rrvice for six months, the latter have entered voluntarily for 
i-,vcivc-- under these circumstances the volunteers will con- 
lin\n* to do their duty but I greatly fear that the zeal and 
ar\|<jur for which they were remarkable will be found to have 
k'l-JsUy abated if not entirely fled. 

1 have the lionor to bo with great respect Yr. Hb. Servt 

WiLLM. Henry HarrisOxN 
Hoi.bk? John AtIxMstrong, Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
/ . ■ ■ • Head Quarters Cincinnati 28th March 1813 

''■■"■" ' ' Har. Pa. Q77-9S2 

Frivate. . ;. 

I iiave thought it my duty to enclose you a Letter just re- 
finvfcl from <;ovr. Shelby, [see March 27, above] I am well 
coFiviru-cd that the sentiments it contains are common to the 
wliolo western country, and that they will not only affect calls 
U-:T militia, wliiL-li (1,0 Governor may make both as to the num- 
;'- '>i ajid quality of the men, but will have great and unfriendly 
mfluence upon the recruiting of the 12 months Regulars. , In 
Hie bi-lief that the government is about to employ a smaller 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS -305 

force against Canada than tliat of the enemy would justify 
in raising the contemplated Regiments vre shall have not on.ly 
to contend with thic clamor of the usual opposers of the ad- 
ministration, but the tenderness of parents and even a false 
patriotism itself will be strenuously exerted, to prevent the 
youth of the country from going into what is termed certain 
destruction. It i impossible that the impolicy of relying upon 
IMilitia, for the prosecution of the war, can be more strongly 
impressed upon the mind of any person than it is upon mine. 
If I had had tvro thousand regular troops, after the defeat 
of Genl. Winchester instead of four thousand ]\Iilitia vre should 
at this moment have been in possession of Llaiden and the 
fleet of the enemy. But IMilitia can only be employed with 
effect, to accomplish a single distinct object, which will require 
little time and not much delay, on the way. We last year com- 
mitted errors, which has cost the nation enormous sums. 
Thousands of men were hurried to the field before it was rec- 
ollected that they would require subsistence, ammunition and 
artillery. We have now everything of this kind in abundance. 

The object is distinctly before us there is no necessity for 
those delays which evaporate the spirit of men, who cannot 
remain long from their families and which causes such heavy 
drafts upon the public funds. 

We can fix the day when our operations shall commence. 
Not a moment need be lost. Not a day paid for but what is 
employed in actual service. I have often stated to the Gov- 
ernment that in the invasion of Upper Canada the acfval force 
of the enemy will be in an inverted ratio to ours : if we are 
weak they will be strong, if Vv'e are strong their actual strength 
will diminish, in proportion to the opinion which the Indians 
may have of the dificulty of resisting us. The present ap- 
pearances upon our frontier are well calculated to inspire con- 
fidence in the hostile Indians. It is decidedly my opinion that 
the employment of a large force would not only be most cer- 
tain, but in the end most econnomical. I do not think that the 
Regular troops contemplated to be raised in the western coun- 
try can be procured. There is at any rate no other way of 
getting them than by suffering it to be made public that sucli 
a force will be employed as v/ill give universal confidence. 1 
think that authority ought to bo given to employ volunteer 
corps of every description many of them can be procured 



 

which would agree to serve forty or fifty days after their a]-- 
rival at the Rapids who would care nothing for pay. Let a 
considerable army advance from the Rapids towai'd IMalden 
and the Indians who may not have joined the British standard 
will suspend their operations against our frontiers until they 
see the result. The command of the Lakes will give facility 
to our operations, and the expense of the vessels v»'ill nearly 
be paid for by the saving in land transportation. I greatly 
however fear that the naval superiority upon the upper Lakes 
will not be obtained and if it is not, what will be our situation 
unless we are prepared to take the other course. In my offi- 
cial letter I have observed, that if I had the power I would 
can out the ballance of the Three thousand men which have 
been organized in Kentucky for the protection of Fort Wayne 
etc. I will only add that if any disaster happens to any of the 
posts for the want of troops to protect them, the popularity 
of the administration in the western country will receive a 
shock [from] which it will never recover. 

Nothing is so painful as to be obliged to denounce an In- 
dividual and yet I should not do my duty If I were not to rec- 
ommend that the accounts of Mr. [Joseph] Wheaton an Asst. 
Dp. Q. Mr. be most critically examined. He expended thirteen 
or fourteen thousand dollars in bringing on the part of the 
artillery and stores from Pittsburgh to U. Sandusky and I 
cannot conceive how it could cost half the sum 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr. Hb. Svt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honbl. John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of War 

Gibson to Secretary of War 

ViNCENNES Marh 31st, 1813 

Har. Pa. 271-273 

Sir: 

Since I last had the honor of addressing you upon the sub- 
ject of the removal of Fort Knox, I have had the disagreeable 
moi'lification of suffering the grossest insult I ever experienced 
in my life. Understanding that the greater part of the timber 
necessary for the erection of the Fort, was brought down here, 
and receiving an intemation that Lieut. Tho. H. Richardson 
of the U. S. Troops, intended to assume to himself the author- 



 

ity of fixing upon the scite, I informed him by a note in writ- 
ing that so soon as 1 was notified by him that the necessary 
timber was brought to Vincennes I would then fix upon and 
inform him of the site inclosing him at the same time a Copy 
of the Honrablc the late Secretary of War's letter to me au- 
thorizing the removal of Fort Knox to or near this place. But 
notvrithstanding this condescention on my part this young 
Gentlemen has taken upon himself not onlj'' without my con- 
sent but contrary to my opinion to commence the building of 
the Fort and that too in the most disadvantageous and useless 
place in or adjacent to the whole town. 

I presume Sir, that this young man would not have assumed 
the authority and evinced the barefaced affontery of the erec- 
tion of the Fort without having previously consulted me had 
it not been owing to the malicious council of Capt. [Ambrose] 
Whitlock and a Mr. Butler. I disdain complaining in the gen- 
eral but when a circumstance so malicious and disrespectful 
as the above and which I am convinced is intended not only as 
an insult upon myself but the Government I think myself 
measurable bound to communicate it to you. Whilst upon this 
subject Sir, permit me to relate another part of Lieut Richard- 
son conduct, one which proves a great degree of vreakness or 
venality. Last fall when Fort Harrison was beseiged by the 
Indians and Col. [William] Russell had hastily marched for 
its relief It became necessary to forward provisions not only 
for the Col.'s forces but also for the Garrison and the Con- 
tractor was dispatching a number of waggons under an Es- 
cort of one hundred and thirty odd men furnished by me. In 
a conversation with I\Ir. Richardson upon the subject of for- 
warding supplies to fort Harrison I informed him of this cir- 
cumstance and advised him to take advantage of this oppor- 
tunity if he had any stores to forward — he promised me he 
would but suffered the opportunity to slip by and a few days 
afterwards came to me and informed me that he intended to 
send off a Mr. Black and his Waggon under and Escort of a 
Sargeant and twelve men. I disuadcd him from the measure 
observing to him that times were extremely dangerous, the 
guard very small and that in my opinion they stood a great 
chance of being cut off. The result proved the correctness 
of my advice. The Escort were completely defeated with the 
loss of seven killed and one or two wounded the waggon cut 



 

to pieces and all the public property destroyed by tlie Indians. 
Ui\ Black (a private citizen of this Territory) \vet lying out 
of deserved remuneration for his losses and services and drove 
to a suit against this Lieut Richardson which is now depend- 
ing in our General court. ■ Upon the arrival of Col. Russell 
here (a few days since) I informed him of the Conduct of 
Lieut Richardson and Ui\ Butler to which the Col. replied he 
would arrest them provided I would prefer charges against 
them, to this I answered that I would not, but that I would 
refer the matter to you. The Indians are extremely trouble- 
some to the citizens upon our frontier. One man has been 
recently killed and others wounded near Vellonea. another 
(a W. Huffman) killed a part of his family wounded an a part 
supposed to be taken prisoners within seven miles of Charles 
Town. A succinct [account] of which you will find in the in- 
closed letter [see Mar. 24 above] to which I beg leave to refer 
you. A barge loaded with supplies for Fort^ Harrison was 
the other day attacked by a pretty considerable party of In- 
dians within six miles of the Fort (in ascending) and defeated. 
One of the hands killed and a number wounded. The boat 
and ballance of the crew have returned to this place. Today 
two other boats have been dispatched by Col. Rusell for Fort 
Harrison under a strong Escort and tomorrow he sends off a 
party of one hundred and odd Rangers by land for the same 
place. A part of those rangers are those who have lately ten- 
dered me their services of which there is one companv'from 
this county (Knox) and one other from Jefferson. By an 
Act of the last Session of the Legislature of this Territory the 
Seat of Government is to be removed to Corydon. The Gov- 
ernor and Secretary are by the same law permitted to reside 
wherever they please in the Territory. I shall reside in Jeff er- 
sonville where I shall of course keep my office. 
I have the honor to be Sir 

Your devoted Humble Servant 
Hon. John Armstrong Sect, of War '^^"^ Gibson 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters CinciNxNati 30 I\Iarch 1813 

Sir.* Har. Pa. 9S3, SSIt 

I have just received letters from the I\Iiami Rapids inform- 
ing me of the determination of the Virginia and Pennsylvania 



 

Militia that are now there, to leave that place the very mo- 
ment that their time of service expires even if the troops 
destined to relieve them should not have arrived. The dis- 
agreeable circumstances of one of our men having been taken 
by the enemy will apprize them of the situation of the post 
and will I fear induce them to undertake some enterprise 
against it before it can be reinforced. I have determined 
tb.erefore to set out early tomorrow for Camp ]\Ieigs by the 
way of St. ]\Iarys Colo. [John] IMiller with about 120 Regulars 
and 80 militia of the state will I hope be ready to descend the 
Auglaize the day after tomorrow in boats and will arrive at 
the Rapids in three days — there are also about 180 of the 
Ohio militia building boats at Fort Findlay about 44 miles 
from the Rapids and 150 of these have been ordered to pro- 
ceed thither immediately. 

A company of the Kentucky ^Militia reached Ne\\TDort yes- 
terday and others will arrive in a day or two. Having a num- 
ber of Pack Horses in the neighbourhood I have determined 
to employ them to expedite the I\Iarch of a few of those com- 
panies by assigning one of them to every two men. 

I\Iy uneasiness at the situation of Camp [Meigs is greatly 
increased from the state of the weather for some time past 
which will render Lake Erie navigable much earlier than 
usual. The Indians have connnenced their depredations nearly 
all round the frontiers. The people are much alarmed. I 
must take the liberty again of stating my belief that it will 
be necessary to call out the remaining part of the jNIilitia that 
have been organized for service in Kentucky and that they 
be marched in the direction of Fort Wa3me advanced of St. 
Marys where they can be supported easily and when they will 
overawe the Indian tribes in that quarter and protect our de- 
posits of provisions, as well as cover the Frontiers. 

I am with great Respect Sir Yr. Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. The Secretary of War 

Tipton to Gibson 

April, [1?] 1813 

Cockrum, Pioneer History Indiana, 372 

Since I have had command of the militia on the borders of 
Harrison and Clark counties, the Indians have caused us much 

29—22664 



 

trouble and murdered a number of citizens on tlie frontiers 
of these counties, all of which I have reported to Colonel 
[Robert] Evans; but in order that you may understand the 
situation, I have directed this letter to you. 

On the 18th of March one man was killed and three others 
wounded near this place (Valonia). [see INIarch 24 above] 
At that time I was not there. On my arrival I took twenty- 
nine men and went up to Drift river, twenty -five miles, and 
here found a party of Indians on an island in the river. In 
a skirmish of twenty minutes, I defeated them, killed one and 
saw others sink in the river, and I believe if any made their 
escape by swimming, they lost their guns. I lost no men. 
[See Apr 12, 1814 below] 

On the sixteenth inst. two men were killed and one wounded 
southwest eight miles of this place and a number of horses 
were stolen. I immediately took thirty men and followed them 
three days. We had five large creeks to raft and many to 
wade and every day rain fell. The third day I directed my 
spies to march slowly. The Indians' horses were showing e^i- 
dences of fatigue, and I thought it best not to overtake them 
until night; but contrary to my orders, they came up with 
one Indian who had stopped to fix his pack and fired at him. 
The other Indians were but a little in advance and they all left 
their horses and plunder. The ground being hilly, we could 
not overtake them. Had it not been for my orders being dis- 
obeyed, I would have been able to have killed or captured them 
in their camp that night. As they went out they passed Salt 
creek and there took an old trail directly for Delaware town, 
and it is my opinion that while the government was support- 
ing one part of that tribe, the others were murdering our 
citizens. It is much to be desired that these rascals, of what- 
ever tribe they may be harbouring about their town, should 
be routed. This could be done with one hundred mounted men 
in seven days. 

If there is not an effective measure taken to guard this 
place, all of Clark and Harrison Counties will break. It is 
rumored here that when the rangers come out, the militia will 
be dismissed. If so, our case is a dangerous one, as it is hard 
for mounted men to range through the swamps and back- 
waters of Driftwood and Muscackituck rivers, as they have 
been for most of the season more than a mile wide, by reason 



HARRISON; MESSAGES AND LETTERS 411 

,,.f !u\v, niar.sliy bottoms which overflow, and many times three 
i4?al four miles wide. The Indians come in and secrete them- 
?;t Ives in some liiffh ground surrounded by water and by the 
hiip of bark canoes, come in and do mischief and until I came 
«njl, m-ver could be found. Since I came they have made two 
attrmi)ts to tiike off the horses. The first time, on the 12th 
in St., I look all their horses but one. The last time I took all 
aiui still followed them with footmen. The last time we lived 
three days on a little venison, without bread or salt, and I 
believe if thei'e are to be rangers, there should be spies of 
young and hardey footmen, who can lay and scout through 
the swamps and thickets as the Indians do; then we will be 
secure, not else. I have been constantly out for the last eight 
days on foot, wading and rafting the creeks. I have seen 
many signs of Indians, such as camps where they have lain, 
and killed hogs and cattle to live on, and many canoes to ap- 
proiK l» our settlements, and I am conscious if you had not 
ordered out the additional company and made those excellent 
r.rrangements of the ninth of February, [see Feb 9 and 17 
al>ove] all of this frontier would have been murdered ere now. 
Tluj citizens are living between hope and despair, wating to 
know their doom. 

[John Tipton] 

Recruiting in Kentucky 

Georgetown (Ky.) April 1. 1813 

Niles' Register IV, 116 

Mounted Regiment : The most flattering accounts are re- 
ceived from various quarters that the mounted regiment (to 
bo commanded by R. ]\L Johnson) is rapidly filling its ranks. 
This suits Kentuckians. In the old war, they were all carried 
to the enemy on horseback. They are prejudiced in favor of 
a corps of this description. All seem to be aroused — men 
above 45, and boys under 18 years of age, are volunteering, 
anxious for an opportunity to avenge the blood of their 
slaughtered fj-iends. 

Capt. [William] Dudley,^ of Frankfort, passed through this 
place, on Tuesday night, with 122 as respectable, as brave and 
as fine volunteers, as any country ever produced, destined for 

1. William Dudley was a native of Spotlsylvanla Co., Va., but was then living In 
Fayette Co., Ky. He was killed at Fort Meigs. 



 

the Rapids. We will venture to assert, that captain Dudley 
and his patriot band will give a good account of themselves 
when attacked by the enemy, they will leave their mark. 

Lexington, March 30. Yesterday Col. Dudley's regiment 
of Kentucky volunteers was paraded in this town, and are 
expected to march in a few days on NewiDort. 

The men appear to be cheerful and animated and inspired 
with the purest feelings of patriotism. With pride we men- 
tion that several who served on the last campaign have again 
volunteei'ed their services. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 3rd, 1813 

Ha/r. Pa. 6^-66 

Sir: 

Your dispatch of the 17th ultimo [see Mar. 17 above] from 
Chilicothe has been received and I hasten to repeat to you 
the views of the President in relation to the next campaigii 
and the injunctions growing out of these, with regard to the 
employment of Militia. 

Our first object is to get a command of the lakes. Means 
to accomplish this object have been taken, and we have the 
fullest assurance that by the 1st day of June it will be accom- 
plished. 

This fact assured, there can be no longer a doubt by what 
means or by what Route, the Division of the Army assigned 
to you, ought to approach Maiden. A passage by water will 
carry you directly to the Fortress you would attack without 
impairing your strength by fatigue, or diminishing it by bat- 
tle. A passage by land will on the other hand call for great 
efforts and expose you to great losses, which if they do not 
destroy, will at least cripple you. The former will be easy, 
safe and economical, the latter difficult, dangerous and enor- 
mously expensive. 

On the other supposition, that we fail to obtain the com- 
mand of the Lake, a new question will arise — whether the 
campaign shall take an offensive or defensive character? Be 
this question determined as it may, the utmost extent which 
will be given to the force employed, will be seven thousand 
effectives. 

Various reasons determine this point. The enemy have 



 

never had in the field for the defence of Maiden more than 
two thousand men. Their number has no doubt been hitherto 
limited by their means of subsistence and this cause is not 
likely to suffer any very material change in their favor, dur- 
ing the ensuing campaign. More than seven thousand men 
therefore would be unnecessary on our part. Again, to main- 
tain a greater number would be impracticable, in the present 
state of the Treasury. 

It now remains only to signify to you clearly and distinctly 
the kind of force the Government mean hereafter to employ 
in offensive operations, if it can be obtained. 

When the Legislature at their last session adopted the meas- 
ure of augmenting the Army to fifty-two Regiments of the 
Line, it was expressly in the view of superseding hereafter 
the necessity of employing militia, excepting in moments of 
actual invasion. In obedience to this policy the President as- 
signed to the 8th military District of the United States, four 
of these new Regiments, which if filled, and super-added to 
the two Regiments of the line now in that District, and the 
24th in march for it, will give a total of seven regiments or 
seven thousand men. This number forbids the belief, that any 
employment of Militia drafts will be necessary, when it shall 
have been collected. Till however this be done, or at least 
till time be given for the experiment, so many militia only 
are to be called out as shall be necessary for the defense of 
your posts on the Miami and of your depots of provision on 
the Lake, and should the recruiting service go on less fortu- 
nately in the patriotic states of Kentucky and Ohio than in 
other parts of the Union, you are in that case, and in that 
case only, authorized to call out as many militia drafts, as will 
make good the deficiency — and organizing these under the 
rules already prescribed, await the farther orders of the Presi- 
dent in your camp at the Rapids. 

To these orders I have to add that you will regard it as your 
duty to keep this Department regularly and frequently in- 
formed of the actual condition of the Troops under your com- 
mand as well in regard to equipment and supplies of provi- 
sion and ammunition as to numbers, discipline and health and 
that your weekly and monthly reports shall include also the 
state of the Ordnance and Quarter Master's Departments, 
noting particularly the number of Horses and oxen employed 



Mfr'^iiiV*?'*^-*-''*'^^*™^'"'''™'-^-^'-'^"''-*!'^^^^^^^ 



 

by both. You will readily perceive the necessity for giving 
this order, when I state that no return of any description from 
your Division of the Army has ever been received at the Adju- 
tant General's Office. Your proportion of the new staff has 
been given to you. Captain [Nathaniel F.] Adams has been 
appointed Assist. Adjutant General, and :\Ir. [John C] Bart- 
lett Deputy Qr. Master General of your division. The Briga- 
dier Generals [Duncan] McArthur and [Le\\as] Cass are 
employed in superintending the Recruiting Service. A letter 
from the latter gives reason to believe that this will go on 
well in the State of Ohio. 
I^Iajor General Harrison 

Shelby to Harrison 

Apl. 4th, 1813 

J. ^ ^'^0'*^^ Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A", 75 

I received two letters [see .Alar. 22 above] yesterday from 
Governor Edwards of Illinois, the information they contained 
being of the most serious and alarming nature. I do mvself 
the honour to enclose herewith copies of them, to apprise vou 
ot the strides which are making by the British evidentlv with 
a view to future conquest. 

You are no doubt well aware of the importance which the 
i^ost at Prairie Duchim ^^^ill give to their arms as it respects 
the numerous tribes of savages to the west of the Mississippi 
who heretofore have felt but little inducements to enter into 
the war on either side. 

It is a misfortune that the representation of Gov. Edwards 
made last year have not been duly appreciated, It will now 
require ten times the force that might have established a post 
by our Government at Prairie Duchin & thereby have broken 
mat Cham of water communication from the Lakes to the 
western ocean, which I fear we shall not be able to wrest from 
tne enemy and they know too well the great value of the Ter- 
ritory to the north of it to surrender it to us on a General 
reaco without a concession on our part of more value to them. 

1 saw one of the Regiments of the Lake brigade which 
marched from this State to join you— except two companies, 
great part of them too men under size and in other respects 
hardly Kentuckians. You must have a different kind of troops 



 

to meet the enemy on the field, but while an opinion is enter- 
tained in Kentucky that the Government is going on in too 
small a scale to meet the enemy, the better kind of people who 
are able to send a substitute will not go themselves to fight a 
battle which promises nothing but defeat and disgrace, and 
unless you shall have a discretion to call out a force which you 
!nay deem sufficient and of every description of Troops suffi- 
cient by their numbers to insure success, you need hardly ex- 
pect a man from Kentucky upon any future draft who is able 
to send a substitute in his room and of all others an army of 
raw substitutes are least proper to meet an enemy of well 
disciplined troops flanked by strong bodies of Indians. The 
defeat of St. Clair and many others I Could mention will jus- 
tify this opinion, I wish my voice could reach the ear of our 
good President and induce him to call General Wilkinson to the 
command of our North Eastern Army, his talents and experi- 
ence would open a seam both in the field and in the war de- 
partment of a different aspect from what has yet been con- 
ceived by any one before him. 

^'*' ^'- ISSAC SHELBY 

To General Wm. H. Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 8th 1813 

Ott>. Hot. Pa. 60 

I have received the two letters you did me the honor to 
write to me on the 27th and 28th ult. [see above] In a for- 
mer letter you had stated that a number of Boats were build- 
ing under your direction. I send you the inclosed extract 
from a letter written by Major [Thomas Sidney] Jessup of 
the 19th Regt. now at Cleveland. If the number he has con- 
tracted for be more than will be wanted, (calculating those 
you are building at other points) you will be pleased to give 
him that information, in time to enable him to lessen the num- 
ber. 

Some portion of your last requisition upon the Ohio militia, 
ought to be placed at those points on the Southern shore of the 
Lake, which will be most likely to invite the attacks of the 
Enemy. 

Major General Wm. H. Harrison. 



 

Harrison to Gov. Shelby 

Head Quarters Fort Amanda on tlie Auglaise River 

9th April 4 o'clock A. ^I. [1S13] 
(Duplicate) 

Har. Pa. 993-995 

Dear Sir: 

Altho I have reason to believe that the povv^er formerly given 
to me to call upon the Executive of the adjacent states and 
Territories for Detachments of Militia is considered by the 
Secretary of War as being annuled yet such is my view of 
the critical situation of our affairs in the country that I am 
induced to request your Excellency to take such measures as 
you may judge most effectual and speedy to send me a rein- 
forcement of at least fifteen hundred men. The season is 
scarcely sufficiently advanced to afford wild food for horses 
but as we have a considerable quantity- of forage at some of 
the advanced posts I must request you to dispatch immedi- 
ately the Regt. of Mounted Riflemen commanded by the 
Honble. R. M. Johnson or such part of it as may be raised 
without waiting for the infantry. Should the Government 
not think proper to authorize the employment of the latter vou 
^vill receive notice of it before they can have arrived at \he 
General Rendezvous as I have already written on the subject 
and I am persuaded that neither your Excellency nor the ofn- 
cers and men who may be called out will regret the trouble vou 
will have on this occasion should it even prove ultimatelv to 
produce no advantage. 

From the information received yesterday it is very evident 
that the enemy intended to attack the post at the Miami Rap- 
ids They have been apprised of the reduced state of the 
troops there and calculate upon an easy conquest. I have 
been obliged to dispatch for its protection the Squadron of 
Dragoons and have now with me about 300 men which is all 
that I could possibly take from the protection of the posts on 
this line. Indeed one of them is left to the protection of the 
Friendly Indians with only a sergeant and 3 men of ours. I 
shall embark in one hour in a boat and perogues and calculate 
on reaching the Rapids tomorrow night. I am informed by 
Major [Amos] Stoddard who commands at Camp IMeigs that 
the Indians are in force on the Rivers between Fort Win- 
chester and the former. 



 

Without a very considerable addition to my present force it 
will be impossible to defend the extensive line of weak posts 
on the frontier and maintain that at the Rapids. The enemy 
have a single point only to defend, their forces are concen- 
trated, they command the lake & can take their troops to any 
point they think proper to attack with a great facility. Our 
movements on the contrary are necessarily laborious and 
tardy & not knowing on which of our numerous and vulner- 
able points the storm is to fall it is necessary upon every 
military principle that our force should be treble theirs; at 
present it is inferior, 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Yr. Obt. 
& Hbl. Servt. 

(Signed) W. H. Harrison 
His Excellency Isaac Shelby, Esqr. Governor of Kentucky 
True Copy L. Hukills, A. D. Camp 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 49.) 

Head Quarters N. W. Army Camp Meigs (Miami Rapids) 

[About April 15, 1813] 

Har. Pa. 9 85-9 S 8 

Sir: 

I arrived here on the morning of the 12th Inst. [April] 
having decended the Auglaize and Miami Rivers with all the 
Troops that I darst take from the Forts in that direction. 
Major [Amos] Stoddard who commanded here for some days 
previously to my arrival informed me that he had communi- 
cated to the Adt. General some recent information he had re- 
ceived respecting the designs of the enemy upon this post. I 
have no reason to doubt the correctness of the accounts he had 
received, indeed they are corroborated by a number of cir- 
cumstances. 

I found on my arrival here that Genl. Leftwitch had done 
little or nothing towards completing the defences of the post. 
Major Stoddard had however employed himself very actively 
after the command had devolved upon him and since my ar- 
rival the whole of the troops have been engaged in finishing 
the old works and erecting new ones. Amongst the latter are 
an earthern Parapet (nearly completed) round the whole 



 

Camp and several new Sod Batteries in addition to those 
wliich were laid do-\vn in the plan which I had the honor to 
forward. A Grand Traverse across the whole Camp and a 
few additional counter Guards vrill render all the efforts of 
the enemy unavailing. I pledge myself to defend it to the last 
extremity. Today or tomorrow I shall be reinforced by a part 
of the Kentucky Troops. The whole must be considerably ad- 
vanced and will shortly join me. As the enemy are Imown to 
have several parties of Indians out for the purpose of inter- 
cepting the mail and may very probably suceed altho it is 
guarded by a detachment of dragoons I shall wait for a safer 
opportunity which will occur in a few days to communicate 
some further information. When the Law for raising 12 
months volunteers was in force I authorized I\IcFarland to 
raise a company of Artillery having been furnished with blank- 
commissions for that purpose. He had recruited thirty men 
before the law was repealed and having expended a good deal 
of money and manifested much zeal for the service I prom- 
ised him a Captaincy in one of the new Regiments. I shall be 
gratified to have this promise fulfilled. I believe him to be 
worthy of the appointment. 

I have received no letter from you later than the 17th ultimo. 

I have the honor to be with gi'eat respect Sir Yr. Ob. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Ilonble John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of War. 



(No. 50) 



Rarrison to Secretary of War 



Head Quarters Camp Meigs 17th April 1813 

Har. Pa. 9 S 9-9 9 2 

Sir: 

I must beg you to believe that I would not disobey any order 
of yours unless I was sure that my doing so would meet your 
approbation when you should be informed of all the circum- 
stances that produced such disobedience. Nothing can be more 
proper than the regulations contained in your letter of the— 
[13?] ulto. on the subject of calling out the Militia and Yet 
such was my view of the critical situation of our affairs in this 
quarter that I have been obliged to accept of companies from 
the State of Ohio that do not contain more than forty men. 
Indeed there is scarcely one with more than half the comple- 



 

ment. As soon however as I can get them together and con- 
sult Govr. Meigs they shall be consolidated. I have the honor 
to enclose a copy of my letter to Gov. Shelby of the 9th Inst, 
[see above] Having written to you before on the subject of 
calling out those Troops There will be time enough to in- 
struct the Governor should it be determined that they are not 
to be employed before they can be put in motion. 

The enemy have not yet made their appearance but from 
the information received through the ^^'yandotts of Sandusky 
they are collecting a large force for the attack of this or some 
other of our posts. 

John S. Wills Esq. Judge Advocate to the Army will set out 
tomorrow for Franklinton. I have mentioned some particu- 
lars to him which I did not ^^ish to conmiit to paper and he 
will have the honor to communicate them by letter from that 
place or Upper Sandusky. 

When I arrived here I was informed by IMajor [Amos] 
Stoddard that he had written to the Ajdt. Genl. and given 
him all the intelligence which he had received of the Move- 
ments and intentions of the enemy. I have since learnt how- 
ever that he forgot to mention that the British had lately 
launched at ]\Ialden a vessel carrjang Eighteen gims which 
was completely equipped and ready for a voyage and that an- 
other of the same size was nearly ready to be launched. 

The difficulty of procuring proper persons for scouts (spies 
they are called in the western country) and the verj^ 
exorbitant price which they demand has made it necessary 
to employ some of the friendly Indians for that purpose. I 
have now with me about Thirty and have promised them fifty 
cents per day. Altho there is no Law authorizing this I in- 
tended to pay them out of the fund which Government has 
always put at my disposal for extra presents and which yearly 
amounts to a much larger sum than will be given them. The 
Agent Mr. [John] Johnson will have directions to draw for 
their compensation in this way. If there were no other rea- 
sons for the emplojanent of the friendly Indians the confidence 
in their fidelity which it gives to our ovra people upon the 
frontiers makes it absolutely necessary. I have been under 
very great apprehensions that some scoundrels in the neigh- 
borhood of Piqua would fall upon the Delawares. 

A few of our people and Twenty Indians are now out in the 



1.S06628 

 

direction of the River Raisin for the purpose of taking a 
prisoner to gain information. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Yr. Ob. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of War. 



Shelby to Harrison 

April 18th, 1813 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A", 96 

Dr Sir : 

On the 15th inst., while at mj^ farm in Lincoln, I had the 
honour of receiving your letter of the 9th inst., [see above] 
making a requisition on me for a reinforcement of at least 
fifteen hundred men and desiring in particular the Regiments 
of mounted men commanded by R. I\I. Johnson, Esq. 

I immediately started for this place which I reached in the 
course of the next day and that afternoon issued orders for 
the rendezvous at George Town on the 2nd day of IMay of the 
two remaining regiments of the detached militia of this State, 
to march from thence without delay to your Head Quarters. 

These Regiments having been raised under a Law which 
vests me with the discretionary power of ordering them in 
the service whenever the exigiencies of the War might in my 
opinion require, I felt no difficulty in ordering them out under 
the critical posture of our affairs in your quarters as repre- 
sented in your letter — Having a confidence however that the 
measure would be sanctioned by the president of the United 
States or if not that I should receive notice of his disappro- 
bation in time to stop their march before they left the limits 
of the State — 

I have received no communications from the president of 
the U. S. nor from the Secy, at War, relative to the authority, 
said to be given to Mr. Johnson to raise a Regiment of 
mounted Infantry, newspaper publication is all I have seen 
on that Subject — 

I do not know what law that Regt. is said to be raised under, 
nor its object. And I have no reason to believe that it is or- 
ganized. Indeed the State Constitution forbids the appoint- 
ment of a member of Cong-rcss to any office of Trust or Profit 
under its authority — The Federal Constitution is equally cau- 



 

tioiis as to their holding any office- under the General Govern- 
ment. 

Under existing circumstances I could therefore take no no- 
tice of the mounted Riflemen. 

I flatter mj'self that with, the forces under your command 
you will be able to maintain your ground against any force 
that the enemy can bring against you, until you are reinforced 
so as to enable you to commence Offensive measures. 

I am Dr Sir &c., 

Isaac Shelby. 
To General Harrison 

P. S. You have said nothing to me in your letter about an 
assurance of pay to the men ordered to your assistance. It 
will certainly be expected, and it is much to be wished that 
they may receive it. Should this reach you in time I hope you 
will give orders that at least one month's pay be advanced to 
them before they leave Cincinnati. I. S. 

Secretary op War to Harrison 

War Department April 18th 1813 

Hoa: Pa. 67 

Sir: 

Enclosed is an order recalling Brig. General [Duncan] Mc- 
Arthur to the discharge of the duties to which he had been 
specially assigned by this Department. 

Letters from Fort Meigs of the 9th Instant have been re- 
ceived from Major [Amos] Stoddard. The enemy's parties 
besetting the approaches to the fort have been small and might 
have been chastised had the Detachments sent in pursuit of 
them been larger. When your whole force is collected, it would 
be desirable that Colonel Proctor should make an attempt to 
dislodge or to invest you. He can neither bring into the field 
nor keep in it more than two thousand effectives. The regular 
force sent to him from the Niagara and arriving after his 
defeat of General Winchester, did not exceed the number he 
lost in that affair. His field train consists of six or eight six 
pounders. 

Major General Harrison 



422 INDIANA IIISTOPJCAL COLLECTIONS 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No. 51) 

Head Quarters Camp Meigs 21st April 1813 

Har. Pa. 99S-1007 

Sir: 

I had the honor last evening to receive your favor of tlie 
4th [3d] Inst. The party which was sent to the River Raisin 
returned with three Frenchmen from that settlement. The 
information given by the latter is that the enemy are still urg- 
ing on their preparations for the attack of this place. The 
transports for the troops and Artillery were preparing. The 
Prophet and his Brother had arrived at the River Raisin ^^ith 
a reinforcement of Indian Warriors and a still larger was ex- 
pected on the day after from the south side of Lake IMichigan. 
Three Artillery officers had been sent to fix on the sites for 
their Batteries on the Bank of the River opposite to this place. 
The Prisoners captured on the 7th Inst, had been taken in and 
had informed the enemy of the strength of this post. But a 
salute which had been fired upon my arrival here was heard — 
the intention kno^vn and a belief entertained that I had 
brought a large reinforcement. The Indians began to waver. 
Their employers were stimulating them by every means in 
their power. To the Prophet and his followers assurances 
were given that the Michigan Territory should be theirs. The 
Indians objected to the plan of attack proposed by the British 
which was to detach the Militia and the Indians to intercept 
our retreat whilst the Regular Troops were employed in an- 
noying us from the opposite side of the River, The attack on 
this post would now be desirable and I only fear that they 
may abandon the Idea for one more easily executed. I\Iy fears 
for the safety of Fort Wajme are removed for the present, as 
all the accounts agree as to the point of the exertions making 
by the enemy to draw to Maiden every Indian from the coun- 
try between the Wabash and Lake Michigan. 

The plan for future operations as laid down in your letter 
of the 4th [3d] is no doubt the best that could have been 
devised in the event of the promised naval success and a 
prosperous issue to the Recruiting business. My measures 
will therefore be entirely directed to the prosecution of the 
campaign in that way. 

There is nothing to be feared as to the ulterior operations 
of the campaign. But all my apprehentions are awake for the 



 

present moment. To you Sir, it is unnecessary to say that it 
requires a larger force to defend a line of frontier as exten- 
sive as ours is than to carry on offensive operations against 
an enemy whose force is concentrated and who possesses the 
power of attacking any point they please. I had much rather 
when joined by Genl. [Green] Clay wiDi the Kentucky troops 
advance upon Detroit than attempt to defend our long lines 
of weak posts. The Point mentioned in the address to you 
from certain citizens of this state is no doubt very much ex- 
posed but it is not more so than others that are more im- 
portant. 

I shall however attend to it as soon as possible The position 
which I occupy here certainly possesses more advantages than 
any other that could have been taken, and yet such is the 
adverse nature of this country, for Military operations, that 
had I a disposable force of some thousands, the enemy could 
turn my right by landing at Sandusky and operate against 
the Forts there with impunity. It is now raining as it has 
been for two days and the Swamps which run parallel to this 
River throughout its whole extent must in a few hours be 
absolutely impassable to Infantry. I shall cause the move- 
ments of the enemy to be narrowly watched. But in the event 
of their landing at Lower Sandusky that post cannot be saved. 
I will direct it in such an event to be evacuated. The stores 
there are not of much consequence excepting about 500 stand 
of arms which I will cause to be removed as soon as the roads 
are practicable; at present it is impossible. 

Before I left Cincinnati I was informed by a Letter from 
Genl. Leftwitch that the Pensylvania and Virginia I\Iilitia 
would remain here, until other troops should arrive, upon no 
condition but that of receiving their arrears of pay before 
their departure. I accordingly dispatched my Aid de Camp 
Lieut. [Levi] Hukill with directions to assure them that their 
wishes should be complied with, and I directed I\Ir. [Jesse] 
Hunt Paymaster to send on Twenty thousand dollars to this 
place to be delivered to Colo. [Samuel] Huntingdon whom I 
was in hopes would be found here on the arrival of Mr. Hukill 
the greater part of the Militia were gone about tv/o hundred 
Pennsylvanians however volunteered their services to remain 
for fifteen days and upon my arrival liere they demanded a 
fulfillment of the promise. Col. Huntingdon was not here, 



 

and from the circumstance of a part of the detachment being- 
made up of small fragments of Companies, there was great 
dilhculty in adjusting their accounts. The money was how- 
ever placed in the hands of Lt. [David] Gwynne Pay Master 
to the 19th llegt. U. S. Infy. by whose exertions and knowl- 
edge of accounts the payment has been made in such a manner 
as to insure justice to the public and individuals altho it will 
no doubt cause a little more trouble al the Genl. Pay office. 
Lt. Gwynne will send to the pay Master Genl. one of the tripli- 
cate setts of Receipt Rolls which were taken, with an explana- 
tion of the whole proceedure. You will I am persuaded Sir 
not regret any additional trouble which this affair may cause 
in youi* Department when you reflect upon the necessity of 
most scrupulously fulfilling every engagement made betv/een 
the agents of the Government and Militia placed in the situa- 
tion that these were to whom the promise of payment was 
made. 

I am convinced the Adjutant Genl. is mistaken in saying 
that no returns have been forwarded from this army. From 
October until January every exertion was made to get the 
IMilitia Corps of which it was composed to make regular and 
formal returns. They were generally received but so incorrect | 

that nothing could be made from them. 

In the last mentioned month however a General Return 
was completed and forwarded by Capt. [Nathaniel] Adams 5 

and since that another. Capt. Adams was left by me at Cin- * 

cinnati at his request to make up his accounts as pay master J 

to the 'Ith Rogt. He is now ordered on and will resume his ] 

functions upon his arrival. The orders contained in your let- 
ter of the dth shall be observed in future as far as is prac- 
ticable. But You Sir who have been accustomed to see Militia 
officers who could at least read and write can have no Idea 
of the ignorance of many of those even of considerable Rank 
in the western country, [see Nov. 18, 1812 as a sample] A 
field oflk-er of the Ohio Troops to whom I gave a day or tvv^o 
aro a form of his report as offiicer of the day acknowledged to 
me (liat he was unable to fill it up. From the Quarter Master 
l)t.'j)artment inore regularity and more economy may be ex- 
pected. The faults in that Department have arisen from two 
sources viz. the creation of two independent heads and the 
necessity of employing a vast number of suboi-dinate agents 



 

wliose characters could not be ascertained. From tlie latter 
cause notwithstanding- the abilities of Colo. [James] MorW- 
son, and the high integrity of both him and Captain [John 
H.] Piatt I do not believe that there has been more fraud and 
peculation practiced upon the public in this quarter since last 
fall than in any other army, that was ever found. With some 
few exceptions, it has I believe been principally confined to 
Pack Horse IMasters and Waggon INIasters. 

I had one of the latter confined at Chilicothe for selling 
public oxen and stealing others. The officers who were to 
have composed the court to try him were obliged to come off 
to the army and the fellow has since been released by the civil 
authority. I gave you the name of a higher officer in a private 
letter who is looked upon with moi-e than suspicion; it is be- 
lieved that he has at least $10,000 of the public monej'' in his 
possession. Could I have this to spend a short time in the 
interior where these enormities have been committed I would 
endeavor to bring some of these scoundrels to punishment. 
From the number of posts in which valuable public property 
is deposited there requires a very considerable number of 
subordinate Q Masters. All these posts (one only excepted) 
have militia garrisons whose commanders seldom have the 
firmness and inclination to control their men. It is necessary 
that there should be in each of them a Quarter Master or 
agent. Young men of character might be got for from Thirty 
to Forty Dolls, per month. The Quarter Masters under the 
old law have been necessarily continued untill they can be 
replaced by the new appoinments. I have heard not a word 
from the 24th Regiment. Pursuing the plan laid down in your 
letter of the 4th [3d] I can see no advantage in the point of 
embarkation mentioned in a former letter. The ]\Iiami Bay or 
Sandusky would be infinitely preferable. The other place 
possesses no advantage which these do not afford they are 
nearer our deposits and the marching of the Troops from this 
direction to the other place would point out the intention to 
the enemy. I will thank you to inform me whether any altera- 
tion will be made, in this res])ect as soon as convenient, as it 
will govern me in the orders to be given for the March of the 
24th Regt. Nothing, I presume, can be expected from me as 
to the provision of transports. In the proposed direction, 
open boats will not answer. 

30— 22G64 



 

No person is mentioiiGcl in your letter of the 4th [3d] for 
the Inspectors Department. I had always intended to recom- 
mend for it Lieut. [Levi] Hukill my Aid de Camp who is 
better qualified for it than any person I know of and I sin- 
cerely believe better than any other Plattoon ofliccr in the 
army. I have the honor to enclose herewith an extract of a 
letter [see I\Iar. 27 above] from Govr. Shelby on the subject 
of the employment of Indian auxiliaries. His sentiments on 
the subject are precisely mine. 

I have the honor to be ^^ith great Respect Yr. Ob. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of War. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No. 52) 



Head Quarters Camp Meigs 25th April 1813 

Har. Pa. 1-S 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter 
of the 8th Inst, [see above] The directions given by me to the 
Q. Mr. on the St. IMarys last winter were to prepare a number 
of boats of that kind which were calculated, as well for coast- 
ing the lake as for descending the rivers. From the difliculty 
of procuring workmen five only of that description were built, 
perouges and flats being substituted for them. Your sugges- 
tion with regard to the disposition of the Ohio Militia shall be 
attended to. If the enemy do not commence offensive opera- 
tions soon I shall be able to dismiss a considerable proportion 
of them and you may rely upon my doing it at the moment at 
which I think their services can be spared. 

In your favor of the 4th [3d] Inst, you observe that my 
proportion of the staff has been assigned to me but the names 
of none of them are given but those of majors [Nathaniel] 
Adams and [John C] Bartlett I must beg leave to observe 
that in my opinion this army will require a more numerous 
ptaff than any other because it will consist almost exclusively 
of raw troops and inexperienced officers. For this reason I 
have ventured to detain Major [Levi] Hukill until your 
further determination shall be kno^^^l, my having done so will 
not offend General [Wade] Hampton. He is personally the 
friend of the Major who was some time in his family and has 



PIARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 427 

written to him that it is not his wish that he should abandon 
any situation in this army for the one which would be offered 
hiin in his staff should he prefer the foi'mer. 

The following circumstance will then shew the importance 
of IMajor Hukills services to me at present. The labour on 
the defences of the Camp being pretty well gotten over a Gen- 
eral order was issued for placing the whole of the Troops off 
duty on Drill for several hours each day. But amongst all the 
officers under my command of every grade I am persuaded 
there is not an individual, Majors Adams and Hukill excepted 
(& perhaps Lt. Col. [Edmund Pendleton] Gains of the 24th 
whom I do not knov/) who are capable of properly directing 
a drill or manoeuvring a Battalion. I should prefer Major 
Hukill to any other person as the Inspector of this army. 

I have the honor to enclose herewith a rough sketch repre- 
senting the situation of the posts in this quarter and a more 
correct view of the Islands in Lake Erie than any printed 
map furnishes. In the group called Bass Islands there is one 
of the finest harbours in the world. It is the Bay formed by 
an indenture in Edwards Islands and nearly shut up by an- 
other Island this harbour as the Frenchman lately brought 
from the River Raisin informs me the British are about Forti- 
fying. It is said to be eminently calculated for defence. The 
shore which commands the Harbour being high and a rock. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Yr. Ob. Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

P. S. When I was appointed to the command of the N, W. 
Army the secretary of war informed me that the President 
would confirm any staff appointments that I might make 
which were allowed by law amongst others I appointed John 
S. Wills Esq. Divis J. Advocate he has performed the duties 
faithfully but his appointment has not yet been confirmed. I 
shall be gratified by having it forwarded. The officers of the 
17th and 19th Reg. U. S. Infy. are anxious to know whether 
their Regimental and lineal Rank has been determined. 

W. H. H. 

Honb. John Armstrong, Esqr. Secy, of War. 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 27th 1813 

Har. Pa. 08 

Sir: 

On looking back on the correspondence between this De- 
partment and yourself, it is perceived that under the unex- 
pected and alarming circumstances of General Hull's surren- 
der, a great effort was deemed necessary on the part of the 
Government to accomplish, if possible, the objects assigned to 
that officer, and at least to regain what of honor and of ter- 
ritory had been lost. In this view it was thought proper to 
give to you a carte blanche on the resources of the country, 
both as to men and money. The late and present admonitions 
of the Treasury make it inexpedient to continue to this au- 
thority its original latitude. The whole military expenditure 
of the United States cannot exceed one million four hundred 
thousand Dollars per month. As therefore in a former letter 
your authority to draw out militia was restricted to the de- 
fence of Fort Meigs its dependant posts and your depots of 
pi'ovision on Lake Erie, so in this it becomes necessary to put 
tliat of drawing, oi* of authorizing others to draw bills upon 
this De])artment under the following rules, viz. 1. Bills shall 
not be drawn at a sight. 
Major Genl. Harrison. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 28th 1813 

Har. Pa. 6S 

Sir: 

I did propose doing myself the honor of writing to you at 
some length but as the post hour presses, I am constrained to 
refer you to the copy of a letter written to B. Ge]il. [Lewis] 
Cass, as containing some portion of the views intended for 
you. i 

I beg you to accept the assurance of my great respect. 

Major Genl. Harrison. 

Harrison to Meigs 
Head Quarters Calip Meigs 2Sth Apl. 1 81:5 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book U" i'.> 

Dr Sir : 

The enemy are determined to put their threats in execution 



 

llieir columns are now in sight and their Gun Boats with 
their artillery &c about two miles from us and the woods on 
both sides of the river are full of Indians. I send this by a 
confidential person, Mr. [William] Oliver, who will take it on 
as far as he thinks proper. 

Be pleased to write immediately to the Governor of Ken- 
tucky — my men are in fine spirits, do not my dear sir doubt 
the results — the enemy little dream of the bitter pill I have 
prepared for them. In a little time I hope to be able to in- 
form you of their complete discomfiture. The additional men 
v/hom you have ordered out were very acceptable. 

Yours truly 

William Henry Harrison 
His Excellency Govr. Meigs 



Myers to Proctor 

April 28, 1813 
Dawson, Harrison, 381 

We look with confident hope for the report of your success 
— and brigadier-general Vincent, (who is here, and by whose 
directions I am writing to you,) has desired me to impress 
upon you, what essential aid could be rendered to us by the 
timely arrival here of five hundred Indians; should you have 
secui-ed Harrison's army, it is the brigadeir-general's desire, 
and in which I most earnestly join, that you forward to us 
in the king's vessels to Point Abino, that number with as great 
exi)edition as possible. In the event of your having captured 
Harrison's army, you will see the impossibility under existing 
circumstances of our taking charge of them here, and there- 
fore brigadier-general Vincent requests you will make the 
best arrangements in your power to dispose of them, either 
by securing them at one or the other of your o^vn posts, or 
passing them on parole into the United States by way of Cleve- 
land or other routes, as you may find expedient; the latter line 
of conduct is perhaps the most preferable, on account of the 
state of your supplies of provisions. 

Sincerely wishing every success, and hoping to send you, 
and receive from you, good accounts, I have the honor to be, 
etc. 

Christo Myers, Col Act. Q. M. G. 
Brig. Gen. PROCTOR 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 53) 

Head Quarters Camp LIeigs 2Sth Apl. 1813 

Har. Pa. k 

The columns of the enernj' are now in siglit; an ofncer has 
just reconoitered them who thinks they amount to between 
two and three thousand the gunboats beai'ing their artillery 
&c. are about two miles from us at this moment and the In- 
dians are in swarms through the woods on each side of the 
River. ]My men are in fine spirits and we shall soon put them 
upon a retrograde march. I had a confidential person i\Ir. 
[William] Oliver with a few attendants upon fleet horses to 
carry this to the settlements.^ 

I have the honor to be with great respect Yr. Obt. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honb. John Armstrong, Esqr. Secy, of War. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Departi\ient I\Iay 4th 1813. 

Har. Pa. 69 

Sir: 

Your dispatch of the 17th ult. [see above] covering the copy 
of one from you to Governor Shelby of the 9th [see above] 
has been received. 

The theory of this new rule with regard to the service of 
militia is to make the law operate on individuals not on collec- 
tive bodies of any description. So long as we call for com- 
panies, regiments and brigades we are sure to have a plentiful 

CIIILICOTHE, Mfiy 5, 1S13 
1. An expiess has this rmmcnt reached town, bearing despatches from Kovernor 
Mei>'rs at Frankiinton to brigadier-general M'Arthur now at this place. The Kovcrnor 
states that he has just received an express from peneral Harrison, statinji that Fort 
Meigs is under close seise, surrounded by about SOOO British and Indians, which c\it.s 
ofl all intercourse between him and the frontiers, and requests immediate assistance 
from this state to open the communication ; in consequence of which the light C'-m- 
panios, and nil the mounted volunteers who can possibly bo i-aised, are to march im- 
mediately for the Rapids. The drums are now bcatincr to amis ; and no doubt need be 
entertained but that the "backwoodsmen" will do their duty. Clay, with 1500 Kcu- 
tiickians, is now at Portage river, IS miles from the Rapids. It is hoped he will not 
attempt to go through until reinforced. It is thought that Harrison's effective forces 
do'^s not exceed 1500 men; yet with this number in n strong garrison, well BuppHed 
vsfith provisions, ammunition, and cannon, there is little fear of his sustaininK a defeat. 
P. S. It is about two hours fcince the express came in ; a respectable company ia 
raised and will march in the morning. Ohio is true. 

Nilei' Register, IV, 17S 



 

lack of privates and a great superabundance of officers. If 
on the other hand we call for individuals we either get them 
or v/e do not. In the first case, there is no evil to remedy, in 
tlie last the remedy is to do what you propose, to embody the 
privates and send home the surplus officers. It is by pursuing 
this plan that we shall avoid imposition, that the state shall 
-be credited v/ith the effective force she gives, that the Union 
shall be debited Vvith what she has actually received, and that 
the commands of Generals shall not be nominal only. Gov- 
ernor Meigs cannot but meet you half way in conforming to 
arrangements productive of effects like these. 

You will have seen in my last communication my opinion 
respecting the probability of an attack on your post. 

Major General [Henry] Dearborn sailed from Sackett's 
harbor on the 23d ult his objects are the destruction of the 
enemy's naval force at York, (2 frigates) and the taking of 
forts George and Erie on the Niagara. 

Major General Harrison Ft. Meigs 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Camp Meigs 5th May 1813 

Har. Pa. 5-9 

Sir: 

I am sorry to inform you of another disaster to the Ken- 
tuck}'- troops not indeed bearing any comparison to that of the 
River Raisin in point of killed and wounded but exceeding it 
as to the number of prisoners. I had the honor to inform you 
in my letter of the 2Sth Inst, [see above] that the British 
Troops destined to beseige this place was then in view. On 
the succeeding night they broke ground upon the heights op- 
posite and on the following morning our batteries opened upon 
them and continued a partial firing throughout that and the 
following day. On the first of I\Iay the enemy returned it 
from two guns a)id one mortar battery and on the 2nd from 
a third Gun Battery. On the night of the 3d they passed a 
part of their troops to this side of the River and opened an- 
other gun and mortar battery within two hundred and fifty 
yards of our lines. They were soon however driven from 
that position and obliged to take one at a more respectful dis- 
tance. On the 1st, 2nd, and 3d Inst, the fire was most in- 



 

sislant and tremendous Sy^ ^^^ §1/2 inch shells with 24 lb. 
ball fell in shoAvers in our camp and would have produced the 
most unfoi'tunate effect but from the great pains and labour 
which had been bestowed in the erection of Traverses which 
in a great degree shielded our Camp from the former. For 
the latter there was no prevention but that of taking the Bat- 
teries. About 12 o'clock last night an oflicer arrived in a 
boat from Genl. [Green] Clay to inform me of his approach 
and that he would reach this place in about 2 hours. I im- 
mediately determined upon a general sally and sent an officer 
to Genl. Clay directing him to land eight hundred men some 
short distance above, to attack and carry the battery spike 
the cannon and destroy the artillery. The Genl. w^as unfor- 
tunately delayed longer than he expected in passing the Rapids 
and the detachment destined to make the attack did not reach 
the landing until near nine o'clock. This however did not pre- 
vent them from making the attempt and never was anything 
more completely successful. The four Batteries were imme- 
diately taken possession of and their defenders driven off and 
the cannon spiked. Here the work of our men was done. But 
that confidence which always attends Militia when successful 
proved their ruin. Although there was time sufficient to re- 
turn to the boats before a reinforcement arrived to the enem^^, 
they remained upon the ground in spite of the repeated calls 
which we made across the River to bring them back and suf- 
fered themselves to be amused and drawn into the woods by 
some feint skirmishing whilst the British Troops and an im- 
mense body of Indians were brought up. A severe action 
then took place. The British immediately intercepted the re- 
treat of our men to the plain on the river where they would 
have been under cover of our cannon but about one hundred 
and fifty only — out of nearly eight hundred effectives thus 
escaped to the boats. When the Ballance of Genl. Clay's force 
made its appearance and attempted to land above the garrison 
their flank was attacked by a large body of Indians I imme- 
diately ordered out a dctaclnnent consisting of part of the 
I'Jlh U. S. Regt. about one hundred twelve months volunteers 
and some ]\Iilitia. They however succeeded in driving the 
enemy entirely off. Pursuant to the plan which I had formed 
an attack was then made upon the Batteries on this side of 
the River conducted by Col. [John] Miller of the 19th Regt. 



 

with part of his Regt.. the aforesaid vohinteei's and a fev.- 
militia. This attack was also completely successful the enemy 
were driven from their works a number killed and two British 
ofiicers and forty one privates brought into camp. This at- 
tack was intended to be simultaneous with that on the other 
side and it was nearly so. Notv^dthstanding the severe loss 
we have sustained in the Kentucky Militia the events of the 
day have been honorable to the American army. The detach- 
ment under Colo. Miller suffered very little and had the mili- 
tia been contented with executing what they v^ere ordered to 
do every object which I had contemplated would liave been 
accomplished. 

I have only time to add that I am confident of my ability 
to defend this place until the expected large reinforcements 
arrive and that 1 am with great respect Sir Yr. Hb. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of War. 

You will pardon the inaccuracy of this when I inform you 
that I write it amidst a thousand interruptions. I will en- 
deavor to transmit a more definite account in a day or tv\'o if 
the fort is not again surrounded by Indians, w^ho have, I be- 
lieve, at this moment all returned. 

I have reason to believe that the guns of the enemy were 
very imperfectly spiked. 

Harrison and Proctor 

In an agreement for the exchange of prisoners made be- 
tween Brigadier General Proctor Commanding his Brit- 
TANic Majesty's Forces on the Miamies and ]\Iajor Gen- 
eral W. H. Harrison commanding the North Western 
Army of the United States. 

May 7 1813 

Ear. Pa. _U 

The prisoners of the Kentucky Militia now in possession of 
General Proctor to be sent to the river Huron upon the condi- 
tion of not serving against Great Britain during the war be- 
tw^een that powder and the United States. Captain [Samuel] 
Price of the U. S. Lt. Artillery and twenty regulars of the U. 
S. Army now in possession of General Proctor will be consid- 
ered as exchanged and permitted to sei've after the termina- 



 

tion of one month. Licuts. Mclntire and Hailes of the 41st 
Regrt. [British] were also to be considered as exchanged but 
are not to serve excepting on garrison duty until the expira- 
tion of the one month. The allotment of prisoners released on 
each side to be furnished to the respective commissioners of 
each nation and the surplusage to be accounted for in a future 
settlement of the account of Prisoners agreeably to the tariff 
of exchange heretofore established. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison, Majoi^ Genl N. W. Army. 
Henry G. Procter 

Brig. General Commimding His Brittanic Majesty's 

Forces on the Miami 

Head Qr. Camp ]\Ieigiis 7th May 1813. 



Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department May 8th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 70, 71 

Sir: 

Your letters of the 21st and 25th ult. [see above] have been 
received. I never meant that you or your Artillery or stores 
for the campaign now collected at Fort Meigs should be 
brought back to Cleveland for embarkation. My intention was 
that the Boats built there should move along the coast in the 
wake of the fleet to Sandusky or to the very foot of the Rapids, 
if that were practicable and exjDodient, taking in on the route 
what was v/anted. The Boats building, and built, by Major 
[Thomas Sidney] Jessup are not decked but strong and high 
sided and very competent to the navigation of the Lake par- 
ticularly between the chains of islands and the west shore. ^ 
If Major [Levi] Hukell's continuance with you as Assistant • 
Inspector General can be made acceptable to General Ilamp- \ 
ton it will be entirely so to me. The exchange of Captain « 
[Daniel] Baker of the 1st Infantry Vv'ill enable me to give you ' 
a second oflicer of the same grade and departinont. Tlici'e 
will be business enough for both. You may multiply your i 
assistant Dep. Quarter Masters according to the exigencies of j 
the Service. Governor Meigs has recommended IMr. [Jose]:)h] | 
Wheaton for the appointment of D. Q. M. Genei-al, Undeceive ' 
the Governor. What are the proofs of the facts stated by you 
in relation to Wheaton? A commission is sent to LIr. [Sam- 



 

iiel] Wells. The frontiers of the Territories seem to be in a 
state of much excitement from the attacks of small parties 
and the dread of large ones. Would there be sufficient reason 
fo]- sending Colonel Johnson's mounted Riflemen into that sec- 
tion of the District? You can better estimate the character 
of their demands than I. So long as they have Maiden to de- 
fend, or you to destroy, the enemy will not in my opinion take 
a new object. I shall soon have events in the north to com- 
municate whicli fortunate or otherwise will have a consider- 
able bearing on your operations. 

P. S. Since writing this letter I have seen one from Mr. 
Calvin Pease dated at Sandusky and stating that you had been 
attacked on the 1st of May. We look confidently for a good 
issue to the conflict. 

]\rajor General HARRISON FoRT MEIGS. 

Harrison General Orders 

Head Quarters Fort Meigs 9th May 1813 

Har. Pa. 22-26 
The information received by the General and the movements 
of the enemy indicating their having abandoned the siege of 
this post, the General congratulates his troops on having com- 
pletely foiled their foes and put a stop to that career of vic- 
tory which has hitherto attended their arms. He cannot find 
words to express his sence of the good conduct of the troops 
of every description and of every corps. As well in sustain- 
ing and returning the heavy fire of the enemy as for their 
assiduity and patience in the performance of those laborious 
duties which the occasion called for. When merit was so 
general indeed almost universal it is difficult to discriminate. 
The General can not hov/ever omit to mention the names of 
those whose situation gave them an opportunity of being more 
particularly useful. From the long illness of Capt. [Charles] 
Gratiot of the Corps of Engineers the arduous and important 
duties of fortifying the camp devolved on Capt. [Eleazer 
Derby] Wood of that corps. In assigning to him the first palm 
of merit as far as it relates to the transactions within the 
works the General is convinced that the decision will be 
awarded by every individual in camp who witnessed his in- 
defatigable exertion, his consummate skill in providing for 



43G INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

the safety of every point and in foiling every attempt of the 
enemy and liis undaunted bravery in the performance of his 
duty in the most exposed situations. An unfortunate wound 
in the commencement of the siege deprived the General after 
that time of the able services of Major [Amos] Stoddard of 
the artillery whose zeal and talents liad been eminently useful. 
Captn. [Charles] Gratiot in the remission of a severe illness 
took charge of a battery and managed it with ability and ef- 
fect. Capt. [Daniel] Gushing of the artillery and Capt. Hall 
of the 17th Infy. (but doing duty with the former corps) were 
extremely active and attentive to their post. To Col. [John] 
jMiller and IMajor [George] Todd of the 19th U. S. Infantry 
]\Iajor [James V.] Ball of the Dragoons, Sodwick and Major 
Ritzer of the Ohio militia and Major Johnson of the Kentucky 
militia rendered the most important services to each of the 
above gentlemen as well as to each Capt. subaltern non com- 
missioned officer and private of their respective commands 
the General gives his thanks and expresses his warm approba- 
tion. Also to Adjt. Brown ]\Ir. Peters conductor of artillery 
I\rr. Lion (principal artificer) and Timberlee and to Sergeant 
Henderson, Tommes and ]\Ieldrum who severally had charge 
of Batteries and Block Houses. The Battery managed by Ser- 
geant Ilendei'son was as the enemy confessed managed with 
peculiar efficacy and effect. With respect to the sorties which 
were made on the 5th Inst, the subsequent information which 
has been received from the prisoners has given the gallant 
troops which were engaged on those occasions additional 
claims upon the gratitude of their General. It is ascertained 
that in both Instances, the enemy far outnumbered oui- troops. 
The General gives his thanks to Brigadier Genl. [Green] Clay 
for the promptitude with which the detachment of his Brig- 
ade WTre landed and the assiduity given him in forming them 
for the attack on the left. To Col. Boswell and ]\Iajor Fletcher 
for their gallant)"y and good conduct in leading them in the 
charge made on the enemy and to Capts. [Petei-] Dudley, 
Simmons and Metcalf the subalterns non-cominissioned offi- 
cers and privates for the distinguished valou]' with NNiiich 
they defeated the enemy. The Gen. has in the oi'dcr of the 
6th inst. expressed his sense of the conduct of the regular 
troops and volunteers which wei'e engaged in the sorties on 
the left flank but he omited to mention Capt. Sebree's corn- 



 

pHiiy of Ky. ]\Iililia wliose gallantry was not surpassed by 
tliat of any of the companies wliich foiig-lit by their side. The 
Pittsburg Blues led by Lt. McGec in the illness of their gallant 
Captain sustained the reputation which they had acquired at 
IMississineway the Petersburg Volunteers and Lt, Drums de- 
tachment discovered equal intrepidity. To the detachments 
from the 17th & 19th U. S. Regt. under their respective com- 
manders Capt. [George] Croghan, [William] Bradford, 
[Angus Lev/is] Langhan, [Wilson] Elliott, [Asahael] Near- 
ing the honourable task was assigned of storming the British 
T'attories defended by two hundred British granadiers and 
light infantry flaiiked by an host of Indians and two com- 
I)anics of Canadian Militia, Col. Miller speaks in the highest 
terms of the conduct of the captains before mentioned and 
Lieutenants [James] Campbell, [David] Gwynne, [Stephen] 
Lee, [Samuel] Kircheval and [Jonathan] Rees and of Ensigns 
[Edmund] Sliipp, [Martin L.] Hav/kins, [Batteal] Harrison, 
[Chaj'les] iMitchel and [John] Stockton. The General re- 
ciuests Col. ]\Iiller Major Todd and each of the ofTicers above 
named together with all the oflicers non commissioned officers 
and soldiers who were engaged on the 5th Inst, to accept his 
thanks. The general is under the highest obligation to his 
staff for their conduct as well in the action of the 5th Inst, 
as for the assistance which he received from them, throughout 
the seige. Major [Levi] Hukill the acting inspector. General 
distinguished himself by his assiduity in forwarding the parts 
of our works wiiich was most necessary and which was most 
exposed to the fire of the enemy. From Major [Richard] 
Graham, his aid de camp, his volunteer aid de camp J. John- 
son Esqr. and from Lt. [John] 0. Fallon acting assistant ad- 
jutant general as well as from the Dep. Qr. Master Mr. 
[James T.] Eubanks he received the greatest assistance. It 
rarely occurs that a General has to complain of the excessive 
ardour of his men yet such appears always to be the case 
whenever the Kentucky militia are engaged. It is indeed the 
source of all their misfortune. They appear to think tha.t 
valor can alone accomplish anything. The General is led to 
make this remark from the conduct of Capt. [William] Dud- 
ley's Company of the Regiment as he has understood that that 
gallant officer was obliged to turn his espontoon [?] against 
his company to oblige them to desist from a further pursuits 



 

of the enemy in complyance with an order from the General. 
Such temerity although not as disgraceful is scarcely less fatal 
than cowardice. And in the instance above had it been per- 
sisted in would have given a different result to the action. As 
the whole of the enemy's force v/hich were placed near the 
batteries would have been precipitated upon the rear of our 
detachment. The pursuit being stopped allowed time for a 
new disposition under cover of our cannon and the enemies 
batteries were attacked and carried without difficulty. 

John O'Fallon, Act Assistant Adjt. Genl 
(A Copy) 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 54) 

Head Quarters Camp Miegs 9th May 1813 

Har. Pa. 10-13 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that the enemy having been 
for several days making preparations for raising the seige 
of this post accomplished this day the removal of the last of 
their artillery from the opposite bank and about 12 o'clock 
left their encampment below were soon embarked and out of 
sight. I have the Honor to enclose you an agreement entered 
into between Genl. Procter and myself for the discharge of the 
Prisoners of the Konty. IMilitia in his possession and for the 
exchange of the officers and men of the Regular Troops which 
were respectively possessed by us. [see May 7 above] IMy 
anxiety to get the Kentucky Troops released as early as pos- 
sible induced me to agree to the dismission of all the prisoners 
I had Altho their was not as many of ours in Genl. Proctors 
possession. The surplusage is to be accounted foi* and an 
eaqual number of ours released from their parole, whenever 
the Government may think proper to direct it. I am sorry to 
inform you that the loss of the Kentucky Troops in killed and 
missing is much greater than I had at first believed. It 
amounts u]iwards to three hundred but of these I hope that 
many have escaped up the north side of the river to Fort 
Winchester. However much this unnecessary waste of lives 
may be lamented it will give you great pleasure to learn that 
the two actions on this side the River on the 5th were infinitely 
more important and more Honorable to our army than I had 



 

at first conceived. In the Sortie made upon the left Flank 
Capt. [Asahel] Neaving.s company of tlie 19th Regt. a De- 
tachment of 12 Mos. vohmtecrs under Maj. Alexander and 
three companies of Kentucky Militia under Colo. [William E.] 
Boswell defeated at least double the number of Indians and 
British militi'. The sortie on the right Avas still more glori- 
ous. The British Battei'ies in that direction were defended 
by the Granidier and Light Infantry companies of the 41st 
Regt. amounting to two hundred eff(3ctives and two militia 
companies flanked by a host of Indians. The detachment sent 
to attack these consisted of all the men off duty belonging to 
the companies of [George] Crogan and [William] Bradford 
of the 17th Regt. [Angus LoA^is] Langhani, [Wilson]' Elliott 
late [Richard] Grahams and Nearings of the 19th about 
eighty of Major Alexander's volunteers and a single company 
of Kentucky militia under Captain Sebree, amounting on the 
whole to not more than three hundred and forty. Yet the 
event of the action was not a moment doubtful and had not 
the British troops been covered in their retreat by their allies 
the whole of them would have been taken. 

It is not possible for Troops to have behaved better than 
ours did throughout. All the officers exerted themselves to 
execute my orders and the enemy who had a full view of our 
operations from the opposite shore declared that they had 
never seen so much work performed in so short a time. To 
all the commandants of corps I feel particular obligations. 
These were Col. [John] ]\Iiller of the 19th Regt. of Infy. Col. 
Mills of the Ohio Llilitia Maj. [Amos] Stoddard of the Ar- 
tillery Maj. [James V.] Ball of the Dragoons and Maj. [John 
T.] Johnson of the Kentucky Militia. Capt. [Charles] 
Gratiott of the engineers having been for a long tiine much 
indisposed the task of fortifying this post devolved on Capt. 
[Eleazer Derby] Wood. It could not have been placed in 
better hands. Permit me to recommend him to the President 
and to assure you that any mark of his approbation bestowed 
on Capt. Wood VvT)uld be highly gratifying to tlie whole of the 
troops who witnessed liis arduous exertions. Froin Maj. 
[Levi] Hukill acting Inspector General my aid de Camp Maj. 
[Richard] Graham, Lieut. [John] O'Fallon who has done the 
duty of Asst. Ajd. Genl. in the absence of Maj. [Nathaniel] 
Adams and my volunteer aid de camp John Johnson Esq. I 
received the most useful assistance. 



4'10 INDIANA HISTOPJCAL COLLECTIONS 

I have the honor to enclose you a list of the liillod and 
wounded during the siege and in the two soi'tics. Those of 
the latter was much greater than I had at first expected. 
Want of sleep and exposure to the continued rains which have 
fallen almost every day for some time past renders me iri- 
capable of mentioning many interesting particulars amongn 
others a most extraordinary proposition of Colo. Proctors en 
the subject of the Indians within our Boundary. These shall 
form the subject of a communication to be made tomorrow or 
next day and for which I will provide a safer conveyance than 
that which carried this. All the Prisoners and deserters agree 
in saying that the information given to Maj. Stoddard by 
Pvyland of the British haveing launched a sloop of war this 
spring is incorrect and the most of them say that the one 
which is now building will not be launched for many weeks. 

I have the honor to be Sir with great respect yr. obt. Huni1\ 
Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Hon. John Armstrong Esqr. Senj. of TF«r 

P. S. Capt. [Samuel] Price of the Reg-t. D. Artillery and 
the twenty regulars prisoners with Genl. Procter were^aken 
on the north \V. side of the river with the Kenty. militia. We 
had no prisoner taken on this side Tluring the seige. The re- 
turn of the killed and wounded could not be gotten ready for 
this convej'ance. 



Gen. Green Clay to Harrison 

Camp At Fort Meigs, May [9], 18L3 

Har. Pa. 15-17 

Sir 

On the 5th inst. about 8 o'clock, A. Isl. descending tlie i\Iia]ni 
of the lake about midway the Rapids, with 1200 of the Ken- 
tucky troops in 18 flat bottomed boats, I was met by captain 
Hamilton [of the Ohio I\Iilitia] and a subaltern, who delivered 
me (as he said) the orders of major general Harrison to the 
following effect: 

You must detach about 800 men from your brigade who will 
land at a point I will shew about one or one and half miles 
above the Fort, and I will conduct them to the British bat- 
teries on the left bank of the river. They must take posses- 



rff*^'Y-V-'Tl''Tito^Vi<iil-'irtifiln'.TftaHTtV.^TI«1ffiTwii<yiVT^^ 



HARPJSOX: ]^,IESSAGES AND LETTERS 441 

sion of the onemy's cannon, spike tliem, cut down the carriages 
and return to their boats. Obsen'ing that the British force 
at their batteries was inconsiderable, but tliat tiieir main force 
was at the old garrison, about one and a-half miles below, on 
the same side of the river; that the Indian forces were chiefly 
on the riglit ban.k of the river. The balance of the men, under 
your connnand, must land on the right bank, opposite the hrst 
landing, and will fight their vray ilirough the Indians to the 
Fort observing that the route thus to be taken would be shewn 
by a subaltern oflicer, there in company v.ith capt. Hamilton, 
who would land the Perogue at the point on the right bank, 
at which the boats would land. 

The order of descending the river in boats was the same 
as the order of march in line of battle, in solid column, each 
officer taking position according to his rank. Col. [William] 
Dudley, the eldest colonel, led the van, and in this order the 
river had been descended. As soon as capt. Hamilton had de- 
livered these orders, being in the thirteenth boat from the 
front, I directed him to proceed immediately to col. [William] 
Dudley and order him to take the men in the 12 front boats, 
and execute general Harrison's orders on the left bank of the 
river; and post his (capt. Hamilton's) subaltern on the right 
banks to conduct myself with the men in the six rear boats to 
the Fort. I ordered the 5 boats in the rear to fall in a line 
and follow me. High winds and the rapidity of the current 
drove 4 of the rear boats ashore in the attempt to follow on 
according to order, where they remained a short time, suffi- 
cient however to detain them half or 3 quarters of a mile in 
the rear. To land according to order, I kept close along the 
right bank until opposite col. Duley's landing. There I found 
no guide left to conduct me to the Fort as capt. Hamilton had 
promised. I then made an attempt to cross the river and 
join col. Dudley but from the rapid current on the falls I was 
unable to land on the point with him. Being nearly half 
across the j'iver, and the waves running too high to risk the 
boat then driving dovni the cun-oit sidewise — veered about 
the boat and rowed the best way we could to save our boats. 
i\Iy attempt to cross the river to col. Dudly, occasioned all the 
boats (I presume in the rear of me) and which were then out 
of hailing distance, to cross o\'er and land with Col. Dudley. 
Having been defeated in a landing on the left, we then en- 

Sl— 22Cf,4 



 

deavored to effect one on the riglit, even without a guide: But 
before a landing- could bo effected we received a brisk fire from 
the enemy on the shore, which was returned and kept up on 
both sides and I was in this unavoidable situation compelled to 
make to Fort Meigs with no other force than about 50 men on 
board the other boats being still in the rear and to receive the 
enemy's fire until we arrived under tlie protection of the Fort. 
Col. [William E.] Boswell's command (except the men in my 
boat) having landed to join col. Dudley, were, as I have been 
informed ordered by captain Hamilton immediately to em- 
bark and land on the right hand shore about a mile above the 
Fort, and prepare to fight his way through to the garrison. 

The colonel embarked, landed as he conceived at the proper 
point, pursuant to captain Hamilton's order, and was forming 
his men in order of battle, when he was met by captain Shaw, 
and ordered to march into the garrison at open order, the 
safest route. 

When my o^vn boat landed we were met by two men who 
took charge of the boat as we understood to bring her under 
the protection of the fort batteries. Believeing our baggage 
to be thus made safe, we forbid our servants to carry any 
portion of it, but loaded them with cannon balls which they 
bore to the fort. Our baggage was however taken by the 
Indians in a very short time after we left the boat. Upon 
receiving the orders of captain Hamilton, I asked if he had 
brought spikes to spike the enemy's cannon. To which he 
replied he had plenty. 

I am sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, 

Green Clay, Brig. Gen. 
His Excellency, Maj. Gen. Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 55) 

Head Quarters Lov^ER Sandusky 13th May 1813 

Har. Pa. 2S-S7 

Sir: 

Having ascertained that the enemy (Indians as v^ell as Brit- 
ish) had entirely abandoned the neighbourhood of the Rapids 
I left the command of Camp Meigs with Gen. [Green] Clay 
and came here last night, [for^ the purpose of providing for 

1. The parti5 enclosed In brackets were ixndcrRcorcd by p.omo one !n Wat'hlnirtor). 



 

the better security of this post and to procure some Troops 
for the protection of Cleveland. Another motive for the trip 
was the security of the prisoners of war whicli were sent to 
the River Huron in their march of 40 miles through a Wilder- 
ness from the settlements at the mouth of Huron to Mansfield. 
Arms and ammunition have been forwarded from this place 
to them and I sliall take care to have the country well recon- 
noitred between this post and Lake Erie, the only route by 
which a body of Indians could approach the prisoners. I 
thought those steps proper altho I have the solemn promise 
of Gen Procter that the Indians should not be suffered to go 
in that direction.]^ It is with the greatest satisfaction I in- 
form you Sir, that I have every reason to believe that the loss 
of the Ky. Troops in killed on the North side of the River 
does not exceed fifty. On the 10th and 11th Inst. I caused 
the ground which was the scene of the action and its environs 
to be carefully examined and after the most diligent search 
45 bodies only of our men were discovered. Amongst them 
was the (weak and obstinate but brave) leader of the detach- 
ment Col. [William] Dudley. No other officer of note fell in 
the Action. I have strong reason to believe that a consider- 
able number of the Kentuckians effected their retreat up the 
River to fort Winchester. 

Gen. Proctor did not furnish me with a return of the 
Prisoners in his possession altho repeatedly promised. His 
retreat was as precipitate as it could properly be leaving a 
number of Cannon Ball, a new Elligant Sling carriage for 
Cannon and other valuable articles. The night before his 
departure two persons that were employed in the British Gun 
boats (American by Birth) deserted to us. The informa- 
tion they gave me was very interesting. They say that the 
Indians of which there were from 1600 to 2000 left the Brit- 
ish the day before their departure in a high state of disatis- 
faction, from the great loss which they had sustained in the 
several engagements of ihe 5th and the failure of the British 
in accomplishing their promise of taking the post at the Rap- 
ids. From the account given by those men my opinion is con- 
firmed of the great superiority of the enemy which were de- 
feated by our Troops in the Troops sallies made on the 5th 
inst. That led by Col. [John] Miller did not exceed 350 men 
and it is very certain that tlicy defeated 200 British Regulars, 



 

150 militia and 4 or 500 Indians. That American Rcegulars 
(altho they were raw recruits) and such men as compose the 
Pittsburgh (Pa.) & Petersburg (Va.) vohmteers should be- 
have well is not to be wondered at. But that a company of 
Militia should maintain its ground against four times its num- 
bers (as did Capt. Sebrees of the Ky.) is truly astonishing. 
These brave fellows were at length however entirely sur- 
rounded by Indians and would have been entirely cut off but 
for the gallantry of Lt. [David] Gwymie of the 19th Regt. who 
with part of Capt. [WilsoJi] Elliott Compy charged the enemy 
and release! the Kentucldans. I enclose you a hst of the killed 
and wounded during the whole seige. It is considerably larger 
than I had supposed it would be when I last wrote to you. But 
it is satisfactory to know that they did not bleed uselessly, but 
in the course of successful exertions. The returii does not 
embrace the ones who fell on the N. W. side of the IMiami. 

[I have^ no immediate fears for any of our pof^ ts but Fort 
Winchester. Genl Clay left there an immense deposit of Pro- 
visions but he certainly did not manifest his usual judgment 
in not reinforcing it. As soon as I do what is requisite in 
this quarter I shall proceed to upper Sandusky and dispatch 
some Troops, the first that I can command to Fort Winchester. 
I have the honor to enclose you Gen. Procter's proposition 
to me to exchange the Ky. Militia in his possession for the 
friendly Indians v/ithin our line. I ansv/ered him that the 
subject w^ould be refered to you but that 1 was pursuaded it 
would never be assented to.]^ 

You will also receive herewith a monthly return of the 
Troops at Camp Meigs. For the last month the communica- 
tion with the other posts being cut off, the returns were not 
received. A copy of Gen. Clay's Report [see May 9 above] 
to me of the manner of his Executing my order for the at- 
tack at the enemies Batteries is likewise forwarded — By which 
it will be seen that my intentions were perfectly understood — 
and the great facility with which they might have been exe- 
cuted is apparent to every individual who v/itnessed the scene. 
Indeed the cannon might have been spiked, the carriages cut 
to pieces, the magazine destroyed and the retreat eU'ectcd to 
the Boats without the loss of a man. As none were killed ii' 
taking the Batteries, so complete was the surprise. Ai) < -■ 
tensive open plain intervenes between the River and the iiiH 



 

ui,)()]i which the Batteries of tlie enemy were placed. The 
Hill plain and was raked by 4 of our 18 pounders a 12 and a 
six. The enemy even before their guiis were spiked could not 
have brought a single gun to bear upon it. So perfectly se- 
cured was their retreat the 150 men who came off effected it 
without loss and brought off some of the wounded one of them 
u)?<on tlie backs of his comrades. The Indians followed them 
to the woods but dared not enter into the plain. 

I am unable to form a coii'ect estimate of the Enemies forces 
which attacked Fort Meigs. The prisoners varied much in 
Ihoir accounts. Those who made them least stated that the 
Regulars at 550 and Militia 800 but the number of Indians 
were beyond comparison greater than have ever been brought 
into the field. Numbers arrived after the seige commenced. 
1 have caused their Camps in the south East side of the River 
to be particularly examined and the general opinion is that 
there could not have been fewer on that side than 1000 or 
]20(K They are indeed the efficient force of the enemy. 

[Our' officers are unanimously of opinion that 100 of our 
men could in the woods defeat 200 British Regulars easier 
than 100 Indians. 

The public property has suffered very much during the 
siege. The 24 pound shot and 81/2 inch shells destroyed the 
roofs of all of our Block Houses and Stores and the rains 
which fell the greater part of the time has greatly injured 
many articles. I am under the greatest apprehension for the 
salted beef and Pork which had been put down in bath. Be- 
fore the siege commenced the making of barrels to repack it 
liad progressed considerably. The seasoned timber was how- 
ever nearly all made up and Kiln drying of the rest was neces- 
sarily suspended. Gen. Clay has particular directions to 
attend to it and no one has more judgment in such matters.]^ 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favours 
of 14th 17th 18th and 28th Ult. and 4 Inst, [see above] 

Upon a reconsideration of all the circumstances which in- 
duced me to order Gen. [Duncan] Mc Arthur & Col. [John] 
r^liller to repair to the Miami Rapids I do not consider that I 
merit the rebuke contained in your letter of the 14th Ult. 
When the order was given to Colo. Miller an Ohio Militia Col. 
was on his way to camp Meigs whose rank would have given 
him the command after the departure of Gen. Leftwich and 



 

Crooks and whose militia)y information is perhaps as hmited 
as that of any person who ever held a commission. Lt. Col. 
[John B.] Campbell of the 19th Rejxt. was shortly to return 
from Furlough and was intended to supply Col. IMillers place. 
In the meantime an officer every way adequate was found on 
the spot in the person of Major [John] Whistler. 

When the order was first given to Gen. ]McArthur to repair 
to the Kapids in the event of his receiving the appointment, 
it was done from the motive of securing an officer of rank and 
experience for the command of that post. 

I think I am incapable of suffei-ing myself to be governed 
by any personal consideration in opposition to my duty and 
the Public interest I believe that no one who is acquainted 
with the situation of my family when I last come into the set- 
tlement can believe that there ever existed stronger claims 
upon the feelings of a husband and a Father than those by 
which I was assailed urging my remaining at Cincinatti for 
some weeks. The afflictions and suffering of the Slajor part 
of my family are without a parallel, yet it will I think be ad- 
mitted from the promptitude of my return to Fort i\Ieigs that 
I should not have been induced to go into the settlement at all 
had I not supposed that it was my proper post — and that a 
Junior Officer could be entrusted with the command of Fort 
Meigs. I^Iy after experience has convinced me of the correct- 
ness of this opinion. The order to Gen. ]\IcAruthur vras long 
since countermanded. 

I have not yet been honored with your command upon tlie 
subject of the assembling the Troops, the direction of tlicir 
march etc nor do I know whether it is expected that I should 
give directions with regard to the providing of Artillery. 
ordinance Stores etc. From a letter writeen by Major [Isaac] 
Craig at Pittsburgh to llajor [Amos] Stoddard it would seem 
that order had been given to the Dy. Commander of OrdnariCe 
there to make the proper provisions. I can now state to you 
a circumstance which prudence forbid me to mention in any 
former letter — at the commencement of the seige we had but 
360,18 Pd. shot and less than that quanity for 12 pounder.<. 
the v/hole quanity of the former sent on from Pittsljurgh was 
500. Vv''e were therefore obliged to be extremely sparing of 
our fire from the 18 pounders or I do believe from the effect 
which they produced on the Enemy's Batteries we could have 



 

complctelj'- silenced them before they were spiked. Their 12 
])ounders suppHed us with shot of that description but they 
had no eightecns their larp;e guns being all tvsTnty fours. 

I am sorry to inform you that Major [Amos] Stoddard died 
the night before I left the Rapids of a Lock Jaw produced by 
a slight wound from the fragement of a shell which struck 
him on the thigh. Several have died in this way from their 
great unavoidable exposure to cold. — but the Sergeons assured 
me and my own observations sanctioned the opinion that per- 
haps there never was so many instances of desperate wounds 
being likely to do v/ell. The Gallant Capt. [William] Brad- 
ford will recover. 

I shall go from here to upper Sandusky and shall take my 
station at Delaware or Franldinton until the troops are assem- 
bled. Gen. Clay who commanded at the Rapids is a man of 
Capacity and is entirely to be relied on. I have the Honor 
to be with great respect 

Sir your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble. John Armstrong Esq. Sectary of War 

P. S. I am mortified upon examing the enclosed monthly re- 
turn. You will pardon its slovenly appearance when you are 
informed that it was made by a young gentleman who never 
did anything of the kind before. Nor was there an officer 
in Camp Meigs Hukel excepted & the two captains of the 
Engenier Corps who could have made it better. Capt. Adams 
has not yet joined me. 

Meigs: General Orders 
Headquarters, Lov^er Sandusky, May 14, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, 223 

The governor of Ohio hastens to inform the good citizens 
of the state, who have rallied and repaired to his standard, 
upon his call to 'arms' with a promptitude and zeal which 
proves their pati'iotism and love of country, that their serv- 
ices are rendered unnecessary by a change of circumstances 
whicli required the call. The most important fortress of the 
western countiy, Camp Meigs, was invested by the enemy — 
information of it reached his excellency, and orders immedi- 
ately issued. In an instant you were soldiers — the prompt- 



^asPA'At^.^ fig-lf^^i, 



 

ness, good order and regularity of j'our inarch excites admira- 
tion. His excellency is entirely satisfied with your conduct; 
and for it returns his warmest thanks. He is sensible your 
domestic avocations at this season of the year, must require 
your laobrs at home — a sufficient force reached his headquar- 
ters to afford adequate relief, which he desigiied to command 
in person — many more were on their march, but thanks to 
the valor, talents and exertions of the commanding general, 
and his brave little army, they have convinced the enemy of 
the rashness of his enterprize, compelled him to raise the seige, 
and seek his ovni safety in flight! The governor, therefore, 
gives you an honorable discharge, which I am ordered to make 
public; and also that you have the thanks and respect of his 
excellencj^ the commanding general who is advised of your 
movements. 

By his excellency's command, 

Henry Brush 



Harrison to Poague 

(No date given) (May 15, 1813) 

Penn. Mag. of History, XXXII, 117 

Dear Sir: 

The enemy have fled & as it is difficult to get provisions in 
front for the pursuit, you will be so obliging as order Col. 
[Philip] Barber to return immediately to St. IMarys with his 
Regiment as well as Jenkinsons Battalion & the Col. must 
have directions to funiish a small escort of from 20 to 30 men 
with the waggons which may be ready to come out with pro- 
visions from St. Marys. With your own Regiment you will 
continue to open the road on to Fort Defiance & bring on with 
you the stores &c. of the ]\Iilitia which are under the charge of 
Col. [William] Jennings. You will be pleased also to dispatch 
Capt. [Angus] Langham immediately with all the Beeves ex- 
cepting about 60 & these sixty you had better send back to 
Col. Jennings to keep. 

Order Capt. Langham to proceed with the utmost rapidity 
with the beeves & with the pack-horses, which were at Col. 
Jennings block house. If you did not bring the pack-horses 
with you Capt. Langham must not wait for them Init must 
come on with the beeves & when Col. Jennings sends on the 



 

paclc horses to you, you Avill be pleased to dispatch 20 men 
under a subaltern with them, 

Yours respectfully 

Wm. H. Harrison 
Col. [Robert] Poague 

1 have ordered your tents & baggage to be brought in from 
St. I\Iarys to you. You had better send back the Quarter- 
Tklaster to attend to bringing them on. 

Harrison: General Orders 

Head Quarters, Franklinton, jNIay 16th, 1813 

Dawson's Harrison, 395 

The commanding General has observed with the warmest 
gratitude the astonishing exertions, which have been made by 
liis excellency governor Meigs, and the generals and other 
militia ofTicers of this state, in collecting and equiping a body 
of troops for the relief of camp INIeigs. But the efforts of 
these men would have been unavailing, had thej" not been sec- 
onded by the patriotic ardor of every description of citizens, 
which has induced them to leave their homes, at a most critical 
season of the year, regardless of every consideration but that 
of rendering service to their country. The General found the 
road from Lower Sandusky to this place, literally covered 
with men, and amongst them many who had shared in the 
toils and dangers of the revolutionary war, and on whom, of 
course, there existed no legal claim for military services. The 
General has every reason to believe, that similar efforts have 
been made in Kentucky. He offers to all those brave men 
from both states, his sincere acknowledgements ; and is hapjn- 
to inform them, that there is at present no necessity for their 
longer continuance in the field. The enemy has fled with 
precipitation from camp Meigs, and that is in a much better 
situation to resist an attack, than when the last siege was 
commenced. 

By order of the General, 

R. Graham, Aid 



 

HARrasoN to Secretary of War 

(No. 56.) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 18th May, 1813 

^ Har. Pa. S8-S9 

Sir: 

I had the honor this moment to receive your favour of the 
8th inst. [see above] I am perfectly convinced that noth- 
ing can be more correct than the opinion you have given of 
the nature and extent of the warfare that is and will be car- 
ried on upon the frontiers of the Territories. I will at least 
guarantee that no attempt in force will be made on the Wa- 
bash, nor do I believe that any other than light parties will 
invest the Illinois. Dixon if he has artillery may attempt to 
carry one of the posts on the Mississippi or perhaps attack 
some of the exposed villages, but I rather suppose that he will 
not descend lower than Prairie de Chien. There is no object 
that would authorize the risk and there would be great diffi- 
culty to persuade the Indians to attack posts and villages in 
any other way than by treachery. I am perfectly acquainted 
with the Wabash and Illinois Indians and I am fully persuaded 
that since the departure of Tecumseh and his brother from 
that quarter the larger part will remain neutral. Such is the 
activity of these people in the kind of warfare which they 
carry on upon the frontiers that a very few can do a great 
deal of mischief. I ascertained that seven of those scoundrels 
killed no less than thirty odd of our people (men, women, & 
children) in the course of a few weeks of the spring of 1812. 
I shall set out for Cincinnati the day after tomorrow. I will 
from thence be able to give you more correct opinion of the 
course which is to be pursued to protect the frontiers. I will 
answer your inquiry on the sub. of [Joseph] Wheaton to- 
morrow, and am with great respect sir Your 

Humble Servant. 

Hon. JOHN Armstrong • ^iliam Henry Harrison 



(No. 57) 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Franklinton May 18th, 1813 

gjjj. Har. Pa. 40-47 

In the evening of the day on which I had the honor to 
address you from Lower Sandusky Gov. ]\Ieigs arrived at that 
place with about 500 mounted and dismounted Infantry. 



 

Upon a consultation with the Gov. it was determined that 
all the Troops of which there were as he supposes, two or 
three thousand in motion, should be dismissed as soon as pos- 
sible, excepting two hundred for the Garrison of Lower 
Sandusky. There appeared to be no motive for retaining 
them as it was evident that the enemy, Indians as well as 
British, had returned to I\Ialden. Expresses were sent along 
the principal roads with directions for all the troops of eveiy 
description to return ; more than three fourths of them were 
volunteer corps raised by popular and patriotic men who 
turned out for the occasion ^^ithout wishing or expecting any 
compensation. There were however amongst them some 
drafted men to make less the deficiency of the former call. 
Of these I desired the Governor to form two companies of 100 
men each for the garrison of Lower Sandusky and I ordered 
the Garrison of that place amounting to 125 to proceed to 
Cleveland. As they were taken from the Militia of the Con- 
necticut Reserve, the neighbourhood of that place. The gov- 
ernor has gone on in person to Cleveland and will complete 
this detachment to two companies of one hundred each — at 
least he will endeavour to make this arrangement, but it can- 
not be done without the consent of both men and officers. The 
law of this State makes a company to consist of 72 non-com- 
missioned officers and privates. The men have the privilege 
of electing their ovni officers and they cannot be forced to 
serve in any other way than their own laws direct until they 
are organised under one passed by the United States. I 
found Gen. Cass with Gov. IMeigs. He had ordered in a full 
company of 13 months Recruits from Zanesville and a part 
of another from this neighbourhood. They have been directed 
to return to this place. 

Gen. McArthur was on Hull's Road marching in the direc- 
tion of the Rapids with about 300 men and will probably have 
proceeded as far as Fort Findley before he meets the messen- 
ger who was sent with order for his return. I have directed 
him to ascertain the situation of Fort Winchester and rein- 
force the Garrison. From the Kentucky newspapers I learn 
that Colo. [R. M.] Johnsons Regt. of mounted riflemen were 
ordered by Gov. Shelby to rendevous at Georgeto^vn on the 
20th inst. for the purjDose of marching to Fort Meigs, I have 
dispatched an express to the Colo, desiring him to dismiss his' 



 

men. The citizens of Ohio and Kentucky deserve great credit 
for the promptitude of their exertions upon this occasion. But 
the above detail of the loose manner in which they were pro- 
ceeding to the scene of action sufficiently indicates what would 
have been their fate had they attempted to force a passage to 
Fort Meigs with the small detachments that were in advance. 

By a gentleman who has just arrived from Lexington I 
learn that the 24th Regt. left that place on Friday last and 
that after marching a few miles upon the Limestone road, 
took the direction of Georgetown and Cincinnati. I have had 
no communication whatever with Colo. [William P.] Anderson 
and I am not acquainted with the route prescribed to him. 
As Cleveland will soon have a respectable Militia Corps for 
its protection I would by no means recommend that the 24th 
Regt. proceed thither. 

General Cass informed me that it is one of the most sickly 
places in the Western Country ; that even in spring the in- 
habitants are much subject to intermittent and billions fevers. 
I should certainly prefer the route by the two Sanduskys or 
that of St. Marys and Fort Winchester for all the troops com- 
ing from Kentucky or those reunited in this state west of the 
Muskingum River and south of the dividing ridge between 
the waters of Lake Erie and those of the Ohio. The Militia 
above mentioned and such of the Recruits as are raised in the 
Connecticut Reserve and East of the Muskingum would, I 
should suppose, be adequate to the defence of Cleveland. 

I hope to receive your particular instructions. I am far 
from wishing to avoid responsibility. I am only fearful of 
counteracting your intentions without Imowing them. The 
recruiting of the 12 months men suffers much from the want 
of Clothing. Gen. Cass informs me that he has not heard 
that any has been sent in. 

I have seen and conversed with several of the Militia who 
were made prisoners on the north side of the Miami on the 
5th inst. They state the loss of the enemy in killed and 
wounded as very great. One of them who was wounded him- 
self says that there were sixty nine of the enemys woundt^d 
on board the same vessel with himself. The Indians also suf- 
fered very severely but retaliated upon our unfortunate pris- 
oners. The man from whom I received the information states 
that at least 40 were killed after they were prisoners that the 
British in vain endeavoured to prevent it and a British soldier 



HAURISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS .153 

was shot down (a centinel I believe) in endeavouring to 
counteract them in the presence of the British officers. Num- 
hcrs of the Indians left their allies on the Evening of the 5th. 

I have the honor to enclose you a paper presented to me by 
all the field officers shortly after the attack upon Fort Meigs 
commenced requesting me to allow the men an additional half 
ration ; being fully convinced that they could not undergo the 
excessive labour required of them unacquainted as they were 
with those Economical arrangements which enables the ex- 
perienced soldier to subsist upon his allowence. I could not 
hesitate to comply with the recommendation of the officers 
and the measure will I hope meet your approbation. 

In the course of last winter I directed Major [Amos] Stod- 
dard to prepare an estimate of the Ordnance, ordnance stores 
and ammunition which would be wanted for the ensuing cam- 
paign. His estimate vv^as made out and forwarded to Capt. 
[Hezekiah] Johnson at Pittsburgh who delivered it to the Dy. 
Commissary of Ordnance there. As I had no information at 
that time of the determination of the Government to obtain 
the naval superiority on Lake Erie, I directed the cannon (5- 
18 Pounders) to be sent early in the spring to Cincinatti, that 
it might be taken by the route of the Miami of the Ohio and 
that of the Lake to Fort Meigs. I was accidently informed 
some time since that five cannon of that description had ar- 
rived at New port, but that it was not known whether they 
were intended for the North Western Army or to descend the 
Mississippi. Three days ago I received information from the 
Dy. Commissary of Ordnance [Abram R.] Woolley that they 
were those which I had required. The season of navigating 
the Miamis has now passed and I have no alternative but that 
of bringing them up the Ohio to the mouth of the Scioto and 
from thence by land to Sandusky. I have directed the Dy. 
Commissary of Ordnance to send the remaining part of the 
Stores required to such point on the lake as may have been 
selected for the other stores v/hich are to be sent from Pitts- 
burgh. 

Major [James V.] Balls Squadron is now here the horses 
suffered considerably during the seigo, many were killed and 
the whole so reduced that it was with difficulty they were 
gotten in. They will however be soon and cheaply recruited 
in the rich pastures which this country affords. 

Major [Amos] Stoddard's death will make it necessary that 



 

another field officer of Artillery should be sent on to this Army. 
Indeed a few experienced subaltern officers of that Corps 
would be highly desireable. 

A Sergt. [John] Henderson of the Petersburgh Va. Volun- 
teers had charge of the most important Battery during the 
siege and distinguished himself much. That corps consists 
chiefly of young Gentlemen of the first respectability in the 
State. Mr. Henderson is not inferior to any of them in cor- 
rect and gentlemanly deportment. He would accept of a Sec- 
ond Lieutenancy of Artillery and would I am pursuaded do 
honor to the appointment. 

I have the honor to be with Great Respect Sir Your Humble 
Servant. 

William Henry Harrison 

John Armstorng Esq. Sect of War 

Harrison to B. G. Orr 
Head Quarters, Franklinton, May 19, 1813 

Am. Sta. Pa. — Military Affairs I, 645 

Sir: 

You will be pleased to provide for the issuing of provisions 
at such places within the settlements as Brigadier Generals 
[Duncan] M' Arthur and [Lewis] Cass, and Major [J. C] 
Bartlett, the Deput Quartermaster General, may require. I 
can give no direction with regard to the forwarding of provi- 
sions to the frontiers, or the lakes ; nor information as to the 
delivery of those which the Government have accumulated 
there, until I receive further information from the Secretary 
of War. But the posts of Cleveland and Lower Sandusky 
having been exclusively furnished by the late contractor (Mr. 
Porter) it will be necessary that you make immediate arrange- 
ments for issuing at both these places by the 1st of June. Pro- 
vision should be made at Cleveland for at least eight hundred 
daily issues, and at Lower Sandusky for four hundred. 

I am, respectfully, your humble servant, 

William Henry Harrison 
Benjamin G. Orr, Contractor 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 58) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 19th May 1813 

Ha/r. Pa. ^8-52 

Sir: 

The circumstances which occasioned the suspicions against 
Capt. [Joseph] Wheaton and which I learned from Capt. 
[John H.] Piatt Dy. Qr. M. Genl. are as follows. He was sent 
from Pittsburgh with some cannons in Waggons, a number of 
Cannon Carriages and some waggons with stores and ammuni- 
tion in the whole about 70 teams. His route lay through New 
Lisbon in this state, Canton, Wooster and Mansfield to Upper 
Sandusky and he was furnished by the Quarter Master with 
7500 Dollars for forage and other incidental expenses. Upon 
his arrival at Canton he drew upon the Secretary of War for 
a considerable sum, if I recollect right 2500 or 3500 Dollars 
— at Wooster 80 miles from Canton he sent an Express to 
Capt. Piatt requesting a supply of 3000 Dollars, which was 
sent to him at Wooster he was also furnished with about 1000 
bushels of grain, deposited there by Capt. Piatt At Mansfield 
30 miles from Wooster he again sent to Capt. Piatt for 2 or 
3000 Dollars which was by my order refused. But he re- 
ceived there 600 bushels of grain from Capt. Piatt's Agent. 
From Wooster to Mansfield there are no settlements from 
thence to Sandusky a distance of 45 miles, there is not a house. 
Capt. Wheaton reached the latter place early in Jany and in 
a few days after the cannon and waggons arrived. The 
Horses so worn down the greater part of them drawing empty 
carriages, that they could scarcely be gotten into the settle- 
ment. In a short time after his arrival Capt. Piatt informed 
me that he w^as convinced that Capt. Wheaton could not have 
expended in the public Service all the money he had received. 
That he appeard to wish to get as much as possible in his 
hands and that he believed that Wheaton had a large sum in a 
small trunk in his possession. I was so fully impressed with the 
probability of this being the case that I had at one time de- 
termined to seize the trunk and have it examined. Wheaton 
afterwards made an attempt, in settling with the Team driv- 
ers, to get from them a voucher which would have been passed 
to his credit in the War office, and give them his own private 
due bills for the amount ; this was however prevented by Capt. 



 

Piatt and I believe that the Waggoners were sent back to 
Pittsburg without tlieir pay. There is no necessity for my 
saying any thing to Gov. Meigs to develope Wheatons char- 
acter. The latter was sent from this place by Major [John 
C] Bartlett as Quarter Master for the Troops which the Gov. 
was taking on to the Rapids when I met them at Lower San- 
dusky the Gov. informed me that he had never seen a man 
so entirely worthless and unfit for any kind of duty and that 
he was laughed at and scorned by all the detachment. Such 
indeed is his character. I regret the necessity of speaking in 
this way of a man who never did me an injury and employed 
more of his thoughts and time in endeavours to conciliate and 
gain my confidence than he does in the discharge of the duties 
of his appointment. 

In the beginning of March I sufl^ered Doctor [Garret E.] 
Pendergrast to leave the army on Furlough for six or eight 
weeks upon his informing me that he would incur a great loss 
of property if he were not permitted to go to Philadelphia. 
He pledged himself to return as there was no surgeon belong- 
ing to the Regular Troops I selected Doctor [Hugh] Stannard 
the Senior Surgeon of the Virginia Brigade of Militia to take 
charge of the Hospital Stores and superintend the Hospital 
until the return of Doctor Pendergrass. Since the discharge 
of his Brigade I have continued him, because there was no 
other in service within my reach that could be trusted with 
the important duties that he performs. The Surgeon of the 
19th Regi;. has been represented to me, by several Medical 
and other respectable characters upon whom I can rely, as be- 
ing a perfect quack, alike destitute of Talents, medical expe- 
rience and education. This will surprise you when you re- 
collect that he was recommended by the members of the Sen- 
ate of this State. He wrote a recommendation, procured the 
signatures of several members and the rest signed it because 
others had done it. They now, I am told, express wonder at 
his having been appointed. Doctor Stannard will continue to 
act until another is sent out. He would, I believe gladly ac- 
cept a prominent appointment, I know that he stands very 
high in the estimation of Gov. Barbour of Virginia. 

Mr. B. G. Orr met me at this place and showed me a copy 
of a contract he has made for supplying the Troops under 
my command. Is it intended that the provisions belonging to 



 

the United States should be delivered to him? I think the 
public would gain by turning it all over to him with an allow- 
ance of I2V2 per cent for issuing. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your 
Obt. Humble Servant., 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble John Armstrong, Esq, Sect, of War 

P. S. The christian name of Sergt. Henderson wliom I had 
the honor to recommend to you for an appointment is John. 

General Orders 

Adjutant General's Office, Head-Quarters, Kingston, 

May 21, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, 272 

The commanding general has great satisfaction in announc- 
ing to the troops the brilliant result of an action which took 
place on the banks of the ]\Iiami river on the 5th inst. with 
part of the North Western Army of the United States, under 
major-general Harrison, and which terminated in the com- 
plete defeat of the enemy, and capture, dispersion or destruc- 
tion of thirteen hundred men, by the gallant division of the 
army under the command of the brigadier general [Henry] 
Proctor. Five hundred prisoners were taken, exclusive of 
those who fell into the hands of the Indians, and whose num- 
ber could not be ascertained. 

Brigader-general Proctor praises the gallant conduct of 
those under his command, and refers to official despatches not 
yet received. The enemy's loss was very severe ; while that of 
the British amounted only to 14 rank and file killed — 1 sub- 
altern, 4 Serjeants, and 37 rank and file wounded. Of the 
militia, 1 captain killed 4 rank and file wounded. 

Edward Baynes, Adj. Gen. [Briiish Army'] 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Departi^ient May 21st 1813 

Har. Pa. 72, 73 

Sir: 

The letters you did me the honor to write to me on the 5th, 
9th and 13th [see above] instant have been received and sub- 

82—22664 



 

mitted to the President, who has been pleased to direct that 
I should communicate to j^ou, and through you to the Troops 
composing the garrison of fort Meigs, his thanks for the valor 
and patriotism displayed in the defence of that place, and 
particularly by the Corps employed in the Sorties made on the 
5th instant. 

Your future requisitions for ordnance stores will be gov- 
erned by the quantity on hand at Fort Meigs and Franklinton 
and the number and calibre of the pieces you propose to take 
with you against Maiden. Your whole train, if I am well in- 
formed, amounts to thirty five pieces of which nine are eigh- 
teen pounders. 

The 24th Regiment was on the 10th instant at Lexington 
(Ky.) on their way to Cleveland. You will give it any other 
point of rendezvous you may think proper and adopt such 
means to assemble the other parts of your Division, as will 
be most advisable. On this head I would but suggest that 
the arrangement which shall best mask your real design and 
most impress the enemy with a belief that your march to 
Maiden will be by land will be the best. 

Clothing for the 26th, 27th, and 28th Regiments has been 
forwarded from Philadelphia. 

The last accounts of the Boats preparing by Major [Thom- 
as S.] Jessup were favorable. That officer will necessarily 
report to you and take your orders. 

General Proctor's proposition concerning the Indians within 
our Limits, was artful and perhaps but meant to excite suspi- 
cions of them on our part, while it held out to the Indian the 
paternal regards of H. B. Majesty. 

Major Genl. Harrison 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No. 59) 



Head Quarters, Cincinnatti 23rd May, 1813 

Har. Pa. 53-56 

Sir: 

Upon my arrival here yesterday evening, I was informed 
that Col. [R. M.] Johnson had arrived at New Port a few 
hours before with his Regiment of mounted Infantry. He 
called on me this morning and delivered the letter of which 
the enclosed is a copy, [see following] He further stated to 



h'AKKISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 459 

^v,^ iU:\t ^\}H•n lie met with the person bearing my order for 
?<!f7uriK ''-'i^'^^ ^^^^- Troops which had been embodied for the 
iilirf of Fort Meigs he had consulted the officers upon the 
j.ri»i)n'('ly of dismissing their men and it was their unanimous 
(ipiiiion that if they were now disappointed in their expecta- 
fion of engaging in actual sei*vice they could never again be 
)))oug)it into the field. This consideration together with the 
letter the Col. had received from you informing him that I 
)iad been authorized to employ the Regiment for the protec- 
tion of the Frontiers induced him to determine to come on 
until they received further directions from me. 

Being as yet uninformed as to the situation of affairs on the 
Illinois, Wabash and Mississippi, I could not determine upon 
the propriety of sending these Troops there immediately. But 
under the circumstances I am pursuaded that a demonstra- 
tion in the direction of Fort Wayne, by such a body of mounted 
men would be attended with very happy effects. I am not 
entirely at ease on the subject of the garrisons in that direc- 
tion. The enemy, if they understand their business (wanting 
provisions as they do) will certainly make an attempt to carry 
some of our weak posts where we have large deposits. Col. 
Johnson's Corps will make all safe in that quarter. Should 
it be determined to send them to the Territories the route 
down the Wabash from Fort Wayne would be quite as eligible 
as any other and by a little inclination to the north they might 
strike some of the Indian Villages on the St. Joseph, or the 
heads of the Illinois. 

I shall order them therefore to Fort Winchester in the first 
instance from thence they can go to either of the Territories, 
make a Coup De Main on some of the Villages in the Vicinity 
of Chicago or some short time hence in conjunction with the 
squadron of dragoons an attack upon Detroit or Brownstown 
by a very favourable route leading from Fort Wayne across 
the head Waters of the River Raison. I have always been 
partial to the assembling a body of Troops in the Vicinity of 
Fort Wayne. It is in the immediate line of communication 
between the Indians of the Wabash, Illinois, Mississippi and 
the South and West sides of Lake Michigan and Maiden. 

Col. [William P.] Anderson with the part of his Regiment 
which was at Massac has arrived here. The Col. has just 
waited on me and shewed me his orders which were to 



 

proccced to Cleveland. Being at this place there is no more 
eligible route even to Cleveland than that by the way of 
Franklinton and Upper Sandusky. But I should suppose that 
it is no longer desirable that he should go to Cleveland. I 
fear before he could reach that point that the vessels may be 
on the way up the lake to receive the Troops. 

I shall leave this in a few days for Franklinton and com- 
mence the assembling the Troops as soon as I receive your or- 
ders. 

I have heard indirectly that the recruiting of the 12 months 
men goes on briskly in Kentucky. But I have received no 
Report. Indeed I Imow from common fame only who has been 
appointed the Col. of the Regt. to be raised there. 

I have the honor to be with 
great respect, Sir, Your Obt. Hbl Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble John Armstrong Esq. Secretary of War 



R. M. Johnson to Harrison 

Cincinnatti, 23rd May, 1813 

Ha/r. Pa. 57, 58 

Sir: 

The attack upon Fort Meigs, the small force which you were 
known to have to defend that important post, the danger of 
the intermediate Posts on the left wing of the army under 
your command and other considerations equally important and 
impressive induced me to anticipate the v/ishes of the Presi- 
dent and Secretary of war in marching the Regt. of ]\Iounted 
Volunteers to your command with every practicable dispatch. 
You are aware that the Gov. of the state of Kentucky had also 
recommended the measure. 

After having fixed the day of Rendezvous I was happy to 
receive a letter from the Secretary of war in which he inti- 
mated that you were authorized to call the Regt. in executing 
the plan of a Campaign which you had reported to the Sec- 
retary, and stating positively taht you were authorised to use 
the Regt. for the defence of the Territorial Frontiers. Under 
this view of the subject, I considered it my indispensible duty 
to march the Regt. to the Ohio River and prepare for actual 
service. 



 

I am well convinced that if the Regt. should now be dis- 
missed, it cannot easilj^ be collected, for reasons obvious and 
not necessary to be enumerated. My desire to continue in the 
so'vice with the Regt. does not arise more from the great anx- 
iety of officer and men to serve their country, than from what 
I consider the real advantage which will result from that 
service. I am now anxiously waiting to know what is your 
determination and whether you consider the service of the 
Reg-t. at this time important and necessary, if so, to receive 
your orders upon that ground and I wish your decision, as I 
am convinced that what ever course you may pursue, it will 
meet the entire approbation of the President of the U. States 
and Secretary of War. 

With sentiments of great 
respect and esteem your Obt. Servt 
(Signed) R. M. Johnson 
General W. H. Harrison 

Dr. Samuel M'Keehan's Narrative 

May 24, 1813 

Niks' Register IV, 2U 

On the 31st of January last, I was ordered by general Har- 
rison to proceed to the river Raisin, with a flag of truce, and 
from thence to Maiden, if not stopped by the Indians. We ar- 
rived at the foot of the rapids of the Miami at dark, and not 
finding a company of rangers as expected, we encamped in a 
cave [?], the horse and cariole before the door, and a flag 
standing by them. About mid-night the Indians fired in upon 
us, killed Mr. Lemont, wounded myself in the foot, and made 
us prisoners. After dispatching JNIr. Lemont with the toma- 
hawk, scalping and stripping him, they seized my horse, har- 
ness, great coat, blankets and other cloathing, and one hun- 
dred dollars in gold, which the general had sent to procure 
necessaries for the wounded of general Winchester's army. 

That night I was made to walk more than twenty miles to 
where captain Elliott was stationed with a party of Indians. 
The Captain treated me politely, and sent me to colonel Proc- 
tor. I was scarcely seated before the colonel began to abuse 
general Harrison, said he had been used to fight with Indians, 
and not British; found fault with my instructions, and said 



 

the flag was only a pretext to cover a bad design. I rebutted 
his insinuations with indignation, which I believe was the 
cause of all my troubles, since I was not received in my official 
character until the 5th of February, when I was informed by 
Proctor's aid, that I should attend the wounded with Dr. 
Bower, and that I should be sent to the United States, but by 
a different route from that by which I came. Dr. Bower in a 
few days was sent home and I detained. 

On the 2d of March I was arrested by order of colonel Proc- 
tor, and accused of carrying on a private correspondence. On 
the 8th, without having any trial, I was ordered to Montreal, 
and hurried on from Fort George night and day, although 
thinly clothed and the weather very cold. From Kingston to 
Prescott, I was made to eat with the officer's servants ! This 
course of torture being finished on the 28th, when I arrived 
at Montreal, and without being asked any questions, or being 
suffered to ask any myself, I was put into a dungeon, eight 
or ten feet below the surface of the ground, where I had 
neither bed or bedding, chair, bench or stool — denied pen, ink, 
paper; or even the use of a book, for two weeks. The only 
fresh current of air that passed through my apartment came 
through the bowels of the privy! Here I was kept thirty- 
three days, when I was to my great joy, put up with the Amer- 
ican prisoners, and with them permitted to remain till last 
Monday, when I was liberated by the intercession of lieu- 
tenant Dudley, of the navy. Colonel Bajaies aid to the gov- 
ernor told me that the outrage which had been committed on 
my person was contrary to his orders. 

I left fourteen American prisoners in jail, who were kept 
in close confinement, notwithstanding colonel Lethbridge and 
major Shackelford had pledged their words to captain Con- 
key, before he left Montreal for Quebec, that they should have 
the liberty of the to\\ai during the day. But the captain was 
scarcely gone, when the pledge was either forgotten or dis- 
regarded. The prisoners now are not permitted to procure 
such necessaries as their small stock of money would provide. 
Sometimes they are half a day without water, and two or three 
days without wood, and if they complain, they are cursed and 
abused by the jailor, and told they are only allowed a quart 
of water in the day. I am requested to represent their situa- 
tion to gen. Dearborn, which I intend to do as soon as I arrive 
at Sackett's Harbor. 



 

This is a sketch of the indignities I have had to put up with 
since the last of January. 

I am yours, &c. 

Samuel M'Keehan 



John Wingate to Harrison 

St. Mary's, May 28th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 59-61 

Sir: 

The copious fall of rain has given an opportunity of send- 
ing on all the company stores at this place, and the principal 
part at Amanda. 18 flat boats started from this post last eve- 
ning well loaded and there are 28 boats at Amanda but have 
not men to mann all of them, every man able to do duty at 
this post descended the St. Mary's with boats from here. I 
have ordered all from Amanda but a Sergeant, Corpl. and 12 
men, and have ordered Ensign [James] Gray from Ft. Lori- 
mies with 17 recruits to Ft. Amanda to descend with boats 
to the rapids ; it appears I cannot raise as many men as will 
mann all the boats at Amanda. Col. [B. G.] Orr used every 
exertion to procure some assistance from the Indians, but 
could not prevail upon them to send one man, there is some- 
thing new amongst them. They find a thousand faults, they 
say there is but few of them and we wish to have them cut 
off by placcing them in the front of battles and other dangerous 
places, and that they receive no pay for their services, they 
also say that the British Indians, (those that were prisoners) 
had told them they had taken a number of towns and that 
their forces would soon meet tliose in tlie north and take their 
whole country, which appears to have staggered their faith 
& Col. Orr and others have attempted to explain away those 
impressions but without success. They are still under the 
idea that the Americans are trying to deceive them and that 
they stand in a very critical situation, and appeared to be at 
a stand how to act. 

The Boats at Amanda will not start for 3 days as the water 
is now too high and rising, we will start as many as possible, 
all if we can. 1 have directed them to make a stand at Fort 
Winchester and send two or three of the men to Fort Meigs 
and ascertain whether it be safe to proceed to the Rapids and 



 

if not safe to ask assistance & Further orders from Gen. Mc- 
Arthur who I understand commands at Ft. Meigs. 

I expect a small rifle company from the 5th division to be 
here this evening or tomorrow, one half at least, ought to be 
stationed at Lorimies; you will see the necessity of more men 
being ordered on to this place. 

Capt. [Hugh] Moore complains of not being reinforced at 
Ft. Wayne the Company I expected here this evening are very 
anxious about some money. I promised them a month's pay 
before they agreed to come on. I think a line from Your Ex- 
cellency to the District paymaster would be of service for if 
they should disperse we shall be left in an unpleasant situa- 
tion on this line. I have written Mr. [Jesse] Hunt on the 
subject &c. 

A few minutes ago Black Fish an Indian came in, he states 
that one of Blue Jackets sons was at Wogioockhana, a few 
days ago this fellow fought against you at Fort Meigs, this 
will explain the former part of my letter. 

I have just learned but 15 Boats will start from Amanda 
and that they will set out about 10 o'clock tomorrow. There 
ought to have set out 28 but there are no men to take them. 

There is yet then, a very considerable quantity of provision 
&c. 

Your Excellency will at once see the necestity of sending 
more troops on this line. 

I am Yours &c with High Esteem 

John Wingate, Br. GL 3rd Detachment O. M. 
His Excellency Genl. Harrison 
A true copy Wm. Winchester, Lt. Aid de Camp 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department May 31, 1813 

Har. Pa. 7A, 75 

Sir: 

Your letter of the 19th instant has been received, [see 
above] 

Arrangements will be made for increasing the medical staff 
of your command. 

Herewith inclosed you will receive a copy of the contract 
for supplying the froops in the State of Ohio. You are au- 



 

thorized to fill up the blank attached to the copy and to ap- 
point agents to deliver over to Messrs. [B. G.] Orr and 
[Aaron] Greely such provisions now in deposit as you may 
deem proper to issue according to the agreement, taking their 
duplicate receipts for the same, one of which must be trans- 
mitted to the accountant of this Department and one to the 
Superintendent General of Militaiy Supplies that Orr and 
Greely may be held accountable for the provisions so received. 

Major Genl. Harrison 

General Orders 

Chillicothe, June 5, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, 271 

The unaccountable delay which has taken place in the march- 
ing of some of the detachments of troops destined for the 
North Western Army, makes it necessary that some effectual 
remedy be provided for an evil which is pregnant with the 
most fatal consequences. 

The general, therefore, directs that every officer when or- 
dered to march with a detachment of troops, shall, upon re- 
ceiving the orders, commence a journal in which he shall in- 
sert the date of his having received the order, and every cir- 
cumstance which tends to procrastinate his march, or delay 
it after it shall have commenced until his arrival at the point 
of destination. In all cases where the orders may have been 
received from the general, or where detachments are destined 
for the head-quarters of the army, or any post upon the fron- 
tiers, a copy of the journal so kept and certified on honor by 
the commanding officer, will be forthwith forwarded to the 
adjutant general's office. In all other cases the copy of the 
journals will be sent to the oflicer ordering the march. 

By order, 

Robert Butler, Cai-). 24th Inf. Assist, Adj. General 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 61) 

Head Quarters Franklinton 8th June, 1813 

Har. Pa. 62-66 

Sir: 

I met here a soldier of the 19th Reg-t. who had been taken 



 

from Camp Meigs in March last by the Indians, ransomed by 
some of our citizens at Detroit and landed with about 50 of 
the Kentucky Militia at Huron on the 19th Ultimo. This man 
confirms the account of the dispursion of the Indians and he 
says that he was repeatedly informed that they went off in 
high disgust against the British, many of them declaring 
that they would never again make war upon the United States. 
The reason assigned for their disatisfaction was the failure 
of the attempt upon Fort I\Ieigs. The British had promised 
to put them in possession of all the Country between the Ohio 
and the Lake. The provisions which they expected to take at 
Fort I\reigs was to afford them the means of further opera- 
tions. Many of them observed that they were now convinced 
that the British were unable to perform their promise as they 
had been repulsed from Fort Meigs. 

I have no doubt of the correctness of this information. But 
I should deeply regret to having any effect to retard our 
operations or lessen the force which it was contemplated to 
employ. The declarations of an Indian and even his feelings 
today give no security for his conduct on tomorrow — nor 
ought any calculations to be drawn from the destruction of 
their destined presents at York. A substitute can easily be 
found in the large stock of goods which are in the possession 
of private Traders. The British agents are well acquainted 
with the Indian Character. Long experience has put them in 
possession of all the means by which their confidence is to be 
obtained or their passions stimulated. The communication 
from Gov. [Ninian] Edwards to Gov. [Isaac] Shelby and 
which I have seen published in the Kentucky papers shows the 
correctness of the opinion which you long since formed. That 
as long as they had Maiden to protect or my Army to destroy 
they would never think of any other than a desultory war 
upon our Western Settlements. All the Indians that they can 
possibly raise from the country between the Lakes and Mis- 
sissippi will certainly be brought down to Maiden. 

It appears to me that a collateral expedition of (to the one 
across the Lakes) mounted men directed immediately against 
Detroit or wherever the Indians might be found would be 
highly useful. It could be accomplished with little expense. 
Col. [R. ]\I.] Johnson's Regt. and the Dragoons under Lt. Col. 
[Jas. v.] Ball might be encreased by Volunteers from Ken- 



 

tucky and this state who would serve for 30 or 40 days with- 
out pay to a most formidable body. 

Will you be pleased to inform me whether such an expedi- 
tion will be permitted by the Government. The Volunteers I 
speak of will not be Militia but associations of Individuals 
who will select their own officers and which in this country 
will bring out the best men in it, generally those who are no 
longer on the Llilitia rolls — at least four fifths of the officers 
will be of that description. 

I did myself the honor to inform you that Capt. [Nathaniel] 
Adams had declined the appointment of Asst. Adjt. Genl. As 
there was a necessity of having an officer of that department 
with me I have appointed Capt. Robt. Butler of the 24th Regt. 
to do the duty. He is well qualified for it and I should be 
extremely gratified if he could get the appointment perma- 
nentlj^ Indeed he has some claim to it having been appointed 
by the President early last Winter Asst. Dy. Adjt. Genl. He 
did not however receive any notification of his appointment. 
It was made in the first instance by me upon the recommenda- 
tion of Genl. Winchester. The misfortune to that Gentleman 
and the disbanding of the greater part of his army rendered 
this employment in the Staft' unnecessary until the law was 
repealed under which he was appointed. 

I must beg leave also to recommend that Major [John C.] 
Bartlett be promoted to the rank of Quarter Master Genl. The 
laborious duties of that department require a higher compen- 
sation than he receives and as to his abilities to discharge 
them I should not hesitate to prefer him to any other. Mr. 
[James] Brown of Orleans and Mr. [Henry] Clay of Kenty, 
are both intimately acquainted with him. 

The 24th Regt. arrived here last Evening. It is much re- 
duced by sickness, the reports this morning make only 314 
rank and file present fit for duty. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect 
Sir Your Humble Servt. 

William Henry Harrison 
The Honble John Armstrong Esq. Secretary of War, 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Juno 9th, 1S13 

Har. Pa. 70 

Sir: 

General [Benjamin] Howard and Governor [Ninian] Ed- 
wards urge the necessity of more troops in that quarter and 
there being no other disposable force for that purpose at this 
time, the President directs that you order Colonel [R. ^L] 
Johnson with his Regiment of mounted Volunteers directly to 
Kaskaskias to report to General Howard. 

Jilajor General Harrison 

Harrison to R. M. Johnson 
Head Quarters Franklinton 11th June, 1813 

Har. Pa. 67-7^ 

Dear Sir : 

Your letters of the 4th and 5th Inst, were received yesterday 
I inclose you a copy of a letter which came to hand last eve- 
ning giving an account of the glorious success of our army on 
Lake Ontario and of the departure of the forces which de- 
fended INIalden to the assistance of their defeated brethren 
below. Never was a more glorious opportunity offered to 
make a brilliant stroke in the direction of j\Ialden as it is as- 
certained from the accounts brought by all the Kentucky pris- 
oners that its Indian defenders had dispersed immediately 
after returning from the seige of Fort Meigs. Unfortunately 
my Infantry is not in a situation to make a movement whicli 
is calculated to hold the ground that we should occupy. 

Nothing therefore can be done but by way of Coiip De Main. 
Your situation is eminently calculated to make one against 
BrowTistown or any other point in the neighbourhood of it 
which from the information you may receive you may think 
yourself able to attack with success. 

I send the bearer to you. i\Ir. LIcClusky [Col. James ^Ic- 
Closky] who is well acquainted \\ith the Countries around 
Detroit and who will bo able to give you every necessary in- 
formation with respect to its Topography. 

In making the attempt above suggested it is impossible that 
I can give you any other than general instructions for the 
Government of your conduct. Your course in other respects 



 

must be governed bj- Circumstances as they arise arjd the in- 
formation you may receive. Should you have obtained intelli- 
gence to induce you to believe that the enemy are still in con- 
siderable force at or near INIalden the expedition must be 
given up. But if no information has been received by you to 
contradict the opinion entertained of the dispersion of the In- 
dians and the departure of the British Troops for the Lower 
part of Upper Canada I would have you take the road for- 
merly recommended to you, leading to tlie River Raisin and 
proceed along it to the exterior settlements on untill you shall 
obtain information that can be relied on of the situation of the 
enemy. If it should be such as to promise success to an at- 
tack upon Brownstown or any other of the Enemies Estab- 
lishment in that direction j^ou will immediately make it. If 
otherwise you will return to Fort Wincliester or to Fort ^leigs 
as you may think proper. 

You must constantly have in mind that a partial success 
will be much better tlian to run any considerable risk to obtain 
a greater. Your Corps being however finely mounted your 
movements may be so rapid as to allow you to make your 
stroke and escape pursuit. Unless the enemy should be em- 
bodied to an amount greatly superior to your force. 

The great danger lies in the inattention, (so customary Vvitli 
Militia) of your officers and men, to those measures which are 
necessary to guard against surprise and the confidence and 
rashness with which a first success is so apt to inspire our 
back-woods-men. I rely upon your authority and exertions to 
guard you against the effects of a disposition which has al- 
ready proved so false. When you make an attack let your 
plan be fairly and distinctly formed and see that your princi- 
pal officer's well understand it as must every subordinate one 
the part he is to act. Assure all your men that those who dis- 
tinguish themselves be their station what it may, shall be 
properly noticed in my communication to the President. On 
the contrary those who, by their disobedience or want of at- 
tention to the orders they may receive, may endanger the coips 
or prevent its success shall be publicly and everlastingly dis- 
graced. Your men must be particularly cautioned against 
shouting or firing upon their approach to the enemy until or- 
dered to do so. An imprudence of this kind enabled many of 
the Indians to escape Col. [James] Campbell at the Missis- 



 

sinway Towns and discovered to Genl [Henry] Proctor the 
advance of Col. [William] Dudley against his Batteries some 
time before he would otherv/ise have known it. To prevent a 
similar occurence you ai'e hereby positively ordered to direct 
the odlcers to cause the first man who offends in this particu- 
lar to be shot down. The lives of hundreds must 7iot be 
jeopardized by the folly or villany of a few individuals. 

I am sorry that the provisions and stores sent from St. 
jMaiy's have been stoped at Fort Wayne. If the river is suffi- 
ciently high, I hope you will use the authority vested in you to 
order the Boats to proceed unless there is a probability of 
their being taken by the enemy. 

A detachment has been sent up from Fort Meigs to Fort 
Winchester to bring down the Boats that are there. If they 
have not all left the latter they can be sent down under the 
escort of the Kentucky Militia company which was sent there 
from Fort McArthur. In the deficiency of men at Amanda 
the Company last spoken of should have been sent up to bring 
down the ballance of the stores and provisions. 

I shall set out in a day or two for the margin of the Lake, 
your letters may be sent to Camp Meigs and if I am not there 
to Lower Sandusky. Inform the people at the River Raisin 
that I shall soon be there with an army to protect them, and 
tliat it is my intention to establish a considerable post there 
in my advance from Fort Meigs. 

I am with Regard Sir Your humble Servant 

(Sig-ned) William Henry Harrison 
Col. R. M. Johnson Com. a Regt of Moimted Infantry 
A true Copy John O'Fallon Aid de Camp 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Franklinton 11th, June 1813 

Har. Pa. 73-77 

Sir: 

1 have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors 
•>n}io 19th and 21st Ult. [see above] 

iho approbation bestowed by the Pi'csident upon my own 
and lhi> conduct of the troops employed in the defence of Fort 
•i('ig.s, is highly llatcring, and will prove a great stimulus to 
future exertions. 



 

I received last evening a letter from the Adjutant General 
of Genl. [Henry] DearlDorn's army, conveying the glorious in- 
telligence of the taking of Fort George and the repulsing the 
enemy in their attack upon Sacketts Harbor. Col. [Winfield] 
Scott also states that it was understood that Genl. [Henry] 
Proctor had gone down with his force to the assistance of 
Genl. Vincent and that he supposes the junction would take 
place near Lake Simcoo. This, must however, be a mistake, 
If Proctor has taken that direction, he must have gone down 
Lake Erie as far as Long Point, from vvhich a settlement and 
road extends to that, leading from Sandwich up the Thames 
to York but whatever route he may have taken, his absence 
from Maiden affords an opportunity for the commencement of 
operations in that direction, which I am unable to profit by, in 
any other way, than by a Co^q) De Main with the mounted 
force under Col. Johnson. 

The Col. left St. Mary's on the 5th inst. with seven hundred 
men for Fort Wayne, from whence he was to get into the road 
leading from the St. Joseph's river to the river Raisin and act 
as circumstances might authorize against the enemy, and then 
proceed to Fort Winchester. 

I have this morning dispatched Mr. McCloskey an intelli- 
gent young man, who is well acquainted with the country, with 
instructions of which the enclosed is a copy, [see above] I am 
convinced that an opportunity of making a very brilliant 
stroke will be offered him, there is nothing to be dreaded but 
the Col.'s inexperience and, the want of discipline amongst 
his men ; for zeal, activity, and bravery, his corps is exceeded 
by none. My presence is indispensibly required here or I 
should have taken this command myself. 

The horses of Col. [James V.] Ball's squadron suffered so 
much in the siege of Fort Meigs that they are not yet fit for 
service, but will be so in a short time. 

Capt. [James R.] Butler of the twelve months Vol. and Lt. 
[David] Gwynn of the 19th Regi: arrived here the day before 
yesterday from Fort IMeigs; from them and the letters brought 
by them, I learn that the troops at that post had been reduced 
by sickness to five hundred effectives. The prevalent diseases 
were the dysentary, and measles, the former brought on by 
exposure during the siege, seized almost every individual. 
There were however, but few deaths, and much the greater 



 

portion of the sick were convalescent and but few new cases. 
A drove of fine fat Beeves wliich reached the fort some days 
ago, will add greatly to their recovery. 

Every exertion is making to push on the new raised troops 
towards the Lake, the twenty-fourth Regt. would have 
marched tomorrow, ]:>ut for a heavy rain, which fell last night, 
and which has rendered the creeks impassible, I shall go with 
it or follow soon afte]\ 

Gen. [Duncan] I\IcArthur, [Lewis] Cass, and [James] 
Findley have recommended to you a Mr. [Simon Zelotus] 
Watson for the appointment of topographical engineer to this 
army, from what I have seen and heard of him he appears to 
be qualified for the appointment and perhaps better ac- 
quainted with Canada than any other person in the United 
States. 

I have the Honor to be With Great Respect Sir 

William Henry Harrison 
Honble. John Armstrong Esq. Secretary of ivar 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department June 14th 1813 

Har. Pa. 77 

Sir: 

The commissions may be bestowed as you propose in your 
letter of the 5th instant. My preceding letters have author- 
ized you to assemble the troops where you may think best — 
keeping in view their prompt embarkation when the vessels 
shall be ready for action. The clothing foi- the three new regi- 
ments has been long since on the road for Chilicothe and New- 
port. 

The order given for issuing half a ration per man extra, 
may have been justified by the circumstances of the siege, but 
ought to have terminated with th(?se. 

I have not received the list of prisoners of war who have 
enlisted. There is on the subject of exchanges, an obstinacy 
and insolence on the part of Sir Geo. Prevost which must be 
corrected. 

It would be of much importance to have circulated among 
the hostile tribes of Indians the late occurrences on Lake On- 
tario and Niagara River. How could this be done? The enemy 



 

^vi]l no doubt endeavor to keep these poor wretches in the 
dark. 

The wliole number of Deputy connnissaries of Ordnance au- 
tliorized by law is four. I have proposed to Congress to add 
five others. This proposition, if adopted, will give room for 
]\Ir. [Robert D.] Richardson. 

I\Iajor General Harrison 

Harrison to John H. Piatt 
Head Quarters Franklinton June 18th 1813 
Sir: Har. Pa. 102 

You will superintend the issues and safe keeping of all the 
provisons belonging to the United States except tliose at Camp 
Meigs, the two Sanduskys, Delaware, Franklinton, Chilicothe 
and those to the eastward of the Scioto. 

The Contractors are not to be suffered to issue at any of 
those places where the public have provisions. 

Every possible exertion is to be made, to have the provisions 
from Fort Wayne, Fort Winchester and Amanda taken to the 
Rapids, and that at Lorimie's taken to St. Marys. ^ 
I am Respy. Yr. Humble Servant. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
John H. Piatt Dy. Coinmng. Genl. 

Harrison to B. G. Orr 
Head Quarters, Franklinton, June 20, 1813 

o,^ . Avi. Sta. Pa. Mil. Affairs I, GJt5 

I am directed, by the Secretary of War, to complete the 
arrangements v/ith you for turning over to you all the pro- 
visions which have been purchased on the public account. 

1. From the North West. INIajor acn. HaniKon was at Franklinton, June 16. 
Col. Anfleison with a ro.;;iment of regulars, 800 .stiduK, liad airived there from Ten- 
nessee, where they were recruited. We may look for offensive operations in a few days. 
The frovernor of Ohio has invited his fellow-citizens to join Kcn. Harrison in a short 
tdvir of duty in the territory of Michiican and distiict of Maiden, aKainst their IJrilish 
enemies and their ferocious allies, that peace may rest on their borders. They are 
to be mounted. 

A regiment of T2 months men, laised in Kentucky, and cominaiidcd by Col. [Thomas 
novel OwinRs, were to ma)oh to join (Ion. Harrison about the 24th of .lune. 

The death of Ken. Green Clay, of Kentucky, at Fort MeiKs, has been announced. 
Wc are happy to say the report is not true. lie had been ill, but was convalescent. 

NUcs' Rci/iUcr IV, gS!) 

33—22664 



 

It is necessary, therefore, that you should immediately meet 
mo at Lovrcr Sandusky, in order that the business may be 
finislied as soon as possible. I have directed that no issues 
of provisions be made, on your account, at any of the posts 
wliere the public have th.ern. There is, I imagine, full as much 
provisions on hand, the property of the United States, as will 
be wanted for the campaign some fresh beef excepted. 

I am, etc. 

William Henry Harrison 
B. G. Orr, Confracfor to the Eight Military District 

Green Clay to Harrison 

Cai^ip Meigs, June 20th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 7S-S1 

Dear Sir : 

Two men, one a Frenchman and the other a private in the 
late Col. [William] Dudley's regiment have just arrived from 
Detroit and from whom we have the important intelligence 
that the enemy contemplates another attack upon this Gar- 
rison. 

The Frenchman states "that the Indians had for some time 
been urging Genl. Proctor to renew the attack. A council of 
war was held a few days since when it was determined to re- 
new the attack on Fort Meigs, and the combined forces were 
to set out on this day or tomorrow at furthest ^\ith that view. 

From every information the Indians would be about 4,000 
strong with the expectation of an additional reinforcement of 
perliaps as many more. The British Regulars (about 1600 
strong) from fort George and Fort Erie, had been sent for 
and were expected at ]\Ialden. 

The Canadian Militia had been paraded on the 4th June 
(the Kings birth day) and after a speech by the Genl had beer. 
ordered to yield up their arms being deemed unworthy his 
majesty's service. 

Tecumsch was encamped on the River Rouge near its mouth. 

The Prisoner, Thomas Law of Capt. Kerrs Company Ken- 
tucky ]\Iilitia, states "on the 5th i\Iay he was taken prisoner 
by the Indians and carried about 150 miles above Detroit to 
the Sajuna [Saginaw] Tribe v.'here he remained with two 
other Prisoners untill a few days past when all three at- 
tempted their escape. 

They were discovered by the Indians fired on and scattered 



 

but neither killed. He then made his way good to the neigh- 
bourhood of Detroit when ho fell in with the Frenchmen whose 
statement precedes and who agreed to accompany him to this 
place." 

When at a small distance from Detroit he was met or over- 
tiiken by a large portly man of fair complextion who tole him 
to hurry on to this place with all possible expedition and in- 
form the Commanding oflicer there that this place would be 
again besieged. The enemy would consist of about 400 In- 
dians 15 or IGOO regulars (a reenforcement just arrived at 
]\Ialden) and the whole regular foiTe from that post, and that 
the enemy would set out by Monday — tomorrow for this place. 

He also states that previous to his leaving the Indians nearly 
all the warriors from the Saguna tribes had left their To'\\ms 
for Detroit. 

That the person who gave him this information states as his 
opinion that the enemy intended an attack on the post in the 
rear of this and that his opinion was founded on information 
secured from a squaw. 

The officers of the garrison have been generally consulted 
an they give the fullest confidence to the belief that the enemy 
contemplate another attack on this Fort nor do I hesitate to 
join in the belief. 

The importance of this communication needs no comment 
from me. 

We shall be prepared to give our enemy a warm reception 
come when they will. I have every confidence in your exer- 
tions and feel that it is through you this army looks for tri- 
umphs over its enemies. 

I have sent express on different routes and to different 
posts to meet you and enclosed copies of this communication 
to Gov. Meigs and Shelby. I have taken the liberty to order 
Colo. [R. M.] Johnson's regiment of mounted men from Fort 
Winchester to this place immediately. 

By different detachment sent from this place we have re- 
ceived from Fort Winchester about 1200 barrels flour includ- 
ing that escorted by Ensign Gray from Amar.da. 

I am with high consideration and respect your Humble 
Scrvt 

(Signed) Green Clay 
His Excellency ]\Iajor Genl. William H. Harrison 
A True Copy John O'Fallon Aid de Camp 



 

Harrison to B. G. Orr 
Head Quarters, Franklinton, June 22, 1813 

o„. Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Affairs I, 6i5 

Your letter of this date is now before me; the pi'oposition 
contained in it cannot be acceded to. The only arrangement 
which I think myself authorized to make, is that of delivering 
over to you all the public provisions, of every description, 
which have been purchased fo]* the army, and taking your 
receipt for it, in the manner prescribed by the Secretary of 
War's instructions. I must observe, also, that most of the 
provisions arc placed in situations where it was never in- 
tended they should be used; nor can I say how far the United 
States will be bound to pa.y for the transportation of it. This 
question will remain for the determination of the Secretary of 
War. I have also to inform you that a contract exists and is 
now in operation for transporting the provisions which are at 
Norton and Upper Sandusky to Lower Sandusky. The pub- 
lic teams are also engaged in this business. Should it be de- 
termined that the contractors are to pay the expense of trans- 
portation, all that is transported after this day will of course 
be charged to them. I cannot give you a correct statement 
of the provisions we have on hand; it is, however, sufficient 
to serve the whole of the troops to be employed within this dis- 
trict, and in the operations against Detroit and Maiden, at 
least, until the first of December, next. 

I am, very respectfully, your humble servant, 

William Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Governor Meigs 
Head-quarters, Franklinton June 23d, 1813 

Dear Sir* NUcs' Register IV, SOS 

An express has just arrived from camp Meigs, bringing 

information that an army of British and Indians Vv'^ere about 

to make another attack upon that place. I think it probable 

that fort ]\Ieigs is not the object, but that the attack will be 

upon Lower Sandusky, Cleveland or Erie. I shall set out early 

in the nioj'ning for Saiidusky, and will keep you constantly 

a|)prised of the events passing in that direction. I am your 

friend, 

Wm. II. Harrison 



HARRISON: Mi:SSAGES AND LETTERS 477 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 64) 

(Head Quarters) Franklinton, June 23, 1813 

Har. Pa. S3 

Sir: 

The letter from Genl. [Green] Clay of which the enclosed is 
a co}3y was received by an express this moment arrived, [see 
June 20 above] 

The five companies of the 24th Rcgt. are between Upper and 
Lower Sandusky, one hundred and forty of the 26ih Regt. 
and about sixty of the seventeenth, are at this place, about 
fifty of the latter are on the march from Cincinnati. 

The recruits of the 26th when assembled will amount to 
about three hundred, one fourth of them, are however, pris- 
oners of War. 

I send this through to ineet the mail at Zanesvihe. I have 
sent an express to Col. [R. IM.] Johnson, directing him, if pos- 
sible to get into Fort Meigs, should he be unable to do so he 
will pj'oceed to join the troop on the road from this to Camp. 
Meigs. I have sent an express to inform Major [Thomas J.] 
Jessup and Capt. [Oliver H.] Perry of the navy of the move- 
ments of the enemy. 

I shall set out tomorrow myself for Sandusky. 

WiLLiA^i Henry Harrison 
The Hon. John Armstrong Secretary of War. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No. 65) 



Head Quarters Franklinton 23rd June 1813 

Har. Pa. SJf, 85 

Sir: 

Having understood that insinuations had been made to the 
prejudice of Col. [James] ]\Iorrison late Dy. Qr, Genl. of the 
Noi'th Westei'n army whilst acting in that capacity, justice to 
that Gentlema)! induces mc; to declare that I am fully pur- 
suaded that no man in the U. States could have jjcj-formed the 
duties of that Department with more zeal, fidelity and aility 
than did that Gentleman. Such were his ar]-angements that in 
despite of the most unfavorale winter ])erhaps that has ever 
been known in the Westei'n Country for such operations, the 
Army would have been supplied with pi'ovisions in its advance 



 

to Maiden. The great expenses of his Department were early 
foreseen and stated by him to the Secretary of War, and al- 
though it cannot be denied that great abuses have been prac- 
ticed by many of the inferior Agents of the Department, they 
were unavoidable from the necessity that existed of employing 
men for whose character he was obliged to rely upon the in- 
formation of others. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 
Sir Your Obedient Servt. 

William Henry Hariiison 
The honble John Armstrong Esq. Secretary of War 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No. 66) 



Headquarters Franklinton, 24th June 1813 

Har. Pa. 85-90 

Sir: 

I wrote to you last night hastily encloseing a copy of a letter 
just received from Gen. [Green] Clay. I think it most prob- 
able that the enemy will attack some other point than Fort 
Meigs; their great objects are to get provisions and destroy 
our vessels before they are ready for service. 

There are at Lower Sandusky about five hundi'cd barrels 
of flour I sent Col. [Samuel] Wells off last evening to that 
post with directions to take command of it and should the 
Lritish approach it in force to destroy the stores and fort and 
i-..;lire towards Upper Sandusky with the Garrison which is 
coiii{)()sod entirely of nuitinous militia. The post indeed could 
not be defended against Heavy artillery which could be 
brouglit by water to the spot. Provisions being necessary to 
tlio enemy, and our supplies so large, that it appears to me 
to be our policy to destroy any of our magazines rather than 
run any great risque of having them taken. 

I have directed Col. [\^'illiam P.] Anderson to lialt between 
('j)ix'r and Lower Sandusky and fortify his camp. I sliall 
reach him tomorrow night. The troops that are coming on 
in deta(']nn(!nts from the recruiting rendezvous have been oi'- 
dered to follow in that way. 

Mr. [Ben. G.] Orr the conti-actor declines taking the public 
provisions untill he can see you for which purpose he sets out 
this moniing for Washington, he complains of the want of 



 

funds and asserts that he has purchased or left money to pur- 
cliase a considerable quanity of provisions at Cleveland, this 
he ouglit not to have done, at least not to a greater amount 
than for the temporary supply of Cleveland and Lov/er San- 
dusky as he knew of the immense supplies we had on our 
liands. 

I enclose herewith a statement of the provisions now on 
hand at Fort Meiges. 

I have the honor to be with great 
respect your Obedient Servant 
William Henry Harrison 
lion. John Armstrong Esq. Secretary of War "\ 

Roi)ort of provisions remaining at different posts on the Cen- 
ter and Left wing of the N. W. Army the purchases of John 
II. Piatt Depy. Purchasing Commissary on the 24th day of 
June 1813. 



Name of Post 







f»i 
















(U 






to 










^ 






T3 O 




m ^ 


—; =" 


— ; " 


to 

3 *r3 


— < -t-^ 


. M 


g o 

3 o 




(P 73 


-^ 2, 


.Q .2 


-^ "rt 


-o o 


o a 


O o 


O d 


CQ Ph 


M P5 


PQ CS 


m m 


W Ph 


Ph cq 


« W 


m u 



Kt. Winchester. .1,209 247 119 13 



Ft. Jennings 

Amanda 

St. Marys 

Loramics 

Greenville 

Piqua 

Dayton 

Ft. Findley 

Ft. McArtluir... . 



2G 

400 

lOG 

1,590 



332 

163 

GO 

536 



3,422 



90 



3M 

69 

9 

153 



193 607M 2523^^ 



6 
3 

50 
14 



15 



20,000 I 101 18l Part of the 
flour damaged being sunk in 
the river after leaving Amanda 
and St. Marys and for the 
want of proper care after it 
arrived at Ft. Winchester. 



600 

110,000 

8,000 



18,360 

1,200 

4,000 

500 



28162,060 





1 


14 


23 


3 


6 


5 


5 


8 


4 


6 


4 


28 




21 


12 


95 


73 



Good ord. 



73 Total Amt 



At all the above mentioned Posts I have appointed issuing 
commissaries by Order of Major Gcnl. William H. Harrison 
at thirty dollars per month who will continue to issue till ar- 
rangements are made for the contractors to receive the public 

provisions at those posts. 

John H. Piatt 



 

John H. Piatt to Harrison 

Cincinnati, Jime 30, 1813 

Am.. State Papers Military Affairs, 653 

Dear Sir : 

Having made the necessary arrangements, I returned to this 
place on the 28th, and shall take every possible care to have 
the provisions in my charge taken care of, and issued in the 
proper manner. I have now ready two hundred and twenty- 
five beeves, taken up at Manary's block-house, which shall be 
forwarded whenever your excellency thinks proper to give the 
order. Your family are in good health. 

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient 
servant, John H. Piatt 

Harrison to Secretary of War ? ' 

(No. 68) 

Head Quarters Lower Sandusky July 2nd 1813 

Har. Pa. 91-9 A 

Sir: 

I did myself the honor to write to you on the 23rd Ult. 
[see above] from Franklinton communicating the information 
I had received from Fort Meigs and my intention of setting 
out for that post the next day. I overtook the 24th Regi 
about 20 miles below upper Sandusky in the evening of the 
2()ih and having selected the men who were able to make a 
forced march to the amount of 300 I proceeded with all pos- 
sible expedition and on the evening of the 28th reached Fort 
IMeigs. I found that Col [R. M.] Johnson's Mounted Inft. 
had been there some days. As Genl [Green] Clay could give 
no fresh information of the movements and designs of the 
eiiemy I directed Col. Johnson to despatch a select party of 
men to the river Raisin to procure it. The Colonel took com- 
mand of the party and returned to Fort Meiges the night be- 
fore last, bringing with him two Frenchmen one of them a 
citizen of the Michigan Territory the other a British Subject. 
The Colonel visited all the inhabited Houses at the River 
Raisin. 

The information derived from all of them correspond and 
among them was Col. [Francis] Navarre a Militia oiTicer of 
Respectability. Tliey had heard of no reinforcement of Brit- 
ish Troops arriving at Maldon nor any considerable accession 



 

of Indians since the seige of Fort Meigs. The Indians had 
pressed Genl. Proctor to make another attack upon Fort Meigs 
and was much disatisfied with his putting them off. They at 
lengtli heard of the progress of the war below and the taking 
of Fort George through a Mr. Kinsey an Indian trader [John 
11. Kinzie, founder of Chicago] . Proctor caused Kinsey to be 
seized, the Indians demanded and obtained his release, and he 
had held councils, the proceedings of which were kept secret 
from the British. Co. Navarre also informed Col. Johnson 
that one hundred warriors principally of the Ottawa tribe 
had passed the River Raison in Boats and canoes to take scalps 
in the vicinity of this place. 

As there was no object of importance to keep me longer at 
Fort INIeigs I set out from thence yesterday with an escort 
of Col. Johnson Regt. and came to this place in the hope of 
meeting with Col. [James V.] Ball's squadron with which 
and the mounted riflemen I brought with me I expected to 
defeat any attempt of the Indians above mentioned. Unluck- 
ily they had made a stroke the day before killing at a farm- 
house near this place 3 men a woman and two children. They 
returned towards Fort Meigs and I am in hopes that Col. 
Johnson, whom I ordered to follow me will meet with them. 

Col. [James V.] Ball has not arrived but will be here in a 
few hours. His destination is Cleveland. I have ordered there 
also, all the recruits enlisted for the 27th Regt in the Connec- 
ticut Reserve and shall proceed there myself tomorrow. 

Upon the arrival of Col. Johnson at Fort Wayne he deemed 
it proper to follow some Indians, that had killed three men in 
a Boat descending the St. Marys, as far as the Potawatimie 
Town or the St. Josephs of Lake Michigan. He saw several 
small parties of Indians but was unable to come up with them. 
The Towns were destroyed by a Detaclmient which I sent 
from Fort Wayne last September and have not since been re- 
built. The colonel returned to Fort Wayne and from thence 
descended to Fort Winchester where he was preparing to ex- 
ecute my order for an attack upon Brownstown when he re- 
ceived a letter from Gen. Clay requiring him to repair to Fort 
Meigs. His horses are too much reduced to undertake the 
proposed enterprise against Brownstown. I have therefore 
directed him to go to Huron River to recruit them. The en- 
emy are so illy supplied with provisions as to justify very con- 



482 INDIANA HISTORICAl. COLLECTIONS 

siderable risk to obtain them. Should they reduce Fort Wayne 
or Fort Winchester what they might obtain at those places 
will be of little services to them as they cannot take it off. 
From this place Huron or Cleveland it could be easily carried 
to ]\Ialden. At the two places there is a considerable quantity 
of Hour the property of Individuals. 

The position which Col. Johnson will occupy will enable him 
to reinforce the troops at this place or Cleveland with great 
facility. 

The monthly Returns from the several posts under my com- 
mand having not reached Fort Meigs till a few days before 
my arrival there, it is not in my power at present to forward 
a Genl. Retum, But have left Capt. [James R.] Butler the 
Actg. Asst. Adj. Genl. at Fort Meigs to prepare one from 
there which will be forwarded as soon as completed. 

I have the Honor to be with Great Respect Sir 
Your Humble Servt. 

^^ ^'y^ ^:£':r;/ i^ iVNA ■ WiLLIAM HENRY HARRISON 

Hon. Gen. Armstrong. Secty. of War 

R. M. Johnson to Harrison 

, ^ . ' Camp at Lower Sandusky, 

July 4th, 1813 
-^ _, ... McAfee, History, 310 

Dr.,\n Sir— 

I an-ived at this place last evening with a part of the 
mounted regiment, after two days march from camp Meigs, 
leaving two companies four miles in the rear, who were un- 
able to reach this place; besides about twenty horses left on 
the way, which I am in hopes will be able to get back to camp 
Meigs or come to this place in a few days, where we can keep 
them together and recruit them. Having been in the most 
active service for upwards of forty days, and having travelled 
upwards of 700 miles, much of it forced marching, it is nat- 
ural to conclude that most of the horses are weak ; and we feel 
grunt pleasure, and obligations to you, in finding your ar- 
rangements such as to enable us to recruit the horses of the 
regiment. To be ready to move with you, to Detroit and 
Canada, against the enemies of our country, is the first wish 
of our hearts. Two great objects induced us to come — first, 
to be at the regaining of our own territory and Detroit, and 
at the taking of Maiden and secondly to serve under an officer 



 

in wliom we have confidence. We could not have engaged in 
the service without such a prospect, when we recollected what 
disasters have attencd us for the want of good generals. We 
did not want to serve under cowards, drunkards, old grannies, 
nor traitors, but under one who had proved liimself to be wise, 
prudent and brave. The officers of the mounted regiment had 
some idea of addressing you on their anxiety to be a part of 
your army in the campaign against Canada, and of giving you 
a statement of the importance of having an opportunity to 
make the regiment efficient for such a campaign by recruiting 
their horses. As to the men they are active, healthy and fond 
of service. This morning I have sent out 100 on foot to scour 
the surrounding country; and wherever we are we wish con- 
tinual service. Our regiment is about 900 strong when all 
together. I have left 100 at Defiance to regain some lost 
horses, and to guard that frontier. 

You have not witnessed the opposition I encountered in 
raising the regiment. Every personal enemy, every traitor 
and tory, and your enemies, all combined — but in vain. Noth- 
ing but the hurry which attended our march prevented me 
from having 1500 men. Nothing but the importance of the 
service, which I thought we could render, would have justified 
my absence from the present catch penny congress. (The 
great object of the session was to raise a revenue) My 
enemies, your enemies, the enemies of our cause, would exult 
if the mounted regiment should from any cause, be unable to 
carry a strong arm against the savages and British, when 
you strike the grand blow. 

It is with much diffidence I write you anything touching 
militaiy matters; but the desires of my soul and the situation 
of the regiment, have induced me thus freely and confidentially 
to express myself. In the morning we shall leave this place 
for Huron, ready to receive your orders, which will always be 
cheerfully executed at every hazard. 

Your obedient servant 

Rd. M. Johnson 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
No 70 

Head Quarters Cleveland July 6th, 1813 

o,„ Har. Pa. 95, 96 

Sir: 

I arrived here at 9 o'clock this morning. I found ]\Iajor 



 

[Thomas S.] Jessup with about 170 effective men, 80 of which 
are of the Artillery Corps viz. Capt. [Stanton] Sholes com- 
pany of the 2nd Regiment and the small detachment that was 
taken with Capt. [Samuel] Price. 

I have had only verbal accounts of the progress of our naval 
armament at Erie towards completion. A letter from Capt. 
[Oliver Hazard] Perry unfortunately passed me on the way 
hither and will not arrive until late this evening. I am in- 
formed, however that the vessels are equipped and waiting 
only for their crews. It is highly desirable that they should 
pi'oceed up the Lake as soon as possible. By taking possession 
of the Harbour at the Bass Islands they would oblige the ships 
of the enemy to confine themselves to Maiden or risk a battle 
in the present deficient state of their crews. Is it not indeed 
the intention of the Government to bring to speedy issue the 
contest for the naval superiority upon this lake? 

In a former letter you did me the honor to inform me that 
the deficiency in the regular troops contemplated to be em- 
ployed under my command, was to be made up with militia. 
From whence are these Militia to come? and by whom called 
into service? They could be furnished with most convenience 
and marched to the Lake much sooner from the upper coun- 
ties of Pennsylvania and Virgina, than from Kentucky or even 
from this state. There will be no difficulty in getting the Ken- 
tucky Militia now in service to cross the Lake, nor am I ap- 
prehensive that any will exist with those which maj^ be taken 
from the other states. 

I have the honor to be Vv^ith great respect and consideration 
Your 

Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
Ilonble. J. Armstrong Esq. Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary op War 
No 71 

Head Quarters Cleveland July, 9th, 1813 

Har. Pa. 97-99 

Sir: 

I had not the honor of receiving youi" letter of the 9th of 
June, [see above] until the evening before last, it had been, 
by a blunder of the post master at Chilicothc sent to Cin- 



 

cinatti; the moment I received it, I dispatched a special 
express to Col. [R. M.] Johnson directing* him to' proceed im- 
mediately to Kaskaskias. I have left to him the choice of 
the two routes, Vis, by Forts Winchester and Wayne and 
down the south side of the Wabash to Vincennes, or that by 
U. Sandusky, Fort McArthur, St. Marys, Greenville. The old 
Delaware towns, or White river, Ft. Harrison and Vincennes. 

I am still of opinion that the fears entertained of an inva- 
sion of the Illinois and Missouri Territories, by anj'' consider- 
able force, are entirely groundless. All the accounts lately re- 
ceived from Maiden and Detroit, agree as to the daily 
expectation of the arrival of [Robert] Dixon with a further 
reinforcement of northern and V/estei-n Indians. 

I have as yet received no information from Capt. [Oliver 
II.] Perry. My anxiety to know the precise situation of our 
naval armament, has induced me to dispatch an officer to Erie. 

A company of the 27th Regt. will probably arrive here this 
evening. Major [Robert] Morrison who was sent by Genl. 
[Lewis] Cass to command the two companies ordered here, 
arrived a few days ago. I am sorry to find that he, as well 
as Maj. [Jeremiah R.] IMunson the other Major of the Regi- 
ment are prisoners of war, as I am told is the case with sev- 
eral of the other ofTicers, and a number of the men. It is 
much to be regreted that one of those regiments had not been 
allotted to Tennessee, or the upper parts of Virginia and Pen- 
sylvania. f 

Major [Andrew Hunter] Holmes has arrived at this place. 

I have the Honor to be With great i-espect Sir, 
Your Humble Servant 

William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. John Armstrong Esq. SecreUiry of War 

N. B. Lt. [William 0.] Winston's resignation is accepted to 
take effect this day. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No 72) 

Head Quarters Cleveland 9th July 1813 

Har. Pa. 100 

Sir: 

The uncommon sickness of the Troops for two months past 
and the great waste of Hospital stores and medicines by the 
Militia Surgeons and mates at the small posts render it ncc- 



■180 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



ossaiy that a supply should be forwarded as soon as possible. 
I do myself the Honor to enclose a list of such as will be im- 
tnodiately wanted, furnished by Dr. [Hugh] Stanard. 

1 have written to the Dp. Qr. Master Genl. at Pittsburgh 
to send on by land to this place, a few articles of groceries 
and some muslins. Permit me to request that orders be given 
foi' all the liquor destined for the Hospital department to have 
a d)y Barren put over that which contains them. Experience 
has long since convinced all those in the Western country who 
a)"c desirous of having their Liquors secured from plunder and 
adulteration, that it is the only way of affecting it. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr. Humble 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Tlie Honble John Armstrong Esqr. Secretary of War 



The following is a list of Medicine and Hospital Stores 
which will be immediately wanting. 



Fort 

Peruvian Bark (in powder) 50 

Opium 10 

Camphor 10 

Calomel 5 

Corrosive Sublimate 2 

Tfirtar Emetic 2 

(.•amhnpo 2 

•^«1"P 10 

IlK.'cauanto 17 

Iihcubarh (in powder) 10 

Kino 15 

Colombo (in powder) 20 

Nitro Crude 20 

Sweet Spirits 40 

C.Iaubors Salts 50 

Prepared Cludk... 20 

Coaster Oil 12 

Olive Do 5 

(ium Arabic 20 

AHume 5 

Accjuous 20 

Adlifsive plaster 20 

I-'arloy 2 

Chocolate 300 

Tapioca 50 



Meigs, June 30, 1813 

lb. Blisting Ointment 20 

lb. Bees Wax 20 

lb. Mariated Acid 4 

lb. Sulphuric Acid 4 

lb. Nitric do 4 

lb. Vials 5 

lb. Instruments- 
lb. Amputation 3 

lb. trepanning 3 

lb. Pocket 3 

lb. Cases Scalpels No. 

lb. Lancets 3 

lb. Splints 12 

lb. Sponge 7 

lb. Muslin 1000 

lb. Wine 200 

gal. Brandy or Rum 100 

" Vinegar 200 

lb. Molasses 200 

CofTee 300 

lb. IlysonTea 60 

lb. Rice 5 

barl. Sugar 6 

lb. Sago 50 

lb. 

H. Stanard 
Hospital Surg. Mate. 



lb. 
lb. 
lb. 
lb. 
lb. 
gross 

setts 

do 

do 

G 

doz. 

setts 

lb. 

yds. 

gals. 

do 



lb. 
lb. 
barrels 

lb. 



 



R. M. Johnson to Harrison 

Camp Mouth Huron, Ohio, July 9th 1813 On Lake Erie 

Har. Pa. 103-108 

Dr. Sir: 

The absence of the Lt. Cols, and 2nd Major and the indis- 
position of Major [Duval] Payne prevents me from waiting 
upon you personally in consequence of the favor I have just 
received from you. You have the evidence of the resolution 
and willingness of the Mo. Regt. to do their duty and what 
is here to be said is predicated upon the situation of the Mo. 
Regiment. I have been afraid to distress the officers and men 
of this Regt. with a communication of the contents of yours, 
untill I can again hear from you ; after faithfully stating facts 
which cannot be entirely known to you much less could the 
President know them on the 9th June when he gave an order 
to the War Dept. to direct the march of this Regt. to Kas- 
kaskias. I put wholly out of the question the desire of the 
men to serve under you personally and the anxiety of assisting 
in retaking our lost territory and seeing Maiden fall. These 
desires and anxieties, however to be indulged among friends 
in social life, must not be mentioned against a military order. 

Inability to comply with the order to any advantage to the 
Country or to the honor of the Corps is alone taken as the 
ground for a wish to remain on this station — the difficulty does 
not exist in your mind, as you express a regret of the necessity 
of a separation from your command, the order of the Presi- 
dent alone will create the doubt, if any, what course ought 
to be pursued. I only in my turn regret that I had not the 
speed of an arrow to give him the statement I am now mak- 
ing out for you. That great and good man would not hesi- 
tate one second to comply with my reasonable wishes With 
the opportunity now offered of feeding our horses on grain 
and good grass ten days is the earliest possible period that 
the Regiment could take uj) the line of march to any distant 
point or attempt with any advantage a forced march a shorter 
distance. After which, commencing the march, say to Kas- 
kaskias at least 400 miles or more the route we should have 
to go, the Regt. could not average more than 15 miles per day, 
leaving out the necessity that would occasionally occur to pre- 



 

vent marching every day. Say 30 days to travel to Kaskaskias 
It wouki then require at least 15 or 20 days upon g'}-ain and 
forage to fit our hoi'ses for active service U}3on the frontiers, 
or into the enemies country. The Regt. would then ha^'e been 
in service 110 days 50 days having elapsed leaving 20 days 
to complete the term of service for which they engaged, unless 
some extraordinary occurrences should make it indispcnsible 
to remain longer. But this is not all ; under these circum- 
stances we should not get to Kaskaskia more than 400 horses, 
more especially if I leave behind Capt. [Duval] Payne's Com- 
pany which I am disposed and willing to do if left to me. This 
Sir, is a Regt. for which I stand pledged in the hou]- of peril, 
will be destroyed and rendered totally useless to their beloved 
country, to say nothing of the prospects which now opens to 
them in this quarter of usefulness of glory and honor. But 
this is not the only conti'ast. By remaining at Huron ten or 
15 days feeding our Horses on grain and guarding the im- 
portant frontier by scouting parties daily with an opportunity 
of feeding our Horses one or two days at Lower Sandusky on 
grain on our returning the same opportunity of five days at 
Camp Meigs and the grain is all purchased and the Mounted 
Regt, can transport it to those places then and in that case 
I can carry to Raison, Brownstown, Detroit, Maiden and its 
vicinity under forced marching or otherwise between 800 and 
900 eflfective men. So effective that they shall on all occa- 
sions drive superior numbers of the enemy. In this situation 
if our horses should fail we can again give them rest while 
we act as Infantry corps or should we be dismissed having 
performed our duty and tour our horses could be driven to 
10 or 15 miles a day homewards without loss to indigent and 
patriotic men or the public at this moment, in lost and dis- 
abled horses. I have more than 100 dismounted. Arrange- 
ments have been made by new purchases &c. to keep up the 
strength of the Regt. leaving a few men to search for lost 
Horses at different points and to take care of the Invalid 
horses, which can be saved alone by this plan. Strange as 
this may appear I have in nothing exagerated. If the oflicers 
collect should be called upon, a statement more unfavourable 
would be given. In the revolving seasons of 20 years per- 
haps no spring and summer could have been so unfavoui'able 



 

for the horses of a Mo. Regt., notwitlistaiiding which we 
avoided no duty; Indeed we tliinlc we have done much in 
frustrating the savages in their designs against any part of 
our extensive frontier. To Fort Wayne from the point of our 
rendezvous 300 miles. Our Circuit to Lake Michigan about 
200 miles, making 500. To Camp Meigs from Fort Wayne 
100 making 600 miles. To River Raison and back 60 miles 
to this place 70 miles making total of at least 730 miles and 
this is the 50th day since we took up our line of march; and 
leaving at these different points parts of the Regt. to guard 
and act as reconnoitring parties to be concentrated when or- 
dered. Altho it would be improper for one in my situation 
to say anything that would seem to insinuate that any or- 
der from a superior might be superceded without injurious 
consequences still it is not improper to express some 
consolation in a Belief from recent circumstances and infor- 
mation that no great body of Indians are embodied upon the 
Frontiers of Indiana and Illinois &c. but that they still re- 
main in the circle of Brownstown, Maiden &c. except those 
who have scattered off into small parties from disaffection 
to the cause of G. Britain and I may also add that before 
this Regiment could reach Kaskaskias I hope the people there 
will be rendered still more secure by your movements and 
success here. If the Regt. had been destined to Kaskaskias 
in the first Instance, no service would have been more ac- 
ceptable, except a wish to be attached to this part of the N. W. 
Army. But no hesitation would have been manifested. But 
imperious circumstances, made it highly important that we 
should take the route to Fort Wayne, then to this place and 
such is the situation of the Regt. at present as represented. 
I hope you will concur with me in seeing the evident pro- 
priety and equally evident necessity of our remaining on this 
station where the Regiment can be of some service to the 
sacred cause in which we are all engaged upon this statment 
Dear General I wish you to detain us on this station, and send 
this as a part of the Reasons why you have done so or leave 
to me the entire responsibility of remaining or of marching 
to Kaskaskias undei* existing circumstances, not known to the 
President when he gave the order. If ojie or the other should 
not be in your power, I shall look back with little pleasure 

84—22664 



 

to the day the Regiment was ordered to take np arms to de- 
fend the rights nnd honor of the U. States, as their usefulness 
from tills time must be destroyed when the brightest pros- 
pects opened to their view. 
Your friend and servt. 

R. M. Johnson Col. K. M. V. 
Genl. Wm. H. Harrison 

N. B. I wish to have a personal interview if necessary. 

A True Copy 

John O'Fallon Aid de Camp 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No 73) 



Head Quarters Cleaveland 12th July 18L3 

Har. Pa. 108-110 

Sir: 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter from Col. 
[R. M.] Johnson [July 9 above] from the tenor of this letter 
and the information I have received from other sources I am 
inclined to believe that the Col. will find it difficult to enforce 
obedience to the order for marching to the Illinois Territory. 
I have directed him to proceed with all whose horses are fit 
for service and leave the rest to follow. 

By a private letter to a Gentleman here from his friend in 
Erie received last night we are informed that our vessels are 
nearly ready to sail, but the Hands to man them have not ar- 
rived, and that the probability is that they will not have their 
compliment before the first of August. I hope and believe 
however that the writer is mistaken. I wait with anxiety for 
private information from Capt. Perry. I beg leave to recom- 
mend that the vessels be fully manned. The expense of an 
extra number of seamen will be trifling because they can be 
dismissed as soon as our command of the Lakes is secured. 
Indeed it appears to me that a consideration of this kind ought 
to govern on all our preparations for the reduction of Maiden. 
A single well supported efi'ort will be sufficient. That place 
once in our possession and the naval superiority acquired, 
Mackinac and St. Josephs will fall of course, and with them 
every vestage of Indian war will vanish. A fourth part of 
the force necessary for the conquest will be sufiicicnt to hold 



 

these posts when thej^ are in our possession. The balance 
can be disbanded or employed elsewhere. 

I hope that Capt. [James R.] Butler may have forewarded 
before this a g-eneral monthly return ; he was directed to do so 
without sending- it to me to avoid delay. 

With great respect and consideration I have the honor to be 
Sir your humble Servant 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Genl. John Ar^istrong Secretary of War 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, July 14, 1813 

Hisloncal Register JII, 86 

Orders have been sent to captain Perry to communicate 
to you the naval movements and to concei't with you the nec- 
essary co-operations. 

Of the militia, you are authorized to take what in your 
judgment will be necessary. Such of the Kentucky militia 
as are in service would be better tlian a new draft. There is 
(of the Pennsylvania militia) one regiment at Erie armed, 
equipped, etc. These are subjected to your command. [Ex- 
tract] 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department July 14th 1813 

Har. Pa. 78 

Sir 

I regret that tlie Letter ordering Col. [R. M.] Johnson West- 
ward ever reached you. Since the date of that letter, infor- 
mation has been received that the whole story of Dixon and 
his intention of attacking St. Louis etc. with which Governor 
Edwards so often alarmed himself and others was without 
foundation. Relieving that the Colonel's expedition toward 
Brownstown would have put him out of the reach of this order 
and knowing that your opinion resembled my own in relation 
to the western combinations of Scioux and Foxes &c. &c. I 
had hoped that the want of foundation in the story would 
have reached you before the Colonel's return, and fui-nished 
a reason for delaying the execution of the order. Is it too 
late yet to correct this error? If it be possible it ought to I)e 



 

done. Johnson's Regiment would be useful in making demon- 
strations by land while you go by water for protecting the 
frontier against small desultory attacks. 

Major General Harrison 

Secretary of War to Major J. S. Swearingen 

War Department July 14th 1S13 

Ear. Pa. 79 

Sir: 

You will forwa]'d to lower Sandusk^^ by the way of Cleve- 
land to the order of General Harrison two of the large Regi- 
mental Medicine chests which have been deposited at Pitts- 
burg and hospital stores conformably to the inclosed invoice. 

Major J [AMES] S[trode] Swearingen D. Q. M. Gr. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department July 14, 1813 

Har. Pa. SO 

Sir 

Tlie medicines in deposit at Pittsburgh are put up in chests, 
some of which are veiy large. One of these or tv/o at most 
would be quite sufficient for the intended service of the hos- 
pital. The quarter master will have ordei's to forward them 
and a quantity of hospital stores. During your last cam- 
paign a double allowance [not completed] 

I\Iajor Genl. Harrison 

Harrison to Governor Shelby 

Head Quartei's L Sandusky 20th July 1813 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book li" 26 

My dear sir 

I have this moment received a letter from the Secretaiy 
of war in which he authorizes me to call from the neighboring 
states such numbers of militia as I may deem I'cquisite for the 
ensuing operation against upper canjida. It was originally in- 
tended that the Army should consist of regular troops only, ]}ut 
it is now ascertained that the coutemplatcd number cannot 
be raised. It is indeed late very late to call out militia but 
still it will bo better to do this than enter into opej'ation upon 



HARRISON: :\rESSAGES AND LETTERS 193 

which so much depends with an inadequate force. - 1 am not 
uninformed of the present indisposition to the service which 
begins to prevail in Kentucky and the difficulties w^hich your 
Excellency, may have to cncouiiter to organize another de- 
tachment of mihtia I believe ho^^■ever it will not be impossible 
for you to reanimate your patriotic fellow^ citizens and once 
nioi'e to bring" a portion of them to the field, what that portion 
will be, your own Judgment nmst determine. I have sent 
j\Iajor [David] Trimble my aid de camp to you to inform you 
of many circumstances which I have not time nor indeed would 
I like to commit to paper — send me as many good men as you. 
can conveniently collect or as you may deem proper to call out 
not less than four Jw.ndred nor more than itvo tJiouscnd. The 
jjcriod has arrived when with a little exertion the task as- 
signed to this section of the union may be finished, and com- 
plete tranquility restored to our frontiers. To make this last 
effort why not, my dear sir, come in person, you would not 
object to a command that would be nominal only — I have such 
confidence in your wisdom that you in fact should "be the 
guiding Head and I the hand." The situation you would be 
placed in is not without its parallel. Scipio the conqueror of 
Carthage did not disdain to act as a Lieutenant of his younger 
and less experienced brother Lucius. I refer you to I\Iajor 
Trimble who is instructed to communicate many particulars 
to you. 

With regard and respect 

I am Dr Sir 

WiLLiAiM Henry Harrison 

His Excellency Govr. Isaac Shelby 
Frankfort (Ky) 

Green Clay to Harrlson 

Camp Meigs July 22nd 1S13 

Har. Pa. 119 

Dear Genl: 

We have no certain intcligence as to the number of the 
enemy. From appearance vre expect their number of regular 
troops and militia to exceed 2000 of the number of Indians we 
have no criterion to judge except that of their former forces. 

They have not yet opened their Batteries upon us — but v.-e 



:>sm 



 

hourly expect it and are fully prepared to meet them in any 
maimer they may make the attack. 

Our troops are in high spirits and most woefully will the 
enemy be deceived in their anticipations of conquest. 

I have the honor to be with sentiments of the highest esteem 
and respect your obt. servt. 

(Signed) GREEN Clay 

Major Genl. Harrison 

A True Copy 

John O'Fallon Aid de Camp 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No 74) 



Head Quarters Lower Sandusky 23rd July 1813 

Har. Pa. 112-115 

Sir: 

Fort Meigs is actually invested by the enemy an express 
arrived here last evening with the information. The British 
and Indians appeared to be in considerable force. They were 
not discovered untill the morning of the 21st when they fired 
upon a party that was leaving the Fort and killed 6. The 
express says that the British were erecting batteries on the 
opposite bank and the Indians occupying the wood around the 
Fort from whence they kept up through the day a warm fire 
on the Fort doing however no injuiy. The post is in every 
respect in a better situation for defence than it was when be- 
sieged before, it has Col. [William P.] Anderson Col. [Ed- 
mund Pendleton] Gains and 300 picked men of the 24th Regt. 
They have 76 or 80 181b. shot less than at the commencement 
of the former attack but more than double the number of 121b. 
shot and 5 p. inch shells 61b shot and case and grape in abun- 
dance the latter of every size together with 270 241b. shot 
which suits the calibre of our Howitzers and serve well for 
Racochet firing. 

I have with me here about 300 effective Regulars and a few 
worthless militia whom I was upon the point of discharging. 
I shall leave Major [George] Croghan here with a sufficient 
Garrison and with the ballance take a position at the old 
Seneca Town nine miles higher up the River on the road to 
Upper Sandusky, the distance from that place to Fort jMeigs 
is precisely the same as from here, and from thence or further 



-T-THiimiiTiiiri 



 

on towards Upper Sandusky will be the only route to approach 
Fort Meigs with a probability of reaching it undiscovered. A 
swamp of 30 miles intervenes to which there is nothing to be 
compared even in this generally swampy country. It is at 
this moment nearly half leg deep in mud and water through- 
out. Three hundred and forty or fifty men of the 27th Regt. 
are between this place and Upper Sandusky — Col. [Thomas 
Deye] Owings with 500 of the 28th Regt. must be near to 
Franklinton. I have sent after Col. [R. M.] Johnson, he may 
be overtaken at Urbanna but the greater part of his men will 
have scattered and gone off to Ky. after fresh horses. The 
prospect of assembling a sufficient force to raise the siege in 
a short time is gloomy. However doubt not, I pray you, of 
my utmost exertions. You will have heard of the Blockade 
of Erie could the fleet but get out and be able to drive off that 
of the enemy Maiden might fall and the return of Proctor in- 
tercepted. He has with him Gun Boats and small crafts only. 
I could engage to succeed with the few Troops I have in any 
enterprize rather than the defeating four times their number 
of Indians in the Black Swamp. It is not the least of my 
embarrassments to know what to do with the Sandusky In- 
dians. 60 of these are now here to offer their services. The 
professions of the greater part are I fear hollow and made 
under the belief of the prosperous state of our affairs. The 
least disaster will I fear discover that their Hearts are not 
with us. The Shawanese have lately given a striking proof 
of their fidelity which I have not now time to explain. A few 
of the Delawares are our friends one of them put to death a 
few days ago, an Indian of the name of Blue Jacket who was 
coming here to assassinate me and then escape to the enemy. 
I have the Honor to be with Great Respect Yr. Humble 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. Genl. Jopin Armstrong Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No 75) 

Head Quarters Seneca Towns 9 miles from L. Sandusky 

24th July 1813 

^ Har. Pa. 116-118 

Mr. [William] Oliver, who set out from Fort Meigs in the 



rTiMiimrinnitiw 



 

nip:ht between the 21st and 22nd a few hou]'s after the express 
messenger mentioned in my last, met me yestei'day morning 
on the march to this place and last evening- tlie enclosed letter 
[July 22 above] From Genl. [Green] Clay was broiiglit to me 
by a Sergeant who left the Fort at 11 o'clock the preceding 
night. An intelligent young gentleman a private iii the Pe- 
tersburgh volunteers, accompanied the sergeant. From all of 
these persons I have ]'eceived the satisfactory informatiori 
that the Health of the Troops at Fort IMeigs was most wonder- 
fully restored before the appearance of the enemy. That the 
lines are well manned and the whole of [Col. William P.] An- 
dei'son's Regiment (300 choice men) left as a disposable force 
when the Sergeant left the garrison it was not ascertained 
that the enemy had erected or were erecting any Batteries. 
The cannonading was continued at intervals through the 
whole of yesterday and as I had supposed untill 11 o'clock last 
night but one of my parties, who were last night at Portage 
River are of opinion that what we heai'd here was thunder, 
not a gun has been heard today. I have two parties of In- 
dians, accompanied each by a person whom I can depend upon 
now out for the purpose of approaching the Fort as near as 
possible and taking a prisoner. If the object of the enemy is 
the attacking of Fort Winchester and Wayne I have not the 
means of preventing their success, but their safe retreat will 
be more jeopardised than Genl. [Henry] Proctor will (as I 
would suppose) be willing to risk for the object to be gained 
by taking them. His appearing before Fort i\Ieigs may have 
been intended to draw our attention and forces to that quar- 
ter whilst his real object is to attack Lower Sandusky or 
Cleaveland, he former place is untenable there is nothing in 
it of any value but two hundred barrels of Flour and I have 
made arrangements for withdrawing the garrison and leaving 
the Fort. Another project of Genl. Proctors may be to dravr 
me into the Black Swamp and overwhelm me with his Indians. 
IIl)on the whole I have little apprehension for the safety of 
Fort ]\reigs. Nothing, however, shall be neglected to ascertain 
its security. Should it appear to be in danger before I am 
enabled to collect a sufhcient force to meet the enemy in the 
field I will endeavour to break through them with two or three 
hundred picked men. 

]\Iajor [Levi] Hukill is endeavoring to prepare for a com- 



 

plcte muster and Inspection of the army at the close of the 
month, should our situation allow it. The Task is not an easy 
one from the neglect, inexperience and ignorance of many of 
the officers. Should the President think proper to allow me 
an Inspector Genl. I could wish that Major Hukill could re- 
ceive the appointment, and Capt. [James R.] Butler that of 
Assistant. I have the Honor to be with great Respect Sir 
Your Obt. servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. John Armstrong, Esq. 

Col. Wm. Russel to Governor Thomas Posey 

ViNCENNES, July 25, 1813 
Niles' Register V 9 

Sir: 

I have completed my intended scout, and reached every 
point of destination, and arrived at this place in four weeks. 
On our route we had much rainy weather and consequently 
high waters, which destroyed much of our provisions, and 
made the route much more disagreeable than otherwise it 
would have been. The route from this place until we returned 
amounts to upwards of 500 miles, the gi-eater part of which is 
certainly equal (if not superior) to any tracts of country upon 
the western v/aters; all of which lies in your territory. We 
proceeded from Vallonia to the Delaware to^vns, from thence 
to the Mississinawa towns, there we found four or five distinct 
villages ; one pretty strongly fortified, adjoining which a very 
considerable encampment of Indiaiis had been kept up, all of 
which we destroyed. We supposed the Indians had evacuated 
those towns very early in the spring. From thence we pro- 
ceeded do\vn the Wabash to Eel river town, froin thence to 
Winemack village, from thence to the Prophet's town, from 
thence we re-crossed the Wabash, and took the Winebagoe 
town in our route to Fort Harrison. We went to every place 
where we could expect to fall in with the enemy (that our sit- 
uation would justify) as our provisions were then very short 
and our horses much fatigued. 

I had a part of six companies of rangers and a few volun- 
teers from the territory, and was joined by one hundred vol- 
unteers of Kentucky — when I found our force was 573 ef- 
fective men. The army marched in five distinct columns, with 



 

instructions how the front the rear and the flanks were to act 
in case of an attack on either. The right flank was com- 
manded by general Cox of the Kentucky vohmteers the ex- 
treme left v,-as commanded by Col. [Robert] Evans, of the 
Indiana territory the other column on the right was com- 
manded by general Thomas of the Kentucky volunteers, the 
other column on the left commanded by col. [Walter] Wilson 
of this territory, and the centre by maj. Z. Taylor of the U. 
S. army; all those officers discovered so much zeal for the suc- 
cess of the expedition, as convinced me they would have done 
themselves credit had we encountered the enemy. Col. 
[Joseph] Bartholomew acted as my aid-de-camp; this veteran 
has been so well tried in this kind of warfare, that any en- 
comiums from me would be useless, major John Allen from 
Kentucky, acted as quarter-master, Mr. Hancock Taylor, as 
quartermaster sergt. maj. Harden acted as adjutant, and 
Homer Jolinson [Knox Co.] of the rangers as his assistant. All 
those gentlemen acted with such promptitude as gave me but 
little trouble, and that only to check their zeal on certain oc- 
casions, gen. Clever of Kentucky, commanded the advanced 
party, and acquitted himself much to my satisfaction. I find 
also in the Kentucky corps several professional and other 
characters of high standing — which are deserving of their 
country ; from the zeal of the officers and privates I entertain 
great hopes that they will render considerable service to their 
country. The volunteers from the territory were principally 
men of experience in Indian warfare, consequently capable 
of rendering services. 

I\Iessrs. [Joseph] Barron and [Pierre] Laplant, your In- 
dian interpreters, accompanied us as guides, assisted by lieut. 
[Hyacinthe] Lasselle, who were ahvays on the alert, and dis- 
charged the duties assigned them with great promptitude. 

Such was the disposition of the army, and happy should I 
have been could they have had an opportunity of realizing the 
high expectations I entertained of them. 

I have the honor to be, with high respect, your obedient 
servant. 

William Russell 

P. S. Col. Bartholomew and lieut. [Joseph] Shields (of 
captain Peyton's company of rangers) volunteered and 
crossed thi'ough the country from below the Prophet's to^\Ti 



 

to the Ohio, in two places; from this you will discover, that 
the country has been completely chequered in all directions — 
and strange to tell, saw no fresh sign of Indians. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Lower Sandusky 25th July 1813 

. HoA'. Pa. Ill 

Sir: 

Lieut. [David] Gwynne late paymaster of the 19th Regi- 
ment having expressed a great anxiety to have his accounts 
settled I have directed him to repair to Washington for that 
purpose. I have before mentioned this young officer to you, 
for gallantrj^ honour and correctness of conduct he is not ex- 
celled by any officer in the service. 

I have the honor to be with high Respect Sir Your Humble 
Svt WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble Genl. John Armstrong Secretary of War < 

Green Clay to Harrison 

Camp Meigs July 26th 1813 

Ha7\ Pa. 120, 121 

Dear Genl. 

We are still surrounded by the enemy. They have not as 
yet opened their artillery upon us. 

Their principal force remained at the old garrison and near 
their former encampment from the 20th until the 23rd when 
I sent a corps of observation from the garrison and I recon- 
noitred around and within view. 

This movement was observed by the enemy and a consider- 
able number of their forces crossed the River and were in a 
few minutes around us firing small arms which done no in- 
jury. 

On the 24th their whole forces crossed over to this side 
where they remained encamped but in what particular posi- 
tion we have not yet ascertained. 

Their vessels are sometimes in view crossing and recrossing 
below. 

This evening they gave us a sham battle amongst themselves 
along the trace and nearly in view ; no doubt to decoy us out. 
Our Troops paraded to make the Battle a real one. The move- 



 

ments of the enemy are somewhat misterious. Experience has 
already proven to them that any attempt on this post would 
be vain make it when and in what wa\' they will and most 
woefully will they repent their temerity. Our troops are in 
fine health and spirits and anxiously await another oppor- 
tunity to distinguish themselves. 

I have the honor to be with the highest esteem your Ob. Svt. 

(Signed) Green Clay 
]\Iajor Genl. William H. Harrison Com(j. the N. W. Anny 
(A true copy) J. 0' Fallon A. D. C. 

Green Clay to Harrison 

Camp Meigs July 28, 1813 

Har. Pa. 125, 12>j 

Dear Genl. 

The enemy occupied their encampment on this side of the 
river below us until this morning. When with great pre- 
cipitation they set sail from the hrst bend below. They were 
in full view and displayed two schooners and about one hun- 
dred and fifty sail. Small craft apparently all filled with men. 

The Indians have been rapidly going down on the opposite 
shore nearly all day. They were principally mounted and 
about 400 in number. 

It was said by an officer that about 20 cannon shot from the 
Lake was heard just before their departure. 

Whether they have actually abandoned all idea of attacldng 
this post, or what are their views I can form no conjecture. 

So far from lulling us into security their recent movemerxt 
has increased (if possible) our vigilance. 

The troops here continue in good health and spirits and 
never did soldiers more vigilantly watch or anxiously wait the 
approach of ^aiy enemy. Several of the oflicers who were here 
during the former siege deem the number of the enemy con- 
siderably greater now than was brought against you. 

Be assured Sir whatever may be their designs they never 
-will subdue this post with even double the numbers they have 
this day presented to our view. I have the honor to be with 
the highest Sentiments of Respect & Esteem Your Obt. Sevt. 

Green Clay 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 76) 

Head Quarters Senaca Towns 9 miles above Lower 

Sandusky 28th July 1813 

Har. Pa. 122-1 2U 

Sir: 

Capt. McCune of the Ohio Militia whom I sent from this 
place on the 25th to endeavour to penetrate to Fort Lleigs re- 
turned last evening with the enclosed letter from Gen. [Green] 
Clay, [see July 28, above] Capt. McCune gives me such an 
account of the state of the works and garrison as to leave no 
room for apprehension for its safety unless indeed they should 
be weak enough to suffer themselves to be decoyed into the 
woods by the strategems of the enemy-. It was extremely for- 
tunate that Capt. McCune got into the Fort on the morning 
of the 26th as it is more than probable that a sally in force 
would have been made for the assistance of their supposed 
friends. I am under apprehensions for Fort Winchester. I 
have not yet heard from the Officer whom I sent to watch the 
movements of the enemy in that direction. 

Since I had the Honor to address you I have been joined 
by Colo. [George] PauU with 350 effectives of the 27th reg. 
and 150 Dragoons under Lt. Col. [James V.] Ball, unfortun- 
ately ten of the officers of the former Regiment and nearly 
one third of the men are prisoners of war; of the two com- 
panies of the 26th that I have with me Capt. [William Henry] 
Puthuff (an officer that would do honor to any service) one 
of his subalterns and more than one third of the Company 
are in the same situation. Col. [Thomas D.] Owings with his 
Regt. left Franklinton on the 25th, one would suppose that 
our officers had learned their tactics from the maxims of 
Augustus and that the *S'?;e?t de Bradoes [make haste slowly] 
of which he was so fond, governed them in all their move- 
ments. A very large body of the enemy's Indians are mounted 
fearing that by a rapid march they might tui'n my left and 
reach Upper Sandusky I have directed Col. Owings to 
strengthen the garrison with 50 men. I keep the country to 
the westward as far as Hulls road well reconnoitred. The 
Indians cannot take Sandusky and if the British should at- 
tempt it they shall have reason to I'epent it. I hear nothing 
since my last from Capt. [Oliver II.] Perry. I cannot make a 



 

selection of Sergcante or Ensigns untill the communication 
with Fort oMoigs is opened — in the mean time permit me to 
recommend Lieut. ]Major James ]McQuire of the 19th Infy. 

There are several of this grade that will bear promotion 
and more amongst the Volunteers. Shall I have the privilege 
of appointing some of these pro fern pore? It is much to be 
regretted that Capt. Jas. Butler who commands the Pittsburgh 
Blues had not made known his wishes for an appointment in 
the Regular Service earlier. He is the son of the late Genl. 
Richard Butler. The British Army has not a more accom- 
plished Capt. should there be an original vacancy of ]\Iajor 
or Capt. or even of Col. the public interests would be served 
by giving it to him. Why not in the 26th and endeavour to 
fill it up in the upper part of Pennsylvania. 

With great respect I have the Honor to be Sir your Hubl. Svt 

WiLLJ^i. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. Genl. JoiiN Art^istrong Secretary of War 

-Harrison to Croghan 

July 29, .1813 

McAfee, History, S22 

Sm: 

Immediately on receiving this letter, you will abandon fort 
Stephenson, set fire to it, and repair with your command this 
night to head quarters. Cross the river and come up on the 
opposite side. If you should deem and find it impracticable 
to make good your march to this place, take the road to Huron 
and pursue it with the utmost circumspection and despatch. 

Secretary of \Yai\ to Harrison 

War Department July 29th 1813 

Har. Pa. SI 

Sir: 

Herewith inclosed you will receive a comnnmication from 
the Executive of Kentucky transmitted through tlieir delega- 
tion in Congress. 

The subject has been before you and you will please to 
direct a settlement of all the just claims of the militia for re- 
tained rations, and authorize the proper agent to draw on 
this Dept. for such expenditures. Where abstracts were fur- 



 

iiished to the Contractor for such retained rations the amount 
due the troops is chargeable to him, an account of which 
should be immediately transmitted to this Department, 
Llajor General Harrison, Cleveland 

Croghan to Harrison 

July 30, 1813 

McAfee, History, 323 

Sir: 

I have just received yours of yesterday, 10 o'clock P. M. 
ordering me to destroy this place and make good my retreat, 
which was received too late to be carried into execution. We 
have determined to maintain this place, and by heavens we 
can. 

Harrison to Croghan 

July 30, 1813 

Dawson, Harrison, U02-3 

Sir: 

The General has just received your letter of this date, in- 
forming him that you had thought proper to disobey the order 
issued from this office, and delivered to you this morning. It 
appears that the information which dictated the order was 
incorrect; and as you did not receive it in the night, as was 
expected, it might have been proper that you should have re- 
ported the circumstance and your situation, before you pro- 
ceeded to its execution. This might have been passed over, 
but I am directed to say to you, that an officer who presumes 
to aver, that he has made his resolution, and that he will act 
in direct opposition to the orders of his General, can no longer 
be entrusted with a separate conmiand. Colonel [Samuel] 
Wells is sent to relieve you. You will deliver the command to 
him, and repair with colonel [James V.] Ball's squadron to 
this place. By command, etc. 

A. H. Homes, Aast. Adj. General 

Shelby to Colonels A to Z Ky. Militia 

Frankfort, July 31st, 1813 

McAfee, History, 336 

Dear Sir: 
The following address to the militia of Kentucky will in- 



 

form you of the call that has been made upon the governor of 
Kentuckj' for a reinforcement to the novthwestern army; and 
of my views as to the mode of complying with it. I forward 
one to you particularly, sir, under the hope that you will exert 
your influence to bring into the field all the men in your power. 
Be so good as to acknowledge the receipt of this letter, and 
apprize me of the calculations which I may make of the num- 
ber of men that can be raised in your county and whether it 
will suit your convenience to go with us. I shall at all times 
take a pleasure in acknowledging the public spirit by which 
you will be actuated and the obligations you will lay me under. 
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, Your obt. 
servant, Isaac Shelby 

Shelby to Militia 

Frankfort, July 31st, 1813 

McAfee, History, 337 

Fellow Soldiers: 

Your government has taken measures to act effectually 
against the enemy in Upper Canada. General Harrison, un- 
der the authority of the president of the United States, has 
called upon me for a strong body of troops to assist in effect- 
ing the grand objects of the campaign. The enemy in hopes 
to find us unprepared, has again invested fort Meigs; but he 
will again be mistaken ; and before you can take the field he 
will be driven from that post. 

To comply with the requisition of general Harrison, a draft 
might be enforced; but believing as I do, that the ardor and 
patriotism of my countrymen has not abated, and that they 
have waited with impatience a fair opportunity of avenging 
the blood of their butchered friends, I have appointed the 
31st day of August, next, at Newport, for a genei'al rendez- 
vous of Kentucky Volunteers. I will meet you there in person. 
I will lead you to the field of the battle, and share with you 
the dangers and honors of the campaign. Our sei-viccs will 
not be required more than sixty days after we reach headquar- 
ters.' 

I invite all officers, and others possessing influence, to come 
foi'ward with what mounted men they can raise; each shall 
command the men he may bring into the field. The supt-rior 
officers will be appointed by myself at the place of general 



HAEKIiriON: I\1ESSAGKS AND LETTERS 505 

nni(l(z\ous, oi' on our ai."i"iv;il at 1)^ adquariert;: and X >s]iali 
t:ii:c plc^isurc in acIinowicut'TDj^'- to niy country the merits and 
laiblic spirit of tliose who may b(^ u:-.cliil in collectini.; a force 
for the present emergency. 

Tlio.se Vv'ivo liave s'()od j'jiles, and luie.y liov; to use them, \\'il] 
! ring' tliej"'! alonjj;. Those wlu) have not, v;ih be furnished 
\vit]) m;;sket>. at Newjiort. 

FeL' ■'•:'. Citizen! No^v is the i.i:ne to ael ; and by one de- 
cisive b' •\', put an end to tlie contest iri tliat quarter. 

Isaac Shelby 

Shelby to Secretary of War 

Frankfort, August 1, 1813 

Hisiorical Register III, 9/j. 
SlK : 

A fevv days ago I was honoured y/iih. a letter from general 
Harrison under date of the 20th ultrmo, [see above] by his 
aid-de-carrrp [Cob Allen] Trimble. I)) it he says, that "he had 
just received a letter from the secretary at war authorizing 
him to call from the neighbouring states such numbers of 
militia as he might deera requisite for the O'lsuing operations 
against Upper Canada." In pursuance of thrd. p0Y\^er, he has 
made a requisition on the govei'nment of Kerducky for rein- 
forcements, and has referred me to J\'Iajor Tri;nble for infor- 
mation, etc. and lias in warm terms solicited my taking the 
field in pei'son. Much delay would have been the inevitable 
consequence of ordering out the militia as infantry in the 
ordinary inode, by draft. As mounted volunteer; ,. a competent 
force can, i feel confideni, be eas!:, raised. T have therefor': 
appointed the 31st of this month, at Newport, in this state, 
for a general rendezvous of mounted volunteei's. 

I have the honour of inclosing for the information of the 
president a cojsy of my address [see above] to the militia of 
this state on ihe occasion. 

The jn'O'pc; ' c>f acting e(neien|iy against Upper Canada 
v.'ill, I have rio iiou.bt, call foidh a lirge force to our standard, 
and they will 1)0 immediately nuiv hod to tlie head-quarto3'S 
of the north ~v» ••stern army, in su( ii bodies as will best facili- 
tate their movements; when tlKne they can act as foot or 
mounted, as circumstances ma>y rctiuij-c. 

! 'viall \nk(' gr'.'at pleasure to hmi' IVom the president on 



 

tliis subject previous to my departure from this place, and I 
request the favour of you to lay this letter immediately be- 
fore him for his consideration, and that you will be pleased 
to apprise me of the result by the earliest conveyance. 

I have the honour to be, most respectfully, your obedient 
servant, Isaac Shelby 

The honourable the Secretary of War 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No. 77) 

Head Quarters Seneca Towns 

9 miles above L. Sandusky 1st Aug. 1813 

Ha/r. Pa. 127-120 

Sir: 

I have the honor to enclose you a letter received the evening 
before the last from Genl. [Green] Clay communicating the 
departure of the enemy from before Fort Meigs, [see July 28 
above] I have not yet been able to ascertain whether the 
British Troops and the main body of their allies have returned 
to Maiden, or whether they still hover on the southern shore 
of the Lake, with a design to attempt some other enterprise. 
Since the morning of the 29th the latter have so swarmed 
in the woods around us as to leave me for sometime little 
doubt of an intended attack upon Lower Sandusky or this 
place and I suppose that the British were coming up the San- 
dusky Bay and River. The parties which I have sent to the 
Lake have not yet returned. As the wind has been favourable 
and the enemy were not near Sandusky this morning I con- 
clude that they have sought their own shores. Should this 
be the case the advantage gained by them on this second in- 
vasion, in which there could not have been less than 5000 
men employed amount to the surprise of a picket guard near 
to Fort Meigs by the Indians, and killing and taking six of 
the men, and wounding an Express and a boy of 14 years of 
age on the road to Sandusky. To ballance them I have the 
honor to inform you that Col. [James V.] Balls dragoons met 
with a party of Indians last evening near to Lower Sandusky 
and killed 11 out of the 12 of them. The Indians had formed 
an ambush, and fired upon the advanced guard consisting of a 
Sergeant and five privates upon seeing the squadron pursued 
by Col. Ball and overtaken by the front squad of Capt. Hop- 



 

kins Troops. Tlie greater part of them were cut down by Col. 
Ball, Capt. [S. G.] Hopkins and liis subalterns, whose horses 
being fleetest overtook them first. The loss on our side con- 
ists of two privates wounded one of them very slightly two 
horses killed and [?] badly wounded. 

I shall learn early tomorrow whether the enemy have gone 
down the lake or not. H they have I shall take the road to 
Cleaveland with the Dragoons and 200 mounted militia which 
I expect to join me tonight or tomorrow morning. Col. 
[Thomas D.] Owings has not yet arrived. I have been un- 
ceasingly employed in fortifying my position here to remedy 
in that way the weakness of my force. 

I received letters from Erie last night of the 27th Inst. 
Capt. Perry was then only in want of men and officers to en- 
able him to leave the harbor and attack the 4 vessels of the 
enemy then in sight. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Yr. Humble 
Svt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble Genl. John Armstrong Esqr. Secretary of TFar 

P. S. My fears for the safety of Fort Winchester were re- 
lieved by the return of Lt. [Benjamin W.] Sanders on the 
29th inst. he crossed the Miami River above Fort JMeigs and 
found no appearance of any number of the enemy having 
passed up in that direction. 



Harrison to Secretary op War 



(No. 78) 



Head Quarters Seneca Towns Aug. 1st 1813 

Har. Pa. ISO 

Sir: 

Since I had the honor of writing this morning to you, the 
party which I had sent to the Lake returned they saw some 
boats, three vessels with sails and a number of Indian canoes 
near to the mouth of the Sandusky Bay. They wei'e unable 
to approach near enough to make any particular discoveries 
and had no glass. There can be no doubt however but the 
enemy are there in force. 

Will you be so obliging as to order some small spy glasses 



 

to be sent by the Express mail via Cleavcland for the use of 
the officers commanding Scouting parties. 

I have tlio honor to be with Great Respect Yr. Obt. Servt. 

WiLLi^i. Henry Harrison 

The Ilonble John Armstrong Esqr. Secretary of War 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort — August — 2d — 1813 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" 125 

Dear Sir 

Your favour of the 20 ult. by major [David] Trimble has 
been d\\\y received since which a letter from General [Green] 
Claj' has also come to hand stating that the combined force 
of British & Indians had invested Fort Meigs — I have con- 
sidered a volunteer scheme as the course most likely to obtain 
the reinforcement which you request & have in consequence 
of that opinion appointed the olst day of this present month, 
for a General rendezvous of mounted volunteers at New Port 
on the Ohio and propose to head them myself. In addition 
to this I have addressed a circular letter to most of the Field 
officers & other influential characters in this State to step 
forth on this occasion — I am yet not able to say what will be 
the result but I flatter myself that a sufficient number to meet 
your wishes will turn out and you may rest assured every 
energy which I possess shall be exerted the utmost to efl'ect it. 
I need not observe to you how important it will be to have 
rations and forage laid in on the way it will be impossible to 
move on mthout the latter indeed a supply must be laid in 
in this State. — Men who travel from the southern parts of it 
will require both rations & forage at that place to enable them 
to proceed. I beg you may attend to this subject and let me 
know what is to be expected seeing that you cannot be rein- 
forced in any other way the Government must not stickle at 
the trifling Expense of a little forage to obtain an eflicient 
force for the main objects of the campaign. You shall be 
regularly informed of the progress I am making to reinforce 
you of the steps I deem necessary to efl'ect it & hope they will 
meet your approbation & that of my countiy. no apology was 
necessary to invite me to your standard had I more age & 
much greater experience I would not hesitate to fight under 



 

your banner for the honour & interest of my beloved country. 

Accept my good sir assurances of most perfect esteem and 

regard and remain 

Your obt. servant 

m r^ 1 Tir.x.TT ^xr Isaac Shelby 

To Genl. Harrison 

George Croghan to Harrison 

Lower Sandusky, Aug. 3, 1813 

^ „ Niles' Register IV, 3S9 

Dear Sir ; 

The enemy made an attempt to storm us last evening, but 
was repulsed with the loss of at least 100 killed wounded and 
prisoners. One Heut. col. (It. col. Short) a major and a lieu- 
tenant, with about 40 privates, are dead in our ditch. I have 
lost but one in killed, and but few wounded. Further state- 
ments will be made you by the bearer. 

George Croghan, major, commanding Fort Sandtisky 

N. B. Since writing the above, two soldiers of the 41st 

regiment have got in, who state that the eneiny have retreated. 

In fact, one of their gunboats is within three hundred yards 

of our works, said to be loaded v/ith camp-equipage, &c. which 

they, in their hurry have left. 

George Crogan 

John Johnson to Secretary of War 

PiQUA, August 3, 1813 

Niks' Register V, 7 

The Delaware and Shav^^anoese Indians on this frontier have 
turned out about two hundred men who have marched to the 
relief of gen. Harrison. The Wyandots within our lines, the 
Senecas and Mingoes have also tui'ned out their disposable 
force, about two hundred more. The whole intend to continue 
with the army during the campaign. 

Jno. Johnston, Indian- Agent 

William Russell to Posey 

Vincennes August 4, 1813 

Nilcs' Register V, 10 

On ray return from the Mississinawa, I found the Indians 



 

had got in small parties on this side of the Wabash, between 
this place and the mouth of White river. Those two rivers 
for some distance up, ai-e skirted with prodigious svv^amps and 
brush, which afforded them a complete shelter, I despatched 
rangers in different directions in order to drive them out, the 
citizens also assembled and assisted to chequer the country — 
some of the Indians had got possession of some horses and 
were making off. They were pursued by capt. [Touissant] 
Dubois, and a party of men, who overtook them and recovered 
three horses, but did not get sight of an Indian, captain John 
Andre of the rangers volunteered his services to follow them, 
he went on with 16 or 18 rangers. He was also joined by 
captain Dubois and Mr. [Joseph] Barron your interpreter, to- 
gether with a Potawatomy Indian that resides with Mr. Bar- 
ron; they soon discovered a trail of horses making out from 
the settlement, which they pursued, and soon overtook a spy 
that was kept in the rear; they pushed on and dispatched him, 
which gave notice to those in front who left their horses and 
fled with great precipitation — and from the nature of the 
country could not be followed; they got from this party also 
5 horses ; the party returned on the 2d inst. Capt. Dubois and 
Mr. Barron are active men ; captain Andre is also a very brave 
active and enterprising man. I hope this friendly Indian will 
in future prove serviceable, as I am told nothing can exceed 
his activity in the woods particularly on a trail. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head-Quarters, Seneca Town, August 4, 1813 

Historical Register, II, '251 

Sir, 

In my letter of the 1st instant, I did myself the honour 
to inform you that one of my scouting parties had just re- 
turned from the lake shore, and had discovered, the day be- 
fore, the enemy in force near the mouth of the Sandusky bay. 
[see Aug. 1 above] The party had not passed Lower San- 
dusky two hours, before the advance, consisting of Indians, 
appeared before the fort, and in half an hour after a large 
detachment of British troops ; and in the course of the night 
they commenced a cannonading against the fort with three 
six-pounders and two howitzers; the latter from gun-boats. 



 

Tilt" firing was partially answered by majoi' [George] Crog- 
han, having a six-pounder, the only piece of artillery. 

The fire of the enemy was continued at intervals, during 
the second instant, until about half after five, P. M., when 
liiuling that their cannon made little impression upon the 
works, and having discovered my position here, and appi'e- 
licnding an attack, an attempt was made to carry the place by 
storm. Their troops were formed in tvv^o columns; lieutenant- 
roloncl Short headed the principal one, composed of the light 
and battalion companies of the 41st regiment. 

This gallant oflicer conducted his men to the brink of the 
ditch, under the most galling and destructive fire from the 
garrison, and leaping into it was followed by a considerable 
luu't of his own and the light company; at this moment a 
mask'cd port hole was suddenly opened, and a six-pounder with 
a half load of powder and double charge of leaden slugs, at 
the distance of 30 feet, poured destruction upon them and 
hillc'd or \\'oundcd nearly every man who had entered the ditch. 
In vain did the British officers exert themselves to lead on 
the balance of the column; it retired in disorder under a 
shower of shot from the fort, and sought safety in the ad- 
joining woods. The other column headed by the grenadiers 
had also I'etired, after having suffered from the muskets of 
our men, to an adjacent ravine. In the course of the night, 
the enemy, with the aid of their Indians, drew off the greater 
part of the wounded and dead, and embarking them in boats 
descended the river with the utmost precipitation. In the 
course of the 2d instant, having heard the cannonading, I 
made several attempts to ascertain the force and situation of 
the enemy ; our scouts were unable to get near the fort, from 
the Indians which sui"}'ounded it. Finding however, that the 
enemy had only light artillery, and being well convinced that 
it could make little impression upon the works, and that any 
attempt to storm it would be resisted with effect, I waited 
for the arrival of 250 mounted volunteers, which on the even- 
ing before had left Upper Sandusky. But as soon as I was 
ill formed that the enemy were retreating, I set out with the 
dragoons to endeavour to overtake theni, leaving generals 
[Duncan] IM'Arthu]' and [Dewis] Cass to follow with all the 
infantry (about 700) that could be spared from the protec- 
tion of the stoi'es and sick at tliis place. I found it impossible 



 

to come up with tlicm. Upon my arrival at Sandusky, I ^vas 
informed by tlie prisoners that the enemy's forces consisted 
of 4D0 reg-uhir troops, and 500 [Robert] Dixon's Indians, com- 
manded by general [Henry] Proctor in person, and that 
Tecumseh, with about 2000 warriors, was somewhei-e in the 
swamps, between this and Fort I\reigs, expecting my advanc- 
ing, or that of a convoy of provisions. 

As there was no prospect of doing any thing in front, and 
being apprehensive that Tecumseh might destroy the stores 
and small detachments in my rear, I sent orders to general 
Cass, vv'ho commanded the reserve, to fall back to this place, 
and to general ^M'Arthur with the front line to follow and 
support him. I remained at Sandusky until the parties that 
were sent out in every direction returned — not an enemy was 
to be seen. 

I am sorry that I cannot transmit you major [George] Crog- 
han's official report. He was to have sent it to me this morn- 
ing, but I have just heard that he was so much exhausted 
by 36 hours of continued exertion as to be unable to make it. 
It will not be amongst the least of general proctor's mortifica- 
tions to find that he has been baffled by a youth who has just 
passed his twenty-first year. He is, however a hero worthy 
of his gallant uncle (general George R. Clark). 

Captain [James] Hunter, of the 17th regiment, the second 
in command, conducted himself with great propriety; and 
never were a set of finer young fellows than the subalterns. 
viz. lieutenants [Benjamin] Johnson and [Cyrus Alexander] 
Baylor of the 17th, [Joseph] Anthony of the 24th, [John] 
]Meeks of the 7th, and ensigns [Edmund] Shipp and [Joseph] 
Duncan of the 17th. 

The following account of the unworthy artifice and conduct 
of the enemy will excite your indignation, major Chambers 
was sent by general Proctor, accompanied by colonel Elliott, 
to demand the surrender of the fort. They were met by en- 
sign Shipp. The major observed, that general Proctor had a 
number of 'cannon, a lai'ge body of regular troops, and so many 
Indians whom it was impossible to conti'oul; and if the fort 
was taken, as it must be, the whole of the garrison would be 
massacred. IMr. Shipp, answered, that it was the determina- 
tion of major Croghan, his ofiicers and men, to defend the 
gari'ison or bo bu]'ied in it; and that Uw.y might do their best. 



 

Colonel Elliott then addressed Mr. Shipp, and said, "you are a 
fine young' man; I pity your situation; for God's sake sur- 
render, and prevent the dreadful slaughter that must follow 
resistance." Shipp turned from him with indignation, and 
was immediately taken hold of by an Indian, who attempted 
to wrest his sword from him. EHiott pretended to exert him- 
self to release him, and expressed great anxiety to get him safe 
in the fort. 

I have the honour to enclose you a copy of the first note re- 
ceived from major Croghan. It was written before day; and 
it has since been ascertained, that of the enemy there remained 
in the ditch one lieutenant-colonel one lieutenant and 25 pri- 
vates : the number of prisoners, one serjeant and 25 privates : 
14 of them badly wounded : every care has been taken of the 
latter, and the ofiicers buried with the honours due to their 
rank and bravery. All the dead that were not in the ditch, 
were taken off in the night by the Indians. It is impossible, 
from the circumstances of the attack, that they should have 
lost less than 100. Some of the prisoners think that it 
amounted to 200. A young gentelman, a private in the Peters- 
burg volunteers, of the name of Browai, assisted by five or six 
of that company, and of the Pittsburg blues, wdio wore acci- 
dentally in the fort, managed the six-pounder which produced 
such destruction in the ranks of the enemy. 

1 have the honour to be &c. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 

N. B. Of our few wounded men there is but one that will 
not be well in less than six days. 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort Aug 4th 1813 

From Goi'crnor Isaac Shelby's "Letter' Book A" 138 

To Gcnl. Harrison, 
Dr Sir 

Since I had the honour of addressing you last I have heard 
from several of the adjoining counties — The information re- 
ceived confirms the opinion I had entertained that the patri- 
otism of this State had not diminished, and induces me to 
believe I shall on the day of rendezvous meet four or five thou- 
sand vollunteers and per]ia])s a much hu'ger number this ren- 



 

ders it highly impoi'lant that supplies of provisions, forage, 
(fee, &;c., should be laid in with a liberal hand. I flatter my- 
solf that you will give the requisite orders on the subject v.^- 
as soon as practicable. I am still of opinion that forage pro- 
vision should be laid in at George town that the men may then 
draw what will last them untill they get to New Port ; those 
from the southern part of the State cannot well move on VN-ith- 
out it — you will please let me hear from you as soon as pi'ac- 
ti cable. 

I have the honour to be very respectfully 
Your obt. Servt. 

Isaac Shelby 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head-Quarters, Seneca To^VN, 
5th August, 1813— S o'clock A. :.I. 

Histo)-ical Register II, ;?54 

I have the honour to enclose you major [George] Croghan's 
report of the attack upon his fort, which has this moment come 
to hand. Fortunately the mail has not closed. 

With great respect, I have the honour to be, sir, your humble 
servant, 

Wm. Henry Harrison 

Croghan to Harrison 

Lower Sandusky, August 5, 1813 

Historkcl Register II, ^5.i 

Dear sir, 

I have the honour to inform you that the combined forces 
of the onem\', amounting to at least 500 regulars and 700 or 
800 Indians, under the immediate command of general 
[Ileniy] Proctor, made its appearance before this place early 
on Sunday evening last, and so soon as the general had made 
such disposition of his ti'oops as would cut off my retreat, 
should I be disposed to make one, he sent colonel Elliott, ac- 
companied by major Chambers, with a flag, to demand the sur- 
render of the fort, as he was anxious to spare the effusion of 
blood, which he should probably not have in his power to do, 
should he be reduced to the necessity of taking the place by 
sto]-m. My answer to the summons was, that I was deter- 



 

mined to defend the place to the last extremity, and that no 
force, hov/ever large, should induce me to surrender it. So 
soon the flag had returned, a brisk fire was opened upon us 
i'l-om the gun-boats in the river, and f}*om a 51/2 inch howitzer 
on shore, which was kept up with little intermission through- 
out the night. At an early hour next morning, three sixes 
(which had been placed during the night within 250 yards 
of the pickets) began to play upon us v/ith little effect. About 
four o'clock, P. M., discovering that the fire from all his guns 
was concentrated ag-ainst the northwestern angle of the fort, 
I became confident that his object was to make a breach, and 
attempt to storm the works at that point, I therefore ordered 
out as many men as could be employed for the purpose of 
strengthening that part, which was so effectually secured by 
means of bags of flour, sand, etc. that the picketing suffered 
little or no injury; notwithstanding which the enemy, about 
500, having formed in close column, advanced to assault our 
works at the expected point, at the same time making two 
feints on the front of captain [James] Hunter's lines. The 
column which advanced against the northwestern angle, con- 
sisting of about 350 men, was so completely enveloped in 
smoke, as not to be discovered until it had approached within 
18 or 20 paces of the lines, but the men being all at their posts 
and I'eady to receive it, commenced so heavy and galling a fire 
as to throw the column a little into confusion; being quickly 
rallied, it advanced to the outer works, and began to leap into 
the ditch. Just at that moment a fire of grape was opened 
from our six-pounder (which had been previously arranged so 
as to rake in that direction) which, together with the mus- 
ketry, threw them into such confusion that they v/ere com- 
pelled to retire precipitately to the woods. 

During the assault, which lasted about half an hour, an in- 
cessant fire was kept up by the enemy's artillery (which con- 
sisted of five sixes and a howitzer) but without effect. My 
whole loss during the siege, was one killed and seven wounded, 
slightly. The loss of the enemy in killed, wounded and pris- 
oners, must exceed 150: one lieutenant-colonel, a lieutenant, 
and 50 rank and file were found in and about the ditch, dead 
or wounded. Those of the remainder who were not able to 
escape were taken off during the night ))y Indians. Seventy 
stand of arms, and several brace of pistols have been collected 



 

near the works. About three in the morning the enemy sailed 
down tlie river, leaving behind them a boat, containing cloth- 
ing and considci'able military stores. 

Too much praise cannot be bestowed on the officers, non- 
commissioned officers, and privates under my command, for 
their gallantry and good conduct during the siege. 

G. Croghan, Major 17 United States Infantry 
I\Iajor General Harrison, commanding N. W. Army 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department August 5, 1813 

Har. Pa. S2, S3 

Sir: 

The best interpretation of the late movements of the enemy 
in your quarter is that De Rottenburg has detached to the aid 
of [Henry] Proctor between four and five hundred men, and 
that with these he is attempting to save INIalden by attacking 
fort IMeigs. If this conjecture be well founded it suggests the 
true policy on our part provided our flotilla can get over the 
Bar. Go directly to IMalden, and leave Mr. Proctor to amuse 
himself with fort I\Ieigs. There is no objection to your ap- 
pointing the Sergeants to other offices pro tempre. Captain 
[Robert] Butler has been appointed ]Major of the 32d Regi- 
ment and Lieut. [James] McGhee Captain in the 42nd. 

I\Iajor Genl. Harrison 

Harrison to Meigs 
Headquarters, Upper Sandusky, Aug. 6, 1813 

T^ ^ Niles' Register, IV, i20 

Dear Sir: 

Your excellency's letter of the 4th inst. was delivered to me 
yesterday morning by colonel [Henry] Brush. The exertions 
which you have made, and the pi'omptitude with which your 
orders have been obeyed to assemble the militia to repel the 
late invasion of the enemy, is truly astonishing, and reflects 
the highest honor on the state. Believing that in a formal 
interview I could best explain to you the intention of the gov- 
ei-nment and my own views, I determined to come on to this 
place to see you. I have now the honor to repeat to j'ou in 



 

this way the result of my determination on the employment 
of the militia, and most of the facts upon which my determina- 
tion is founded. It has been the intention of government to 
form the army destined for operations upon Lake Erie, ex- 
clusively of regular troops, if they could be raised ; the number 
was limited to 7,000 — the deficiency of regulars was to be 
made up from the militia. From all the information I at pres- 
ent possess, I am convinced that there will be a great deficiency 
in the contemplated number of troops, even after the militia 
now in service, and whose time of service will not expire im- 
mediately, have been added to the regulars. I have therefore 
called upon the governor of Kentucky for 2000 effective men ; 
with those, there will still be a deficiency of perhaps 1,200 
troops. Your excellency has stated to me, that the men who 
have turned out upon this occasion, have done it with the ex- 
pectation that they would be eff"ectually employed, and that 
should they be sent home, there is no prospect of getting them 
to turn out, should it be hereafter necessary. To employ them 
all is impossible; with my utmost exertions the embarkation 
cannot be effected in less than 15 or 18 days. Should I ever 
determine to substitute them for the regular troops which are 
expected ; to keep so large a force in the field, even for a short 
period, would consume the means which are provided for the 
support of the campaign, and which are only collected for the 
number above stated. Under these circumstances, I would 
recommend a middle course to your excellency, viz. to dismiss 
all the militia but two regiments of 10 cojnpanies each, of 100 
men and an usual proportion of field, plattoon and non-com- 
missioned officers and musicians; that the corps be encamped 
at or near this place until it is ascertained whether their serv- 
ices will be wanted — a short time will determine the question. 
Permit me to request your excellency to give your countenance 
and support to the exertions which general [Duncan] 
M'Arthur will make to fill up the 26th regiment of 12 months 
troops. 

It appears that the venerable governor of Kentucky is about 
to take command of the troops of the state. Could your ex- 
cellency think proper to follow his example, I need not tell you 
how highly grateful it would be to, dear sir, your friend. 

Wm. II. Harrison 



 

Proctor to Harrison 

Amherstburg, Aug. 7th, 1813 

Niles' Register IV, .U9 

Sin : 

Tho bearer, lieiit. Le Breton in the service of his Britannic 
majesty, I send under a flag of truce, with surgical aid, of 
which you may not have a sufTiciency, for the brave soldiers 
\\\\o were too severely wounded to come off, or who may have 
lo.st Iheir way after the unsuccessful attack made on the 2d 
ijkst. on the fort at Sandusky. 

ICxpccling every consideration from the brave soldier for a 
wounded enemy, I flatter myself that those prisoners in your 
po5sessi()n, and who can be removed without injury, will be 
IHTmilted to return here on my parole of honor, that they shall 
not .serve until truly and regularly exchanged. 

1 have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient and humble 
servant. 

Henry Proctor 
To the oflicer commanding the fort at Sandusky 

Shelby to Harrison "' ;;^ 

Frankfort Aug 8th 1813 

From GoveiTLor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" 138 

miwi Sir 

I wrote you about the 2nd inst., by major [Peter G.] Voris 
und by the mail about the 4th for I have not the copies by 
rue niucv whicli I have received information from various quar- 
Urn of the State that the volunteer scheme will succeed but 
It ift itupossit)l(« lo speak with any kind of certainty at so early 
■A Mrtfre of the business I flatter myself however that I shall 
''<• able to bring in the field from two to three thousand or 
isj^ward. my i)resent view^s are that all these men will ride 
t" thf margin of the Lake and if they cross over leave about 
•'*T',..' tenth man to bring the horses back some distance & herd 
th'Mi in the best range in partials until the campaign expires 
J!!:iny of the volunteers that will compose this corps will be 
♦ •ent. who will care less about emoluments than their own 
«'.'rs4> anil coTivenience & must have their horses taken care of to 
rule home a gi-eat proportion of the volunteers will come from 
the So. western parts of the State who will have to travel 



 

from two to three hundred miles before they arrive at the 
points of rendezvous many of them too will be poor men who 
will not be able to proceed unless forage & rations are both 
supplied — indeed I shall expect that forage will be directed to 
be furnished at Georgetown in this State — Horses will other- 
wise become so weak it will be impossible for them to proceed 
further. I must therefore my good sir beg your early and 
particular attention to the subject of forage from George 
Town onwards least from the want of it the whole scheme to 
reinforce you from this State shall prove abortive. I should 
suppose that the discretion confided to you by the department 
of war will justify you in taking this step, which in my opinion 
is all important & cannot be dispensed with, but at the hazard 
of defeating the whole enterprise. — Major [David] Trimble 
your aid de camp has stated that you would not Guarantee 
the pay of more than 2000 men but will accept the services of 
a much larger number, were I to make this public I am con- 
fident it would damp the ardor of volunteers — even Gentlemen 
of fortune (of whom there are many that will go in the ranks) 
could not with any confidence encourage their poorer neigh- 
bors to hazard their lives and loose their times for nothing it 
is at any rate a great sacrifice for a citizen of Kentucky to 
make for the mere pay of a common foot soldier for the serv- 
ice of himself & horse. — I hope you will reflect also on this sub- 
ject and authorize the payment for all that go, at least for 
4000 men should so many turn out. for I shall otherwise 
not be able to draw the distinction between those that will be 
entitled to receive pay and those that shall not if more than 
2000 volunteers turn out. If the want of forage or any other 
trifling occurrence should disgust the volunteers and cause 
them to refuse to proceed on from George town or the Ohio, 
rest assured that there will be an end to the spirit of volun- 
teering from Kentucky. — You were not mistaken as to the in- 
disposition of the people here to turn out again and it is has 
taken great exertion to reanimate them hence the greater 
necessity in the Government doing them at least common 
Justice — it is not a matter of so much moment that the men 
should be paid instantly — but such a debt of gratitude should 
be acknowledged by the Government & paid when she has 
funds to do it. I must my dear sir, hear from you before I 
leave New Port and if possible before the men leave their 



 

homes. — That every practicable difficulty may be removed & 
that the true standing of corps may be fairly understood. 
I have the honour to be ]\Iost respectfully, Dear General 
Your most obdt. servt. 

Isaac Shelby 
Major General William Henry Harrison 

General Order 

Head-quarters, Eighth Military District, 
Seneca Towns, 9th August, 1813 

Niles' Register, IV, Jt20 

Complaints having been made of unfair practices by some 
of the recruiting officers, in the enlistments of men ; the com- 
manding general directs the superintendent of each recruiting 
district to give the most prompt attention to every allegation 
of the Idnd, and immediately discharge every person who may 
have been enlisted contrary to law and the instructions of 
the war department. It shall also be the duty of such superin- 
tendants to arrest and send on to head-quarters for trial, every 
officer who may have offended in this way and the general 
announces it his unalterable determination to punish with the 
utmost rigor, such as may be convicted. But, whilst he thus 
evinces his desire to preserve his fellow citizens from every 
species of militarj' oppression; he hopes that the patriotic citi- 
zens will venture their efforts to shield the recruiting officers 
from the persecutions of certain vile miscreants, who, dis- 
gracing an honorable and liberal profession, and for a con- 
temptible fee, are constantly endeavoring to deprive their 
country of the service of men, who have been fairly and legally 

engaged. 

A True Copy 

A. H. Holmes, Assist. Adj't Gen. 

Harrison to Proctor 

Head-quarters, Eighth I\Iilitary District of the 

United States, August 10, 1813 

g Niles' Register IV, 410 

Your letter addressed to the offiicer commanding at Lower 
Sandusky, [see Aug. 7 above] was forwarded from thence to 



 

me, and received this moment. Upon my arrival at Fort 
Sandusky on the morning of the 3d instant, I found that major 
[George] Croghan, conformable to those principles which are 
held sacred in the American army, had caused fill the care to 
be taken of the wounded prisoners that his situation would 
permit. Having with me my hospital surgeon, he was par- 
ticularly charged to attend to them, and I am warranted in 
the belief that every aid that surgical skill could give was af- 
forded. They have been liberally furnished too with every 
article necessary in their situation which our hospital stores 
could supply. 

Having referred to my government for orders respecting 
the disposition of the prisoners, I cannot with propriety com- 
ply with your request for an immediate exchange. 

But I assure you, sir, that as far as it depends upon me, the 
course of treatment which has been commenced towards them, 
whilst in my possession, will be continued. 

I have the honor to be, sir, your humble servant, 

Wm. H. Harrison 
Maj. Gen. coynmanding 8th U. S. District 
To General Proctor 



Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort Aug 11th 1813 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Booh A" 151 

Dear Sir 

I think it my duty to apprise you of every occurrence rela- 
tive to the reinforcing you from Kentucky. 

When my address of the 31st July to the militia of this 
State was first published (of which I inclose you a copy) 
[see July 31 above] the public spirit of this country as usual 
flared out & it was expected every where that five Thousand 
men & probably a much greater number of volunteers would 
turn out & go with me to reinforce you it being just such a 
tower as they had cried out for & often solicited me to at- 
tempt. But their ardour has greatly subsided <fe the inquiry 
from all points is what pay are we to receive, shall we get 
paid for our lost horses and is forage laid in on the way for 
them &c. I am greatly mortified at the present prospect, but 
shall continue to exert every power to get out as large a force 

86— 22C64 



522 INDIANA IIISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

as possible. There is a much greater degree of public spirit 
on the North side of the Kentucky River than on the other. 
I have this day ordered a draft on the South side of Keiitu(k\ 
for 1500 men to be taken from the bounds in which tlie for- 
mer 1500 men were drafted that were discharged in conse- 
quence of your letter to me of the 21st of April last. I hojie 
that this step will produce that number from the southern 
side of the Kentucky, & that probably one thousand volunteers 
will turn out on the north side — I never have been so far dis- 
appointed in the patriotism of my countrymen befoi'e & am 
at a loss for what cause to attribute their backwardness all 
at once. The 1500 to be drafted are to rende/.vous at Ceorgc 
Town in this State on the tenth day of next month, and the 
necessary arrangements in the quartermaster line will be reii- 
uisite for their advance. 

I have admitted in the order for the draft that all who come 
forward & join the mounted volunteers from the south side 
of Kentucky, may be considered as a part of the quota re- 
quired by the draft, & I flatter myself this proposition will 
induce many to come on from that quarter to the General 
rendezvous on the 31st inst., al: Newport. 

I beg leave to remind you once more of the importance of 
liaving forage laid in on the way. 

I shall apprise you from time to time of the prospects which 
I have relative to my success in obtaining men, fo the end 
that if they don't meet your expectation you can look to other 
sources for relief. 

The mail is this moment closing & only affords me time to 
conclude with sincere wishes for your welfare & prosiioity 

And remain your obt friend &c., 

Isaac Siieluy 
To Majr. Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison, 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No.80) 

Head Quarters Seneca Towns 11th August 1813 

Hur. Pa. 131-1:; J, 

Sir: 

Genl. [Henry] Proctor returned to Maiden on the Gth or 
7th and excepting a very few I believe that all his Indians 
liave also retired some of their signs are occasionally seen, but 



 

they have become so shy that they attempt no mischief. A 
party of our friendly Indians picked up near the Lake, 4 Brit- 
ish Soldiers who had made their escape from the ditch at Fort 
Sandusky, but were unable to overtake their own army. 

A British Lieutenant accompanied by a surgeon arrived at 
Sandusky yesterday morning with a Flag and letter from 
Genl. Proctor and were very improperly sent to me without 
any previous notice. I have the honor to enclose herewith 
a copy of his letter and my answer, [see Aug. 7 and 10 
above] The prisoners that are not wounded, 16 in number 
have been sent to Upper Sandusky. What disposition will you 
have made of them? 

When the news of the invasion of this state was made known 
an immense number of militia was put in motion by Govr. 
I>*Ieigs and the different general offtcers. Having received a 
letter from Govr. Meigs informing me of his arrival at Upper 
Sandusky with the advanced detachments. I met him there 
on the 6th Inst and addressed a letter [see Aug. 6 above] to 
him advising him to dismiss all the militia excepting ten com- 
panies of one hundred each, who might be retained untill it 
could be ascertained whether the whole or any part would be 
wanted. Major [A. H.] Holmes has forwarded the Return 
of all the Troops excepting those at Fort IMeigs. The Return 
from thence was received this morning and will be fonvarded 
by the next mail, from this you will perceive that it will re- 
quire at least 4000 militia to make up the compliment of 7000 
destined for the expedition into Canada. 

The Ohio Militia which were called into service last spring 
will all be discharged in ten days and there will remain only 
about 650 of the Kentucky Militia. I have required Govr. 
Shelbj^ to furnish twenty companies of 100 men each. He is 
now raising them and will command them in person. They 
will come in on Horses and send them back. 

Commodore Perry sailed from Erie on the 5th Inst, in pur- 
suit of the enemy. I should have no apprehension for the 
issue of the conflict if he had a proper compliment of seamen 
and ofllcers. They are he informs me greatly deficient and an 
eye witness writes that there is not more than half the proper 
number of good seamen. He has some volunteers from the 
Pensylvania Rcgt. of Militia at Erie. The rest have resolved 
"that they will come on to join this army as ordered provided 
they get two months pay beforehand". 



!^aJiut£U^r>^f^££A':f: 



 

Permit mc to solicit j^our attention to the staff of this army, 
]\Iajor [Levi] Hukill and Major [A. H.] Holmes will not be 
able for a considerable time to reduce into order the chaos that 
reigns from the entire want of experience in the officers of the 
new Regiments. Col. [Edmund P.] Gaines who has lately 
been promoted to the Command of the 25th Regt. is here. 
He would make a most excellent Adjutant General and will 
serve in that capacity unless his regiment is full in which case 
he would prefer to join it. 

My Aid de Camp Lieut. [John] 0' Fallon is a 2nd Lieut, in 
the 1st Regt. permit me to request that he be transfered to 
the 24th Regt. with the same rank of that of 1st. Lieut, if 
the vacancies of that grade are not all taken up by the promo- 
tion of the Subalterns heretofoi'e in that Regiment. 

I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect Yr. Humbel 
Servant. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

The Honble Genl. John Armstrong Secretary of War 



Harrison to Secretary of War 
No 81 

Head Quarters Seneca Towns 12th Augt. 1813 

Har. Pa. 135 

Sir: 

IMajor [Levi] Hukill has written to the Inspector Genl. for 
blank inspection Returns but he has received none. Will you 
be pleased to give directions for having them forwarded by 
the express mail. There is difficulty in getting these printed 
in this country. 

The British Surgeon's Mate who came with the Flag ac- 
knowledgers that they lost 91 killed and missing. He did not 
mention the number of wounded that has been taken off, but 
said that several had died before they got to the Lake. Major 
Muir one of their best officers was supposed to be mortally 
wounded. 

I have tlie honor to be with great respect, Sir Yr. Humble 
Servant. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. Genl. John Armstrong, Secretary of War 



 

Harrison to Voorhies 
Head Quarters, Seneca Town, August 18, 1813 

Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Aff. I, 653 

Sir: 

As you have reported yourself to me as the authorized agent 
of the contractor, I must request that you take immediate 
measures for having two hundred thousand rations of salted 
pork or bacon prepared at Cleveland, Sandusky, or some other 
place on the lake, to be used when the army shall arrive on 
the Canada shore. Should you think proper to supply the 
other component parts, and make the two hundred thousand 
complete rations, you are at liberty to do so. You have the 
flour at Cleveland, and as it will not be wanted there, it can be 
used for the above purpose; however, the pork must be pro- 
cured at any rate. 

I am, very respectfully, your humble servant 

William H. Harrison 
I\Taj. Peter G. Voorhies Agt. for Orr and Greely 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No 83) 

Head Quarters Seneca Town August 22nd 1813 

Har. Pa. 136-7 

Sir: 

I returned this day from a visit to Commodore Perry who 
is nov/ with his fleet (10 sails) off the mouth of the Sandusky 
bay. He received an accession of officers and seamen before 
he left Erie but he is still very deficient in both in the number 
and quality of the latter. To remedy this defect as far as pos- 
sible, I have furnished him with one hundred of my best men, 
including all the seamen that could be found in the companies 
here. 

An order has also been forwarded to Fort Meigs to select 
all of the latter that are there and send them down to the 
Commodore at the mouth of the Miami bay. 

The Commodore and myself have agreed upon the propriety 
of his proceeding immediately off Maiden to brave the enemies' 
fleet, and if possible bring them to action before he shall be 
encumbered with our troops. I am aflraid that they will not 
fight him at present, but his appearance before Maiden will 



 

have a great effect upon the Indians, between whom and their 
allies verj^ serious disputes have arisen. Three Wyandot In- 
dians, in whom I have entire confidence have been sent by 
their old chief the Crane upon my suggestion to widen the 
breach and endeavour to prevail upon them to return home and 
suffer the contest to be decided by the British and us alone. 

I am exerting every nerve to complete my preparations for 
crossing the Lake as soon as I am reinforced by two thousand 
of the Kentucky militia. That number is indispensible from 
the sickly state of the regular troops, of whom I shall think 
myself fortunate to take with me two-fifths of the aggregate 
amount. 

I shall do myself the honor to write to you more fully by the 
next mail. 

I have the honor to be, Sir with great respect your humble 
Servant. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. John Armstrong Esquire SecreUiry at War 



Aaron Greely to Harrison 
Camp Harrison, Cleveland, August 25, 1813 

Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Aff. I, 653 

Sir: 

I have taken the liberty to send you enclosed a correct state- 
ment of the component parts of rations at this time ready to 
be delivered in good order along the lake coast, on the nav- 
igable waters within this district; the pj'incipal part of which 
are at this place. All the component parts of the rations can 
be delivered almost exclusively at this post immediately, ex- 
cept the salted pork, which will fall short of the two hundi'cd 
thousand rations about thirty thousand; this deficiency is not 
in the country, neither can it be procured in time at this season 
of the year. If you should think it proper to take salted beef 
in lieu of this deficiency, I have the barrels and salt on hand, 
and can deliver to you five hundred barrels prime beef, in 
good order, and warranted to keep good until the first of May 
next. Ten day's notice will be sufficient I have contracted 
for ten thousand pounds of bacon ; the time in which it was 
to be delivered has expired since the 20th instant. I expect 
it every day, and am confident it will be here in time. 



 

I have a number of bakers employed in baking biscuit, of 
which I can immediately furnish you with fifty thousand ra- 
tions, warranted to keep good for one year. Colonel [B. G.] 
Orr's long stay in the city of Washington prevented my re- 
turning here before you left this to attend to your orders. 

I experience a very serious difficulty for the want of stores 
for the provisions. Was Mr. Duncan Reed, the acting Deputy 
Quartermaster, more attentive to his business a few boards 
might be procured to cover those provisions which are now 
lying exposed to the storms on the lake shore, and the evil 
in a great degree be remedied. The regiment of Pennsyl- 
vania militia, under the command of Colonel Rees Hill, 
amounting to about six hundred and fifty men, will arive here 
on Sunday next. I shall ever endeavor at all times to obey 
you and comply with your requisitions, and exert myself for 
the good of the pubhc service. 

I am, with pleasure, respectfully your obedient humble 
servant, 

Aaron Greely 
His Excellency Wm. H. Harrison Maj. Gen. Com. N. W. Army 

Croghan to Editor of Liberty Hall 

Lower Sandusky, August 27, 1813 

Cincinnati Liberty Hall, Sept. i4, 1813 

I have with much regret seen in some of the public prints, 
such misrepresentations respecting my refusal to evacuate this 
post, as are calculated not only to injure me in the estimation 
of military men, but also to excite unfavorable impressions 
as to the propriety of General Harrison's conduct relative to 
this affair. 

His character as a military man is too well established to 
need my approbation or support. But his public services en- 
title him at least to common justice, this affair does not fur- 
nish cause of reproach. If public opinion has been lately mis- 
led respecting his late conduct, it will require but a moment's 
cool, dispassionate reflection, to convince them of its propriety. 
The measures recently adopted by him, so far from deserving 
censure, are the clearest proofs of his keen penetration and 
able Generalship. It is true that I did not proceed immedi- 
ately to execute his order to evacuate this post; but this dis- 



 

obedience was not, as some would wish to believe, the result 
of a fixed determination to maintain the post contrary to his 
most positive orders, as will appear from the following de- 
tail, which is given to explain my conduct. 

About 10 o'clock on the morning of the 30th ultimo, a letter 
from the Adjutant General's ofTice, dated Seneca Town, July 
29, 1813, was handed me by Mi\ [John] Conner, ordering me 
to abandon this post, burn it, and retreat that night to head- 
quarters. On the reception of the order I called a council of 
officers, in which it was determined not to abandon the place, 
at least until the further pleasure of the General should be 
Imown, as it was thought an attempt to retreat in the open 
day, in the face of a superior force of the enemy would be 
more hazardous than to remain in the fort, under all its dis- 
advantages. I therefore wrote a letter to the General, couched 
in such terms as I thought were calculated to deceive the 
enemy should it fall into his hands, which I thought more 
than probable — as well as to inform the General, should it be 
so fortunate as to reach him, that I would wait to hear from 
him, before I should proceed to execute his order. This let- 
ter, contrary to my expectations was received by the General, 
who, not knowing what reasons urged me to write in a tone 
so decisive, concluded very rationally that the manner of it 
was demonstrative of the most positive determination to dis- 
obey his order under any circumstance. I was therefore sus- 
pended from the command of the fort, and ordered to Head 
quarters, But on explaining to the General my reason for not 
executing his orders, and my object in using the style I had 
done, he was so perfectly satisfied with the explanation, that 
I was immediately reinstated in the command. 

It will be recollected that the order above alluded to, was 
written on the night previous to my receiving it — had it been 
delivered to me, as was intended, that night, I should have 
obeyed it without hesitation; its not reaching me in time, was 
the only reason which induced me to consult my officers on 
the propriety of waiting the General's further orders. 

It has been stated, also, that upon my representations of my 
ability to maintain the post, the General altered his deter- 
mination to abandon it. This is incorrect. No such repre- 
sentation was ever made. And the last order I received from 
the General, was precisely the same as that first given, viz. 



 

'That if I discovered the approach of a large British force by 
water, (presuming that they would bring heavy artillery,) 
time enough to effect a retreat, I was to do so ; but if I could 
not retreat Vvith safety, to defend the post to the last ex- 
tremity.' 

A day or two before the enemy appeared before fort jMeigs, 
the General had reconnoitred the surrounding ground, and 
being informed that the hill on the opposite side of Sandusky 
completely commanded the fort, I offered to undertake, with 
the troops under mj^ command, to remove it to that side. The 
General, upon reflection, thought it best not to attempt it, as 
he believed that if the enemy again appeared on this side of 
the lake, it would be before the work could be finished. 

It is useless to disguise the fact, that this fort is commanded 
by the points of high ground around it ; a single stroke of the 
eye made this clear to me the first time I had occasion to ex- 
amine the neighborhood, ^^'ith a view of discovering the rela- 
tive streng-th and weakness of the place. 

It would be insincere t-o say that I am not flattered by the 
many handsome things which have been said about the de- 
fence which was made by the troops under my command ; but 
I desire no plaudits which are bestowed upon me, at the ex- 
pense of General Harrison. 

I have at all times enjoyed his confidence so far as my rank 
in the army entitled me to it. And on proper occasions re- 
ceived his marked attention. I have felt the warmest at- 
taclmient for him as a man, and my confidence in him as an 
able commander remains unshaken. I feel every assurance 
that he will at all times do me ample justice; and nothing 
could give me more pain than to see his enemies seize upon 
this occasion to deal out their unfriendly feelings and acrim- 
onious dislike — and as long as he continues (as in my humble 
opinion he has hitherto done) to make the wisest arrange- 
ments and most judicious disposition, which the forces under 
his command will justify, I shall not hesitate to unite with the 
army in bestowing upon him that confidence which he so richly 
merits, and which has on no occasion been witheld. 

Your friend, 

George Croghan Maj 17 Inf 



:) 

Field Officers to ILarrl^^on 

Lower Seneca Town. Aug. 29, ISlo 

Daw? on, Harrison, .109 

Th-: undersigned, being the general, field, and staff ofricci s. 
with that portion of the north-western army under the im- 
mediate command of General Harrison have observed with le- 
i^\\:t iind surprise that charges as iniproper in the form as in 
the substance have been made against the conduct of General 
Harrison during the recent investment of Lov.-er Sandusky. 
At another time, and under ordinary circumstances, we shor/k; 
deem it improper and unmilitary thus publicly to give ariv 
opinion resi^ecting the movements of the army. But public 
{•onfulence in the commanding General is essential to the suc- 
cess of the campaign, and causelessly to withdraw or to witli- 
hold that confidence, is more than individual injustice; it be- 
comes a serious injury to the seiwice. A part of the force, 
of wliich the American army consists, will derive its greatest 
strength and efficacy from a confidence in the commanding 
General, and from those moral causes which accompany and 
give energy to public opinion. A very erroneous idea respect- 
ing the number of the troops then at the disposal of the Gen- 
eral, lias doubtless been the primary cause of those unfortunate 
. ! il unfounded impressions. A sense of duty forbids us from 
giving a detailed view of our strength at that time. In that 
resr''-f:t, we have fortunately experienced a very favorable 
cliange. Lut we refer the public to the General's official re- 
port to the secretary of war, of major [Geo'ge] Croghan's 
successful dcfeiir-e of Lower Sandusky. In that will be found 
a sb'iiement (m" Oiir wliole disposable force; and he who be- 
lieves that with such a force, and under the circumstances 
wliich then occurred. General Har}'ison ought to have advan.ced 
ui)on the enemy must be left to correct his opinion in the 
School of experience. 

On. a review of the course th< ,■• adopted, we are decivi< c'ih 
^'f the oj)in;on, that it was such as was dictated by mil-iavy 
v^•isdom. and by a due regard to oio: own circumstances and 
to the situation of the enemy. The reasons for this opinion 
it is cvidfTitly improper now to >rivr>. but we hold ourselves 
^ >r.dy at ;. {."iiture poriotL and when olhci' circumstances shall 
have inie/v^ ned, to salr.iy every man of its cori-ectness who 
is anxioi:. to investigate and willing to receive the truth. 



i:^iilu:s^CLiiiiicjMiit 



 

And with a rcadj^ acquiescence, beyond the mere claims of 
militarj' duty, we are prepared to obey a General, whose meas- 
ures meet our most deliberate approbation, and merit that of 
his country, 

Lewis Cass, Bng Gen. U. S. A. 

Samuel Wells, Col. 17, R. U. S. I 

Thos. D. Owings, Col. 28 R. U. S. I 

George Paull, col. 17 R.U. S. I. 

J. C. Bartlett, Col Q. M. G. 

James V. Ball, Licnt. Col. 

Robert Morrison, Lieiit Col. 

George Todd, Maj. 19 R. U. S. I. 

James Smiley, Maj 28 R. U. S. I. 

William Trigg, Maj, 28 R. U. S. I. 

Rd. Graham, Maj 17 R.U, S. I. 

George Croghan, Maj. 17 R. U, S. I. 

L. HUKILL, Maj & As. Imp. Gen. 

E. D. Wood, Maj Engineers 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No. 84) 



Head Quarters Seneca Town August 29th 1813 

Har. Pa. 138-liO 

Sir: 

An indisposition of which I am now getting the better pre- 
vented me from writing to you by last mail. 

I shall be able to embark some day between the 10th and 
15th Proximo with upwards of 2000 regular troops and three 
thousand militia. Every exertion has been and is continued 
to be made to prepare for the contemplated offensive opera- 
tions, but as we could not navigate the Lakes untill our Flo- 
tilla came up nor accumulate any power on its margin the 
stores that were at Upper Sandusky and Fort Winchester dur- 
ing Proctor's late invasions it will take the time I have men- 
tioned before the embarkation can be effected. It might be 
facilitated by moving the troops that are here immediately to 
the Lake and there waiting for the Kentucky Militia. But it 
is extremely unhealthy on the edge of the southern shore from 
Huron to the River Raison that the most fatal effects would 
follow the keeping the Troops upon it even for a few days. 
You can form no correct estimate of the dreadful effects of 



 

the immediate body of stagnant water with wliich the vicinity 
of the Lake abounds, from the state of the troops at Lower 
Sandusky upwards of ninety are this morning reported on 
the sick, out of about 220. Those at Fort Meigs are all much 
better. This position is tlie most healthful] in the whole coun- 
try. I am removing part of the sick from Fort Meigs here 
and shall place the ill men upon Edwards Island as soon as 
the fleet returns. The Commodore has been absent for seven 
days. A Frenchman from the River Raison who arrived at 
Fort ]\Ieigs the day before yesterday says that he was off the 
mouth of the Straight Thursday early but that the British fleet 
remained in the Harbour. This Frenchman is a respectable 
citizen of the IMichigan Territory (Col. Navarre) and on the 
way from Fort Meigs saw all tlio Wyandots and Shawneese 
with their chief on the Mission to the Hostile Indians, I ex- 
pect by them important information. Should they arrive be- 
fore the mail closes it shall be communicated. 

I have the Honor to be with Great Respect Sir Your Humb. 
Svt 

WiLLM. Henry HARrasoN 

The Honble John Ar^istrong, Esqr. Secretary of War 

., Shelby to Harrison 

New Port Sept 1st 1813 8 o'clock P. M. 

From Governor Isaac Shelby'fi Letter Booh D, lOS 

Dear Genl. 

I have now the pleasure to acquaint you that I arrived here 
yesterday about 10 o'clock and the mounted volunteers have 
been crossing the Ohio since early on Monday by Companies. 
I have ordered the whole to concentrate at Springfield where 
I shall halt a day or two for some ammunition and hospital 
stores and endeavor to organize the army after which not a 
moment will be lost until I join you. my whole force as well 
as I can now judge will be about three thousand Ave 
hundred. They are all mounted and can reach you in ten or 
twelve days if we are not disappointed in forage &c. In a 
letter which I had the honour to address you shortly before I 
left Frankfort I took the liberty to }-ecommond the calling ou 
Governor Meigs for an additional force of his militia to enab]*-- 
you to make a sure stroke upon the enemy. I am still of the 
same opinion for although you may be restricted to a par- 



 

ticular number to make the decent into Canada you ought to 
put nothing to hazard for sliould you even ti'ansend your 
power if we are fortunate your company will approve, the 
measure ; and if otherwise we cannot complain, I shall be sorry 
to see any attempt made to invade the enemys country until 
we are prepared to hold every inch of ground that we may 
conquer — I am inforaied by a letter from your aid Major 
[David] Trimble of the 23rd ult., that some advance of pay 
would be made to the volunteers and that blankets could be 
furnished to such as were without any although I have not 
communicated the information to the troops it would be most 
grateful to them to receive a small advance and even a good 
blanket to some would be an object as many are poor men 
and the call has been so sudden as not to afford them the 
chance of supplying themselves before they started — 

I shall be highly gratified to hear from you on my march 
and to be apprised of so much of your view as may be proper 
& safe to communicate at the same time believe that every pre- 
caution is necessary to avoid any intelligence falling into the 
hands of the enemy by which they could counteract your de- 
sign. Majr. [Thomas] Bodlcy informed me that there was a 
large quantity of corn at Cleveland would it not be adviseable 
to have a portion of it forwarded to Sandusky. I beg you to 
reflect how our horses are to be supported to send them back 
will be out of the question I would also suggest that there is a 
deficiency of arms at this place by about seven hundred. I 
should like to be informed at what point we can be supplied. 
I shall cross the Ohio early in the morning on my way to join 
you. 

I have the honour to be Your mo. obt. 

Isaac Shelby 
Mjr. Genl. Wm. Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Meigs 
Head-Quarters, Seneca Towns September 4th, 1813 

Niles' Register V, 86 

Dear Sir: 

Information recently received has satisfied me, that the Del- 
aware Indians near Piqua are in great danger from the re- 
sentment of the people in that quarter. 

I regret that any portion of the community should thus ven- 



5:^ 

ture to compromise the public faith and to violate engage- 
nun Is solemnly entered into. I regret it the more, as the 
j)()licy on the part of the enemy to produce such a state of 
thinK-^ and to excite discord and collisions between our own 
y,vn\)]r and the Indians attached to our cause, is too manifest 
to rM-apo observation, and facts which have come to my knowl- 
('<1k«' convinco me that this obvious course of policy has been 
{i(loi)t(>(l, and unless its effects are immediately checked, it 
promises to be but too successful. I trust the authority of 
your cxcelloncy, aided by the good sense of the community, 
V, ill ho sudicient to prevent those Indians from being sacrificed 
to t'als'' iinpj-essions and angry passions. Did I suppose that 
any of tlu-so were concerned in the recent murders and depre- 
(!ntiolJ^ committed upon the frontiers I would lose no time in 
].r'«uring their apprehension and bringing them to justice. 
! am assured by their chiefs, now here, that in case it can 
!>(' proven, they will immediately apprehend and surrender 
them to the civil authority of the country. This is all the 
vaufX nVrid justice can demand. The conduct of the Shawanes 
upon a late and similar occasion, ought to satisfy every one 
that Ihoy are disposed to listen to and redress every complaint 
whrn properly made and supported. When one of their young 
in* n m July last shot one of our citizens, he was immediately 
Ajjpri'hciulcd by the chiefs and surrendered to general 
(Thoinan S.] Wingate at St. Mary's; two of these very Dela- 
^Viin^ Indjj'.n.s who have been most strongly suspected, have 
lAU]y i)rovon their fidelity in a very exemplary manner, by 
th»' rrscue of one of our officers from a party of hostile In- 
djans. I request your excellency to take immediate steps to 
uJford .'^Turity to these people. They have thrown themselves 
u{K>n m for piotection. The faith of the country has been 
M'l.iTinly i.lcdgcd that this protection shall be afforded them. 

Many of their wari-iors are now here rendering important 
^ rvire to the army. If any man has just cause of complaint 
^kMin.nt th-rn. lot him come forward; he shall be heard and 
»r,irrs.:ic<i. Were I not correctly convinced that the supicions 
*e^imiihvM' people are groundless, I should be one of the last 
«t?< n m the country to lend them countenance and support. 

Uii « \uu^ acquaintance with them gives me some right to 
yi<\K^\ .uul tli.-Jr recent conduct, present situation and future 
in>i^:s, couvuue mc that their fidelity to the United States is 



 

unquestionable. To attempt indiscriminately to murder these 
people, would inflict a blot upon the national honor which 
would never be effaced. It would drive every Indian, in their 
own defence, to take up arms against us, and it would afford 
to the enemy a subject of rejoicing to find us pursuing a 
course of conduct, only to be paralleled by the tragic scenes of 
Hampton. I yet hope the information I have received upon 
this subject may prove erroneous, and that my countrymen 
will still manifest sacred regard to public faith, which has 
heretofore characterized the government and community. But 
the crisis is so important, and the subject so interesting in 
every point of view, that I should have deemed myself culpa- 
ble had I not requested you to direct your attention to it. 

In a personal interview with your excellency, I could give 
you many reasons for my opinions, but as they ought not to 
be committed to paper, I must rest satisfied with making this 
communication. . :.^: 

I am dear sir with great regard. 

Your humble servant, 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
His Excellency R. J. Meigs 

P. S. I have been informed that the man whose wife was 
killed near to Piqua asserts, that he Imew the Indian who 
killed her to be a Delaware. There are persons now here 
who were at Brownstown when her scalp was brought in by 
a party of the prophet's Indians. 

B. G. Orr to Harrison 

Seneka Towns 7 Sept. 1813. 

Hwr. Pa. lil-H3 

Sir: 

When in Washington lately on the subject of the protested 
drafts of the contractors I urged to the Secretary of War the 
necessity of devising some means to prevent the recurrence of 
wants so fatal to their credit and possibly injurious to the 
public interest unable to ascertain what the wants of the army 
you command might be and unwilling to give to any one the 
power of drawing ad Hbitiim on the public treasury he told 
me I must submit to you an estimate of the cost of each requi- 
sition that might be made on me for which when approved by 



 

you as reasonable, I might draw without danger of protests. 
For this purpose I now enclose you a view of what I suppose 
the current issues to recruiting and marching parties thro the 
state of Ohio for the present month will amount to as well as 
the recent requisition for 300,000 rations for the proposed in- 
vasion of the enemys country. I hope you will find it satis- 
factory and that notwithstanding the want of instruction from 
the Secretary on the subject as it does not increase your re- 
sponsibility you will not decline this the Secretary's own ar- 
rangment. 

I have the honor to be Sir with Respect Yr. Most. Ob. St. 

,_ . „ , ,T Benj. G. Orr 

Maj. Genl. Harrison 

Sept 7, 1813 
The Contractors Estimate 

I suppose the current issues to recruiting and marching par- 
ties throughout the state of Ohio will for the month of Sept. 
amount to $5000 

300,000 rations recently required for the army 
in its operations against the enemy I suppose 
will cost 55000 

"60000 
Sink a Town [Seneca Town] 7th Sept. 1813 

The above estimate amounting to sixty thousand dollars is 
respectfully submitted to the consideration of Genl. Harrison. 

Benj. G. Orr 
One of the contractors for the 8th Military District 

A true copy 

John O'Fallon, A. D. Camp. 

Return of Provision now deposited at different places on the 
shore of Lak(^ Erie for the use of the N. W. array by Benj. G. Ork & 
Aauon Gkeely Contractors AuRust 25th 1813 



Pork 


Flour Whiskey 


So; 


ip 


Candies 


Bbl Rations 


Bbl 


Rations Gals 


Ration 


Pound Ration 


Pound Rations 


513 130453 


701 


132220 1933 


C1S5G 


2000 


50000 


350 23333 


7 1802 


97 


1G878 GO 


2112 








18 478,8 


80 


13972 3000 


90000 








G 1590 


25 


4300 










644 144,704 


903 


1G8130 4992 


159908 


2000 


50000 


350 23333 



HARRISON: MESSAGP:S AND LETTERS 537 

Vinognr Salt 

(tals. Ilalions Bbl Rations At what place deposited 

1100 110000 05 520000 Clcaveland 

10 80,000 Huron 

Grand River 
Vci'inillion 



1100 110000 75 COOOOO 

Signed, 

On- & Gi-eelcy Contractor for the N. W. Army 

(A true Copy) 
John O'Fallox, .4. D. Camp. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters Seneca Town 8th Sept. 1813 

Har. Pa. lhU-lU7 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that I am now in complelo 
readiness to embark the troops the moment Govr. Shelby shall 
arrive. I shall march from hence for the margin of the Lake 
in three days and shall lose no time in prosecuting the contem- 
plated offensive measures. 

The Catallion of the U. S. Rifle Regiment and the recruits 
from Knoxville for the 24th Regiment will I fear not arrive 
in time but we must do without them. 

Upon reference to my late letters I find that I have not com- 
municated the result of the mission sent by the Wyandot chief 
to the hostile Indians. Their arrival at Brownstown was im- 
mediatelj^ communicated to the British and they were obliged 
to deliver their speech which was intended for the Wyandots 
alone to a general council of all the chiefs at which [Matthew] 
Elliott and [Alexander] McKee were present. The answer 
was given by Round Head who is entirely in the British in- 
terest and was such as Elliott dictated. 

A private message was hov/ever sent by Walk in the Water 
the principal chief of the British Wyandots and a man of good 
character that he would use his utmost exertions to induce 
the Indians to abandon the British and that he had deter- 
mined not to fight us but upon our advance to seize the Huron 
church at Sandwitch with all the waj'riors he could engage to 

37— 22CC1 



r.:'ajpCa^4i'B'..'.-----'Jto<* 



 

assist him and defend himself against the British and their 
Indians. 

Commodore Perry has just sent me three American citizens 
wlio came from Detroit nine days ago. They had taken great 
pains to ascertain the enemies force previously to their coming 
off. They make the number of Indians from 1800 to 2000 
militia 1000 Regulars 800 effectives. 

The Billious and intermitant fevers are the worst enemies 
we have to encounter the number of sick decreases here but at 
Fort I\Ieigs and Lower Sandusky nearly half the men are on 
the sick report. 

]\Iajor Haines has resigned the appointment of Assist<int 
Adjt. Genl. I had no alternative but to accept Col. [Edmund 
P.] Gains in the Execution of the duties of Adjt. Genl. having 
no other officer of the line capable of performing the duties 
of that office, 

1 have the Honor to enclose you the copy of a letter from 
Mr. [B. G.] Orr the contractor. [Sept 7 above] Having re- 
ceived no directions from you on the subject on which it is 
written I could not authorise the drafts he speaks of. I think 
it proper however to state that I have called upon him for 
300,000 rations to be issued on the Canada shore but of this 
quantity he has on hand much the greater part which was 
purchased at Cleveland or near it with the money vrhich he 
received for the bills he drew on your department previously 
to his going to the seat of government the last time. I enclose 
the schedule of the provisions which his partner i\Ir. [Aaron] 
Greely returned as being on hand on the 25th ultimo at Cleve- 
land and in the neighbourhood of that place. In a letter from 
IMr. Orr of the 29th he contradicts Mr. Greely's report of the 
pork on hand making it two hundred barrells less, but there 
are at Lower Sandusky thirty-five barrells the property of the 
contractor which are not included in the return. One hundred 
and sixty five barrels of pork then deducted from the schedule 
it exhibits a true state of the provisions on hand to answer 
the demand of the 300,000 rations, the ballance must bo pro- 
cured by purchase. I am thus particular to enable you to 
judge of the sum which it may be necessary to advance to IMr. 
Orr. I demanded the 300,000 rations to ensure a supply upon 
our first arrival in Canada by uniting his exertions with those 
of our commissary. 



 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter from the 
Genl. and field officers upon the subject of hospital stores for 
tlio army. I agree with them entirely as to the deficiency of 
those stores. 

T have the Honor to be with Great Respect Sir Your Hum. 

Svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honblc John Armstrong Esqr. Secretary at War 

Perry to Harrison 

U. S. Brig Niagara, off the Western Sister &c. 

September 10th, 1813. 4 P. M. 

McAfee, History, J5/^ 

Dear General: 

W^e have met the enemy and they are ours — two ships, two 
brigs, one schooner and a sloop. 

Yours with great respect and esteem. 
Oliver Hazard Perry 

Harrison to Shelby 
Head Quarters, Seneca, 12th September, 1813 

McAfee, History, 353 

You will find arms at Upper Sandusky; also a considerable 
(luantity at Lower Sandusky. I set out from this place in an 
hour. Our fieet has beyond all doubt met that of the enemy. 
'I'iie day before yesterday an incessant and tremendous can- 
nonading was heard in the direction of Maiden by a detach- 
mout of troops coming from fort Meigs. It lasted two hours. 
I am all anxiety for the event. There will be no occasion for 
your halting here. Lower Sandusky affords fine grazing. 
\\'ith respect to a station for your horses, there is the best in 
the world immediately at the place of embarkation. The San- 
dusky bay, lake Erie, and Portage river form between them 
a i)eiiinsula, the isthmus of which is only one mile and a half 
aci-oss, A i'ence of that length, and a suflicient guard left 
there, would make all the horses of the army safe. It would 
enclose fifty or sixty thousand acres, in which are many culti- 
vated fields, which having been abandoned, are now grown up 
with the finest grass. Your sick had better be left at Upper 
Sandusky or here. Harrison 



r>10 INDIANA lIISTORICATv COLLECTIONS 

Perry to Secretary of Navy 

Sept. 12, 1813 

McAfee, History, 059 

Sir: 

It has ])lGased the Almighty to give the arms of the U. 
States, a signal victory over their enemies on this lake. The 
British squadron, consisting of two brigs, two ships, one 
schooner, and one sloop have this moment, surrendered to the 
foi'ce under my command, after a sharp conflict. 

Perry 

Perry to Harrison 
United States schooner Ariel, September 15, 1813 

Nilcs' Register V, 2G3 

Sir: 

The very great assistance in the action of the 10th inst., 
derived from those men you were pleased to send on board 
the squadron, render it a duty to return you my sincere thanks 
for so timely a reinforcement. In fact sir, I may say, without 
those men the victory w'ould not have been achieved ; and 
equally I assure you, that those officers and men behaved as 
became good soldiers and seamen. Those who v/ere under my 
immediate observation evinced great ardor and bravery. Cap- 
tain [Ilcnry B.] Brevort, of the second regiment of infantry, 
serving on board the Niagara, I beg leave to recommend par- 
ticularly to your notice; he is a brave and gallant odlcer, and 
as far as I am capable of judging an excellent one. I am con- 
N'inced you will present the merit of this officer to the view of 
the honorable seci'etary of war, as I shall to the honorable sec- 
retaiy of the navy. 

Very respectfully, I am sir. Your obedient servant, 

^, . Oliver II. Pr:RRY 

Major Gen. Wm. IL Harrison, 

Comma uder-in-diicf of N. IV. Army 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 8G) 

Head Quarters Mouth of Portage Pjver on Lake Erie 

15th Sept. 1813 
t. Har. Pa. 148, JA9 

You will have been infornied froni the letter of Commodore 



Vor\-y to tlio Sccvotary of tlic Navy of ih'^ Di'iliiaiii naval ^•ic- 
lo)'y (^blaiiU'C! lA' liiiii and Ih''^ capiavo of the \\]\ok' ol' 1;];'. oac- 
mJL'S fiotina oa this \akij. 1 aia-;\T(' laav tlie day bofo..;^:; y^s- 
['^■'•day wilii a part oi tiio tL'oo]js fi-cja Soneca {own and ihis 
r](>! i^iiij; Gcid. [Lewis] ('as.^ Iia- bj'(a(giit oi^ 'he Temahid-:;!-. 
(;ov\-vnor [bu(ac] Sludb}' lias a'-'O ii'vivcd \.<:h Ins nriilia. 
Wo aro unsii\ ei"iji;a^;';!ul taabaai-iiiiji uie :>toj'cs and artillery raid 
by \'n:' day after to^aorrow th*' wliolo v/ill be alloat. Gen). 
[Dujuaii] ]\k-Aj'thii]' w'.U joia nie tlie day ai'ter at the Bass 
Islands v/itji tlie troopr; i-o]n Fort Tdeigv and on the follovvdng- 
ni^rht if the \,'eathcr per. ails we shall sail for the Canada 
sliore. As soon as I ]ia\( driven tlie enemy from IMalden and 
Detroit I shall despatcl". detaclrinent for the reduction of 
?lac]dnac and St. Josep]!'"- a.nd will expect your orders for rjiy 
funheA- Pxiox'i.nients. The upper part of the province of Upper 
Canmada being cleared of the enemy unless it should appear 
ex])edicnt to pursue the Indians the army under my connnand 
raii'.lii; nioN'o do^vn tlie lake to long poiiit or belov," it and co-op- 
eretc with that under Gonl. [James] Wilkinson. From my 
pv: ;.;.nt imj;]-essions with regard! to our affairs in that quaiter 
1 siiould if I considered myself authorised to do so immediately 
proceed to the lower end of the lake. Commodore Perry had 
out with him in the late actittu about one hundred and thirty 
of my men, he speaks in the highest to-ms of their conduct. 
.Maj. [E. D.] Wood had aridved at this place with two com- 
jiaiiJes wJuTi the Commodore returned to Put in Bay lie im- 
mediately sent him a reijifoi'coneut of fifty miii \-drich were 
of great service in secairing the prisoners. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir \ouv Hunibl. 

Servt. „, ^-. 

W'JLLM. Henry rlAKRisoN 

The Honble. Jno. Armstrong. Scciefarii of War 

Speech of Tecu?.iseh 

Amiierst.-eefg. Sf^pt. IS, 1813 

Nilcs' Register, V, IT.'f. 

In the name of the Indian chiefs and wairi'jrs, to major-gen- 
' ra] Proctor. ;:.•; the reiJivscntvdive of their rii^d father — the 
ki -g. 

i .\'!^i!ER, iisb a Lo >our chddren; i'ou ]ia\c them now all 
be- ore you. 



 

Tlic war bcfoi'c this, our British father gave the hatchet 
\o his red cliildren, when our chiefs were alive. They iwr 
liOW dead. In that war, our fatlier was throvrn on his back 
by the Americans, and our father took them by the hand with- 
out our kjiowledge; and we are afraid that our father will do 
so again at this time. 

Summer before last, when I came forward with my red 
brethren, and was ready to take up the hatchet in favor of 
our British father, we were told not to be in a hurry, that 
he had not yet determined to fight the Americans. 

Listen! When war was declared, our father stood up and 
gave us the tomahawk, and told us that he was then ready to 
strike the Americans; that he wanted our assistance and that 
he would certainly get us our lands back, which the Americans 
had taken from us. 

Listen ! You told us, at that time, to bring forward our 
families to this place; and we did so; and you promised to 
take care of them, and that they should want for nothing, 
while the men would go and fight the enemy. That we need 
not trouble ourselves about the enemy's garrison ; that vre 
knew notliing about them, and that our father would attend 
to that part of the business. You also told your red children, 
that you would take care of your garrison here, which made 
our hearts glad. 

Listen ! When we were last to the Pvapids, it is true we gave 
you little assistance. It is hard to fight people who live like 
gj'ound hogs. 

Father listen! Oui- fieet has gone out; we know they have 
fought ; we have heard the great guns ; but know nothing of 
v/hat has happened to our father with one arm. Our ships 
liave gone one way, and we are much astonished to see our 
father tying up everything and preparing to run av\ay the 
other, without letting his red children know what his inten- 
tions ai-e. You always told us to remain here and take care of 
oui- lands; it made our liearts glad to hear that was your wish. 
Our great father, the king, is our head, and you represer:t 
him. You always told us, that you would never draw your 
foot off British gi'ound; but now, father we see you are dra^^'- 
ing back, and we are sorry to see our father doing so without 
seeing the enemy. We must compare our father's conduct to 
a fat animal, that carries its tail upon its back, but when af- 
f)-ighted, he drops it between his legs and runs off. 



 

Listen Father! The Americans have not yet defeated us by 
land; neither are we sure that they have done so by water; 
we, therefore, wish to remain hero, and fight our enemy, if 
they should make their appearance. If they defeat us, we v/ill 
then retreat with our father. 

At the battle of the Rapids last war, the Americans certainly 
defeated us ; and when we retreated to our father's fort at that 
place the gates were shut against us. We were afraid that it 
vv^ould now be the case; ))ut instead of that we now see our 
British father preparing to march out of his garrison. 

Father! You have got the arms and ammunition Vviiich our 
great father sent for his red children. If you have an idea of 
going away, give them to us, and you may go and welcome, for 
us. Our lives are in the hands of the Great Spirit. We are 
determined to defend our lands, and if it be his will we wish 
to leave our bones upon them. 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quakters Kingston 19th Sept. 1813 
Har. Fa. IS 7-1 91 
Sm: 

The centre division of the Upper Canada army is placed in a situ- 
ation veiy critical and one novel in the system of war that of investing 
a force vastly superior in numbers within a strongly intrenched posi- 
tion. It was adopted and has been maintained from a confident ex- 
pectation that with the cooperation of the squadron under your com- 
mand a combined attack ere this could have been effected on the enemy 
at Fort George with every prospect of success. To the local disad- 
vantages of the position occupied by our army have vmhappily been 
added disease and desertion to a degree calling for immediate remedy. 
We are therefore required to proceed with the Fleet under your com- 
mand with the least possible delay to the head of the Lake affording 
sufficient convoy to tlie small vessels containing those stores and sup- 
plies of which the army is in the most pressing want. Upon your 
arrival near the Head Quarters of the Center Division you will consult 
with Major General De Rottenburg who will unite in his pex'son the 
civil and military command in upper Canada upon my withdrawing 
from the provinces. Upon the eligibility of a combined attack for the 
purpose of dislodging the enemy from the position of Fort George by 
a i-apid foi'ward movement of the army bringing up in Battery at the 
same time the heavy ordnance mortars and howitzers now embarked. 
This attack must be supported by the countenance of your squadron and 
the fire of such vessels as are armed with a description of ordnance 
favourable to it. Should this attempt appear to you to be attended 
with too great hazard to the squadron under youi" command, under the 



 

possible circumstance of the enemy's aiipcarir.p; on the Luke you will 
in that case distinctly state your sentiments to I^.Iajor General De Rot- 
tenburg who will immediately upon a-ccrtainint^- your inability to assist 
him to take measures for cvacuatinu- the position he now occupies in 
the execution of which movement you will g:ive his army every support 
and assistance consistent v.ith the safety of your vessels and having 
performed this service you will p-usLie such measures as shall appear 
most probable speedily to ensure the acquisition of the naval ascendancy. 
You are already acquainted v.-ith the decided line of conduct which I 
wish to be observed on Lake Erie by Captain [Robert H.] Barclay and 
you will not fail to impress en tluit officer the absolute necessity of 
regaining the naval superiority arid to preserve uninterrupted the ir.- 
tcicourse between Amhurstburgh and Long Point in order that the sup- 
plies and stores in depot at the latter place and at the Head of the 
Lake may be transported in safety to the Right Division. 

The Flotilla of Transports on Lake Ontario are to be kept employed 
as long as the season will admit in the conveyance of the provisions and 
other supplies collected at Kingston and destined for the Right and 
Center Division of the araiy and they are to receive from your force 
the necessary protection. 

I have the honor to be Sir Your most Obedient and Humble Servant 
George Prevost, Comnnander of the Forces 
To Commodore Sir James Lucas Yeo. 

Letter found amongst Genl. Proctors papers from Sir 
George Provost to Sir Jas. Yeo. I shall send a detachment to 
Long Point to take or destroy any depot of provisions they 
may have there. 

I have the honor to be with great respect sir your humb. 
servt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. J. i\I. Armstrong Esqr. Secy, of Wai\ 

Secretary of \^''ar to Harrison 
War Department Sackett's Harbor 22nd Sept. ISlo 

Ear. Pa. 90 

Sir 

Information has reached me thro various but unoOicial 
channels that Commodore Perry had captured the vrholo of 
the British fleet on Lake Erie. If this be true it is matter of 
much personal and public cojigratulation. It enables you to 
make sure of i\Ialden and as a subsequent measure to carry 
your main body down the lake and by throwing yourself into 
De Roltenberg's rear to compel him to quit his new position 



 

befoi'G fort GcorgG. After Gcnl. [James] Wilkinson sJiall have 
left that place there will be found on the two sid( s of the 
Niagara a force amounting to three thousand men wlio will 
be subjected to your order. By giving this new direction to 
your operations, you will readily perceive of how much more 
importance it is in the opinion of the Executive to ber.t or to 
cxpell the enemy from the country lying between tlio tvro 
lakes, Erie and Ontario, than to pursue the Indians irito their 
woody and distant recesses. A few days will put us in motion 
from this point. 

;Major Genl. HARRISON 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Bass Island 22nd Sept. 1813 

Har. Pa. 150 

Sir: 

The greater part of the troops are here with me and the 
whole will I believe be up by twelve o'clock. I shall proceed 
as far as the Middle Sister in the course of tonight and tomor- 
]'ow and in the follov/ing night get so near the enemies coast 
as to land two or three vessels below I^.Ialden by eight o'clock 
in the morning. These prospects may however be retarded 
by adverse wind. Commodoie Perry gives me every assist- 
ance in his power but his crews were so much cut up in the 
late action that he cannot navigate his vessels without the aid 
of my men. In obedience to your order to settle the accounts 
of the Kentucky militia for back rations I have appointed 
Lewis Sanders Esqr. a citizen of Lexington of the greatest re- 
spectability to do the business and have authorized him to 
draw upon you for the amount. 

I have the Honor to be with great Respect your humbl. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble John Armstrong Esq. Seoctaiij of War. 

Perry to Secretary of Navy 

U. S. schooner Ariel, :\Ialden Harbor, 

23d Sept. 1813, 5 P. ^L 
X;7('.s* Registtr V, 117 

Sir : 

I have the honor to acquaint you that the army under ma- 



 

jor-general Harrison have this moment marched into Maiden 
without opposition, and that the sqiiadi'on are now at anchor 
ofi' tlic town. 

I have the lionor to be etc. 

To the Sec. of the Navy 0. II. Perry. 

General Orders 

Head Quarters on Board the U. S. Aeriel 

September 27th 1813 

Hot. ra. 153-160 

As it is the intention of the General to land the army on 
the enemy's coast the following will be the order of debarka- 
tions of march and of battle : 

The rig-ht wing of the army will be composed of the Ken- 
tucky volunteers under the command of his Excellency Gov- 
ernor Shelb-y acting as Major General. The left wing of the 
light corps of Lieut. Col. [James V.] Ball and the Brigades of 
General [Duncan] McArthur and [Lewis] Cass. This ar- 
rangement is made with a view to the localities of the ground 
upon which the troops are to act and the composition of the 
enemy's forces and is calculated in marching up the lake oi- 
strait to place our regular troops in the open ground on the 
lake, where they will probably be opposed by the British reg- 
ulars, and the Kentucky volunteers in the woods which it is 
presumed v/ill be occupied by the enemy's militia and Indians. 
When the signal is given for putting to the shore, the corps of 
Lt. Col. Ball will precede the left wing; the regiment of volun- 
teer riflemen the right wing. These corps will land with the 
utmost celerity consistently with preservation of good Order 
and as soon as landed will seize the most favorable position 
for annoying the enemy and covering the disembarkation of 
the troops of the line. Genl. Cass's Brigade will follow Col. 
Balls corps and General Calimes [Calmes] the volunteer Riffle- 
men. The regiments will land and form in succession upon 
those which precede them. The I'ight v/ing with its left in 
front displaying to the right and the left wing with its right in 
front displaying to the loft. The Brigades of Genls. [John 
Edward] King, [James] Allen and [Samuel] Caldwell will 
form successively to the right of General Calmes. General 
McArthurs and [David] Chile's Bj-igades will form the re- 



i7 

serve. The General will command in person the Brigades of 
Genls. Cass and Calmes assisted by ]\Iajor General [William] 
Henry, His excellency Governor Shelby will have the imme- 
diate command of the three Brigades on the right assisted by 
Major Genl. [Joseph] Desha. As soon as the troops are dis- 
embarked the boats are to be immediately sent back to the 
fleet. It will be observed that the order of landing here pre- 
scribed is somewhat that of direct Eschellons deployed into 
line upon the advanced corps of the right and left wing. It 
is the intention of the General ho^vcver that all the troops 
who are provided with boats, should land in as quick succes- 
sion as possible, and the General Officers commanding towards 
the extremities of the line are authorised to deviate from the 
arrangement to counteract any movement of the enemy by 
landing any part of their commands, previously to the forma- 
tion of the corps which is herein directed to precede them. 
The Corps of Lt. Colo. Ball and the Volunteer riffle regiment 
will maintain the position they occupy on landing until the 
troops of the line are formed to support them. They will then 
retire through the intervals of the line, or to the flanks and 
form in the rear of the line. 

A detachment of artillery with a six four and three pounder 
and Howitzer will land with the advanced light corps the rest 
of the artillery will be held in reserve and landed at such 
points as ]\Iajor [E. D.] Wood may direct. The point of land- 
ing for the reserve under Brigadier Genl. ]\IcArthur cannot 
now be designated it will be made to support any point of the 
line which may require aid or be formed on the flanks as cir- 
cumstances may render necessary. The arrangement for 
landing the troops will be made entirely under the direction 
of an oflicer of the Navy whom Commodore Perry has been 
so obliging as to off'er for that purpose. The debarkation of 
the troops will be covered by the cannon of the vessels. The 
troops being landed and the enemy driven off or not opposing 
the landing the army will change its front to the left and form 
in order of battle in the following manner: The two Brigades 
of regular troops and two of the Volunteers to be formed in 
two lines at right angles to the shore of the Lake. General 
McArthurs Brigade and Calmes to form the front line, and 
Cass and Chiles the second line; the regular troops still on. the 
left, that flank of both lines resting on the shore the distance 



51S INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

between the two lines will be three hundi'ed yards. The re- 
maining three Brigades of Volunteers will be drawn up in a 
single line of two ranks, at right angles to the line of march 
its head upon the right of the front line forming a crotchet 
(en potcncc) with that line and extending beyond the second 
line. The Corps of Lt. Col. Ball will form the advance of the 
left wing at the distance of 300 yards, the regiment of Riffle 
Volunteers the advance of the right wing at the same difitance. 
Some light pieces of artillery will be placed in the road 
leading up the lake and at such other points as Major Wood 
may direct. When the order is given for marching the first 
and second Hnes will advance by files from the heads of com- 
panies in other words these tv/o lines will form two columns 
marching by their flanks by companies at entire distances. 
The Three Brigades on the right flank, will be faced to the 
left and marched forward, the head of this column still form- 
ing 671 potencc with the front line. It is probable that the two 
Brigades of the front line will extend from the lake some dis- 
tance into the woods on the right flank and it is desirable it 
should do so. But should it be othervv'ise and the crochet or 
angle be at any time on the open gi-ound His Excellency Gov- 
ernor Shelby will immediately prolong the front line to the 
right by adding to it as many companies of the leading brigade 
of the flank column as will bring the angle and consequently 
the flank column itself completely v/ithin the woods. It is to 
be presunied that the enemy will make their attack upon the 
army on its march that their regular troops will form their 
right upon the lake, their militia occupy the ground between 
the regulars and the Vv^oods and the Indians and the woods. 
The formation herein prescribed is intended to resist an ar- 
rangement of this kind — should the gcnl. conjecture on this 
subject prove correct as it must be evident that the right of 
the enemy cannot be turned, and on that v/ing his best troops 
must be placed it will be propei' to I'efuse him our left and 
direct our principal effort to uncover the left flank of his reg- 
ulars by driving off his militia. In the event here supposed 
therefore it will be proper to bring up a part O)' the whole of 
Cenl. Cass's Brigade to assist the charge made by Genl. 
Calmes or that the former should change position with the 
Bi'igade of Volunteer in the second line. Should the General 
think it safe to ordei- the Vvhole of Cass's B)-igade to the right 



 

without replacing it with another Cenl. Cass will march it to 
the right formed in oblique eschellons of compaiiics. It will 
be the business of Genl. McArthu]' in the event of his wint^ 
being refused to watch the motions of the enemy (and with 
the assistance of the artillery) prevent his front line at least 
from interrupting the progress of our right. Should the ei">- 
cmys militia be defeated, the brigade of ours in advance will 
immediately wheel upon the flank of the British regulars, and 
Genl. McArthur will advance to attack them in front. In the 
mean time his Excellency Governor Shelby can use the Brig- 
ade in reserve of the second line to prolong the flank line from 
its front or loft to reinforce any weak part of the line. In all 
cases v/here troops in advance are obliged to retire through 
those which are advancing to support them it will be done by 
companies in file which will retire through the ir.tcrvals of 
the advancing line arid will immediately form in the rear. The 
light troops v/ill be particularly governed by this direction. 

The disposition of the Troops on the right flank is such as 
the commanding general thinks best calculated to resist an 
attack from Indians which is only to be expected from that 
quarter. His Excellency govr. Shelby will however use his 
discretion in making any alteration which his experience and 
judgment may dictate Lt. Col. Ball, Lt. Col. [James] Simrall 
and the General Ofliccrs commanding on the flank line are to 
send out small detachments in advance of the tw^o former 
corj)s and to the flank of the latter should they discover the 
enemy in force immediate notice will be sent to the lines. The 
General commanding on the spot will immediately order the 
sigiial for formin.g in order of battle which Vs'ill be the beat 
"to arms." 

All signals will be immediately repeated by all the drums 
of the liiie. The signal foi' the whole to halt is the retreat. 
Drums will be distributed along the heads of companies and 
the taps occasionally given to regulate their march. 

Lt. Col. Ball and Simrall are to keep the General constantly 
advised of the discoveries made by tlie advanced parties. When 
it shall become necessary for the corps of Ball and Simrall 
to retii'o they v. ill form on the flank or in the rear of IMcAr- 
thu]'s and Calmes Brigades and receive the orders of the Bri- 
gadici's respectively. 

Bi'igadiei- Genl. Cass will desigiuile such oHicers as he may 



 

deem proper to assist Captain Elliott of the navy in the ar- 
rangement of the boats and the debarkation of the troops. The 
Genl. will be the signal for the whole to move. 

Detachment to reinforce the army below. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your humble 
svt 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Truly copied from the Original Robert Butler A. A. Adj. 
Gen. 

By command, Edmund P. Gaines Col Adj. Genl. 
Honble. John Armstrong Secy, of War. 

Harrison to Gov. Meigs 
Amherstsburg, 27th of September, 1813 10 o'clock P. II. 

Niles' Register V, 117 

Dear Sir: 

The enemy have given up this important place without op- 
position ; having destroyed the fort and all the public buildings 
which were immensely extensive and valuable, particularly the 
navy yard. 

Proctor was yesterday at Sandwich, with his regulars and 
Indians. It is supposed he is bending his course to the river 
French, there to fortify and make a stand. I shall follow him 
as soon as I collect a few horses to mount the general oflicers 
and some of the staff. 

A miserable French poney upon which the venerable and 
patriotic governor of Kentucky was mounted, is the only one 
in the armj\ 

We landed three miles below the town. I wish your troops 
to remain at one of the Sandusky's for orders. 

Your friend, 

Wm. H. Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 87) 

Head Quarters Amhurstburgh 

27th Septen\ber 1813. 
Har. Pa. 151-152 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inform you that I landed the army 
under my command about 3 miles below this place at 3 o'clock 



 

lliis evening' Nviihout opposition and took possession of the 
Tov/n in an hour after. Genl. [Heni'y] Proctor has retreated 
to Sandwich with his regular troops and Indians having pre- 
viously burned the Fort, Navy Yard, barracks and public store 
houses. The two latter were very extensive covering several 
acres of ground. I will pursue the enemy tomorrow altho 
there is no probability of overtaking him as he has upwards 
of 1000 horses and we have not one in the army. I shall 
think myself fortunate to be able to collect a sufficiency to 
mount the general officers. It is supposed here that Genl. 
Procter intends to establish himself upon the River French 40 
miles from ISIaldcn. 

I have the Honor to be with great respect Your most obt. 
Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. John Armstrong Esqr. Secretary of War 

P. S. The Aggregate amount of the force with me is about 
5000 of which 2000 are regulars and the rest Kentucky mili- 
tia the Pennsylvania Regits. wnth the exception of about 100 
refused to cross the line. 

Secretary of War to Shelby 

War Office, September 27, 1813 

Historical Register, III, 95 

Sir: 

In the absence of the secretary of war, I have the honour 
to inform your excellency, that the president has been pleased 
to approve your ari'angements, in substituting volunteers for 
the detached militia required by general Harrison. 

The term of service for the detachment under your excel- 
lency, must depend on the arrangements of the commanding 
general, to whom you are referred for the necessary informa- 
tion relative to their duty and the points where your troops 
will be expected to operate. 

It will be proper for your excellency to keep up a corre- 
spondence with general Harrison. This is rendei'cd the more 
necessary, as the several requisitions which have been made by 
liim for volunteers and militia have not been accurately re- 
ported to the war office; and it is possible he may find it ad- 
viseable to discharge a part of your force before they reach 
the frontier. 



OZ 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



In the pi-esent critical period of the campaig-n, it seems ad- 
viscal^le to submit all further anaug'cments to ft-encral Hai- 
risou, under the insuuctions he has received from the piesi- 
deiit through the secretary of wa}-. 

With pei'fect lespect, I have the honour to be, your excel- 
lency's most obedient humble servant, 

Danl. PATiKER, C. C. War Deportment 

Ilis Excellency Gov. Isaac Shelby. Gov. Ky. 

Sparks to Harrison 

Lawrenceburgh 27th Sept. 1813 

Har. Pa. 4-^4, 4-^5 

Sir: 

Sometime ago you done me the honor to put under cover to 
me, a commission from the President, appointing to tlie office 
of an attorney for the U. States, in this Territory of Indiana. 
You and he vill receive my ardent thanks, unmixed with base 
flattery. I never sought but one appointment (to the late 
vacancy in our Judiciary) from the General Government, in 
which I was disappointed; to the surprise and astonishment 
of a large portion of the citizens here; and wherefore it is 
difhcult to account, as few applicants could expect a stronger 
recommendation, than was forwarded in my behalf. But as 
I was not influenced by motives neither popular nor lucrative 
(motives which never shall entirely regulate my conduct, in 
any pursuit, unless I degenerate in sentiment) my mortifica- 
tion under the disappointment was neither deep nor lasting. 
I am bound to believe, that my chief Llagistrate, acts for tlie 
supposed best. Under the government I wish never to be a 
Senicure (we have too many such in the Territory already) 
tiierefore it is not my desire to hold the present ofilce, merely 
for the names-sake. The duties thereof I must aim conscien- 
ciously to observe and discharge. This I cannot do unless 
those duties ai'e accurately mai'ked, and defined with pei'spe- 
cuity. The Law of Congress whence the appointmeiit eman- 
ates, does not contain any specification of obligation on the 
Attorney. 

-Amongst genuine Pccpublicans, 1 believe it is not considered 
a o'ime, ntala 1)1 se, to confess ignorance where the means to 
(^l)tain information, have not been i-eceivcd. Then, 1 ]n-ofess 



 

to you, Sir, that I am at a loss to know, liow far the functions 
of an attorney for tlie U. States in this Territo}"y connect with 
the Judiciary establishment in the same, as filled by the U. S. 
judges. All crimes, as well as misdemeanors, both in the su- 
perior and inferior courts, throughout the Territory, are pros- 
ecuted in the name of, and carried on by and under the au- 
thority of the United States. Formerly the Governor, in vi]-- 
tue of the poAver, as vested in him by the ordinance, com- 
missioned an attorney General for the Territory, who ap- 
pointed his deputies in each county. At present, the Governor 
by the same power continues to appoint the attorney General 
whose duty, infer alia, is to prosecute in the General Court and 
the Governor also by Statute law, commissions a prosecutor 
in each county. I have entered upon the duties of my ap- 
pointment, so far as they are comprehended; but I wish to 
be guided by a more certain directoi', than conjecture. Does 
the appointment conferred upon me take from the Governor, 
the right exercised under the ordinance, to appoint an At- 
torney General for the Territory Or does it unite with the 
General Court so far only, as I hold Federal District powers? 

I have called on the governor for information supposing 
him to be a proper person, as he was in Congress at the pas- 
sage of the law, but he does not understand neither the object, 
nor extent of the appointment ! This may, at least palliate my 
ignorance. I\Iy dear Sir, deem me not troublesome, as I seek 
information, and write with great difficulty, having been con- 
fined for two weeks, by a pretty severe attack of the Fever. 

I will submit to your friendly consideration, whether or not 
I am entitled to receive the laws of the United States? If so, 
vrhere and how I am to obtain them? Here they can be had, 
only in detached Vols. If hereafter on any occasion you should 
require my services, please to command my attention. Doct. 
Edward Tiffen, of your city, has had with me a long ac- 
quaintance. 

With my fervent orisons to the throne of God, for your 
health and prosperity, I am, Venerable sir, with sentiments of 
high regard, your Obt. Servt. 

Elijah Sparks 



38— 22G64 



 

A Proclamation 

By William Henry Harrison Major General in the army 
of the United States and commanding' in chief the 8th Military 
District 

Detroit, Sept. 29, 1813 

Har. Pa. 185, 186 

The enemy having been driven from the Territory of Michi- 
gan and a part of the army under my command having taken 
possession of it, it becomes necessary that the civil govern- 
ment of the Territory should be reestablished and the former 
oflicers renew the exercise of their authority. I have there- 
fore thought proper to proclaim that all appointments and 
commissions which have been derived from British officers are 
at an end and that the citizens of the said Territory are re- 
stored to all the rights and privileges which they enjoyed 
previously to the capitulation made by General Hull on the 
16th of August 1812. Under the present circumstances and 
until the will of the government can be made known I have 
thought proper to direct that persons having civil offices in the 
territory of Michigan at the period of the capitulation of De- 
troit resume the exercise of the powers appertaining to their 
offices respectively. 

In the present dispersed state of its population many officers 
are doubtlessly absent. In all cases thus situated the last in- 
cumbent who resigned the offiice will resume the exercise of its 
duties, the laws in force at the period above mentioned will 
be reestablished and continue in force until repealed by the 
proper authority. Given at Head Quarters Detroit 29th day 
of September 1813. 

Signed William Henry Harrison 

By order of the General 

Signed John O'Fallon Aid de camp 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 88) 

Head Quarters Sandwitcii (Upper Canada) 

30th Septr. 1813 
Har. Pa. 1(U; 

Sir: 

The enemy having broken down the bridges over several 



 

uiifordable creeks between Amhurstburgh and this i^lace I was 
unable to reach it until yesterday. Genl. Procter had the night 
before left his encampment eight miles above pursuing the 
road on the margin of the Lake to the Thames. Having so 
much the start of me and having striped the country of 
Horses, which prevented me from procuring a sufficiency to 
mount even the general officers it was impossible to pursue 
him further with any hopes of success until we could be joined 
by Col. [R. M.] Johnsons Regiment of mounted infantry 
which was on its way from Fort IMeigs and which had the 
night before encamped at Brownstown. The Col. Arrived this 
day at Detroit and his Regt. is now crossing over. But as our 
boats are illy calculated to carry horses it is attended with 
much diihculty. I hope however that they will be all over 
early in the morning when we shall again take up the line 
of march. Genl. Procter has with him four hundred seventy 
five regulars of the 41 and Newfoundland Regiments sixty of 
the 10th Regiment of A^etrans 4b Dragoons and from six hun- 
dred to a thousand Indians, some deserters that left him the 
night before last give the latter as the number, the citizens 
of Detroit supposed the former to be correct. If he makes 
the contemplated st^nd on the river French he will be able 
to add several hundred militia to his force. My great appre- 
hension however arrises from a belief that he will make no 
halt. The Potawatimies and a Banditti of Winebagoes Fox 
Hurons and other northwestern Indians are at the River Rouge 
they remained in the vicinity of Detroit until the arrival of 
the army at this place and continued to plunder the inhabi- 
tants to the last moment indeed but for our opportune arrival, 
it is more than probable that there would have l^een a gene)*al 
massacre of the Inhabitants and burning of their houses. 

The Ottawas and Chippewas have withdrawn from the Brit- 
ish and have sent in three of their warriors to beg for peace 
promising to agree to any terms that I shall prescribe. I have 
agreed to receive them upon condition of their giving hostages 
for their fidelity and immediately joining us with all their war- 
riors. The Wyandots, ]\Iiamis and the band of Delawarcs 
which had joined the enemy are also desirous to be received 
upon the same terms. I shall enter into no engagement with 
them upon the subject of their lands but refer the whole to 
[he decision of the president, the projn-ioty of recei\'ing the 



 

Indians in the manner hero p)'oposcd appears to me to be £0 
obvious as to require no illustration. It was recommended 
to me by all the unanimous voice of all the General officers 
and by the urgent entreaties of the citizens of Detroit, whose 
safety cannot be ascertained without it. Tv/o thousand men 
placed at Detroit could not protect the scattered settlements 
from the depredations of the hostile Indians. The gleanings 
of the farms and of the corn fields would afford them support 
for months. I think it necessary however that some severe 
example should be made and every motive of justice and policy 
points at the Potawatimies as the Tribe which ought to be 
selected for the purpose. They are the most guilty and the 
most able on any further occasion to give trouble to the U. 
States. The celebrated Chief Main Pock is at the head of 
the hostile band on the Detroit side of the Streight. Tecumseh 
leads that which remains with the British. The inhabitants 
of Detroit who v/ere in daily communication with them, make 
the former from one thousand to twelve hundred their object 
in dividing their force was to make a night attack upon the 
part of the army which crossed over to Detroit or that Vvdiich 
remained on this side by a junction of their force some miles 
above. 

A detachment of the army and soine of the vessels of War 
will set out for the reduction of Macinac and St. Josephs in a 
few days. The occupancy of Chicago must be left for another 
season, the I\Iilitia have already become restless and desirous 
of returning home. They will go however v/ith cheerfulness 
as long as there is a prospect of overtaking the enemy but no 
human influence will keep them any longer. I shall have, 
after their departure and that of the 12 months volunteers, 
about twenty-five hundred regulars; these will be sufiicient for 
the reduction of Maccinac and for the safety of the country. 
But until the Indians are more completely under our control 
I do not think it would be proper to make any Detachment to 
reinforce the army belov/. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir your IluJiibl, 
Svt 

. ■. , WiLLiM. Henry Hakrison 

Honble. John Armstrong Esqr. Seciy of War 



HARRISON: IMESSAGES AND LETTERS 557 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
No. 89 

Head Quarters Near I\T0RAVIAN Town on the River 
French [Thames] 80 miles from DETROIT 5th Oct. 1813 

Har. Pa. 161-105 

Ott. . 
>3;iv . 

I have the honour to inform you that by the blessing of 
providence tln^ army under my command has this evening ob- 
tained a complete victory over the combined Indian and Brit- 
ish forces under the command of Genl. [Henry] Proctor. 

I believe that nearly the whole of the enemies Regulars 
are taken or killed amongst the former are all the superior 
officers excepting Genl. Procter. My mounted men are now 
in pursuit of him. 

Our loss is very trifling. The brave Col. R. M. Johnson 
is the only ofiicer whom I have heard of that is wounded. 
He badly but I hope not dangerously. []\Iortality in the dupli- 
cate] 

I have the honor to be with great respect your obt. svt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. JOHN Armstrong, SecreUiry at War 

(This was sent in duplicate, both copies arriving) 

Proctor to Harrison 

October 8th, 1813 

Niks' Register V, 312 

Sir: 

The Fortune of War having ])]aced the private property of 
the officei's and several Families of the Right Division of the 
British Army in Upper Cariada in youi' povrer, as also letters, 
Papers, and Vouchers of the greatest consequence to indi- 
viduals without being of any to the cau.se of the captors, I do 
myself the honor of applying to you in tneir behalf, hoping 
that agreably to custoin of War you will avail yourself of this 
favorable opi)ortu.nity to alleviate private Feelings by causing 
the said property and Documents to be restored. I must also 
intreat that every consideration in your power be shown for 
private families not of the ai-my. 1 trust that with the same 
view, you will i)enriit tlie Bearei' hereof to ascertain the fate 
of Individuals and lliat you you will facilitate the reii'eat of 



 

any Families tliai may have im fortunately been i]iten-uptod 
ii\ the attempt. 

1 have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedieiit and humble serv- 
ant. 

(signed) Henry Proctor 
Maj. General in his Brittanic Majesty's Service 
Major Gen. Harrison 



Harrison to Secretary of War 



(No. 90) 



Head Quarters Detroit 9th October 1813 

Har. Pa. 168-1 SO 

Sir: 

In my letter from Sandwich of the 30th ultimo [see above] 
I did myself the honor to inform you that I was preparing to 
pursue the enemy the following day. From various causes 
liowever I was unable to put the troops in motion until the 
morning of the 2nd Instant and then to take with me only 
about one hundred and forty of the Regular Troops. [R. M.] 
Johnson's mounted Regiment and such of Gov. Shelby volun- 
teers as were fit for a rapid march the whole amounting to 
about three thousand five hundred men. To Genl. [Duncan] 
]\IcArthur (with aout seven hundred effectives) the protecting 
of this place and the sick was committed. Genl. [Lewis] 
Cass's Brigade and the Corps of Lt. Col. [James V.] Ball were 
left at Sandwich with orders to follow me as soon as the men 
received their knapsacks and blankets, v/hich had been left 
on an Island in Lake Erie. 

The unavoidable delay at Sandv/ich was attended v/ith n.o 
disadvantage to us. Genl. Proctor had posted himself at Dal- 
Kon's on the right bank of the Thames (or French) fifty six 
miles from this place where I was informed he intended to 
fortify and wait to receive me. He must have believed how- 
ever that I had no disposition to follow him or that he had 
secured my continuance here by the reports that were circu- 
lated that the Indians would attack and destroy the place upon 
the advance of tlie army. As he neglected to conmience the 
breaking up the bridges until the night of the second instant. 
On that night our army reached the river v/hich is twenty 
five miles from Sandwich and is one of four streams crossing 
our route, over all of which are bridges, and being deep and 



 

muddy ai'c unfordable for a considerable distance into the 
country, the bridge here was found entii'e and in the morn- 
ing I proceeded with Johnson's Ifegiment to save if possible 
the othei-s. At the second bridge over a branch of the River 
Thames we were fortunate enough to capture a Lieut, of Dra- 
goons and eleven privates who had been sent by Genl. Proctor 
to destroy them. From the prisoners I learned that the third 
bridge was broken up and that the enemy has no certain in- 
formation of our advance. The bridge having been imper- 
fectly destroyed, was soon repaired and the army encamped at 
Drake's farm four miles below Dalson's. 

The river Thames along the banks of which our route lay is 
a fine deep stream, navigable for vessels of considerable bur- 
then, after the passage of the bar at its mouth, over which 
there is six and a half feet water. 

The baggage of the army was brought from Detroit in boats 
protected by three gun boats, which Commodore Perry had 
furnished for the purpose as well as to cover the passage of 
the army over the Thames itself, or the mouths of its tributary 
streams ; the banks being low and the country generally open 
(Prairies) as high as Dalson's these vessels were well calcu- 
lated for that purpose. Above Dalson's however, the charac- 
ter of the river and adjacent country is considerably changed. 
The former, though still deep is very narrow and its banks 
high and woody. The Commodore [Perry] and myself there- 
fore agreed upon the propriety of leaving the boats under a 
guard of one hundred and fifty infantry and I determined to 
trust to fortune and the bravery of my troops to effect the 
passage of the river. Below a place called Chatham and four 
miles above Dalson's is the third unfordable branch of the 
Thames, the bridge over its mouth had been taken up by 
the Indians as well as that at McGregor's Mills one mile above. 
Several hundred of the Indians I'emained to dispute our pas- 
sage and upon the arrival of the advanced guard, commenced 
a heavy fire fi'om the opposite bank of the ci'eek as Vv-ell as 
that of the river. Believing that the whole force of the enemy 
was there I halted the army formed in order of battle and 
brought up our two six pounders to cover the party that were 
ordered to rc^pair the bridge. A few shot from those pieces 
soon drove off the Indians and enabled us in two hours to 
repair the bridge and cross the troops. Col. Johnson's 



.5fi(l INDIANA fllSTORlCAl, COLLECTIONS 

mo,n,t«l .TS-i.nent being u„o„ tl,c right of tl,e armv luul .oized 

I K IiulL. ,. Oiii- loss „iK,„ tl,is occasion was two killed aiui 
U. -ee 0,- fcmr wounded. That of ll,e enenn- was a e rtai "' 
to be considerably greater. A l,ouse near tl e brid '; " onta in 
...8- a ver.. considerable nuniber of nn.skets bad b ;„ f on" 
At tl e fi'. st'T '""^■"'■■*"<' "■^' -"• I'-l- and (he arn vc" 

e..sels 01 fiie, loaded w.th arms and ordnance .^t^res and 
learned that they were a few miles ahead of us s. | on hp 
nght bank of the river with the great bo ,0 In „ " '' 
Bowles's farm, four miles from tlie bridge we h-lto for ft 
...gW found two other vessels and a largc^di i He;! fi ,ed V 

names. It was impossible to put out the firc-lvo t--er.t^• 
four pounders with their carriages were taken a n d a 1 ! 
quantity of ball and .shells of va,4s sizes. Th ni™ wa , ul 
m motion early on the morning of the 5th I n h ,^ ' 

advancew,ththemountedregi„rentaiK;ie uest^ictL ,bv 
to follow as expeditiously as pcss.:ble with the Inf n'tr e 

uon, 11 was found too deep ior the Infantry. Haxino- hov 
ever fortimately taken t^■.•o other boats and som I, H „' 
fanoes on the spot and obliging tlie hor-emen (o it r 

rmiiL'tmihc' ''' "'""'° "■■^'°^' '^'''^' -o-d'VioV:.,o ;;; 

uTvXT ",'"'""S' "'" '"'"■''"' " I'ai'm "here a part of 

lie Lnl.sl, ,.oops had encamped (he i,ie;l,t before u„ r the 

Proctor"h °/ ^°'- ,^:-*--'«"- ^'l- detachmeii „ Ge 
mil^s higher^r '''' '"'"" ''" '" ''"'"^"^"^ T'"™ ^-"■ 

Being now certainly near the enemv I directed the ■idv,,,-. 
Joliiisoii's Regiment to accellerate their marcl ,' " ,;. 

n a si oTT-"''"-'' '"^"''=™'«'- 'J'h>.' oliicer commanding 
lone '' '"'^ '" '"'■"'■'" '"" l''^>t li- i"-n.,-e,^s wa 

,l?r ''-^ '!«/■""">■ "-I"- «-e formed acro.s c^ur line 
mnuh. One 0/ (he enemy's waggoners beingahso taken pri n 



IIARrJSOX: :\IESSACES AND LETTERS oGl 

from the information received from him, and my own obser- 
vation, assisted by some of my ofliccrs I soon ascertained 
enoug^h of their position and order of battle to determine that 
which it was proper for me to adopt. 

I have the honour herewith to enclose you my general order 
of the 27 ultimo [not found] prescribing tlie order of March 
and of battle when the whole army sliould act together. But 
as the number and description of the troops had been essen- 
tially changed since the issuing of the order, it became nec- 
essary to make a corresponding alteration in their disposition. 
Erom the place VN-here our arniy was last halted, to the ]!\Iora- 
vian Towns, a distance of about three and a half miles, the 
road passes through a beech forest without any cleariiig and 
for the first two miles near to the bank of the River. At from 
two to three hundred yards from the river a swamp extends 
parallel to it, throughout the v/hole distance. The intermedi- 
ate ground is dry and although the trees are tolei'ably thick, 
it is in many places clear of underbrush. Across this strip 
of land its left appayed upon the river supported by artillery 
placed in tiie v.cod, their right in the sv.-anip covered by th.e 
whole of their Lidian force, the British Troops were drawn 
up. The troops at my disposal consisted of about one hun- 
dred and tv\-enty regulars of the 27th regiment, five brigades 
of Kentucky Volunteer ^Militia Infanti-y under his Excellency 
Gov. Shelby, averaging less than five hundred men and Col. 
Johnson's Regiment of ^Mounted Infantry making in the whole 
an aggregate something above three thousand. No disposi- 
tion of an army opposed to an Indian foj-ce can be safe unless 
it is secured on the flanks and in the rear. I had therefore 
no dilTiculty in arranging the Infantry conformably to my 
general order of battle. GerJ. [George] Trotter's brigade of 
five hundred men formed the front line, his right upon the 
road and his left upon the swamp Genl. [John Edward] King's 
brigade as a second line one hundred and fifty yards in the 
rear of Trotter's and [David] Chiles' brigade as a corps dc 
reserve in the rear of it these thi'ee brigades formed the coua- 
mand of r^Iajor Genl. [William] Henry, the whole of Genl. 
[Josei)h] Deshai's Division consisting of two brigades v^•ere 
formed oi potencc upon tlie left of Trotter. 

Whilst I was engaged in forming the Infantry I had directed 
Col. Johnson's Regiment which was still in front, to be formed 



 

in two lines opposite to the enemy and upon the advance of the 
Infantry to take ground to the left and forming upon that 
flank to endeavour to turn the right of the Indians. A mo- 
ments reflection however convinced me that from the thick- 
ness of the woods and swampiness of the ground, they would 
be unable to do anything on horseback and there was no time 
to dismount them and place their horses in security. I there- 
fore determined to I'efuse my left to the Indians and to break 
the British lines at once by a charge of the Mounted Infantry, 
the measure was not sanctioned by anything that I had seen or 
heard of but I was fully convinced that it would succeed. The 
American backwoodsmen ride better in the woods than any 
other people. A musket or rifle is no impediment to them 
being accustomed to carry them on horseback from their 
earliest youth. I was persuaded too that the enemy would be 
quite unprepared for the shock and that they could not resist 
it. Conformably to this idea I directed the regiment to be 
drawn up in close column with its right at the distance of 
fifty yards from the road, (that it might be in some measure 
protected by the trees from the artillery) its left upon the 
sv/amp and to charge at full speed as soon as the enemy de- 
livered their fire. The few regular troops of the 271h Regi- 
ment under their Col. [George] (Paul) occupied in column 
of sections of four, the small space betv/een the road and the 
river for the purpose of seizing the enemy's artilleiy and some 
ten or twelve fi'iendly Indians were directed to move undcr 
the bank. The Crotchet formed by the front line and (lenl. 
Desha's division was an important point. At that place, the 
venerable (lovernor of Kentucky was posted, who at Iho age 
of sixty-six preserves all the vigor of youth, the ai'dent /cal 
which distinguished him in the Revolutionary War and the 
undauiitcfi bravery which he manifested at King's I\Tountnin, 
with my aids de camj) the acting assistant adjutant General 
Cai)t. fRobeiil Rutlei' my gallant friend Commodoi-o Perry 
who (lid ]ne the honour to serve as my volunteer aid de camji 
ajid ilrigadier General Cass who having no command tendo'ed 
nio his assistance. I i)laced myself at the head of the front 
liiu' of lnfantr\-, to direct the movements of the Cavalry and 
gi\-(' them the necessary suppo)'t. The army had moved on in 
this oi'der Init a shoi-t distance, wh(^n the mounted men re- 
ceived th(,^ fii'c of the r.ritish line and were ordered to charge, 



HARRISON: I\IRSSAGES AND LETTERS 5G3 

the horses in the front of the cohnnn recoiled from the fire, 
another was given by the enemy and our cohimn at length 
getting in motion broke throug'h the enemy with irresistible 
force, in one minute the contest in front was over, the Brit- 
ish officers seeing no hopes of reducing their disordered ranks 
to order, and our mounted men v.'hceling upon them and poui"- 
ing in a destructive fire immediately surrendered, it is cer- 
tain that three oidy of our troops were wounded in this charge 
(upon the left however the contest was more severe with the 
Indians. Col, Johnson, who commanded on that flank of his 
regiment recei\'ed a most galling fire from them, which vras 
returned with great effect). The Indians still further to the 
right advanced and fell in with our front line of Infantry near 
its junction with Desha's division and for a moment made an 
impression upon it. His Excellency Gov. Shelby however 
brought up a regiment to its support and the enemy receiving 
a severe fire in front, and a part of Johnson's Regiment hav- 
ing gained their rear, retreated with precipitation their loss 
was very considerable in the action and many were killed in 
their retreat. 

I can give no satisfactory information of the number of 
Indians that vv'ere in the action but they must have Ijeen con- 
siderabl}^ upwards of one thousand. From the documents in 
my possession (Genl. Proctor's oflicial letters all of which were 
taken) and from the information of respectable inhabitants 
of this Territory the Indians kept in pay by the Britisli were 
much more numerous than has been generally supposed. In 
a letter to Genl. De. Rottenburg of the 27th Inst. Genl. Proctor 
speaks of ha^■ing prevailed upon most of the Indians to accom- 
pany him. Of these it is certain that fifty or sixty Wyandot 
Warriors abandoned him. 

A British officer of high rank, assured one of my Aids de 
Camp that on the day of our landing Gen. Proctor had at his 
disposal upwards of three thousand Indian \Varriors but as- 
serted that the greatest part had left him previous to the 
action. 

The number of our troops was certainly greater than that 
of the enemy but when it is recollected that they had chosen 
a position that effectually secured their flank which it was im- 
possible for us to turn and that we could not present to them 



5() 

a line more extended than their own it v/ill not be considered 
arrogant to claim for my troops the pahn of superior bravery. 

In communicating to the President through you Sir my 
opinion of the conduct of the officers who served under my 
command I am at a loss how to mention that of Gov. Shelby 
being convinced that no eulogium of mine can reach his merits. 
The Governor of an independent State greatly my superior in 
years, in experience and in military character he placed him- 
self under my command and is not more remarkable for his 
zeal and activity than for the promptitude and cheerfulness 
with which he obeyed my orders. The Major Generals Henry 
and Desha and the brigadiers [James] Allen, [Samuel] Cald- 
vrell. King, Chiles, and Trotter all of the Kentucky volunteers 
manifested great zeal and activity. Of. Gov. Shelby's staff his 
adjutant General Col. [Joseph] McDowell and his Quarter 
I\Iaster Genl. Col. [George] Walker rendered great service, 
as did his aids de camp Genl. [John] Adair and Majors [Wil- 
liam T.] Barry and [J, F.] Crittenden the military skill of the 
former was of great service to us and the activity of the two 
latter Gentlemen could not be surpassed. Illness deprived me 
of the talents of my adjutant General Col. [Edmund P.] 
Gaines who was left at Sandwich. His duties were however 
ably performed by the acting assistant adjutant general Capt. 
Butler. My aids de camp Lt. [John] 0' Fallon and Capt. 
[Charles Scott] Todd of the Line and my volunteer aids John 
Speed Smith and John Chambers Esq. have rendered me the 
most important services from the opening of the Campaign. 
I have already stated that Genl. Cass and Commodore Perry 
assisted me in forming the troops for action the former is an 
officer of the highest merit and the appearance of the bravo 
Commodore cheered and animated every breast. 

It would be useless Sir after stating the circumstances of 
the action to pass encommium upon Col. Johnson and his regi- 
ment. Veterans could not have manifested more firmness. 
The Colonel's numerous wounds prove that he was in the post 
of danger. Lt. Col. James Johnson and the i\Iajors [De Vail] 
Payne and [David] Thompson were equally active though 
more fortunate. ]\Iajor [E. D.] Wood of the Engineers al- 
ready distinguished by his conduct at Fort IMeigs attended 
the army with two six pounders. Having no use for them in 
the action, he joined in the pursuit of the enemy and. with 



■ \  

Major Payne of the Mounted Regiment two of my aids do 
ramp Todd and Chambers and three privates continued it for 
r.evcral miles after the rest of the troops liad halted and made 
many prisoners. 

1 left the army before an official return of the prisoners 
or that of the killed and wounded was made out. It was how- 
ever ascertained that the former amounts to six hundred and 
one regulars including twenty-five officers. Our loss is seven 
killed and twenty two wounded five of wiiich have since died, 
of the British Troops twelve wore killed and twenty two 
wounded the Indians suffered most,' thirty three of them hav- 
ing been found upon the ground besides those killed in the 
retreat. 

On the day of the action, six pieces of brass artillery were 
taken, and two iron twenty four pounders the day before. 
Several others were discovered in the River and can be easily 
procured, of the Brass Pieces three are the trophies of our 
Revolutionary War, that were taken at Saratoga and York 
and surrendered by General Hull. The number of small arms 
taken by us and destroyed by the enemy must amount to up- 
wards of five thousands most of them had been ours and taken 
by the enemy at the surrender of Detroit, at the river Raisin 
and Colo. [William] Dudley's defeat. I believe that the enemy 
retain no other military trophy of their victories than the 
standard of the 4th Regiment. They were not magnanimous 
enough to bring that of the 41st Regiment into the field or it 
would have been taken. 

You have been informed Sir of the conduct of the Troops 
under my command in action it gives me great pleasure to in- 
form you that they merit also the approbation of their country 
for their conduct in submitting to the greatest privations with 
the utmost cheerfulness. The Infantry were entirely without 
tents and for several days the whole army subsisted upon 
fresh beef without bread or salt. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your Humb. 
Servt 

:; :a s:>Hv . i WiLLM. HENRY HARRISON 

Gen John Armstrong Sec. of War 

P. S. Genl. Proctor escaped by the fleetness of his horse es- 
corted by forty dragoons and a number of mounted Indians. 



 

Extract from the Deposition of Major Chambers 

Dawson, HarrisoTt, 4- -J 

During the whole pursuit, and indeed from the time I first 
joined General Harrison, he evinced in his whole conversation 
and conduct the most ardent disposition to push the campaign 
into the enemy's country, and to meet general Proctor in the 
field, at the same time that he evinced a devotion to his duties 
which I have never seen equalled in any station. 

John Chambers^ 
Extract from the Deposition of Colonel Todd 

■ ..li'-v ^ ;-.;." -.; . . ■■ ■^.. ,'^ ■■'■■, '~ ':Kv..: iS; *-: Dawson, Harriscni, i2i 

During the whole period that I had the pleasure to be asso- 
ciated with General Harrison, with various opportunities of 
observing his conduct and appreciating his motives, I do most 
unequivocally declare my conviction, that the unremitted zeal, 
the unshaken firmness, the spotless integi'ity, and the con- 
summate ability with which he conducted the north-western 
army to complete victory amidst innumerable difficulties, (cor- 
rectly estimated by those only who participated in them) se- 
cured my entire approbation, and give him just claims to the 
eternal gratitude of his country. 

:,.■.. . .. ; ;cv '' ^ .: ■; C. S. ToDD^ 

: ^ ~^: ■ •; Cass to Harrison 

Aug. 31, 1817 
Dawson, Harrison, ^23 

Upon the subject of the council which was held at Sand^v^ch 
I cannot speak with precision ; I think that for some cause I 
do not now recollect, I was not present at its deliberations. 
But I do recollect that at all the inten'iews I had with you, 
you were ardent and zealous for the pursuit of Proctor, nor 
did I ever hear that a doubt had been expressed by you upon 
that subject till long after the events themselves had passed 
av/ay. In the letter from govcmor Shelby to you which has 
been published, the governor has stated so correctly and dis- 

1. Aid de Camp of }Iarr!son at the battle. 

2. Colonel of the nth regrinient. These extracts arc printed here merely to indi- 
cate that these campaigns were all foupht over again and apain in ConKress.-[n the 
pres* and on the stump. 



 

tiiictly the propositions which were made for the pursuit of 
Proctor, that there is the less necessity for me to enter into 
a detail of them. The main body of the enemy's army had left 
Amhcrstburg: some days before we landed, and were under- 
stood to be upon the river French, If conducted with common 
prudence, it was my opinion then and it is my opinion yet 
that they might have moved with such celerity as to have ren- 
dered it impracticable for us to have overtaken them, A deep 
indentation of the lake some distance below Maiden would 
have brought us within a few miles of the road upon which 
Proctor retreated, and considerably advanced of the position 
where we overtook him. The propriety of pursuing him 
along the road he had taken, or of endeavouring to inter- 
cept him by the other route was the subject of conversation 
on our first arrival at Sandwich, But whenever I conversed 
with you, the latter route was mentioned as one which de- 
served examination rather than one upon v/hich any decided 
opinion had been formed. Upon a consideration of its un- 
certainty at that season of the year, it was soon abandoned. 
I was with you frequently, and conversed with you freely 
during our continuance at Sandwich, and am confident you 
never hesitated in your determination to pursue Proctor. So 
far as my feeble testimony can aid in removing erroneous im- 
pressions, which have injured you, it is given with pleasure. 
From the time I joined the army under your command its 
operations were conducted with as much celerity as possible, 
and so far as respects yourself, its fiscal concerns, I am con- 
fident, were managed with the most scrupulous integrity. 

[Lewis Cass] 
[Extract] 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort, April 21, 1816 

Dawson, Harrison, 422 

Dear General, your letter of the 15th instant has been duly 
received in which you stated that a charge has been made 
against you, "that you were forced to pursue Proctor from my 
remonstrances," and that I had said to you, upon that occasion 
"that it was immaterial what direction you took, that I was 
resolved to pursue the enemy up the Thames": and you re- 



 

quest me to give you a statement of facts in relation to the 
council of war held at Sandwich. 

I will in the first place freely declare that no such language 
ever passed from me to you, and that I entertained throughout 
the campaign too high an opinion of your military talents to 
doubt for a moment your capacity to conduct the army to the 
best advantage. It is well recollected that the army arrived 
at Sandwich in the afternoon of the 29th of September, and 
that the next day was extremely wet. I was at your quarters 
in the evening of that day; we had a conversation relative to 
the pursuit of the enemy, and you requested me to see you 
early the next morning. I waited on you just after day break, 
found you up, apparently waiting for me; you led me into 
a small private room and on the way observed, 'We must not 
be heard.' You were as anxious to pursue Proctor as I was, 
but might not have been entirely satisfied as to the route. You 
observed that there were two ways by which he might be over- 
taken ; one was down the lake by water, to some post or point, 
of the name of which I am now not positive, thence to march 
across by land twelve miles to the road leading up the Thames, 
and intercept him. The other way, by land, up the strait, and 
up the Thames. I felt satisfied by a pursuit on land that he 
could be overhauled, and expressed that opinion with the rea- 
sons on which it was founded, and we readily agreed in senti- 
ment ; but you observed as there were tv/o routes by which he 
might be overtaken, to determine the one most proper was 
a measure of great responsibility, that you would take the 
opinion of the general officers as to the most practicable one, 
and you requested me to collect them in one hour at your quar- 
ters. I assembled them accordingly, to whom you stated your 
determination to pursue Proctor, and your object in calling 
them together; and after explaining the two routes by which 
he might be overtaken, you observed, 'that the governor 
thinks, and so do I, that the pursuit by land up the Thames 
will be most effectual.' The general officers were in favour 
of a pursuit by land; and in the course of that day colonel 
Johnson with his mounted regiment was able to cross over 
from the Detroit side to join in the chase. He might, how- 
ever, have been ordered the day before during the rain to cross 
over with his regiment, but of this I have not a distinct rec- 
ollection. The army I know was on its march by sunrise on 



 

the morning of the 2nd of October, and continued the pur- 
suit (often in a run) until the evening of the 5th, when the 
enemy was overtaken. During the vrhole of this long and 
arduous pursuit, no man could make greater exertions or use 
more vigilance than you did to overtake Proctor, whilst the 
skill and promptitude with which you arranged the troops for 
battle, and the distinguished zeal and bravery you evinced dur- 
ing its continuance, merited and received my highest approba- 
tion. 

In short, sir, from the time I joined you to the moment of 
our separation, I believe that no commander ever did or could 
make greater exertions than you did to effect the great objects 
of the campaign. I admired your plans, and thought them 
executed with great energj-; particularly your order of bat- 
tle and arrangements for landing on the Canada shore vrere 
calculated to inspire every officer and man with a confidence 
that we could not be defeated by any thing like our own num- 
ber. 

Until after I had served the campaign of 1813, I was not 
aware of the difficulties which you had to encounter as com- 
mander of the north-western army. I have since often said, 
and still do believe, that the duties assigned to you on that 
occasion w^ere more arduous and difficult to accomplish than 
any I had ever known confided to any commander; and with 
respect to the zeal and fidelity with which you executed that 
high and important trust, there are thousands in Kentucky, 
as well as myself, who believed it could not have been com- 
mitted to better hands. 

With sentiments of the most sincere regard and esteem, I 
have the honour to be, with great respect, your obedient sei'\'- 
ant, 

Isaac Shelby 
Maj Gen Wm Harrison . . 

Perry TO Harrison -^m:&i^::i 

Newport, August 18, 1817 

Dawson, Harrison, 423 

I\lY Dear Sir, 

I have received your letter of the 11th ult. in which you re- 
quest me to reply to the following questions, viz, first, 
'Whether the statements made by governor Shelby in his let- 

39—22664 



 

tor to you of the 21st April, 1816, be substantially correct?' 
to Avhich I reply in the affirmative. Secondly, 'Whether you 
did ever, cither in the council held at Sandwich or in private 
conversation with me, evince anything like an indisposition 
to i)U]'sue the British army by one of the two routes which 
were under consideration?" to v.hich I answer in the negative. 
In a conversation which I held v\-ith you the morning prior to 
the assembling of the general council at Sandwich, you ap- 
peared particularly desirous of attempting to cut off the re- 
treat of the British army by the route from port Talbot. To 
your arguments in favour of this measure I opposed our lim- 
ited means of transportation, and the great difficulty and un- 
certainty of the lake navigation at that season of the year. 
These obstacles appeared to induce you to have recourse to the 
measure which was afterwards adopted. 

Although I have little or no pretensions to military knowl- 
edge as relates to an army, still I may be allowed to bear testi- 
mony to your zeal and activity in the pursuit of the British 
army under general Proctor, and to say, the prompt change 
made by you in the order of battle on discovering the position 
of the enemy always has appeared to me to have evinced a 
high degree of rnilitary talent. I concur most sincerely with 
the venerable governor Shelby in his general approbation of 
your conduct (as far as it came under my observation) in that 
campaign. With great regard, I am, my dear sir, your friend. 

0. H. Perry 
I\Iaj. Gen. W. H. Hareison 

Gibson to Secretary of State 

Jeffersonville Oct. 9th 1813 

Har. Pa. 446-^4 9 

Dear Sir : 

Presuming that some erroneous statements may have here- 
tofore been made to you, The Ilonble. Secretary of War, or His 
Excellency the President, respecting my conduct whilst acting 
Covemor of this Territory (Indiana) in the acceptance of cer- 
tain rangeing companies And in order to repel any malev- 
olent misrepresentations or insinuations that may hereafter 
be made against me upon that subject I now take the liberty of 
giving you a succinct detail of my conduct in regard to those 



 

Rangciiig companies and earnestly solicit your friendship in 
communicating the same to His excellency the President and 
Honblc. the Secretary of War. 

On the 20th of March lilt. I received a circular letter [see 
Feb. 27 above] from the Honblo. Jonathan Jennings, (the 
Delegate from Indiana in Congress) dated City of Washing- 
ton 27th February 1813 informing me that he had made ar- 
rangements with the Honble. Secretary of War for the raising 
of Four additional Companies of Rangers to consist of Five 
Commissioned ofTicers and One Hundred and one noncommis- 
sioned officers and privates to be stationed in the Territory 
for the protection of the Frontier, that the men were then to 
meet and elect their officers, and then make a tender of their 
services to the Governor or Secretary of the Territory, who 
should recommend the officers to His Excellency the Presi- 
dent, whereupon commissions would be forwarded from the 
war Department. A number of Mr. Jennings' circulars of 
the same tenor and date, were received by individuals at the 
time I received the one addressed to me and notwithstanding 
my conviction of the impropriety of acting officially upon the 
t29si dixit of even the Honble Jon. Jennings, I was importuned 
by offers of companies, pursuant to the circulars and the 
alarming cricis in which the territory was placed by savage 
depredations and menaces ; induced me to act under the letter. 
The result has however proved that a contrary determination 
in me, would not only have been adviseable but prudent. My 
determination to act being avowed, Lieut. Craven Payton then 
of one of the old Companies of U. S. Rangers tendered him- 
self, and proposed to raise a company either in the Territory 
or from Kentucky, From my personal knowledge of Mr. Pay- 
ton, information of the respectability of his connections and 
the warm recommendations of Colonel William Russell of the 
7th U. S. Regiment (under whom Mr. Peyton had served upon 
his and Governor Edward's excursion to Peoria) I accepted 
of his offer and directed him to repair to Kentucky, raise his 
company as immediately as possible (for I considered that 
being raised and brought from thence, they would be a great 
acquisition to our strength and phisical means of defence) 
and repair by the way of Jeffersonville to Velonia, from which 
latter place an Expedition was intended to be marched under 
command of Col. Russell against the Mississineway Indians. 



r) 

Thus I considered one of the four companies disposed of. 
About this time Capt. Pierre Andre tendered his services, was 
accepted and the officers recommended by me. Thus a second 
company was disposed of. 

A few days afterwards Capt. WilHam Hargrove tendered 
himself and company to me, and I accepted his offer and early 
in April he was ordered by me to report himself to Colonel 
Paissell. Thus I considered a third company disposed of. It 
may not be improper here to observe that oweing to a neglect 
in Capt. Hargrove's Muster Maker, his Muster Rolls did not 
come on to me, consequently I could not recommend his com- 
pany not knowing who they had elected as their oflicers. 

In the latter part of March or beginning of April Capt. 
[Williamson] Dunn (of Jefferson County) v/ent on to Vin- 
cennes with the muster roll of his company which I accepted 
and shortly after recommended the officers. Then and there was 
the four companies compleat. About this time Capt. [Patrick] 
Shields of Harrison County Capt. [James] Bigger of Clark, 
and Capt. [Frederick] Shoults of Franklin tendered them- 
selves (in person or by letter) and companies whom I sever- 
ally rejected, because I considered the four companies already 
accepted of. 

I will now remark as to Capt. Peyton and Hargrove, that 
they are athletic, courageous and enterprising men, men whose 
patriotism have always been held in the highest estimation 
and their companies have since the month of April last 
peformed very arduous and beneficial services in the protec- 
toin of our frontier. 

I have the honor to be Dr. Sir with sentiments of the high- 
est consideration and esteem Your obd. and very Humble 
servant. 

Jno. Gibson 
Secry. of hidiana Territory 
The Honble James Monroe, Secretary of State of the U. S. 

Washington City 

P. S. His Excellency Gov. Posey has written fully to the 
Honble. The Secretary of War upon this subject. I beg leave 
to refer you to his letters for further particulars. J. G. 



HARllISOX: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 573 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 91) 

Head Quarters Detroit 10th Oct. 1813 

Har. Pa. lSl-18.', 

Sir: 

Previously to my leaving Sandwich with the army I had 
received a deputation from the Tawas [Ottowas] and a few 
Chippewas who had abandoned the British soliciting forgive- 
ness and desiring to know upon what terms they could be 
again taken under the protection of the U. States. I returned 
for answer that the final decision of their fate rested with the 
Government that I could only suspend hostilities against them 
which would be done upon the condition of their bringing in 
their v/ives and children as hostages and immediately joining 
their arms to ours. This proposition was readily agreed to 
but as the arrangement could not be made before the march of 
the army I directed Genl. IMcAilhur to attend to it. Accord- 
ingly after my departui-e, the Chiefs came in attended by 
those of the IMiami Tribe and some Potawatimies all of whom 
requested to be allowed the same terms. They are now en- 
camped about three miles from this Town with their families. 
A few miles further are the band of Potawatimies headed by 
IMarpock, the most inveterate of our enemies. From him also 
some feint propositions have been made to Genl. McArthur 
but I am convinced with no other view then to wait the issue 
of the contest upon the river Thames. I informed you some- 
time ago that the Wyandot chief Walk-in-the- Water informed 
me that he had prepared his warriors to join me upon my 
arrival here, I believe he did separate himself from the Hos- 
tile party upon our landing and was in the neighborhood of 
Sandwich upon our arrival there but he fell back upon the 
Thames probably fearful offallinginwith our mounted militia. 
Upon my advance up the Thames he sent a flag to me to know 
my pleasure. I directed him to remove with his women and 
children up the creek upon which he was then encamped and 
remain there. He did so and I expect him today. I am very 
much at a loss to know what to do with these people. There 
are many considerations of policy which urge the pardoning 
of the small tribe of Tawas and such of the Wyandots as have 
acted with the British ; they have also some claims upon our 
humanity as they certainly saved the inhabitants of this ter- 



r,7i INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

ritory from a general masscre. The citizens are very desi- 
rous of having them spared under the full conviction that their 
safety will be better ascertained by that means than by any 
other that could be adopted. 

The Miamios and Potawatimies deserve no mercy, they were 
the tribes most favored by us. They have been (the latter 
particularly) our most cruel and inveterate enemies. Under 
present circumstances however it would be proper to grant 
them an armistice in order to get them to their own grounds 
where they will be perfectly in our power. Genl. McArthur 
has pledged himself too far with them to authorize me to 
strike them without some new provocation, this they will take 
care not to give. Indeed I believe that the Indian War may 
be terminated with a little management without any further 
bloodshed and the terms of peace dictated by the U. States un- 
less we suffer the British again to get footing in our Territory. 
I should be thankful for instructions from the government on 
this subject and the course of conduct to be pursued with the 
Indians as soon as possible. 

In granting them an armistice I was governed by the 
following considerations— Should we press upon them with- 
out destroying them, they will join the British army on Lake 
Ontario. Although the possession of this country v/ill cut off 
the communication between the Indians of the Wabash, Illi- 
nois, Huron and St. Joseph Rivers until we are in possession 
of l\Iontreal, the northern Indians will be entirely independ- 
ent of us. 

Arrangements have been made by Commodore Perry and 
myself to send a detachment of troops in some of his vessels 
immediately to !\Iacinac for the reduction of that post and St. 
Josephs. It will sail from here I hope the day after tomorrow. 
The assistance or neutrality of the Chippewas and Tawas 
would greatly facilitate the reduction of these posts. I see 
by the late papers that there is a great danger of a general 
defection of the southern Indians. There is a constant and 
regular communication between them and the hostile tribes in 
this quarter the former will soon be informed of the extremity 
to which the Indians here have been reduced by listening to 
the insidious councils of the British and it may have the effect 
of preventing the defection of such of the southern tribes as 
have not yet taken up the Tomahawk against us. 



 

I have the honor to enclose you a proclamation which I 
issued upon my first arrival here. The superior offic(n-s of 
the Territory are nuich wanted. I shall take upon myself to 
arm and organize the militia for their temporaiy defence. 

Gen. Proctor had placed the upper district of U. Canada 
under martial law some days before our landing so far as to 
seize and send off suspected persons and to take from the 
farmers the necessary subsistance for his troops. I shall con- 
tinue the government upon the same footing until I receive 
the directions of the President. The Kentucky volunteers 
turned out only to effect the conquest of this district they will 
immediately return home. 

The public buildings of every description at Maiden were 
burned, as were the barracks and magazines in the fort at this 
place. Is it the intention of the government to have the fort 
at Maiden repaired or shall a new one be built on the Island 
of Bois Blanc which is opposite to Maiden on our side of the 
channel? 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a [Proclamation] 
[see Sept. 29 above] 

;^ - William Henry Harrison 

Harrison to Meigs 
Head-quarters, Detroit, Oct. 11, 1813 

Niles* Register V, 186 

Dear Governor : 

You will have heard before this reaches you that I was 
fortunate enough to overtake general Proctor, and his tawny 
allies, and to give them a complete drubbing. I have six hun- 
dred and one prisoners of the British regulars, officers in- 
cluded, among which there are two colonels. 

Nothing but infatuation could have governed genl. Proctor's 
conduct. The day that I landed below Maiden he had at his 
disposal upwards of 3,000 Indian warriors; his regular force, 
reinforced by the militia of the district, would have made his 
numbers nearly equal to my aggregate ; which, on the day of 
landing, did not exceed 4500. The papers have greatly exag- 
gerated the number of militia from Kentucky; those which 
embarked with me at Portage, did not amount to three thou- 
sand rank and file, and several hundred of them were left in 
the islands. 



 

The Indians were extremely desirous of fighting us at 
Maiden. I enclose you Tecumseh's speech to Proctor; [Sept. 
18 above] it is at once an evidence of the talents of the former, 
and the great defect of them in the latter. His inferior offi- 
cers say that his conduct has been a continued series of blun- 
ders. He manifested, indeed, some judgement in the choice of 
his field of battle, as he was so posted that I could not turn 
him, and could only oppose a line of equal extent to his. How- 
ever, the contest was not for a moment doubtful. The greater 
part of his Indians were in the air (according to the Persian 
military phraseology) and his regulars broken and were made 
prisoners by a single charge of mounted infantry. We took 
up on the ground, or near it, a fine brass field train of artil- 
lery, Several of the pieces are the trophies of the revolution, 
taken at Saratoga and York, and surrendered by gen. Hull. 
The number of small arms and military stores taken by us or 
destroyed by the enemy is immense. My force in the action, 
of all descriptions, was short of 2500. 

I am preparing an expedition to Michilimackinac, and an- 
other to Long Point, to destroy at the latter a depot of pro- 
visions. 

I shall send orders to general [John S.] Gano, by this con- 
veyance. It is probable that the greater part of his troops 
may be dismissed in a short time. The Indians in this neigh- 
borhood, are submitting at discretion. ., ;^ 

I am your friend. 

; ; ..,., Wm. H. Harrison 

To Governor Meigs 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 93.) 

Head Quarters Detroit 11th Oct. 1813 

Har. Pa. 192 

Sir: 

Upon submitting my official letter to you of the 9th [see 
above] to Gov. Shelby, he has convinced me that I have greatly 
overrated our force in the action of the 5th and that it fell 
short of two thousand five hundred of every description. 

It is also proper to observe that as soon as the Regiment 
(Col. [James] Simrals) which was brought up by the Cover- 



 

nor to reinforce the left line arrived the Indians gave up the 
contest. •": U :'^ 

I have omitted to mention the name of Capt. [Angus S.] 
Langham, Brigade Major to Genl. Cass as one of seven or 
eight who pursued the enemy for several miles after the rest 
of the troops had halted. 

I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Your Humble 

bervt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. John Armstrong Secy, of War ^^ ^ 

Armistice WITH Indians 

Detroit Oct. 14, 1813 

Hot. Pa. 206, 207 

Terms of an Armistice entered into between William 
Henry Harrison Major General in the service of the United 
States and the Tribes of Indians called the Miamis, Potawa- 
TOMIES, Wyandots, Weas, Eel River Miamies, Ottaways, 
and Chippeways 

Article 1st. There shall be a suspension of hostilities between 
the United States and said Tribes from this day 
until the pleasure of the Government of the 
former shall be known. In the mean time the 
said Tribes may retire to their usual hunting 
grounds and there remain unmolested provided 
they behave themselves peacebly. 
Article 2nd. In the event of any murder or other depredation, 
being committed upon any of the citizens of the 
United States by any of the other Tribes of In- 
dians, those who are parties to these presents, 
shall immediately unite their efforts to punish the 
offenders. 
Article 3rd. Hostages shall be given by said Tribes who shall 
be sent into the Settlements and there remain, 
until the termination of all the differences with 
the United States and said Tribes by a Council 
to be held for that purpose. 
Article 4th. All the prisoners in the possession of said Tribes, 
shall be immediately brought to Fort Wayne or 
some other post, and delivered to the Command- 
ing officer. 



578 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 



Done at Detroit this 14th day of October 1813 and of the 
Independence of the United States the thirty eighth. 

In testimony whereof the said Major General and the Chiefs 
representing said Tribes here present, set their hands and 
affix their seals. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 



Witnesses 

Lewis Cass, Brig. Gen. Army U.S... m 
Wm. p. Anderson Col. 24th Reg. Inft. '3 

John Miller Col. 19 Reg. Inft '^ 

E. P. Gaines Adjt. General & 

D. Trimble A.D. Camp to the Major -g 
General ^ 

R. D, Richardson D. Com of Ord- 
nance -2 

B. P. Stickney Indian Agent i 

Robert Abbott French Interpreter . . ^ 
William Conner, Delatvare Interpreter 



J. 



Tobinibee his X mark 
Magonago his X mark 
Wagishgomet his X mark 
< Lamanpoch his X mark 
Onocksa his X mark 

CoNQEE 

Meshewa 

Pocanna his X mark 
Osage his X mark 
WoNKEMA his X mark 

Retonga his X mark or Charley 
Chief of the Eel River Miamis 



Bts. Chandonnae, Potawatomie 
Interpreter 

DircHOUQurr, Shatvnee Interpreter. . . 

Louis Beaufait, Taway & Chipeway 
Interpreter 



1 Newa Shosa or Stone Eater his X 

Imark 
Papahongua or Lapousur his X mark 

i ^ fCHAWKAWBE his X mark 
John Walker, Wyandot Interpreter. . 2s|Shecoha his X mark 

^"^[Jean Bst. Rchville his X mark 



a true copy C. S. 
de Camp. 



Todd Extra Aid 



si 

09 ' 
>^ 

I 



Mash ke man his X mark 

Tone had Gone or the dog his Xmark 

Otish Quoi Gonaim his X mark 

O Tapon his X mark 

Apagona his X mark 

O Co NonGowsy his X mark 

Waitaishoo Na Wa his X mark 

Awasho Qui Juk his X mark 

Kit TWA wiOTUM his X mark 

Kow BE Miscobeo his X mark 

Wa-gaw his X mark 

Pash-kiesh quash ROM his X mark 

O Gu-Bonawke his X mark 

PoN-Ti-ACK queen of the Tawas and 

Ottoways her X mark 
Kenobamia or otter his X mark 



 

• f?;*?/'^ :' X;i>' Chepe or (?) his X mark 
• 7: .■• . V -.; , PoMA GwAMO OF Thundeu his X mark 

50 i'Mayar or Walk in the Water his 
o X mark 

g < R08URAHOR or Armewas his X mark 
(^iTahhon of HOATA his X mark 
[Orory miah his X mark 

-^ ~ A Proclamation - ^ • 

#;^k^ Detroit Oct. 16, 1813 

; .• • ' ■ NUes' Register, V, 215 

An Armistice [see above, Oct. 14] having been concluded 
between the United States and the tribes of Indians called 
Miamies, Potawatamies, Eel river Miamies, Weas, Ottoways, 
Chippeways, and Wyandots, to continue until the pleasure of 
the government of the former shall be known; I do hereby 
make known the same to all whom it may concern. The ar- 
mistice is preparatory to a general council, to be held with 
these different tribes; and, until its termination, they have 
been permitted to retire to their hunting-grounds, and there 
to remain unmolested, if they behave themselves peaceably. 
They have surrendered into our hands hostages from each 
tribe; and have agreed immediately to restore all our prison- 
ers in their possession, and unite with us in the chastisement 
of any Indians who may commit any aggression upon our 
frontiers. Under these circumstances, I exhort all citizens 
living upon the frontiers to respect the terms of said armis- 
tice, and neither to .engage in nor countenance any expedition 
against their person or property ; leaving to the government, 
with whom the constitution has left it, to pursue such course, 
with respect to the Indians as they may think most compati- 
ble with sound policy and the best interests of the country. 

Wm. H. Harrison 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 94.) 

-i , . Head Quarters Detroit 16th October 1813 

Har. Pa. 193-195 

Sm: 

A detachment of the army under the command of Brig. 
Genl. [Duncan] McArthur has been for some days waiting at 
this place, for the necessary provisions to proceed to Lake 



 

Michigan. I am sorry to inform you however that from the 
effects of a violent storm there is now no prospect of accom- 
plishing that desirable object the reduction of Michillimack- 
inac this season. It is with the greatest regret I inform you 
that it is almost reduced to a certainty that two of our schoon- 
ers have been lost on Lake Erie the "Chippewa" and "Ohio" 
the former loaded with the baggage of the Troops from Bass 
Island, the latter with flour and salt provisions from Cleve- 
land. Our whole stock of the latter on hand at this place is 
forty barrels nor is there a possibility of obtaining a supply 
for a considerable time as the "Ohio" contained nearly the 
whole of the contractors stock of that article. Upon a con- 
sultation with the two Brigadiers and Commodore Perry and 
Capt. [Jesse D.] Elliott, it was unanimously determined that 
the season is too far advanced to attempt an expedition to 
Maccinac if it were not commenced in two or three days and 
there was no hope of thQ supplies being obtained in that time. 

It is generally believed here that Genl. Proctor dispatched 
an order to the Commanding officer at Macinac to destroy the 
post and retreat by the way of Grand River at any rate it is 
not a matter of much importance to have that place in our 
possession during the winter, cut off as it is from a communi- 
cation with the rest of the world. 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of the terms of an 
armistice [see Oct. 14 above] concluded with seven of the late 
hostile Tribes of Indians. I have no doubt of the sincerity of 
their repentance excepting perhaps the celebrated Main Poke 
and of him I judge only from the former inveteracy of his 
hate. I have promised the Tribes, that remained faithful to 
us that their annuities shall be sent them ; they deserve them 
and I am obliged also to promise the late Hostile Tribes that 
they shall receive occasional supplies of provisions. Unless 
this is done they must plunder the inhabitants which will 
again produce hostilities. 

I have received no instructions from the war office for sev- 
eral months and I am much at a loss to know what is expected 
from me. 

I have the Honour to be with great respect Sir 
Yr. Humb. Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

Honble. John Armstrong Secy, of War 



 

P. S. The late storm has deprived us of a great deal of val- 
uable property taken from the enemy. A small schooner laded 
with camp equipage ordnance and ordnance stores and several 
boats were abandoned by them and I fear that very few of 
the articles will be recovered but all the artillery taken in the 
field is safe. I greatly fear too some of the prisoners may 
have escaped, they were under a militia guard and were scat- 
tered for several miles as I am informed. However I believe 
that we shall be able to muster six hundred exclusively of the 
officers. _ W. H. H. 

A Proclamation 

Sandwich Oct 17, 1813 

Niles' Register V, 215 

Whereas, by the combined operations of the land and naval 
forces under our command, those of the enemy within the 
upper district of Upper Canada have been captured or de- 
stroyed, and the said district is now in the quiet possession of 
our troops; it becomes necessary to provide for its govern- 
ment: Therefore, we do hereby proclaim and make known, 
that the rights and privileges of the inhabitants^ and the laws 
and customs of the country, as they existed or were in force 
at the period of our arrival, shall continue to prevail. All 
magistrates and other civil officers are to resume the exercise 
of their functions; previously taking oath to be faithful to 
the government of the United States, as long as they shall be 
in possession of the country. The authority of all militia 
commissions is suspended, in said district and the officers re- 
quired to give their parols, in such way as the officer, who may 
be appointed by the commanding general to administer the 
government^ shall direct. 

The inhabitants of said district are promised protection to 
their persons and property, with the exception of those cases 
embraced by the proclamation of general Proctor, of the [?] 
ult. which is declared to be in force, and the powers, therein 
assumed transferred to the officer appointed to administer the 
government. 

' ' ^ Wm. H. Harrison 

Oliver H. Perry 



 

. Harrison to Secretary op War 

No. 95 

.,,.«,:: Head Quarters Detroit Oct. 17th 1813 

■■'^- -'-; •^•. v.--: - : .-^: Har. Pa. 197-20U 

Sir: 

Among the papers which were taken on the 5th Inst, [illegi- 
ble] to the [illegible] is a letter from Edward Bayne (adju- 
tant genl. to Sir George Provost) to Major GenL Proctor a 
copy of which I have the honor to inclose to your address. 
I have the honor to be with great respect . 

Sir your Humble Servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 

~ Head Quarters Kingston 18th Sept. 1813 

In the letter which I had the honor of addressing you on 
the 16th Inst. I informed you that I had by order of the com- 
mander of the Forces, on that day announced to Major Genl. 
De Rottenburg that considerations of a publick nature would 
induce his Excellency to remove his Head Quarters to Mon- 
treal about the middle of this month. 

I was at the same time instructed to acquaint the Major 
Genl. Commanding that his Excellency confided in his judg- 
ment and discretion to determine how far it would be prudent 
to continue to contend against the increasing evils and diffi- 
culties with which the centre and Right Divisions have to 
struggle. This important decision must in a great measure 
depend on the issue of impending events of the campaign 
which cannot be much longer procrastinated. It is very much 
to be regreted that a decisive action between the two squad- 
rons on the Lake Ontario has been so long delayed, and has 
unavoidably entailed upon the army a corresponding state of 
inaction and in a great degree involved it in the very critical 
state in which it is now placed. As on the issue of that all 
important event the ulterior operations of the army campaign 
have been necessarily suspended, for offensive military opera- 
tions presented little prospect of being prosecuted with suc- 
cess without the aid and cooperation and more particularly 
the protection to be derived from a superior maratime force. 
At the same time it would have been highly impolitic to have 
anticipated the failure of that support and by adopting meas- 
ures of precaution to have relinquished one foot of the ground 
on which we so proudly stand. Such a measure would have 



 

lost us all our wavering friends and would have proved dis- 
tructive to our Indian alliance. 

The superior resources of the enemy have indeed enabled 
him to render our situation critical and difficult but it still 
does not yet amount to that point as to render a retrograde 
movement indispensible and untill that is the case it should 
be avoided by every possible exertion and devise. 

Should however such a measure become unfortunately un- 
avoidable, it is his Excellency's express Commands that it be 
not resorted to untill its necessity and the mode of carrying it 
into effect has been previously well weighed and considered 
and all necessary arrangements made. That under every cir- 
cumstance it be conducted with order and regularity. His 
Excellency trusts that the Advanced divisions of the army are 
not incumbered with heavy or superfluous baggage. No con- 
siderations of that nature is to be suffered to impede the 
march of the troops for one single moment. The removal of 
all sick and convalesents must be previously provided for. 
Every position which the country affords is to be occupied 
and defended so that the enemy be made to pay dearly for 
every step he advances. All retrograde movements are to be 
resorted to with reluctance and they are to be as limited as 
the circumstances which cause them will admit and they are 
never to be hurried or accelerated unless warranted by cir- 
cumstances of peculiar urgency. 

Should your situation become desperate you are recom- 
mended to adopt a line of conduct suitable to the urgency of 
the case and as every thing must be sacraficed by a retrograde 
movement you will exaust every resource and means within 
your power before you resort to that measure. This policy 
particularly applies to the Marine Force and you will there- 
fore impress upon Capt. Barclay in whose zeal talents and 
determined Fortitude the commander of the Forces has the 
most firm reliance, that the squadron under his command, be- 
ing inevitably involved in the common fate of the Military 
Positions on Lake Erie, is to be devoted to their preservation, 
and if necessary, sacraficed to the last atom. Sooner than a 
vestage be left to swell the pride of an arrogant Foe and you 
will be careful on your part, that nothing that can be in any 
way useful to the Enemy, be suffered to fall into his hands. 
His Excellency looks with confidence to your exertions that 



 

every injury and annoyance which it is possible for the com- 
bined discipline and Gallantry of the Forces under your Com- 
mand to perform will be called forth to cripple and repulse 
the enemy. 

His Excellency is particularly solicitous, that the relative 
dependence and mutual support that exists between the Cen- 
tre and right divisions may never be lost sight of. He rec- 
ommends that every attention and exertion be made to keep 
the communication open both by land and water and that a 
perfect understanding prevail, of the relative state, plans and 
occurrances of each division in as far as they may influence 
the operations of the other exist. With this view his Excel- 
lency has been pleased to sanction Major Genl. DeRothenburg 
opening any publick dispatch to his address from you under 
circumstances of Emergency that you may not be able to re- 
port officially seperately to the Major Genl. in order that your 
wants may meet with prompt relief when circumstances admit 
of his affording it to you. 

Commodore Sir James Yeo returned here on Thursday last. 
His third Cruise I regret to say has notbeen marked with any ad- 
vantage whatever on our part. A great deal of maneuvering 
attended with distant cannonading in which the Enemy being- 
favoured by the wind had probably the advantage. Four of 
our men were killed and I believe about the same number 
wounded. The commander sails again this evening with the 
Squadron and will afford convoy to all the small vessels with 
stores. If it is deemed elegible a proposed attack will be made 
on the Enemy's position at Fort George previous to Major 
General DeRothenburg getting that occupied by his division, 
which from the local defect it is exposed to, and the very har- 
rasing duties intailed upon the Troops has introduces among 
them, disease and desertion to a very great degree. 

I envelop a letter which I have received from Major Mc- 
Pherson commanding the 10th Royal Veterans Battalion, and 
you are requested to make the best arrangements, and afford 
such relief as is in your power. 

I have the Honor to be Sir, Your Most Obedient 
Humble Servant 

Edward Baynes, Adgt General 
Major Genl. Proctor, Com'd the Right Division 
A True Copy. D. Trimble A. DeC amp .- ;:;..-';=.. ih; 



 

General Orders 

Montreal, October 18th, 1813. 

Historical Register II, 605 

The commander of the forces has the deepest regret in an- 
nouncing to the army, that lieutenant ReifFenstein, a staff- 
adjutant, arrived yesterday, and is the bearer of the following 
unpleasant intelligence. That major-general Proctor having 
sustained, by the unfortunate capture of the squadron on Lake 
Erie, the loss of a very considerable portion of his military 
force, which was serving on board that fleet, as well as the 
principal heavy ordinance necessary for the defence of his mil- 
itary positions, commenced his retreat from the fort of Sand- 
wich on the 24th September, having previously dismantled the 
posts of Amherstburg and Detroit, and burned and destroyed 
every public building and stores of every description. 

The retreating regular force consisting of a small detach- 
ment of royal artillery, a troop of provincial dragoons, and 
the remains of the 41st regiment, in all about 450 rank and 
file — which was accompanied by a body of Indian warriors 
from 1000 to 1500. 

The enemy's fleet and army appeared off Amherstburg on 
the 26th September, and landed on the following day, but soon 
re-embarked their troops and proceeded by Lake St. Clair, to 
the mouth of the Thames river. The American army was 
again landed, and accompanied by gun-boats, followed the 
route .of major-general Proctor's corps, which having been 
much retarded by the slow progress of loaded batteaux, they 
were enabled to come up with the rear guard and loaded boats 
on the 3d instant, and succeeded in capturing the whole. Ma- 
jor-general Proctor being thus deprived of the means of sup- 
porting his little army, was under the necessity of awaiting 
the enemy's attack; which took place at 4 o'clock on the eve- 
ning of the 5th instant, near the Moravian village. 

A six-pounder on the flank was, by some unpardonable neg- 
lect, left destitute of ammunition, and the enemy, availing 
himself of this unfortunate circumstance, pressed upon that 
part of the line, which, wanting the support of artillery, was 
forced by the superior numbers of the enemy. Major-general 
Proctor exerted himself to rally the troops, who being ex- 
hausted with fatigue, not having received any provisions the 

40—22664 



 

preceding day, were unable to make adequate exertions to re- 
sist the superior numbers by which they were assailed. 

The safety of major-general Proctor, the officers of his per- 
sonal staff, and some few others, together with about 50 men 
has only as yet been ascertained. The Indian warriors re- 
treated towards Mackedash. 

The enemy's forces employed on this service is estimated 
from 10 to 12,000 strong, including troops of every descrip- 
tion. , . . 

' ■"". '.Edward Baynes, A(Zy. Gen. 

Petition 

Detroit Oct 19, 1813 

Hot. Pa. 208-210 

To his Excellency Brigader General Lewis Cass commanding 
the United States Troops, at Detroit. 

The Petition of the citizens of the United States, of the 

District of Erie and Territory of Michigan 

May it Please Your Excellency 

The distressed farmers and settlers of the river Raisin, cit- 
izens of the United States, who have been drove from their 
homes since the month of January last, by the ferocious sav- 
ages under the influence and direction of the British Govern- 
ment, and of whom a list accompanies the present, have ap- 
pointed the subscribers a committee to represent to you their 
services and present disastrous situation, in full confidence 
from your Excellency's known philanthrophy, that you will 
take their peculiar case into your excellency's paternal con- 
sideration. 

A short time before accounts of the declaration of war, with 
England reached this country, the citizens of Erie were called 
upon, by the local Government for a draft from the Militia 
for one company to be put into actual service ; but the partiot- 
ism of this section of the country all volunteered their services 
to the General Government, to a man, and they proceeded to 
elect their own officers and organized the required quota; (in- 
dependent of the Volunteers v/ho joined the cavalry under the 
command of Capt. Richard Smith of Detroit, and were posted 
at the river Raisin as a detachment to protect the settlement 
and escort the mails to Detroit — most hazardous seiTices) . 



 

Shortly after, owing to the egregious misconduct of Gen. 
Hull the savages joined the British, who excited them against 
that exposed section of the Territory, in consequence of which, 
the whole were called into service, and did actual duty in the 
Fort at the River Raisin, and in patroling parties in the vi- 
cinity, until accounts were received of the infamous capitula- 
tion at Detroit, by a British flag of truce, followed up by a 
band of savages, who generally plundered their private prop- 
erty, stole or wantonly destroyed their cattle and horses, in 
a most cruel manner ; which was arrested only by the arrival 
of a detachment of the United States troops under the com- 
mand of that brave veteran. Col. [William] Lewis who was 
immediately joined by a number of our Raisin citizens, aiding 
in the first victory, several of v/hom were afterwards slain in 
the last battle v/here a scene the most shocking to humanity, 
impossible to be pourtrayed by us, was perpetrated on the un- 
fortunate prisoners of war who had surrendered on the word 
of General Proctor that they would be protected from the sav- 
ages — but, where in the dwelling houses of Messrs. [Hubert] 
LaCroix, [George] McDougall, [Gabriel] Godfroy, and [Jean 
Baptiste] Conture (where the United States Detachment had 
intrenched themselves) they were cruelly mangled, and 
thrown alive in those buildings, which were purposely set on 
fire to conflagrate the unfortunate wounded. Others being 
left in the vicinity exposed on the roads to be eat up by the 
Hogs and Dogs ! ! ! — and not alloived to be interred — and where 
their bones have lain exposed until lately, when through the 
auspicious bravery of the United States forces our appressors 
have been taken, or driven out of the country and the savages 
compelled to implore the clemency of the General Government. 
We beg leave to be excused for this painful digi'ession, to re- 
turn to the forlorn state of the settlement. The Indians, being 
irritated at the inhabitants for the active part they had taken 
against them, plundered and abused them afresh, several hav- 
ing made their escape towards the army at Fort Meigs and 
Sandusky, and the remainder driven from their homes to De- 
troit, where they have generally languished in poverty and 
distress, suffering, even here, every outrage from the savage 
barbarians. Deprived of all sustenance and famine staring 
them in the face, they confidently look up to their country for 
support, during the ensuing inclement season, inasmuch, as 



 

they have never been renumerated, and have sacrificed their 
all in her service; humbly trusting that your Excellency will 
have compassion on their indigent state, and grant them im- 
mediate support, by a supply of provisions and ammunition 
and that your Excellency would be pleased to make a repre- 
sentation of their deplorable state to the President, and Con- 
gi'ess of the United States, to grant them such relief in the 
premises as their wisdom may deem meet and as in duty 
bound the settlement of Erie will ever pray. 

_. John Anderson 

J^^;^'''-^-^";H'^--M^:;y'---- :"■_;." '■^' Geo. McDougall 

■V'" v''^ -;. ^'"^'v^. '?;."-.;ii%.C ■■""''■ ■■ .,r/:,,; G. GODFROY 

A Copy C. A. Norton, Aid-de-Camp 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

Sackett's Harbour 20th October 1813 

Sjjj. ^ .--.'t ..^ '•: - ", .. ,, ^ Har. Pa. 91, 92 

The enemy's corps before fort George broke up their can- 
tonments on the 9th and marched rapidly for Burlington Bay 
which he reached on the 11th. By taking this route he may 
intend to reinforce Proctor on the French River or Kingston 
at the head of the St. Lawrence. He was apprised of the 
abandonment of Maiden on the 5th. 

We are perhaps too remote to profit by each others sugges- 
tions. But it does not appear to me that Sandwich is the 
point at which Proctor will stop, if you pursue him. From 
point aux Pins on lake Erie there is a good road to Chatham 
on the Thames. The Distance not more than twenty-four 
miles. Were this gained and travelled back to Sandwich the 
enemy's means of subsistence might be destroyed and himself 
compelled to surrender. But of the practicability of this you 
are the best judge. My opinion is suggested by the Map. 

The first Division of this army sailed two days ago — the 
2nd and the reserve follow today. 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
No. 96 ^ ^r 

^^ - • Head Quarters, Erie Pa. 22nd Oct. 1813 

c^.p . Har. Pa. 211, 212 

Soon after my letter to you of the 16th Inst, [see above] 



 

was written, I was informed that a special messeng:er with 
dispatches from you had left Bass Island in the schooner Chip- 
pewa which had been driven from the mouth of the Detroit 
River in a violent storm and from the circumstance of a quan- 
tity of baggage belonging to the officers which was known to 
have been on board being found on the lake Shore. She was 
believed to have been lost. As I had nearly completed the 
arangement for a suspension of hostilities with the Indians, 
although I had no information as to the movement of the army 
on Lake Ontario, I determined to embark Genl. McArthur's 
Brigade and the batallion of U. States Riflemen and proceed 
with them down the lake until I could receive some certain 
information of the movements of the army under Genl. Wil- 
kinson and what was expected from me. I arrived here this 
morning with Commodor Perry in the ariel having left the 
remainder of the fleet at Bass Island, it is probable they will 
be here this evening when we shall immediately proceed to 
Bujffaloe. I have learnt that the Chippewa was not lost as 
was supposed at the upper end of the Lake but is on shore 
near to Buffaloe where the unfortunate messenger is said to 
have perished in endeavoring to reach the shore. 
I have not above eleven hundred men with me. 

,, I have the honor to be with gi-eat respect 

:,, / Sir Your Humble Servant 

-; I'^l^ X :\:;.: ; - v^L : . William Henry Harrison 

:''\ Harrison TO Secretary OF War 
No. 97 ^. • 

.^ ,.; ;; Head Quarters Buffaloe, N. Y. Oct. 24th 1813 

., ^ ., Ha/r. Pa. 213, 21i 

Sir: '""'■ '^"■''' -"■--- '^-- 

I have this moment landed at this place, from on board of 
the Schooner Ariel which is one of the several vessels, with 
which I left Detroit, having on board the greater part of Mc- 
Arthur's Brigade and the detachment of the U. States Rifle 
Regiment under Col. [Thomas] Smith. The other vessels are 
all I believe in sight and will be up in a short time. The ag- 
gregate number of Troops with me is about thirteen hundred 
but not more than one thousand iit for duty. Before this 
reaches you, you will no doubt be informed of the loss of your 
Messenger Capt. Brown, with the dispatches that were en- 



 

trusted with him. Not having received your directions and 
being entirely ignorant of the state of our mihtary operations 
in this quarter, I was much at a loss to know how to proceed 
but believing that Genl. Cass with his Brigade would be able 
to secure Detroit and our adjacent Conquests, after having 
concluded an armistice with the greater part of the Hostile 
Tribes, I concluded that I could not do better than to move 
down the Lake with the remaining part of the Troops. A 
part of McArthur's brigade is still at the Bass Islands where 
they were left for the want of the means of conveyance, and a 
considerable portion of their baggage was also left from the 
same cause. Means have however been taken to collect and 
bring them on. 

I shall move down the Troops immediately to Fort George 
where I shall await your orders unless an opportunity should 
previously occur of striking at the enemy the information I 
have received here of the situation and movements of the 
enemy on the Head of the Lake Ontario is vague and contra- 
dictory. I propose to send off my adjutant General Col. [Ed- 
mund P.] Gaines to see you in the morning, if his state of 
health will allow it. 

Presuming that my official dispatches from. Detroit via 
Washington must have reached you, I scarcely need add that 
on the 5th Instant, I was fortunate enough to overtake Genl. 
Proctor and after a short action to capture upwards of Six 
hundred of his regulars and to defeat and disperse his Indian 
force. 

I have the honor to be with great Respect 
Sir Your Humble Servant. 
William Henry Harrison 
Honble John Armstrong Esq. 

P. S. I have promised the bearer that you will reward him in 
proportion to the exertion he makes to deliver you this. It 
is now 2 o'clock P. M. W. H. H. 

Harrison TO Gen. Vincent 
Head-Quarters Fort George 3rd Nov. 1813 

, „ ,. , ^ Ha/r. Pa. 218-223 

sir: ■-.^^.»-'t..„,....te::.fy 

Lieutenant LeBreton, an officer in your service, arrived at 
Detroit on the 15th Ultimo, bearing a flag and a letter to me 



 

from General Proctor, requesting humane treatment for the 
prisoners in my possession and the restoration of private 
property and papers. This letter was directed to me at the 
Moravian Towns and as the subject was not of the importance 
to ♦ authorize the Lieutenant pursuing me to Detroit, I was 
somewhat surprised at his doing so. It did not appear proper 
to permit him to return in that way and as I was upon the 
point of setting out for this frontier by water, I conceived 
that that mode of conveyance would be fully as agreable to 
him and would enable him to meet General Proctor as expedi- 
tiously as by the land route. I regret that badness of the 
weather and other causes which he will explain has detained 
him until this time. 

Understanding that you are the senior officer I have deter- 
mined to address my answer to you. With respect to the 
subject of General Proctor's letter, those which I have the 
honor to enclose you from the British officers, who were taken 
on the 5th ultimo to their friends and the reports of Lt. Le- 
Breton will satisfy you, that no indulgence which humanity 
could claim in their favor or the usages of War sanction has 
been withheld. The disposition of the property taken on the 
field of action or near it, was left to the commanding officer 
at Detroit. The instructions given to this gentleman and the 
well known integrity and generosity of his character will in- 
sure to the claimants the utmost justice and liberality in his 
decisions. In making this statement, I wish it however to be 
distinctly understood that my conduct with regard to the pris- 
oners and the property taken has been dictated solely by mo- 
tives of humanity and not by a belief that it could be claimed 
upon the score of reciprocity of treatment towards the Amer- 
ican prisoners, who have fallen into the hands of General 
Proctor. The unhappy persons of that description who have 
excaped from the tomahawks of the savages in the employ- 
ment of the British Government, under the immediate orders 
of that Officer, have suffered all the indignities and depriva- 
tions which human nature is capable of supporting. There is 
no single instance that I have heard of in which the property 
of the Officers has been respected. But I am far from believ- 
ing that the conduct of General Proctor has been thought an 
example worthy imitation by the greater part of the British 
officers and in the Character of General Vincent I have a 
pledge that he will unite his exertions with mine to soften 



 

as much as possible the fate of those whom the fortune of 
War may reciprocally place in our power. 

But Sir, there is another subject upon which I wish an ex- 
plicit declaration. Will the Indians who still adhere to the 
cause of his Brittanic Majesty be suffered to continue that 
horrible species of warfare which they have heretofore prac- 
tised against our Troops and those still more horrible depre- 
dations upon the peaceble inhabitants of our frontiers? I 
have sufficient evidence to show that the latter have not al- 
ways been perpetrated by small parties of vagrant Indians 
acting at a distance from the British army. Some of the most 
atrocious instances having occurred under the very eyes of 
the British Commander and the Head of the Indian Depart- 
ment. I shall pass by the tragedy of the River Raisin and 
that equally well known which was enacted at the Miami River 
after the defeat of Col. [William] Dudley and select three 
other instances of savage barbarity committed under the au- 
spices of General Proctor. 

In the beginning of June last a small party of Indians con- 
ducted by an Ottawa chief, who I believe is now with the 
British Army under your command, left Maiden in bark 
canoes in which they coasted lake Erie to the mouth of Por- 
tage river, the canoes were taken across the portage to San- 
dusky bay, across which, the party proceeded to the mouth of 
Cold Creek and from thence by land to the settlements upon 
that creek where they captured three families consisting of 
one man and twelve women and children. After taking the 
prisoners some distance, one of the women was discovered to 
be unable to keep up with them in consequence of her ad- 
vanced state of pregnancy. She was immediately toma- 
hawked, stripped naked, her womb ripped open and the child 
taken out. Three or four of the children were successively 
butchered as they discovered their inability to keep up with 
the party. Upon the arrival of the Indians at Maiden, two or 
three of the prisoners were ransomed by Col. Elliott and the 
others by the citizens of Detroit, where they remained until 
they were taken off by their friends upon the capture of that 
place by our army. / have been informed that the savage 
Chief received from Col. Elliott a repremand for his cnielty. 

On the 29th or 30th of the same month, a large party of 
Indians were sent from Maiden on a War Expedition to Lower 



 

Sandusky. At a farm house near to that place they murdered 
the whole family consisting of a man, his wife son and daugh- 
ter. 

During the last attack upon Fort Meigs by General Proctor 
a party, headed by a Seneca, (an intimate friend of Tecum- 
seh's) was sent to endeavor to detach from our interest the 
savages of Wapokonata. In their way hither they murdered 
several men and one woman who was working in her corn- 
field. 

I have selected. Sir, the above from a long list of similar in- 
stances of barbarity which the history of the last 15 months 
could furnish because they were perpetrated if not in view of 
the British commander and by parties v/ho came immediately 
from his company and returned to it. Who ever received their 
daily support from the King's Stores and who in fact (as the 
documents in my possession show) formed part of his army. 
To retaliate these upon the subjects of the King would have 
been justifiable by the Laws of War and by the usages of the 
most civilized nations. The tide of fortune has changed in 
our favour and an extensive and flourishing province opened 
to our army. Nor have instruments of vengence been want- 
ing. The savages who have sued to us for mercy would gladly 
have shown their claims to it by reacting upon the Thames, 
the bloody scenes of Sandusky and Cold Creek, A single sign 
of approbation would have been sufficient to pour upon the 
subjects of the King their whole fury. The future conduct of 
the British officers will determine the correctness of mine in 
withholding it. If the savages should be again let loose upon 
our settlements I shall with justice be accused of having sac- 
rificed the interest and honour of my country and the lives 
of my fellow citizens to feeling of false and mistaken Human- 
ity. You are a soldier Sir, and as I sincerely believe possess 
all those honorable sentiments which ought always to be found 
in men who follow the profession of arms. Use then I pray 
you your authority and influence to stop that dreadful efl"usion 
of innocent blood which proceeds from the employment of 
those savage monsters whose aide (as must now be discov- 
ered) is so little to be depended upon when it is most wanted 
and which can have so trifling an efl;ect upon the issue of the 
War. The effect of their barbarity will not be confined to 
the present generation. Ages yet to come will feel the eff"ect 



 

of the deep-rooted hatred and enmity which they must pro- 
duce between the two Nations. I deprecate most sincerely 
the dreadful alternative which will be offered to me should 
they be continued, but I do most solemly declare that if the 
Indians that remain under the influence of the British Govern- 
ment are suffered to commit any depredations upon the citi- 
zen within the district that is committed to my protection, I 
will remove the restrictions which have been imposed upon 
those who offered their sei-vices to the United States and di- 
rect them to carry on the war in their own way. I have never 
heard a single excuse for the employment of the Savages by 
your Government unless we can credit the stoiy of some Brit- 
ish Officer having dared to assert that "as we employed the 
Kentuckians you had a right to make use of the Indians". 
If such injurious sentiments have really prevailed to the preju- 
dice of a brave, well informed and virtuous people, it will be 
removed by the representations of your officers, who were 
lately taken upon the River Thames. They will inform you 
Sir, that so far from offering any violence to the persons of 
their prisoners, "these Savages" would not peiTnit a word to 
escape them, which was calculated to wound or insult their 
feelings, and this too, with the sufferings of their friends and 
relatives at the River Raisin and Miami fresh upon their re- 
collection. 

I have the honor to be Sir, your very Humble Servant 

Signed William Henry Harrison 
Maj. Gen. Vincent Commanding British Forces 
Burlington Heights 

P. S. I pledge myself for the truth of the above in relation 
to the murders committed by the Indians. 

W. H. H. 

;• . Secretary of War to Harrison 

BoONSViLLE 3d Nov. 1813 

Har. Pa. 93, 9U 

Dear General 

I have fortunately met Colonel [E. P.] Gaines on the way 
to his Regt. The Deputy Paymaster should have orders to 
attend to the Brigade you have brought with you. Capt. 
[Robert] Butler will act as your asst. adjutant general and 



 

shall receive an appointment as such. The officers of the 
several corps composing your Division, (as well those at fort 
George as General Cass's Brigade) not indispensable to the 
command of the troops now in the field should be immediately 
dispatched on the recruiting service. I need not invite your 
attention to a subject so important to the early and successful 
opening of the next campaign and to the extent and character 
of your particular command. Will the whole of Cass's brigade 
be wanted to the Westward ? In the event of a peace with the 
savages a less force would be sufficient and to hasten and se- 
cure this event, the present moment and present impression 
must be seized. Of the warriors sueing for peace one or more 
should be sent by the nearest route and by the most expedi- 
tious mode to the Creek nation. The story of their defeat 
by you and subsequent abandonment by the British communi- 
cated by themselves would probably have a decisive effect on 
their red brethren of the South and save us the trouble and 
expense of beating them into a sense of their own interest. 
When I wrote to you from Wilna it was doubtful whether our 
attack would be made directly upon Kingston or upon Mon- 
treal. Reasons exist for prefering the latter course and have 
probably determined General Wilkinson to go down the St. 
Lawrence. In this case the enemy will have at Kingston, be- 
sides his fleet, a garrison of 12 or 1400 men. Had we not a 
corps in the neighborhood these might do mischief and even 
render insecure the winter station of our fleet. To prevent 
this (and when the frost has bridged the St. Lawrence to do 
more) it is deemed advisable to draw together at Sackett's 
Harbour a considerable military force. There are now at that 
post between four and five hundred men of all descriptions — 
sick, convalescent and effective. Colonel [Winfield] Scot's 
detachment (about 700) are on their march thither, and it 
is barely possible that Colonel [Thomas Mann] Randolph's 
(not arriving in time to move with the army) may be there 
also. This does not exceed 350. McArthur's Brigade added 
to these will make a force entirely competent to our objects. 
To bring this Brigade down the Lake you must have the aid 
of the fleet which will be readily given by Commodore [Isaac] 
Chauncey. On this point I shall write to him and suggest 
a communication with you in relation to it. This new dispo- 
sition will render necessary the employment of so many of 



 

the militia and volunteers now in service under General 
[George] McClure as you may deem competent to the safe 
keeping of Forts George and Niagara and their dependencies. 
It is not intended by these instructions to prevent either you 
or General JVTcArthur from visiting your families or from go- 
ing directly to them, if you so desire, from Fort George. In 
this case the command will devolve on Colonel [Alexander] 
Smith. To Genl. McArthur I would however barely suggest 
that I shall on my arrival at Albany institute a Court Martial 
for the trial of Hull — the court to sit at that place — and that 
in this event, it might be more convenient for the General to 
be at Sackett's Harbour. By the way this suggests also the 
necessity of immediately relieving General Cass (whose pres- 
ence as a witness will be indispensable) and making such dis- 
positions with regard to Majors [David] Tremble, [Thomas 
S.] Jessup and etc. as will best and most easily combine the 
public object with their personal convenience. 

P. S. For the better accommodation of the troops it may 
be well to leave 500 of them at Oswego. They will there find 
good Barracks for that number and may be brought to Sack- 
ett's Harbour in a single day. The contractor ought to be 
apprised of the arrangement. 
Major General Harrison ""/£?' 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

Headquarters, Newark 8th Nov. 1813 

"';■;■:>-.*'.-:■: "'.•■-i?;-iv.';.\::.:' -'■.■■;-. , :> •'^.\:;, Har. Pa. 215-217 

Sir: 

I had last evening the Honor to receive your favor of the 
30th ultimo. The enemy are still at the Head of Burlington 
Bay but my utmost exertion to effect it, have not been suf- 
ficient to obtain such information as I can rely upon, in rela- 
tion to their number or intentions. The necessity of driving 
them from thence was so apparent that I dispatched orders 
from Buffaloe on the 28th Ult. to General Cass to join me im- 
mediately with his Brigade and to General [John] Gano of 
the Ohio Militia to take the command at Detroit. Unluckily 
the vessel which took the order, was driven back and forced 
on shore at Buffaloe with three others. The dispatch to Gen- 
eral Cass and another to Capt, [Jesse D.] Elliott, who now 
commands the vessels on Lake Erie were forwarded by land 



 

to Erie. The Captain has dedined the employment of any of 
his vessels but the five Gun boats and a schooner, for the 
transportation of the troops. Of these, one is on shore at 
Buffaloe and two are lying in the Head of Niagara River. As 
from these circumstances I could not calculate upon the ar- 
rival of Gen Cass time enough to assist in the operation 
against Burlington, I have countermanded the order for his 
coming down. General [George] McClure having informed 
me that he had authority to call for Militia from the neigh- 
ouring counties of New York, I have directed him to call out 
one thousand and I have employed Gen. [Peter Buel] Porter 
and Col. Chapin to raise Volunteers, the whole to serve for one 
month after their arrival here. I have the honor to enclose 
you, returns of the regular troops and of General McClure's 
command. As the enemy must have at least one thousand 
Indians, you will, I am persuaded, agree with me as to the 
necessity of calling out an additional Militia force. It is much 
to be regretted that Col. [Winfield] Scott did not remain here 
with his command. With those I should not have hesitated to 
have advanced upon General Vincent. I still hope to be able to 
effect his removal. I shall have no doubt of it, if I can infuse 
into the New York Militia, the spirit that animates those from 
Kentucky. Every exertion is made to restore the health of 
the regular Soldiers but notwithstanding they are in good 
quarters and are well provided for, the number of sick has 
increased almost daily. A very considerable number are how- 
ever convalescent. 

The expedition to the Head of the Lake would be necessary 
to destroy the subsistence upon the road leading to the Thames 
to prevent the enemy from making any attempts to regain 
the upper province in that direction, in the event of their 
keeping possession of York. 1 found at Fort Niagara a suf- 
ficiency of many articles of clothing for my men, but they are 
in great want of Woollen overalls, some blankets, and stock- 
ings will be wanted also. May I hope that some of these ar- 
ticles will be forwarded immediately. 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter received 
from General Proctor [see Oct. 8 above] by a flag before I 
left Detroit together with my answer directed to General Vin- 
cent. [Nov. 3 above] I thought the opportunity a good one, to 
bring forward the subject of Indian depredations. 



 

Since I began this letter, a decent, respectable looking young 
man has arrived, who says he is a Sergeant in the Glengary 
Regiment and deserted in consequence of his having been dis- 
appointed of promised promotion. I enclose you a copy of his 
examination taken before General's IMcArthur and IMcClure 
[following] . The number of Indians is certainly exaggerated, 
but I do not believe that the amount of Regulars is much under 
what he makes them. As you will be possessed of all the in- 
formation that I have upon the subject, I should like to re- 
ceive your directions. Shall I advance upon the enemy if I 
can obtain one thousand additional jMilitia after leaving three 
hundred men in each of the Garrisons I shall then be enabled 
to march something upwards of two thousand. 

I have the honor to be with High Re- 
' - , spect and Consideration 

.''• I > - . Sir Your Humble Servant 

''''''■ William Henry Harrison 

Honble. John Armstrong Esq. Secretary of War 

Examination of Charles Johnston, A Deserter from the 
British Army 

Har. Pa. 225 

He belonged to the Glengary Regiment, left Burlington on 
the 7th at 9 o'clock acting as Assistant Provost martial that 
he left there, the whole of the Royal Scotch Regiment the 
v/hole of the 100th, the light company of the 8th and the re- 
maining part of the 41st about 150 or 60 Dragoons. The light 
company of the Scotch Royals arrived a few days before he 
left Burlington. He believed that the whole of the forces 
amounted to 2000 regulars and 2000 Indians. They have a 
very large supply of provisions flour and pickled pork — part 
of which, they have been sending to York that a large quan- 
tity of presents vvero distributed amongst the Indians on Fri- 
day last. That he then saw them together and believes that 
there were 2000 warriors, that the Indians who escaped from 
the Battle of the Thames are all there, that the Prophet had 
appointed a succesor to his Brother Tecumseh who was killed 
in said battle. 



 

., . ,- Gen. Vincent TO Harrison 

Head Quarters Burlington Heights 10th November, 1813 

Har. Pa. 230-232 

Sir: 

Lieut. LeBreton having deHvered your letter of the 3rd 
inst. [see above] I have directed Capt. IMerritt of the Provin- 
cial Dragoons to proceed with a Flag to Fort George as the 
Bearer of this acknowledgement of your obliging communica- 
tion. 

The account given of the British officers whom the fortune 
of War has lately placed at the disposal of the United States, 
is such as cannot fail affording very consoling reflections to 
this army and their anxious friends. 

Tho you must be sensible that there are several points in 
your letter respecting which it is wholly beyond my power to 
afford you the satisfaction of an explicit, declaration, yet be 
assured Sir I shall never feel the smallest degree of hesitation 
in joining you in any pledge, that it \\ill ever be my anxious 
wish and endeavour to alleviate as much as possible the fate 
of those who may fall into my power by the chances of war. 

Believe me Sir, I deprecate as strongly as yourself the per- 
petration of acts of cruelty committed under any pretext, and 
I shall lament equally with yourself that any state of things 
should produce them. No efforts of mine will be ever wanting 
to diminish the evils of a state of Avarfare, as far as may be 
consistent with the duties which are due to my King and 
Country. 

The Indian when acting in conjunction with the Troops un- 
der my command, has been invariabley exhorted to mercy, 
and have never been deaf to my anxious entreaties on this in- 
teresting subject. 

I shall not fail to transmit the original of your letter to the 
Lower Province for the consideration of His Excellency the 
Commander of the Forces. I feel particularly anxious to be 
made acquainted with your instructions relative to the dis- 
posal of the gallent and truly unfortunate Captain Barclay, 
whose wounds I lament to hear arc such as to preclude all 
hope of his being ever again able to resume the honourable 
duties of his station. Under these circumstances I am in- 
duced to rely on your liberality and generous interferance to 



 

obtain a release or parole that he may be allowed the indulg- 
ence of immediately proceeding to the Lower Province. 

I have the Honor to be 

your very Obeidient Servant 
. ■ .. John Vincent il/. GenemZ 

His Excellency Major Gen. Harrison 
A true Copy John O'Fallon A. D. C. 



(No. 99) 



Harrison to Secretary of War 

Head Quarters, Newark 11th Nov. 1813 

Q, Har. Pa. 225-22S 

I had the honor to receive your letter of the 3d inst. the day 
before yesterday, [see above] 

I fear there has been some mistake in relation to the period 
of service for which the Militia under General [George] Mc- 
Clure was called out. He says that it was for three months 
only and that the term of the whole will expire in three or four 
weeks. If that is the case and the Regular Troops are sent off 
Fort George will be left without defence unless a new draft is 
made immediately. General McClure has called for 1000 men 
from the two adjoining counties but they were called for one 
month only. I suppose however that as they are drafted men, 
the authority of the Governor would be sufficient to oblige 
them to stay. But the great difficulty will be in getting them 
to remain on this side or even to come over at all, when they 
discover that they are to be retained for three months. I give 
you this information, supposing that it might produce a coun- 
termand of the order for sending McArthur's brigade belov/. 
I should not think it safe, to bring Cass's brigade from De- 
troit at present. It was my intention, if my first order for 
their coming had been successful, to have sent them back 
from Long point after having visited Burligton. [George] 
Dixon passed up from York some time since, with a very large 
quantity of goods. It is possible that he may be able to in- 
duce the Potawatomes, Chippewas and Ottawas again to com- 
mence hostility. I am however, pretty confident that with a 
little attention and address, it may be prevented and perfect 
tranquility restored to the Western Country, which would en- 
able the Government to use the whole of the resources of that 
country in the lower part of Canada. Within a few months 



 

after security is given to the frontiers, our Treasury will re- 
ceive the whole of the large sums which have been expended 
in that District back again for lands. There is much delicacy 
and some dificulty in determining what course is to be taken 
with the hostile Indians. Unless they are treated with some 
forbearance at first, they will conceive their situation so bad 
as to induce them to adopt some desperate course. 

Before I received your letter I was well aware of the neces- 
sity of my returning to the Westward or having some person 
there, vested with general powers for the command of the 
District. It requires immediate attention. In my former let- 
ters I have mentioned the instructions given to the command- 
ants upon the frontiers, to supply them with small quantities 
of provisions and ammunition. Unless this is done, they will 
starve or break upon the frontiers to obtain supplies. I rec- 
ommend that a supply of goods be immediately sent to the 
Factor at Fort Wayne. It would be extremely gratifying to 
me and I believe promotive of the Public Interest if I could 
have an interview with you. Unless I receive before I leave 
this some unexpected information from the West (or orders 
to the contrary) , it is probable that I may take Washington 
in my route. I am accustomed to travel with so much expedi- 
tion that it would make no great difference in the time of my 
arriving in my district. 

To my great disappointment and mortification, I find that 
there are but 400 Cartouch boxes to be procured for the mili- 
tia that are expected. If they should not have them the ex- 
pedition to the Head of the Lake cannot take place. There 
are neither tents nor camp kettles and I fear that the Militia 
of this frontier will not, like the Kentuckians, do without 
them. I am still in the dark as to the intentions of the Enemy 
at the Head of the Lake. I believe that they will retire to 
York, but so strong were the reports, that they were advanc- 
ing upon us yesterday and had reached the 40 miles Creek 
(30 from this) that I changed the disposition of the troops to 
receive an attack. 

. ; With the highest consideration 
. y I have the honor to be Sir 
your Humble Servant 
William Henry Harrison 
Hon. John Armstrong. Esq. Secretary of War 

41—22664 



 

Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No. 100) 

Headquarters Newark 14th Nov. 1813 

- .A*r 'i -. - . Har. Pa. 229 

Sir: ' - ' - - 

I understand that volunteers are commg on in considerable 
numbers to join me from the neighboring counties. I should 
have no doubt of giving a good account of General Vincent 
and his army if his position were not such as precludes I fear 
every hope of reaching him in any other way than by regular 
approaches. For operations of that kind we are entirely un- 
prepared. However, I will go up, if the force that joins me 
is such as is expected and will do the best I can to prevent 
his being troublesome in future. I have an accurate delinea- 
tion of his position, and if I mistake not, it is one of the 
strongest in America calculated either for defence retreat or 
to receive reinforcements from York. Notwithstanding the 
utmost care and attention both of the sick and well, my ef- 
fective regular force daily decreases. I shall not be able to 
march more than six hundred rank and file. 

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of General Vincents 
answer to my letter to him of the 3rd instant, [see Nov. 10 
above] 

. . With the highest consideration and regard 
.', I am sir your, Humble Servant. 
.,.;,=. William Henry Harrison 
Hon. John Armstrong. 

P. S. Col. Wilcox just informed me that the enemy are build- 
ing largely at York and have a considerable force there. 

-;•- :.'V.,h:.,v..:..,^-v:..,.v:- . W. H. H. 

,• . - , Harrison to Clarke 

Head Quarters, Newark 15th Nov. 1813 

- . ' - : , - Har, Pa. 236, 227 

Dear Sir : 

Being ordered to the Westward you will be pleased to re- 
sume the command, which you exercised previously to my 
arrival on this frontier. The orders which you have hereto- 
fore receive will govern you. It will be necessary that you 
keep a vigilant eye over the disaffected part of the inhabitants 



 

and I recommend that you make use of the zeal, activity and 
local knowledge which Col. Wilcox certainly possesses to coun- 
teract the machinations of our enemy and assure the confi- 
dence of our friends amongst the inhabitants. It will how- 
ever, I am pursuaded, be your wish as it is your duty, to guard 
the latter as much as possible from oppression. 

The volunteers which were lately called out, will be re- 
tained as long as you consider their services necessary. The 
drafted militia, untill further orders are received from the 
Sect, of War. There can be little doubt of its being the in 
tention of the enemy to send the greater part of the troops, 
which they have at Burlington and York to Kingston, and to 
make York the right of their line, they may however leave a 
small command at Burlington and these may be so securely 
posted as to render them safe from any desultory expedition 
you may set on foot but it is desirable to have any supplies 
which they may have collected at the Mills in the neighbour- 
hood, destroyed, and should the success below be not such as 
to promise possession of the whole of the upper province, the 
mills may be destroyed. 

Capts. [John] Leonard and [James] Reed or either of them 
are appointed to muster your troops when and where you may 
think proper. 

In closing this communication, I should not do justice to my 
feelings, if I were not to acknowledge the zeal and talents with 
which you have managed your command. Your conduct ap- 
pears to me to have been extremely judicious and proper 
throughout and your troops exhibit a State of improvement 
and subordination which is at once honorable to your officers 
and themselves. 

* V' ^«:^-:^ '^ I am very sincerely Your 
-" ^ / friend and Humble Servant 

-• - William Henry Harrison 
Brig. Gen. W. Clarke 

P. S. 

With regard to the inhabitants of the country who have 
been taken up as spies or for other causes, I have been in a 
great degree governed by the opinions of Col. Wilcox. I rec- 
ommend the same course to you, unless you should discover 
that it leads to an improper result. W. H. H. 



 

, • ■ McClure to Harrison 

_,,.., "-[>'\ Fort George, November 15, 1813 

Cttj . Har. Pa. 2^1 

The subject of our conversation this morning has occupied 
my most serious reflections. The deadly blow heretofore given 
to the patriotism of our citizens on this frontier, have pre- 
pared them for murmurs and complaints. Those who are now 
on the march have left their homes and their business under 
great sacrifices with the certainty of being brought into ac- 
tion. The last address which I issued under your directions 
and which I am happy to find has met your approbation, gives 
them reason for indulging the expectation of service, and they 
are anxious to drive the enemy from their borders forever. 
The high character of Gen. Harrison, combined with these cir- 
cumstances, has excited strong interest in the public mind rel- 
ative to our operations. 

In this peculiar situation of affairs, I feel it to be due to the 
gallant volunteers and militia who are assembled and collect- 
ing, and to my own reputation, most respectfully to solicit, 
that if it is not incompatible with your instructions and your 
better judgment, you will not abandon our projected expedi- 
tion against Burlington Heights. Such is the anxious wish 
of the Militia and I have no doubt the soldiers under your 
command are equally if not more desirous of the employment. 

My anxiety on the subject, I trust will excuse the appear- 
ance of any disrespect in making this communication which 
certainly is far from my feelings. My confidence in the valor, 
ability, and prudence of Gen. Harrison, will dispose me most 
cheerfully to submit to any arrangements he may be bound 
to make, however great may be my disappointment in their 
result. 

I have the honor to be. Sir Your Humble Servt. 

Major General Harrison «^°- McClbre 

., :,.,^ Harrison to McClure 

Head Quarters, Nenvark Nov. 15, 1813 

DEAR Sir: ' ■ Har. Pa. 23s, 21,0 

Your letter to me of this morning has been received. I feel 

most severely the weight of the reasons which you urge for 



 

the prosecution of the intended expedition to Burlington. The 
disappointment however, of the brave and patriotic men who 
have turned out under the expectation of serving their country 
effectually in the field at this inclement season is the most 
painful circumstance attending it, as I am well convinced from 
the information received this morning and last evening that 
the enemy are moving as fast as possible from the Head of 
the Lake to Kingston, which has been left with a very small 
part of the force that was lately there, and it is more than 
probable that should we advance in force the enemy having 
none but effective men at Burlington would destroy the stores, 
which they have remaining there and retreat too rapidly to be 
overtaken. These are considerations however which would 
make it extremely desirable to make an exhibition of force in 
that quarter. But the orders I have received from the Sec- 
retary of War leaves me no alternative. 

Comodore Chauncy is extremely pressing that the troops 
should immediately embark, declaring that the navigation at 
this season to small vessels is very dangerous. The force at 
Sackets harbour is very small, less by one Regiment than the 
Secretary of War supposed it would be when he gave me the 
order for the embarkation of the Regular Troops that are 
here. The troops at York are all hastening down to Kingston. 
Sackets harbour may be endangered by even the delay of a 
few days and should the troops that are here not get down 
before the Lake is frozen, our fleet may be destroyed for the 
want of their aid. I cannot therefore, take upon myself the 
responsibility of delaying their going down even a day. 

Will you be so obliging at the proper time as to explain the 
above circumstances to the Patriots who have left their homes 
with the intention of assisting me to drive the Enemy far from 
our borders, and assure them that I shall ever recollect with 
the warmest gratitude the partiality which they have been 
pleased to express for me and their preference of serving un- 
der my Command. 

I will direct payment to be made to the volunteers for ra- 
tions and forage in coming on. 

Accept my best wishes for your health 
.' .. ^ and happiness and believe me 

i ^ v^.A >- sincerely your friend. 

., ,7 . . V( : ' • William Henry Harrison 



 

Harrison to Secretary op War 
(No. 101) 

, , Head Quarters Newark IGth Nov. 1813 

Har. Pa. 23i 

Sir: 

Comodore Chauncey with the Fleet arrived here yesterday 
morning and informed me that he was ready to receive the 
Troops to convey them down the Lake and that the season was 
so far advanced rendering the navigation dangerous to the 
smaller vessels, that it was desirable they should be embarked 
as expeditiously as possible. As a very small part of the mili- 
tia and Volunteers had arrived and the situation of Sacketts 
Harbour appearing to me to require immediate reinforcement 
I did not think proper to take upon myself the responsibility 
of postponing the departure of the Troops for the Lower part 
of the Lake conformably to the directions contained in your 
letter of the 3rd Instant. The information I received yester- 
day from two respectable citizens that were taken near to Fort 
Meigs in June last and who made their escape in an open boat 
from Burlington confirmes me in the propriety of sending 
them off. These men state the troops were hurrying to King- 
ston from York as fast as possible. The regulars going dovv^n 
in boats and Militia bringing the latter back. 

The troops are now all embarked and are under the com- 
mand of Col. Smith who is an officer in whose capacity and 
bravery the greatest relyance may be placed. 

I shall set out this evening for the seat of Government. 

I have the honor to be with the highest 
\,'"^" "' consideration, Sir, Your Humble Servant. 

'■^ . ' \'- - William Henry Harrison 

John Armstrong Esq Sect of War 

^-f ..:;:: - . McClure to Harrison 

Fort George, 16th November, 1813 

Har. Pa. 235 

My Dear Sir : 

I cannot suffer you to depart from this post without ex- 
pressing to you the great satisfaction I have received from 
our intercourse and my extreme regret that its continuance 
is so short. You carry with you. Sir, the highest esteem and 



 

the warmest admiration of every officer and soldier under my 
command who has had any opportunity of forming an ac- 
quaintance with you. 

Your recommendations will meet with every attention and 
respect in my power, and I shall only regret that you are not 
here yourself to execute them. 

For the terms of approbation which you have been pleased 
to use in speaking of my conduct, I can tender you only my 
thanks. 

With the warmest wishes for your health and prosperity 
and that of your officers with whom I have had the pleasure 
of an acquaintance. 

I remain with utmost respect 
^" ''-" * ^"L " ,, , ' Your friend and servant 

Geo. McClure 
Major Gen. Harrison ' 

Posey Message to Assembly 

December 6, 1813 

,^.. _ - ; Western Sun, December 25, 1813 

" '".' "■ f^ Dillon, History of Indiana, 527 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and of the House of Rep- 
resentatives: 

The period which calls you in your legislative capacity hav- 
ing arrived, it is with pleasure I give my attendance and will 
cheerfully cooperate with you in exerting to promote the pub- 
lic good and welfare of the Territory. 

The present crisis is awful and big with great events; our 
land and nation is involved in the common calamity of war, 
but we are under the protecting care of the beneficent Being 
who has, on a former occasion, bro't us in safety through an 
arduous struggle, and placed us on a foundation of independ- 
ence, freedom, and happiness. He will not suffer to be taken 
from us what he in his great wisdom has tho't proper to con- 
fer and bless us with, if we make a wise and virtuous use of 
his good gifts. 

In the present contest with Great Britain, in contending 
for the preservation of our dearest rights it would be im- 
proper to omit our supplications to that Almighty Being, who 
rules over the universe, who presided in the councils of na- 



 

tions, and whose providential aids can supply every human 
defect. We have great reason to be thankful to him for the 
success of our arms by land and water. Altho' our affairs at 
the commencement of the war wore a gloomy aspect, thoy have 
brightened and promise a certainty of success, if properly di- 
rected and conducted, — of which I have no doubt, as the Pres- 
ident and heads of departments of the general government are 
men of undoubted talents, patriotism, and experience, and who 
have grown old in the service of their country. We have 
reason to be thankful that such men are at the head of our 
affairs. Our army and navy have brought to view officers of 
the gi^eatest bravery, patriotism, sldll, and enterprise. Our 
soldiers and seamen, tho' almost undisciplined, have in many 
instances, fought with as much bravery and perseverance as 
the most hardy veterans. If there is so great a promise at so 
early a period of the war, what must be our prospects should 
the war continue? Our cause is just, and if we have virtue 
and constancy what is there to cause doubt of success? It 
must be obvious to every thinking mind that we were forced 
into the war. Every measure consistent with honor, both be- 
fore and since the declaration of war, has been tried to be 
upon amicable terms with our enemy. If they will not listen 
to reciprocity, and be at peace with us, where is the man who 
is a friend to his countrj'- that will not give a helping hand 
and use his best exertions to presence and maintain inviolate 
the just rights of his country? It is to be hoped there is none 
such. 

I now come to the part we are more immediately interested 
in. Upper Canada is nearly or altogether in possession of the 
armies of the United States. This is a happy event for the 
peace and security of the western country. We partake in a 
very essential degi'ee of the blessing. The communication 
being cut off between the British and Indians, will ensure 
peace with the latter ; and I hope and trust what has caused 
our country to expend so much blood and treasure will never 
be resigned or relinquished. It is essentially necessary that 
the United States should hold possession of Upper Canada at 
least; and true policy would dictate to our government to get 
possession (and keep it) of both Upper and Lower Canada — 
making the citizens free and independent, though to form a 
part of the Union. I could wish, and am fully of opinion, that 
it would be the interest of the United States if the whole 



 

of the British possessions or dominions in North America 
were independent of Great Britain. 

There is a bill before Congress, introduced by Mr. [James] 
Kilbourn, of the State of Ohio, purporting to lay off a district 
of country upon our northwestern frontiers, stretching from 
the Connecticut Reserve and lake Erie to the jMississippi, and 
giving a cei'tain quantity of land as a donation to all who may 
become actual residents. Should the bill pass into a law there 
can be very little doubt of the speedy settlement of the dis- 
trict, — which, together with Upper Canada in our possession, 
will form a barrier that may bid defiance to any Indian hos- 
tilities on any of our frontiers east of the I\Iississippi, and 
no doubt will aiford protection to the Missouri territory. 

I will now call to your attention such subjects as require 
the deliberations of your present meeting. ]\Iuch depends upon 
you, gentlemen, in bringing to maturity such laws as will have 
a tendency to render equal justice to each individual of the 
community, and promote the general welfare of the Territory. 
You, who reside in various parts of the Territoiy, have it in 
your power to understand what ^vHl tend to its general and 
local advantage. 

The judiciary system would require a revisal and amend- 
ment. The militia law is very defective and requires imme- 
diate attention. It is necessary to have good roads and high- 
ways, in as many directions through the Territory as the cir- 
cumstances and situation of the inhabitants will admit of; it 
would contribute very much to promote the settlement and 
improvement of the Territory. Attention to education is 
highly necessaiy; there is an appropriation made by congress 
in land, for the purpose of establishing public schoools. It 
comes now within your province to cany into operation the 
design of the appropriation. The situation and state' of the 
treasury is a necessary subject for your consideration ; a state- 
ment (marked A) [omitted] of the disbursements of the ap- 
propriation made by the legislature at their last session, con- 
stituting a contingent fund subject to my disposition, is here- 
with transmitted. 

All the necessary documents relative to the situation of the 
territory and other subjects as they may occur, shall be com- 
municated from time to time, thro' the course of the session. 

I wish you a pleasant session, recommending harmony and 
dispatch of business. ^^^^,^3 p^^^^. 



 

, , Harrison on the IMilitia 

Toast at Philadelphia Dec. 9, 1813 

Niks' Register 

Gentlemen: 

Permit me to offer j^oii a volunteer toast, and very briefly 
to state the motive whicli prompts me to take one of the reg- 
ular toast of the day as a mean of communicating my opinion. 
Believing, as I do, that a sentiment is gaining gi'ound un- 
friendly to republicanism and injurious to the nation, and 
knowing from my own experience, that the sentiment is not 
well founded, I will give you 

The Militia of the United States. They possess the Ro- 
man spirit and when our government shall think proper to 
give them that organization and discipline of which they are 
susceptible, they will perform deeds that will emulate those of 
the legions led by Marcellus, and Scipio. 

* . ' Harrison to Secretary of War 

\ , ' ' Washington City 21st December, 1813 

-,'1 ■ .; . ' Har. Pa. 245-246 

Sm: 

The probability of the Ohio being soon closed with ice has 
determined me to proceed to the westward tomorrow, altho 
I should have been extremely glad to have had the honour of 
another interview with you. At Cincinnati I shall wait your 
further instructions. The President is apprehensive that the 
enemy will make and attempt this winter to re-occupy IMalden 
and Detroit. An enterprise of that kind is not very improb- 
able for the purpose of regaining the confidence of the In- 
dians. As General Cass has been withdrawn!, I think it im- 
portant that some officer of rank and talents should be sent 
to succeed him. Gen. [Benjamin] Howard can be spared from 
the Missouri Territory. To the Military Talents of Governor 
[William] Clark and his intimate acquaintance with the In- 
dians our affairs in that quarters can be safely confided. 

If the determination of the Government in relation to the 
late hostile Indians should be such as you suggested and which 
I believe is approbated by the President, it is requisite that 
immediate attention be given to that subject to anticipate the 
British Agents who will certainly be at work amongst them. 



 

Those that were formerly employed should be immediately 
paid. A distribution of goods should take place to relieve 
their immediate and pressing wants and moderate quantities 
of provision and ammunition furnished. The late hostile 
chiefs were very desirous of knowing whether the former 
boundary of their lands was to continue. Upon this subject 
I have had some conversation with the President and some of 
the leading western members their opinions seem all decidely 
to coincide with mine that the Indians ought to be made easy 
in this particular because it is evident that upon the restora- 
tion of peace any extinguishments of title which the United 
States may acquire can be effected for a consideration so 
trifling that it ought not to be regarded. 

A considerable portion of the Ohio ]\Iilitia now in service 
may be dismissed, a few will be necessary to garrison certain 
posts upon the frontiers. Shall I expect your particular di- 
rections as to the number of those to be kept up? ]\Iost of 
the Rangers may also be dismissed. One company at St. Louis 
will I think be sufficient for that quarter. But it will be neces- 
sary to raise one at Detroit. I deem this an indispensable 
measure to the safety of that country. What shall be done 
with the horses of [S. G.] Hopkin's Troops of Light Dragoons 
which were left at Cleveland? There is also a quantity of pub- 
lic property at all the Posts in Ohio which is no longer useful. 
Shall it be collected and sold? 

From a letter which has been written from the War Office 
since your departure to the Northern Frontier, I perceive that 
Gen. Howard has been authorised to consider himself as hav- 
ing an Independent command. It will therefore require a 
letter from you directing him to repair to Detroit or requir- 
ing him to receive my orders. 

Upon the subject of Indian affairs I should be glad to re- 
ceive your directions in detail and permit me to request that 
your answer to this letter may be immediately forwarded to 
Cincinnatti to meet me upon my arrival there. 

I have the honor to be with the ]\Iost Respectful Considera- 
tion 

Sir, Your Humble Servant, 

William Henry Harrison 
Honble. John Armstrong 



 

;■ Posey Special Message 

CORYDON, Dec. 27, 1813 

Western Sun, Febmary 19, 181U 

Dillon, History of Indiana, 529, note 

The honorable the President of the Legislative Council: 

Sir: I wish you to communicate to your honorable body 
that the deHcate state of my health will not admit of my longer 
continuance at this place, [Corydon]. I find myself badly 
situated on account of the want of medical aid ; my physician 
is at Louisville, and I have taken the medicine bro't with me. 
The weather is moderate now, which will be favorable to my 
going on to Jeffersonville, where any communications that 
the two houses of the Legislature may have to make will find 
me. Mr. [Basil?] Prather will, in the most expeditious man- 
ner, bring them on, and it ^vill take but a short time for me 
to act upon them and for his return, v>^hich would not detain 
the Legislature in session more than a day longer. Be as- 
sured, sir, that nothing but imperious necessity compels me to 
this step. 

Accept of assurances of my high respect for yourself and 
your honorable body.^ 

Th: Posey 

Secretary of War to Harrison 
-;■ -'^ ■ ' ■' ■' War Department Dec. 29th 1813 

' ' ■ Har. Pa. 85, SO 

Sir: 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter 
of the 21st and 22d instant, [see above] 

Captain [Charles Scott] Todd has been, as you wished, ap- 
pointed an asst. to Inspector General, in the room of Lieut. 

1. The Governor's decision to leave the capital for his home before the end of the 
legislative session excited fconie censure, as is shown by the following communication to 
the Western Sun, Feb. 19, ISM: 
"Mr. [Elihii'i Stout, [Editor]: 

"It is said in some parts of this Territory that the murmur raised in Vincenncs 
against the Governor, on account of his leaving the seat of government during the 
session of the legislature, is unfounded, and treating him with ingratitude, for that his 
leaving the seat of government during the session, was known to the legislature, and 
by them approved of. To put a stop to the error, I give you a copy of his excellency's 
letter to the president of the Legislative Council, and the resolution entered into imme- 
diately upon reading his Ictlci-, which I trust will be sufficient evidence to the people 
of the Territory that the Legislative Council did not approve of his plan, mode, and 



 

[Levi] Hukill deceased. Lieut. [David] Tremble will be placed 
where you desire, if it be practicable. You are apprised of 
the excitement and clamor which follows the introduction of 
strangers into old Corps, and in violation of the rule of sen- 
iority. It is this circumstance that gives occasion to any de- 
gree of doubt on the subject. 

Dr, [Edward] Scull shall be appointed to the 19th Regi- 
ment. I am entirely of opinion that the enemy will endeavour 
to reestablish himself to the West. The failure of the cam- 
paign on the St. Lawrence, and the late abandonment of the 
Peninsula by General McClure will quicken his hopes and en- 
deavours in the prosecution of this policy. To recover his as- 
cendencj'- over the Indians, he must stretch himself to the 
Westward and take a position which will facilitate his com- 
munications with them. The British Settlements on the 
Thames will furnish this position. These facts indicate the 
course we ought to pursue. 

1st. These settlements must be broken up and converted 
into a desart or they must be held by a superior force — a force 
competent to controul the inhabitants and to meet any auxiliary 
means General Prevost may detach for the purpose of recov- 
ering what Proctor has lost. Between these two modes of 
proceeding we cannot hesitate — the former is the cheapest and 
surest. 

2nd. We must conciliate the late hostile tribes and make 
them parties with us in the War. This cannot be done but by 
supplying their wants and by assuring them that their pres- 
ent boundaries shall continue, as though no War had arisen 
between us. 

3rd. Thus engaged, they should be led early in the Spring 
against the British frontier. Let loose upon that and well di- 
rected, we should not by the 1st day of June have a British 

manner of abandoning the seat of government. [Here follows the Governor's message, 
as given above.] 

"On motion of Mr. [Walter] Wilson, [of Kno.x] the Legislative Council came to 
the following resolution : 'Whereas, it hath been represented to this house that his 
excellency the Governor is about to leave the seat of government and go to the town 
of Jeffersonville, in Clark county, — Resolved, therefore, by the Legislative Council and 
House of Representatives, that the committee of enrolled bills be instructed not to 
deliver the enrolled bills to any person except his excellency.' This resolution was sent 
to the House of Representatives for concurrence; the following day the House of Rep- 
resentatives infoiTncd the Council that they had concurred in the above resolution. By 
the above letter and resolution you mu.-t think that the Governor's leaving the scat of 
government met with the disapprobation of the Legislature. 

' ' A Subscriber." 



. 

settler west of Kingston. A question may occur here — under 
what, if any restrictions as to their mode of warfare we ought 
to employ them? This question has in it no difiiculty. Under 
what justification do we employ them at all? The example 
of the enemy. It was not our choice but theirs, and but an 
appeal made to their fears after having unsuccessfully made 
man3^ to their justice. The experiment should therefore have 
fair play. All the horrors brought to our firesides ought to be 
carried to theirs. Nor is this a policy of mere retaliation. The 
settlements in upper Canada abandoned their posts cannot be 
supplied, and will of course be also abandoned. 

General Mason will receive directions to forward supplies 
agreeably to a list which I understand you left with him and 
it will be for you to judge of the quantities of provision and 
ammunition that shall be distributed. Such portions of the 
Ohio Militia as can in your opinion be safely dispensed \^ith 
should be immediately discharged. The 1st and part of the 
24th Regt. of Infantry should be withdra\\Ti, and put on their 
march for Sackett's Harbour. General [Benjamin] Howard's 
opinion may decide what portion of the Rangers may be re- 
tained in Service. If two or more of these be thought useless, 
at St. Louis or its vicinity, two others may be substituted for 
them at Detroit. General Howard will be instructed to take 
your orders. 

I cannot add by anything I can say to the interest you will 
take in filling up the Regiments of the Line which have hith- 
erto formed your Division. Most of these have been raised 
and will be recruited within your District. If any new legis- 
lative measures be taken in relation to the recruiting service 
they shall be immediately communicated. It is worthy of in- 
quiry how many Riflemen could be engaged under the denomi- 
nation of Volunteers, within the State of Kentucky for the en- 
suing campaigii and within what time they could be brought 
to Sackett's Harbour. 

The Horses of [S. G.] Hopkin's troop may be sold and those 
and other articles the property of the public to which you al- 
lude, and which do not appear to be longer useful. A report 
of the articles and the prices at which they shall be sold will 
be sent to this office. The enemy have crossed the Niagara, 
burnt Lewiston and carried Fort Niagara by surprise. These 
new and humiliating circumstances furnish fresh reasons for 



 

quickness and vigor in the course we adopt for engaging the 
Indians and otherwise defending what your last Campaign 
has given us. Will the fleet be safe at Erie and at put-in-Bay? 
If not, should you not take that circumstance into the account 
and make provision accordingly? .. 

Major Genl. Harrison Cincinnati, 0. 

" ^" - Harrison to Secretary of War 

(No. 102) 

Head Quarters, Pittsburgh, 29th Dec. 1813 

Ear. Pa. 2i8 

Sir: 

You have been informed that the two ships, taken by Como- 
dore Perry from the enemy were left at Put in Bay under the 
protection of a small guard of Infantry. As there can be no 
doubt but the enemy will make every exertion to destroy our 
fleet on Lake Erie and as it can easily be effected with regard 
to these at the Bay without much difficulty, I think we should 
anticipate them and destroy them ourselves. The guns on 
board these vessels would be of immense importance to the 
enemy. Without them they could not arm their vessels, even 
should they succeed in building one or two at Long Point after 
destroying the whole of ours. I think that this subject re- 
quires immediate attention. 

Permit me to remind you of the claims of Col. Smith for the 
command of the contemplated Rifle Brigade. 

Our vessels at Erie should in my opinion be enclosed with 
Picketts, it would not be difficult to efl"ect it. 

I have the Honor to be with gi-eat Respect 
Sir Your Humble Servant 
i William Henry Harrison 
Hon. John Armstrong. Esq Secretary of Wen- 

Secretary of War to Harrison 
f , . ., War Department January 1st 1814 

'■-- -^- -^ ' Har. Pa. 87, 88 

Sir: 

We are advised by Genl. [James] Wilkinson that a corps of 
two thousand five hundred men were pushed up the St. Law- 
rence by forced marches for Kingston. It is less probable that 



 

this corps is destined against Sackett's Harbour as suggested 
by the General than that it is going westward to re-establish 
the British power on the Detroit or to take the place of corps 
who may have already moved with that intention. 

We are advised also by captain [Jesse D.] Elliott that the 
ships in put-in bay may require some troops for their protec- 
tion during the winter. Of the number of these you ^^ill be 
the most competent judge. The vessels at Erie are also to be 
protected, but for these I shall make provision through the 
Governor of Pennsylvania and by recruits from Pittsburg. 

Genl. [Lewis] Cass's Brigade has suffered a most rapid 
and alarming diminution. At the date of his last Brigade re- 
turn, his rank and file fit for duty did not exceed 470 and this 
is said to have been since reduced to less than half that num- 
ber. An epidemic little, if at all under the control of medi- 
cine, is believed to be the cause. This circumstance and that 
contained on the first paragraph of this letter offer sufficient 
reasons for continuing the Ohio Regiments of Militia in sei'\'- 
ice, until by other calls or by the organization of a Volunteer 
force (which may be better) you may be able to meet the exi- 
gencies of the moment. 

The President bids me to say to you, that on reflection he 
thinks the measure indicated in my last letter with regard to 
the British settlers on the Thames is more severe than may 
be proper and that of course you will change it for the fol- 
lowing viz : to make prisoners and remove to our settlements, 
so many of the male British settlers as may be most disposed 
to do us harm. 
Major Genl. Harrison 

J ' '; J' Secretary of War to Harrison 
:,. • : .- War Department Jany. 8th, 1814 

-t - .-,,= . ^ Har. Pa. S9 

Sir: 

The measure you suggest of burning the ships in Put-in 
Bay can only be resorted to when all others calculated for 
their defense have failed. The ships themselves present a 
heavier battery than any that can be brought against them 
on the ice. If therefore precautions be taken against board- 
ing they may winter securely. Some efficient officer and a 
competent garrison should occupy the Block House. Genl. 



■'  

[Lewis] Cass has probably left Detroit for Albany. General 
[Benjamin] Howard should lose no time in pressing forward 
to the former of these places. 

There are about twelve hundred public arms at Cleveland 
with which you will arm any new corps of militia to be called 
out or which, should the enemy continue to ascend the Lake 
and burn the Villages, you may distribute for purposes of de- 
fence. 
Major Genl. Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department January 11th, 1814 

Har. Pa. 95 

Sir 

You are authorized to invite the late hostile Indians to a 
Treaty of Peace. Time must be allowed for General Mason 
to get forward his supplies. You v/ill select the place of hold- 
ing the treaty. Fort Wayne suggests itself. Let us know 
•your decision with regard to both time and place as earlj^ as 
possible. 
Major General Harrison 

' M 'V Secretary of War to Harrison 

; - y _ War Department January 13th 1814 

Har. Pa. 96 

Sir: 

Herewith inclosed you will receive a copy of a requisition 
made by General Cass for a detachment of ]\Iilitia from the 
State of Ohio and a copy of my letter to the Governor on the 
subject. You Avill adopt such further arrangements as the 
good of the service may require. 
Major Genl. Harrison, Cincinnati 

'• • Prevost TO Dickson 

,:' ' Jan. 14, 1813 

Mich. Pio. and Hist. Soc. Pub. XV, 218 

Reposing especial trust in your Zeal, loyalty and ability, I 
have been induced to appoint you to be agent for the Indians 
of the several Nations to the Westward of Lake Huron, by 

42—22664 



 

Commission dated on the 1st Jany. 1813, \vith a salary of £200 
per Annum payable through the accounts of the Indian De- 
partment and the several allowances of a superintendent to- 
gether with an allowance of £300 A. H. C. per Annum which 
\vi]\ be paid you from another source, to cover all traveling and 
contingent expenses. 

It appears to be highly expedient for the benefit of the Pub- 
lic Welfare in this part of H. M. Dominions that as effective 
an Indian force as practicable should be brought forward next 
spring from amongst the Western Nations, to be employed 
when circumstances may require their Aid in the Province of 
Upper Canada. With a view therefore to accomplish this ob- 
ject and to give greater respectability and efficacy to your 
exertions, you are hereby furnished with a Commission from 
me, and you are required to proceed without delay upon the 
Service. 

I approve of LaBaye [Green Bay] and Chicago being the 
place of rendezvous for the Indians,, where as many of the 
articles stated in the returns submitted by you to the Confi- 
dential Board at Montreal, as can be furnished will be ordered 
to be sent as early as possible in the spring from Amherstburg 
and Michilimackinac, and you have authority to purchase such 
provisions as maj^ be absolutely necessary for the subsistence 
of the Indians until the several Articles arrive, as also some 
Tobacco & Liquor, to be given them as a regale. When Col- 
lected You will report the same to the Oflicer Commg in Up- 
per Canada, stating to him the Number of Warriors dispos- 
able, and wait instructions for their movements from thence 
according to the Circumstances of the War. 

You have Authority to make such requisitions as may be 
necessary upon H. M. Indian storekeepers or other proper 
officers for such goods and provisions, as from time to time 
shall be Considered needful for the accomplishment of the Ob- 
ject in Viev/, such requisitions being with the Knowledge & 
Concurrence of the Officer Comg. H. M. Forces at the Post 
where the requisition is made. Instructions to this eff'ect will 
be given to the proper Officers by ]\Iajo Genl Sheaffe and Sir 
John Johnson. 

Amable Chevalier the Ottawa Indian will be allowed to ac- 
company you upon your intended excursion and may be con- 
sidered as a Lieut. & Interpreter and receive pay of 5 s. Cur- 
rency per day. Captain Norton may also proceed with you 



" -i-l  

from Niagara to Amherstburg, and return as soon as possible 
if Major Genl. Sheaffe can dispense with his services for the 
period he would be absent. 

You will be allowed to employ a number of officers, not ex- 
ceeding Five Who must be men of intelligence and confidence, 
& a Number of Interpreters well versed in the languages of the 
Western tribes not exceeding 15, being in all 20. The Offi- 
cers will hereafter be furnished with Commissions as Lieutts. 
with Provincial rank and the pay of 6s 6d per day and allow- 
ances, The Interpreters will have w^arrants & pay at the 
rate of a Dollar a day & allowances. The above numbers of 
officers and interpreters are mentioned in the Anticipation 
that upwards of 1000 picked Warriors will be Collected. If 
less than that number the Officers and interpreters should be 
in proportion. 

During the period of your present employment it is to be 
understood that you are not to be engaged in any trade what- 
ever, & your appointment is only intended during the war 
with the United States, unless Government should see fit at 
the peace to prolong it. It is also to be understood that the 
subordinate appointments are only to continue during the war. 

In the policy to be strictly observed, in your conduct towards 
the different tribes, it is desirable that you should endeavour 
to conciliate them to act together harmoniousl3^ that you 
should restrain them by all the means in your power from 
acts of Cruelty and inhumanity, encouraging in them a dis- 
position to preserve an alliance of friendship with their great 
father the King of England, by whose special favour they are 
indulged with his protection, and that the presents and other 
comforts they now receive flow from his bounty, in his kind 
consideration to preserve them and their families from the 
miseries to which they are exposed by an Enemy overrunning 
their Country. 

The Indians in General should be instructed to hold out to 
all Americans whether in arms or otherwise that they must 
retire beyond the boundary line fixed by Wajme's treaty and 
that no Americans can be allowed to remain on the Indian 
side of the line, without the risk of being treated as enemies, 
except where reserves have been granted by treaties with the 
Indians, and it is to be clearly understood that the Indians 
. only are to appear as the movers in such proceedings. 

You will report to me from time to time by the most ex- 



 

peditious route all your proceedings & you will carefully main- 
tain a communication with the ofllcers commg His IMajesty's 
Forces in U. Canada, respecting the success or difficulties 
which may attend the important service j'ou have undertaken. 

George Prevost, Com. of the Forces 
To Robert Dickson 

Gano to Harrison 

Head Quarters, 0. M. Lower Sandusky 

January 17, 1814 

Am. St a. Pa. Mil. Aff. I, 656 

Dear General: 

The disagreeable news from below occasions me to have 
great anxiety for the vessels at Put-in-bay. I proceeded a 
few days ago to Portage, in order to cross to see their situa- 
tion ; the ice prevented my going by water and was not suffi- 
cient to bear. I have, however, been relieved by a visit from 
Lieutenant Champlain, and Doctor Eastman of the navy, who 
came up the night before last and returned yesterday; they 
came over on the ice, though it was very thin in places. The 
lieutenant informs me he has ten seamen and forty soldiers, 
and has his vessels and guns so prepared, that, in case of an 
attack, he can bring about forty to bear from on board and 
a small block-house, on the rocky point of land near the ves- 
sels. I shall, by his request, and my own opinion of the ne- 
cessity of the measure, send a reinforcement of about thirty 
of the regulars from Seneca, as soon as the ice is sufficiently 
strong to bear them. At the fort at Portage I have o:ne hun- 
dred militia, which may render them some assistance if nec- 
essarj'- ; my troops are very much scattered, and I believe every 
post is in a tolerable state of defence. The troops have had 
immense fatigue since they have been out, they are now more 
healthy, and appear in better spirits since two months' pay 
has come on, though nothing will induce them to continue 
longer than their term of service, which expires the last of 
next month. Majors Vance and I\Ieek arrived three days ago 
from Detroit, and have an exalted opinion of the vigilance and 
arrangements of Colonel Butler; the officers Captains Holmes 
and Hill, commanding Maiden and Sandwich, have put them- 
selves in the best possible state of defence. A detachment 
under the command of IMajor Smiley has gone up the river 



 

Thames. The mihtia at Detroit are discontented, a number 
sick, some dead, etc. I have been hawk and buzzard as to sup- 
plies — the commissary and contractor — and I fear that with 
all the exertions that can be made some of the posts must 
suffer; at Lleigs no flour, and two or three other posts in the 
nearly the same situation. I called on the contractors and 
urged the necessity of immediate supplies, but I cannot rely 
on their promises. The want of forage has nearly destroyed 
all the transport on this line ; I have urged Captain Gardner to 
supply the agent of that department, at this place, with funds 
for that purpose but to no effect. I have been lately very un- 
well, but have recovered, except a lame ancle. As it is un- 
certain where this will meet you, I shall not give a detailed 
account until I know where you are, and will then write more 
fully, and send you a report of the troops under my command. 
I have the honor to be, your most obedient and very humble 
. . , servant, 

John S. Gang 

P. S. Six o'clock P. M. An express from Erie has just ar- 
rived here, a naval officer with a letter from General Cass, and 
a request from Captain Elliot for a reinforcement for Put-in- 
Bay of two hundred men. I have ordered Lieutenant ]\Ic- 
Farland from Seneca with all his effective regulars, about 
thirtj' able to march being all the disposable force I have, 
except a small command at Portage erecting a fortification 
there, from which I will detach a part, though the whole can- 
not make more than a third of the number required. From 
information there is not the least doubt but an attempt will 
be made to take or destroy the vessels; it is the opinion of 
Lieutenant Packet and General Cass also. Will it not be 
proper to send on some regular troops or militia from the in- 
terior without delay? 

John S. Gano 

His Excellency Wm. H. Harrison 



. M, Harrison TO Shelby 

■' ■ Head Quarters Cincinnatti 17th Jany. 1814 

I V. \ From Governor Isaac Shelbi/a "Letter Book B" 45 

^ • Dear Sir ' 

The situation of our frontiers requiring in my opinion all 
the regular Troops to be marched from the interior I must 



 

request your Excellency to detach a command of one Lieuten- 
ant one Ensign and sixty-five non-Comniissioned Ofllccrs and 
privates to guard the Arsenal and the Prisoners of war at 
Newport. 

I have the honour to be with great respect &. consideration 
: ' , • Your Excellency 

Humble servt. 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Gov. Isaac Shelby, Frankfort 

; Vm ! ; '. Gang TO Harrison 

;' ' V , " ._ Head Quarters, 0. M. Lo\YER Sandusky, 

:''■■; \ January 25, 1814 

. Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Aff. I, 656 

Dear General: 

Yours of the 16th inst. I received this day, and directed my 
brigade major to make the enclosed report, by which you will 
see the situation of the troops under my command. I have 
issued orders as per enclosed copies. The difficulty in for- 
warding provisions, owing to the impossibility of transporta- 
tion by land, has been and is, severely felt; the troops at 
Meigs have been obliged to take flour from Winchester them- 
selves, there being no other means of transport, and are now 
but scantily supplied; I have urged the contractors on this 
head, but have received nothing but fair promises, until my 
patience is entirely exhausted, and I have directed Mr. Oliver 
to supply. A man from Put-in-bay left here this morning. 
He informs me the detachment I sent on had not been able to 
cross, but are waiting at the point of the peninsula, and will 
cross as soon as possible; I have ordered Major Crooks with 
some militia to cross ; which will make the force there as fol- 
lows : sailors twenty two, Atkins' command forty-two, all now 
there; [Daniel] McFarland with twenty-eight regulars on the 
march, and Crooks with Captain Howel's company, say fortj^ 
which is one hundred and thirty-two, and I have one company 
at the fort at Portage. I fear the provisions at the island are 
not sufficient to support them until the ice will break up to 
afford water transportation to them; and at Portage they de- 
pend on this place for flour, which is scarce; they have, hovr- 
ever, meat enough here. Thus, you see, as before I observed 



':!;  

to you, we have been between liawk and buzzard — the con- 
tractor and commissary, I am informed the detachment that 
returned to Detroit from the Thames did not succeed in get- 
ting the quantity of provision expected, I am also informed, 
by some officers from Buffalo, that the British were preparing 
a secret expedition; their destination unknown. I am happy 
to inform you every exertion has been made at Detroit, Sand- 
wich, and Maiden to defend those places to the last extremity 
and the commanding officer, since General Cass left there, de- 
serves great credit. Neither of those places will be given up 
without, some fighting; the officers commanding each are in 
high spirits, and have great confidence in their ability to de- 
fend their posts. Some artillery officers have passed on to 
Detroit, and I am of opinion that some active regular officers 
are wanting there, as many have left it. The militia have 
been very much reduced there, as you will see. I must inform 
you I have lost a number of my militia, out of the few I had 
here. I buried at this place fifteen or sixteen, which is as 
gi'eat a proportion as they have lost at Detroit ; and one other 
small part of a company has buried seven. I have never men- 
tioned this part of the subject before, as I thought it best to 
keep it close. I am informed some Canadians attempted to 
cross from Long Point to Put-in-bay, but found the ice in- 
sufficient and returned; their object not known. I assure you 
I have and will continue to use every exertion for the good 
of the service ; I have had the arms, etc. that the Kentuckians 
threw away at Portage collected, and the principal part 
brought to this place, and the cattle and some horses have 
been taken and converted to public use. There is plenty of 
ammunition at Fort Meigs, but it is scarce on this line. I sent 
for powder to Meigs, but our means of transportation was 
such that we only received two hundred pounds half cannon ; 
but I am informed there is a large quantity on board the ves- 
sels fixed and unfixed, and six thousand five hundred stand 
of arms, some field carriages, etc. which I have ordered to be 
brought over as soon as the ice will permit; the roads arc so 
very bad it has been impracticable. I am well satisfied I have 
not been ordered to Detroit, and particularly' as General Cass 
appeared to be opposed to it; and I have had an immense 
trouble in regulating my different posts, and quieting the mur- 
murs of my militia. They are very good, but not such as 1 



 

used to take the field with when we were first acquainted in 
the former Indian wars. I have ordered to be transmitted to 
the secretary of War the sentence of two general court mar- 
tials, as I (by the articles of war) am authorized to approve 
of the sentence, and have it carried into effect. If those pow- 
ers are delegated to you, sir, please to inform me by the 
bearer. Mr. Sallion, Avho has been stationed at Fort Meigs 
in the commissary's line, can give you much information on 
many points that I cannot at present. General Cass, by my 
request, ordered Colonel Paul to inspect the militia at this 
Post, Portage, Meigs, Findlay, Upper Sandusky, and Mc- 
Arthur, and Captain Moore on the other line, which is com- 
pleted by this time. 

I have the honor to be, with great respect and esteem, your 
most obedient and humble servant. 

John S. Gano 
His Excellency William H. Harrison ^ -m 

P. S. You will see a great diminution of my force, many 
being sick and absent, and I having discharged two companies 
by your order to escort the prisoners, etc. My first report was 
two thousand one hundred and thirty-four, and the amount or- 
dered to Detroit was near six hundred. You see now the 
number of effectives there are amazingly reduced. 

- Shelby TO Harrison 

- ' ■ '• ■ Frankfort January 25th 1814 

Frmn Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" 17 i 

Dear Sir 

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt last evening of 
your favour of the 17th inst., [see above] requiring me to 
order to Newport one Lieutenant, 1 Ensign and sixty-five 
non-Commissioned Officers & privates to guard the Arsenal 
& prisoners of war at that place. 

In consequence of which I have ordered Major General Bos- 
well commanding the division most contiguous to that point 
to detach immediately from his command the force you re- 
quire, and order them to their post of destination without the 
least possible loss of time. 

As you have not stated for what length of time their services 
would be required I have ordered them out for three months 



 

from the time they arrive at Newport unless sooner discharged 
by your Orders, if therefore it should be necessary to relieve 
this detachment at the expiration of their time of service you 
will be so good as to apprise me in time that it may be effected 
in due season. 

Permit me to congratulate you on your safe arrival to your 
familj'- who I hope you found in good health — I am sure you 
must want rest and trust the cause of your Country will now 
afford you the opportunity to enjoy it at your own fireside — 
I will take this occasion too to thank you for the loan of your 
sorrel horse, and to inform you that I left him in the care of 
General Gano (as you requested) at lower Sandusky he prom- 
ised me to take special care of it and let you know that he 
had him in charge. 

With sincere regard & esteem 
I remain 

Dear Sir '.. 

Your most obt. servt. 

Isaac Shelby 



Genl. Harrison 



Gano to Harrison 



Lo\VER Sandusky, January 27, 1814 

Am. Sia. Pa. Mil. Aff. I, 657 

Dear General: 

Captain Payne has called on me to sanction his drawing 
funds for his department ; I have thought proper to refer him 
to j^ou ; I am informed a good supply of corn may be had near 
a mill forty miles from this. Will it not be advisable to have 
three or four hundred of meal forwarded on to the army? 
The flour the contractor's agent promised, should have been 
here ten days ago, but has not arrived, and owing to the dis- 
appointment we are reduced in that article at this post to 
nineteen barrels Senecca, seventeen Portage. I sent four bar- 
rels there yesterday; at Meigs they are very short, at Win- 
chester they have two or three hundred barrels, but short of 
meat. I must confess I have been completely deceived and 
disappointed by them, they having stated it was on the road. 
I gave them notice 24th December, to have three months' ra- 
tions at different posts for the number of men specified. Cap- 
tain Payne knows the situation ; you will please give him such 



 

directions as you think proper, on this subject; he ceiiainly 
exerted himself much to my satisfaction, in forwarding pro- 
visions and clothing to Detroit; you know him. If he could 
get leave to settle his accounts it may be best. Excuse this 
suggestion. If you had not arrived in your district, I was 
determined to have sent in every direction and purchased pro- 
visions at all events for the troops in service, and those that 
were to relieve them, but I am happy the arrangement has 
fallen into your hands, for I think I would hang half of the 
quartermasters and all the contractors, if I was to remain in 
sei'vice much longer ; and I am astonished how you have man- 
aged with them to effect the objects you have, for there ap- 
pears no system or regularity with any of them. I have or- 
dered one company more to this place from Findlay, and a 
sergeant, two corporals, and twelve men from Upper Sandusky 
to that post, which is all the force I can order hero from 
this and the centre line. This day's report is eighty sick, at 
Meigs. I am happy to inform you the troops at Detroit are 
recovering, for you see we can afford them but little aid. If 
a successful attempt is made at Put-in bay, (which God for- 
bid, and I think impossible,) we may have a visit from them. 
We will endeavor to give a good account, for my men are in 
high spirits, and I have added much to the strength of this 
place; we are not well supplied with ammunition, but have 
sent for some from the shipping and Franklinton. 
I am, with great respect, your humble servant. 

John S. Gano 

M. Elliott to Glegg 
;•> ■"'■'- ■ Beach 31st January 1814 

" ■ Mich. Hist, and Pio. Soc. Pa. XV, J,Si 

Sir, 

The Indian I\Iessengers I had sent to the Westward arrived 
to day at 12 o'clock Just as I received your letter. 

They brought a Speech on Wampum from their Brethern 
expressing their joy at our success and their anxious wishes 
for our speedy arrival among them, telling their Father that 
they have only taken the Big Knife by his fingers end and 
have spoken to them from the lip outwards and that they are 
always ready to obey their Father's order so soon as given. 
That they are more afraid of the French inhabitants who are 



".  

all armed, than of the American Troops, because if they hear 
of their having received messages from this place they will 
seize their wives & children and put them in confinement. 

The messengers report that the inhabitants have made the 
Indians believe that the Americans had cleared all before them 
to Quebec & that the small remnant was shut up in Quebec 
living on dogs & horses. 

The Americans they suppose are in expectation of a rein- 
forcement at Detroit as a vast number of Hogs & Cattle are 
daily killed & the store kept full. The Detroit with about a 
hundred Shot Holes on her is at Amherstburg ancl all the other 
vessels at Presquisle. This we will be more certain of when 
Captain Caldwell arrives. Our Friends to the westward make 
a demand of arms & ammunition and Vvish us to send about 
forty men loaded with the articles. Arms also & Gunpowder 
are wanted for the people here of the first I secured some from 
Kingston & you can supply the latter. The Stores here will 
othen\ise answer all the demands. 

The Sakies & Foxes as they intend to go to their own coun- 
try are arriving at Detroit, will take their Families with them, 
but as there are not many of them the Expence will not be 
considerable. The other Tribes leave their families here. 
six hundred warriors if wanted are readj^ to cooperate with 
the Troops & only wait the call. 

Upon this point the Lieut Genls further directions are re- 
quested — 

Altho' desirous of manifesting in the name of H. R. H. 
the Prince Regent, his desire to maintain a perfecT:ly good 
understanding with the Western Indians & to protect them 
from the encroachments of the U. S. upon their territory I 
am disposed to relinquish that wish provided Lt. Genl. Drum- 
mond is satisfied that the reasons alleged are Just &, ought 
to be attended to — 

I had almost forgot to mention that I received a few days 
ago a letter on the Subject of the projected Expedition from 
His Honor Lieutenant General Drummond requiring my opin- 
ion about employing only the Delawares & Munscys, and also 
his desire that no useless consumer of provisions should be 
allowed to go along. I certainly am of his & General Riall's 
opinion as to the last but I stated to him on the subject of the 
Munseys & Delawares, that it appeared to me impolitic, & 



 

might occasion jealousies, & I proposed a selection from all 
the Tribes, amounting to the number that might be required, 
as a step that I was sure would give general satisfaction, 

I am now recruiting slowly & hope in a few days to be able 
to undertake any sei'vice General Riall may wish to be per- 
fonned. 
. I have the honor to be Sir 

Your obedient Humble Servant 

M. Elliott S. I. A. 
To Capt. J. B. Glegg 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Feby. 5th 1814 

■ Hao: Pa. 97 

Sir: 

Brig. General Howard's destination to Detroit has been sus- 
pended. The state of his health is represented as bad. [he 
died Sept. 18] This may account for your not having heard 
from him. I inclose the substance of Lt. Worley's informa- 
tion. 

Will it not be well to bring off the guns from the ships at 
Put-in-bay? Were the vessels completely dismantled, they 
would form a small object for the enterprise of the enemy. 

The alarms for the safety of Erie and the shipping there, 
which followed the disasters on the Niagara brought together 
a host of 3000 volunteers and militia. If the passage of the 
Lake be practicable to the enemy why not to us also? 1000 
of the Volunteers may cross over to long-point and break up 
that establishment. Orders to this effect have been given. 
Major General Harrison 

Gano to Harrison 

Lower Sandusky, February, 10, 1814 

Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Af. I, 657 

Dear General: 

The day before yesterday I returned from Foii: Meigs, after 
making some necessaiy arrangements there. I have one addi- 
tional company of men at Portage, who have orders to cross, 
as soon as the ice will admit, which will fill the complement 
required. They marched from Fort Findlay; the man who 



 

floated off on a cake of ice is safe. It wafted him to the ice 
fast to the island a singular escape. I believe the vessel safe, 
but will be ready to afford all the protection in my power. I 
have been obliged to discharge some men who had certificates 
of having served a month last summer a year. The men are 
all anxious to be relieved; they have had a busy tour, and 1 
would be glad to have those at the island relieved before, or 
by the time their term of service expires ; and if those on this 
line could be mustered at Upper Sandusky, if you approve can 
deposite their arms there, and those of Detroit and Meigs 
could be mustered at Winchester or St. i\Iary's. I will await 
your orders on this subject, and if I remain alone will keep 
this post until relieved or ordered away, though I feel anxious 
to see my family, and particularly on account of the indisposi- 
tion of a part of it. 

I have ordered the arms from this to Franklinton that want 
repair, and if you advise tents and camp kettles, axes, etc., 
could be sent in by return wagons. There has been no pos- 
sible way of removing the six or seven thousand stand of arms, 
etc, etc, from the vessels. My brigade major has not been 
able to return, and I think there has been a kind interposition 
of Providence in the protection of the vessels. This winter, 
provision has been extremely scanty ; we have been reduced to 
half a barrel flour here, but I ordered from Seneca three bar- 
rels, and purchased or borrowed two or three for the company. 
At Portage, and at Fort Meigs, they were four days without, 
though twenty-four barrels arrived there the night before I 
left there, and more expected. Mr. Oliver informs me, sup- 
plies will shortly be on to this place ; you must have received 
the news from Detroit as late as this, therefore I will not com- 
municate. Please present my compliments to your good lady 
and familj'', and believe me to be, with much esteem. 

Your most obedient humble servant 

John S. Gano 
To His Excellency Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department Feby 10th 1814 

'- Har. Pa. 98 

Sir 

Your letter of Dec 24th addressed to the Department of 



 

State has boon referred to this Department and conformably 
to your offer, I have to request you to forward charges with 
such evidence as you may possess, relative to the mal-conduct 
of John Sibley, Indian agent at Natchiteches. 
Wm. H. Harrison 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jefferson viLLE, 17th Feb. 1814 

■ - Har. Pa. 281, 282 

Sir: 

I herewith inclose to you an annual return of the militia 
of this Territory, the aggregate of which including officers, 
commissioned and non-commissioned and rank and file, will 
amount to 5017. This number I thought sufficient to form 
three divisions six brigades and twelve regiments. The num- 
ber as well as the large extent of the Territory and dispersed 
situation of the militia would justify it and the Territory is 
increasing very fast in population. A consideration of the 
foregoing circumstances, together with the more practical 
mode of discipline has induced me to the formation of the 
militia in the manner mentioned. 

I have not yet completed my selection of General officers, 
but shall make out a list and transmit to you in a few weeks, 
to be commissioned by the President. [The return was not 
found] 

I have the honor to be with much respect 
Your obt. and Humble Servant. 

Th. Posey 
Gen. John Armstrong Sect, of War 

P. S. The Adjutant General informs me he has inclosed 
the annual return of the militia a few days since. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department March 2nd 1814 

Har. Pa. 99 

Sir 

I had the honor of receiving your letter of the 13th ult. As 
a general principle it cannot be doubted but that the Govern- 
ment has a right to dispose of the Officers of the Army as they 
may think best for the public interest because (among other rea- 
sons) they alone can be acquainted with all the demands made 



 

upon them by that interest. The utmost therefore that either 
reason or economy requires of them is to advertise the ofBcer 
commanding a District of the abstractions which pubhc poHcy 
makes necessary from his command. The order in question 
was a notice of "this sort" and of course strictly an observance 
of military usage. Had it been sent through you to General 
Howard, the objects of Government might have been hazarded 
by the delay which would have necessarily attended this mode 
of transmission. The fact out of which it grew is that Gen- 
eral Flournoy had sought a recall from New Orleans and that 
in casting about for a successor General Howard was selected. 
Major General Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department March 3rd 1814 

Har. Pa. 100 

Sir: 

Governor Cass and some of the members of Congress from 
the State of Ohio have suggested as part of the arrangement 
to be made with the Indian tribes at the ensuing treaty — a 
commutation of land: for instance, that the Wyandots, Dela- 
wares and Shawonese should on relinquishment of their for- 
mer settlements and removal to the country between the Mis- 
sissippi and Illinois Rivers, be established therein. The pol- 
icy of separation would, in theory as well as practice, be 
useful. So long as their settlements and ours actually touch 
each other collisions are to be feared. The policy also of keep- 
ing our own line of settlements unbroken, is obviously sound. 
How far the Indians may be disposed to meet us on these 
grounds is questionable. On this point make the necessary 
inquiries and communicate the result in time to shape the 
instructions which it may be proper to give on the subject. 

Your letter stating that you had deputed ]\Ir. [John] John- 
ston to hold a preliminary meeting with the Indians has been 
received. 
Major Genl. Harrison 

Elliott to Stewart 

, • ' Delaware March 4th, 1814 

Sir, 

I have this day had a meeting with the Indians, on the sub- 



 

ject of carrying a quantity of ammunition to their friends 
within the American Territory. The result is that they re- 
fuse to proceed with the ammunition on the ground that our 
regular troops do not advance further than the Settlements 
on the River Thames, and of course would be of no use in pro- 
tecting their friends, in the enemies country. The Americans 
might hear of these supplies being sent to the Indians & the 
consequence would be fatal, perhaps to their whole Tribes. 
They would therefore rather suffer for want of ammunition, 
than endanger themselves or their families. 

I am &c. 

M. Elliott 
To Col. Alexander Stewart 



Holmes TO Butler 

Fort Covington, March 10th, 1814 

HistoHcal Register IV, i-9 

Sir, 

I have the honor to submit in writing, that the expedition 
sent under my command against the enemy's posts by your 
special orders of the 21st ultimo, had the good fortune on the 
4th instant to meet and subdue a force double its own, fresh 
from the barracks, and led by a distinguished officer. 

I had been compelled to leave the artillery, by the invincible 
difficulties of the route from Point au Plait to the Round 0. 
No wheel carriage of any kind had ever attempted it before, 
and none will ever pass it until the brush and fallen timber 
are cut away, and the swamp causewayed or drained. After 
joining captain [William] Gill, I began the march for Fort 
Talbot, but was soon convinced of its being impossible to reach 
the post, in time to secure any foi'ce which might be there or 
adjacent. This conviction, united with the information that 
the enemy had a force at Delaware upon the Thames, that I 
should be expected at Fort Talbot, and consequently that a 
previous descent upon Delaware might deceive the foe, and 
lead him to expose me some point in defending others he 
might think menaced, and coupled with the possibility that 
he.'U'ing of captain Gill's march to the Round 0, by M'Gregor's 
militia, whom he had pursued, a detachment had descended 
the Thames to intercept him, determined me to exercise the 



 

discretion allowed by the order, and to strike at once upon 
the river. 

On the 3d instant, when only fifteen miles from Delaware, 
we received intelligence that the enemy had left Delaware 
with the intention of descending the river, and that we should 
probably meet him in one hour; that his force consisted of a 
light company from the Royal Scots, mustering for duty 120 
men; a light company from the 89th regiment of foot (effi- 
ciency not Imown) ; Caldwell's Indian and M'Gregor's mili- 
tia: amounting all to about 300 men. My command originally 
had not exceeded 180 rank and file. Hunger, cold, and fatigue 
had brought on disease, and though none died, all were ex- 
ceedingly depressed, and sixteen had been ordered home as 
unable to continue the march. I resolved therefore to avoid 
the conflict on equal gi'ounds, and immediately retreated five 
miles for the sake of a good position, on the western bank of 
the Twenty Mile Creek, leaving Captain Gill with twenty 
rangers to cover the rear, and to watch the enemy's motions. 
We had encamped but a few minutes, when captain Gill joined, 
after exchanging shots with the enemy's advance, in vainly 
attempting to reconnoitre his force. The Twenty Mile Creek 
runs from north to south, through a deep and wide ravine, 
and of course, is flanked east and west by lofty heights. My 
camp was formed upon the western heights. The enemy's 
upon the opposite. During the night of the 3d all was quiet. 
At sun-rise on the 4th, the enemy appeared thinly upon the 
opposite hights, fired upon us without effect, and vanished. 
After waiting some time for their re-appearance lieutenant 
[John] Knox of the rangers was sent to reconnoitre. On his 
return, he reported that the enemy had retreated Avith the 
utmost precipitation, leaving his baggage scattered upon the 
road, and that his trail and fires made him out not more than 
seventy men. Tvlortified at the supposition of having retro- 
graded from this diminutive force, I instantly commenced 
the pursuit, with the design of attacking Delaware before 
the opening of another day. We had not however proceeded 
beyond five miles, when captain [Stephen] Lee, commanding 
the advance, discovered the enemy in considerable force, ar- 
ranging himself for battle. The symptons of fear and flight 
were now easily traced to the purpose of seducing me from the 
heights, and so far the plan succeeded. But the enemy failed 

43—22664 



634 INDIANA HISTOPwICAL COLLECTIONS 

, to improve the advantage. If he had thrown his chief force 
across the ravine above the road, and occupied our camp when 
rehnquished, thus obstructing my communication to the rear, 
I should have been driven upon Delaware against a superior 
force, since found to be stationed, or forced to take the wilder- 
ness for Fort Talbot, without forage or provisions. Heaven 
averted this calamity. We soon regained the position at 
Twenty Mile Creek, and though the rangers were greatly dis- 
heartened by the retreat, and to a man insisted upon not 
fighting the enemy, we decided an exhibit to that spot the 
: scene of death or victory. 

I was induced to adopt the order of the hollow square, to 
prevent the necessity of evolution, which I knew all the troops 
- were incompetent to perform in action. The detachments of 
the 24th and 28th infantry occupied the brow of the heights. 
The detachment from the garrison of Detroit formed the 
north front of the square, the rangers the west, and the mili- 
tia the south. Our houses and baggage stood in the centre. 
The enemy threw his militia and Indians across the ravine 
above the road, and commenced the action with savage yells 
and bugles sounding from the north, west, and south. His 
regulars at the same time charged dov/n the road from the 
opposite heights, crossed the bridge, and charged up the 
heights we occupied within twenty steps of the American 
line, and against the most destructive fire. But his front sec- 
tion was shot to pieces. Those who followed were much 
thinned and wounded. His officers were soon cut down, and 
his antagonists continued to evince a degree of animation that 
be-spoke at once their boldness and security. He therefore 
abandoned the charge, and toolc cover in the woods at diffused 
order, between fifteen, twenty, and thirty paces of our line, 
and placed all hope upon his ammunition. 

Our regulars, being uncovered, were ordered to kneel that 
the brow of the heights might partly screen them from the 
enemy's view. The firing increased on both sides with great 
vivacity. But the crisis was over. I knew the enemy dared 
not uncover, and of course no second charge would be at- 
tempted. On the north, west, and south front the firing had 
been sustained with much coolness, and with considerable loss 
to the foe. Our troops on those fronts being protected by 
logs, hastily thrown together, and the enemy not charging 



' ■"  

both the rifle and the musket were aimed at leisure, perhaps 
always told. The enemj^ at last became persuaded that Pi'ov- 
idence had sealed the fortune of the day. His cover on the 
east front was insufficient; for as he had charged in column 
of sections, and therefore, when dispersing on either side of 
the road, was unable to extend his flanks and as our regulars 
presented an extended front from the beginning, it is evident 
that a common sized tree could not protect even one man, 
much less the squads that often stood and breathed their last 
together; and yet upon his regulars the enemy relied for vic- 
tory. In concert therefore, and favored by the shades of twi- 
light, he commenced a general retreat after one hour's close 
and gallant conflict. 

I did not pursue, for the following reasons. 1. We had tri- 
umphed against numbers and discipline, and were therefore 
under no obligation of honour to incur additional hazard. 2. 
In these requisites (numbers and discipline) the enemy were 
still superior, and the night would have insured success to an 
ambuscade. 3. The enemy's bugle sounded the close upon the 
opposite heights. If then we had pursued, we must have 
passed over to him as he did to us, because the creek could 
be passed on horseback at no other point, and tlie troops being- 
fatigued and frost bitten, and their shoes cut to pieces by the 
frozen ground, it v/as not possible to pursue on foot. It fol- 
lows, that the attempt to pursue would have given the enemy 
the same advantage that produced the defeat. 

Our loss in killed and wounded amounted to a non-commis- 
sioned oflicer and six privates; but the blood of between 80 
and 90 brave Englishmen, and among the 4 officers, avenged 
their fall. The commander, captain Barden of the 89th, is 
supposed to have been killed at an early stage of the contest. 
The whole American force in action consisted of one hundred 
and fifty rank and file, of whom seventy were militia, includ- 
ing the rangers. The enemy's regulars alone were from one 
hundred and fifty to one hundred and eighty strong, and his 
militia and Indians fought upon three fronts of our square. 

I am much indebted to all my regular officers, and trust 
their names will be mentioned to the army and to the war 
department. Without intending a discrimination it must be 
acknowledged that the exertions of lieutenant [John C] 
Kouns and [William] Henry of the 28th and [Hezekiah] Jack- 



 

son and [John C] Potter of the 24th were most conspicuous, 
because fortune had opposed them to the main strength of the 
foe. Captain Lee of the Michigan dragoons was of great as- 
sistance before the action at the head of the advance and spies, 
and my warmest thanks are due to acting saiHng-master Darl- 
ing of the United States schooner Somers, who had volun- 
teered to command the artillery. Ensign Heard of the 28th, 
acting as volunteer adjutant, merits my acknowledgments, and 
especially for his zeal in defending my opinion against a final 
retreat, when others permitted their hopes to sink beneath the 
pressure of the moment. 

The enemy's wounded and prisoners were treated with the 
utmost humanity. Though some of our men were marching 
in their stocking feet, they were not permitted to take a shoe 
even from the dead. 

I have the honor, to be with perfect respect, sir, your most 
obedient servant, 

(Signed) A. H. Holmes 

Cwptain 2Uth Infantry 

Lieutenant-Colonel [Robert] Butler, commanding the Tcrn- 
tory of Michigan mid its dependencies 

Harrison to Secretary of War 

H. Q. Cincinnati, March 22nd, 1814 
' ■ , McAfee, TJie Late War, ^3-^7 

Sir, 

The tribes of Indians upon this frontier and east of the Mis- 
sissippi, with whom the U. S. have been connected by treaty, 
are the Wyandots, Delawares, Shawanoese, Miamies, Potawat- 
amies, Ottawas, Chippewas, Piankasshaws, Kaskaskias, and 
Sacs. All but the two last were in the confenderacy, which 
carried on the former Indian war against the United States, 
that was terminated by the peace of Greenville. The Kaskas- 
kias were parties to the treaty, but they had not been in the 
war. The Wyandots are admitted by the others to be the 
leading tribe. They hold the grand calumet, which unites 
them and kindles the council fire. This tribe is nearly equally 
divided between the Crane at Sandusky, who is the grand 
Sachem of the nation, and Wal-in-the-Water at Brownstown, 
near Detroit. They claim the lands, bounded by the settle- 
ments of this state, southwardly and eastwardly ; and by lake 



. ■ :. -  

Erie, the Miami river, and the claim of the Shawanoeso upon 
the Auglaize, a branch of the latter. They also claim the 
lands they live on near Detroit, but I am ignorant to what 
extent. 

The Wyandots of Sandusky have adhered to us through the 
war. Their chief, the Crane, is a venerable, intelligent, and 
upright man. Within the tract of land claimed by the Wyan- 
dots a number of Senecas are settled. They broke off from 
their own tribe six or eight years ago, but receive a part of 
the annuity granted that tribe by the U. States, by sending 
a deputation for it to Buffaloe. The claim of the Wyandots 
to the lands they occupy, is not disputed, that I know of by any 
other tribe. Their residence on it however, is not of long 
standing, and the country was certainly once the property of 
the Miamies. 

Passing westwardly from the Wyandots, we meet with the 
Shawonese settlement at Stony creek, a branch of the big 
Miami, and at Wapockaunata on the Auglaize. These set- 
tlements were made immediately after the treaty of Green- 
ville, and with the consent of the Miamies, whom I consider 
the real owners of those lands. The chiefs of this band of 
Shawanoese, Blackhoof, Wolf, and Lewis, are attached to us 
from principle as well as interest — they are honest men. 

The Miamies have their principal settlements at the forks 
of the Wabash, thirty miles from fort Wayne; and at Missis- 
sineway, thirty miles lower down. A band of them under 
the name of weas, have resided on the Wabash sixty miles 
above Vincennes ; and another under the Turtle on Eel river, 
a branch of the Wabash, twenty miles northwest of fort 
Wayne. By an artifice of the Little Turtle these three bands 
were passed on general Wayne as distinct tribes, and an an- 
nuity was granted to each. The Eel river and Weas however 
to this day call themselves Miamies, and are recognized as 
such by the Mississineway band. The Miamies, Maumees, or 
Tewicktovies, are the undoubted proprietors of all that beau- 
tiful country which is watered by the Wabash and its branches ; 
and there is as little doubt, that their claim extended at least 
as far east as the Scioto. They have no tradition of removing 
from any other quarter of the country ; where as all the neigh- 
boring tribes, the Piankishaws, excepted, who are a branch 
of the Miamies, are either intruders upon them, or have been 



 

permitted to settle in their country. The Wyandots emigi'ated 
first from lake Ontario, and subsequently from lake Huron — 
the Delawares, from, Pennsylvania and i\Iaryland — the Shaw- 
anoese from Georgia — the Kickapoos and Potawatamios from 
the country between lake IMichigan and the Mississippi — and 
the Ottawas and Chipewas from the penninsula formed by 
the lakes IMichigan, Huron, and St. Clair, and the streight 
connecting the latter with Erie. The claims of the Miamies 
were bounded on the north and west by those of the Illinois 
confederacy, consisting originally of five tribes, called Kas- 
kaskias, Cahokias, Peorians, IMichiganians, and Temarois, 
speaking the Miami language, and no doubt branches of that 
nation. 

When I was first appointed governor of Indiana Territory, 
these once pov*'erful tribes were reduced to about thirty war- 
riors, of whom twenty-five were Kaskaskias, four Peorians, 
and a single Michiganian. There was an individual lately 
alive at St. Louis, who saw the enumeration made of them 
by the Jesuits in the year 1745, making the number of war- 
riors four thousand. A furious war between them and the 
Sacs and Kickapoos, reduced them to that miserable remnant, 
which had taken refuge amongst the white people of the towns 
of Kaskaskia and St. Genevieve. The Kickapoos had fixed 
their principal village at Peoria, upon the south bank of the 
Illinois river, whilst the Sacs remained masters of the coun- 
try to the north. 

During the war of our revolution, the Miamies had invited 
the Elickapoos into their country to assist them against the 
whites, and a considerable village was formed by that tribe 
on the Vermillion river near its junction with the Wabash. 
After the treaty of Greenville, the Delawares had with the 
approbation of the INIi amies, removed from the mouth of the 
Auglaize to the head waters of White river, a large branch 
of the Wabash and the Potawatamies without their consent 
had formed two villages upon the latter river, one at Tippe- 
canoe, and the other at Chippoy twentj^-five miles below. 

The Piankishaws lived in the neighbourhood of Vinconnes, 
which was their ancient village, and claimed the lands to the 
mouth of the Wabash, and to the north and west as far as the 
Kaskaskians claimed. Such was the situation of the tribes, 
when I received the instructions of President Jefi"ersou shortly 



 

after his first election, to make efforts for extinguishing the 
Indian claims upon the Ohio, below the mouth of the Ken- 
tucky river, and to such other tracts as were necessary to 
connect and consolidate our settlements. It was at once de- 
termined, that the community of interests in the lands amongst 
the Indian tribes, which seemed to be recogiiized by the treaty 
of Greenville, should be objected to; and that each individual 
tribe should be protected in every claim that should appear 
to be founded in reason and justice. But it was also deter- 
mined, that as a measure of policy and liberality, such tribes 
as lived upon any tract of land which it would be desirable 
to purchase, should receive a portion of the compensation, al- 
though the title might be exclusively in another tribe. Upon 
this principle the Delawares, Shawanoese, Potawatamies, and 
Kickapoos were admitted as parties to several of the treaties. 
Care was taken however, to place the title to such tracts as it 
might be desirable to purchase hereafter, upon a footing that 
would facilitate the procuring of them, by getting the tribes 
who had no claim themselves, and who might probably inter- 
fere, to recognize the titles of those who were ascertained to 
possess them. 

This was particularly the case with regard to the lands wa- 
tered by the Wabash, which were declared to be the property 
of the Miamies, with the exception of the tract occupied by 
the Delawares on White river, which was to be considered the 
joint property of them and the ]\Iiamies, This arrangement 
was ver}^ much disliked by Tecumseh, and the banditti that 
he had assembled at Tippecanoe. He complained loudly, as 
well of the sales that had been made, as of the principle of 
considering a particular tribe as the exclusive proprietors of 
any part of the country, which he said the Great Spirit had 
given to all his red children. Besides the disaffected amongst 
the neighboring tribes, he had brought together a considera- 
ble number of Winebagoes and Folsovoins from the neighbor- 
hood of Green Bay, Sacs from the IMississippi, and some Ot- 
tawas and Chipewas from Abercrosh on Lake Llichigan. These 
people were better pleased with the climate and country of 
the Wabash, than with that they had left. 

The Miamies, resisted the pretensions of Tecumseli and his 
followers for some time, but a system of terror was adopted, 
and the young men were seduced by eternally placing before 



 

them a picture of labor, and restriction as to hunting, to which 
the system adopted inevitably would lead. The Potawatamies 
and other tribes inhabiting the Illinois river and south of lake 
Michigan, had been for a long time approaching gradually 
towards the Wabash. Their country, which was never abun- 
dantly stocked with game, was almost exhausted of it. The 
fertile regions of the Wabash still afforded it. It was repre- 
sented, that the progressive settlements of the whites upon 
the that river would soon deprive them of their only resource 
and indeed would force the Indians of that river upon them, 
who were already half starved. 

It is a fact, that for many years the current of emigration, 
as to the tribes east of the Mississippi, has been from north 
to south. This is owing to two causes; the diminution of 
those animals from which the Indians procure their support; 
and the pressure of the two great tribes, the Chippewas and 
Sioux to the north and west. So long ago as the treaty of 
Greenville, the Potawatamies gave notice to the Miamies, that 
they intended to settle upon the Wabash. They made no pre- 
tensions to the countrj^, and their only excuse for the intended 
aggression, was that "they were tired of eating fish, and 
wanted meat." It has been already observed that the Sacs 
had extended themselves to the Illinois river, and that the set- 
tlement of the Kickapoos at the Peorias was of modern date. 
Previously to the commencement of the present war, a con- 
siderable number had joined their brethren upon the Wabash. 
The Tawas from the Des Moins river have twice made at- 
tempts to get a footing here. 

From these facts it will be seen, that it will be nearly im- 
possible to get the Indians south of the Wabash to go beyond 
the Illinois river. The subject of providing an outlet to such 
of the tribes as it might be desirable to remove, has been un- 
der consideration for many years. There is but one. It was 
long since discovered by the Indians themselves, and but for 
the humane policy which has been pursued by our government, 
the Delawares, Kickapoos and Shawanoese would long since 
have been out of our way. The country claimed by the Osages 
abounds with everything that is desirable to a savage. The 
Indians of the tribes above mentioned have occasionally in- 
truded upon them — a war was the consequence, which would 
soon have given a sufficient opening for emigration. But our 



 

government interfered and obliged the hostile tribes to make 
peace. 

I was afterward instructed to endeavour to get the Dela- 
wares to join that part of their tribe, which is settled on the 
west side of the Mississippi near Cape Girardeau. The at- 
tempt was unsuccessful at the time. I have no doubt how- 
ever, that they could be prevailed on to move; but it ought 
not in my opinion to be attempted in a general council of the 
tribes. 

The question of the title to the lands south of the Wabash 
has been thoroughly examined: every opportunity was af- 
forded to Tecumseh and his party to exhibit their pretensions, 
and they were found to rest upon no other basis, than that 
of their being the common property of all the Indians. The 
Potawatamies and Kickapoos have unequivocally acknowl- 
edged the Miami and Delaware title. The latter as I before 
observed can I think be induced to remove. It may take a 
year or eighteen months to effect it. The Miamies will not 
be in our way. They are a poor, miserable, drunken set, di- 
minishing every year. Becoming too lazy to hunt, they feel 
the advantage of their annuity. The fear of the other In- 
dians has alone prevented them from selling their whole claim 
to the United States; and as soon as there is peace, or the 
British can no longer intrigue, they will sell. I know what 
inducements can be held out to the Wyandots to remove ; they 
were not formerly under my superintendence, but I am per- 
suaded that a general council would not be the place to at- 
tempt it. 

I have the honor, &c. &c. „,,, tt tt.^^ ^,. 

' Wm. H. Harrison 

Glaus to Loring 

York 28th March 1814 

Mich. Hist, and Pion. Soc. Pub. XV, 525 

Sir 

I received a letter yesterday from Colonel [Matthev^'] Elliott 
of the 25th Instant. I herewith transmit for the information 
of His Honor Lieut General Drummond. I have directed 
Colonel Elliott to send off the runners immediately to Mar- 
pock & the Potawatamies. 

Col. Elliott ought to know the strength of the Nations that 
is said to have joined the Enemy, but I am at a loss to know 



 

where they can have such a force. I know the Hurons are 
very weak & most of the Shawanese moved some years ago 
to the West of the Mississippi, the Delawarcs whose place of 
residence is on the Eel River near the head of the Wabashe are 
the strongest Nation, but the distance is so great that I should 
doubt very much their coming forward with the enemy. The 
want of Wampum is very great as no business can be done 
with Indians without it, a Requisition was send down more 
than twelve months ago for that article, but none was re- 
ceived. 

I also put under cover a letter from Major Givins of the 
23d instant addressed to me on the subject of Rations being 
issued to the families of officers of the Indian Department. I 
beg leave to submit the same to His Honor the president hop- 
ing that the same indulgence may be granted to the Indian 
Department that this order gives to the Staff & Army in the 
Country. 

I have the honor to be Sir 
. Your most obedient humble Servant. 

• W. Claus, D. S. G. 
To Capt. Robert R. Loring 

■ ;_" ■ :• Posey Convening Assembly 

April 4, 1814 

, Western Sun, Apr. 16, 18H 

■ - PROCLAMATION 

WHEREAS, congress has passed an act to establish the 
mode of laying off the territory of Indiana into districts for 
the election of its members of the legislative council ; 

Now be it known to all concerned that I, Thomas Posey, 
governor and commander in chief in and over the Indiana 
territory, by virtue of the above recited act, do issue this my 
proclamation, requiring that the members of the house of rep- 
resentatives of said territory do convene at Corydon, the seat 
of government, on Wednesday, the first day of June' ensuing, 
then and there to take up the subject of the aforesaid act, 
agreeable to the intent and meaning thereof. 

Given under my hand and seal at the town of JefTersonville, 
this 4th day of April, in the year of our Lord, 1814. 

^' ■■ :. Th: Posey 



 

. ^ ' , John Johnston to Huffman 

PiQUA, Ohio April 12, 1814 

Har. Pa. 285, 286 

Dear Sir : 

Agreeabl}^ to my promise made to you when last at this 
place, I now communicate the result of my enquiries after 
your chiled. I am sorry indeed that the prospect of getting 
him is so remote, had he remained in the custody of the In- 
dians I would have had the happiness of shortly restoring him 
to you. [See Mar. 24 and Apr. 1, 1813, above] 

The following is a true copy of a certificate which I yester. 
day received from Saint Joseph of Lake Michigan relative tc 
my inquiries : 

We do hereby certify that we are known to a delivery 
made unto Captain Charles Roberts in the service of his 
Britance Majesty commanding at the Island of Mickel- 
imackinac by Joseph Bailly a British Trader from the 
River Saint Joseph of a Prisoner Boy named Peter, 
(the surname unknown to us), about six years old, fair 
.'. complexion, and sandy hair taken at the River Ohio, by 

Saw Omock or the yellow Beaver in the month of march 
1813. 

(signed) John W. Burn^^tte 
(signed) Antone Quitmot 

dated mouth of the River Saint Joseph March 20, 1814 

Thus you see now it is out of my power to take any farther 
step for the recovery of your child he being now in the pos- 
session of the British, it is possible that Capt. Roberts motive 
in taking the child was a good one, and that he may intend 
to have him restored to his people. 

I have thought that the best course to pursue under existing 
circumstances as Mackinac will probably be abandoned by the 
English this spring would be for you to apply to M. [Jona- 
than] Jennings the delegate from your Teriitory, or to Gov- 
ernor Posey, deliver this letter, and ask them to apply to the 
secretary of War, forwarding this letter at the same time to 
him, and procure the interference of the Government in your 
behalf, the proper course in my opinion would be to instruct 
the commanding general near the Head of Lake Ontario or 
on the Niagara Strait to apply to the British General com- 



 

manding in that quarter, for the release of your son. Capt. 
Roberts will be somewhere in that country you ought to for- 
ward an accurate description of your son and this letter should 
accompany the same to the War office. I have no doubt small 
as the case is but the head of the War Department will in- 
terest himself for you. The presumption is if Capt. Roberts 
is ordered to evacuate the Fort at IMacldnac he will take the 
boy down with him. 

Wishing that you may soon have the happiness of behold- 
ing your child again I remain with much respect. [See 
Ketcham's narrative end of 1812 above] 

Your most Ob. Servant 

John Jopinston, Indian Agent 
Mr. Benjamin Huffman near Charleston Clarke County In- 
diana Territory 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 21st. 1814 

Har. Pa. 101, 102 

Sir: 

I have the honor to aclmowledge the receipt of your letters 
of the 30th ult. and 10th inst. [Not found] Of the ti?»c and 
place of holding the treaty, you will yourself decide — taking 
as your guides, the economy in the one case that may be found 
in delajdng it until green forage will do away [with] the ne- 
cessity for dry and the public safety as well as convenience in 
the other of holding it without the limits, but not remote from 
our own settlements. The President approves your ideas of 
not mingling with the question of peace any proposals for 
either buying or exchanging lands. 

P. S. Capt. [John] O'Fallon may remain with you as your 
aid. The new law on this subject permits captains to be taken 
as the aids of Major Generals — Lieuts, of Brigadiers. 
Major General Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

- War Department April 22d, 1814 

:■ • ^: "' '.: ■ , • Har. Pa. 102, 10 It 

Sir: 

Mr. [B. G.] Orr, the contractor, has presented abstracts 



 

to a considerable amount, on v/hich monies liave been advanced 
to him on account. Circumstances however induce a belief 
that a considerable quantity of the provision represented by 
these abstracts have been purchased by agents of your appoint- 
ment and with public money advanced to them here. It is 
important that the fact in its whole extent and in its details 
should be ascertained and reported to this Department with as 
little delay as possible. Permit me to invite your attention to 
this subject and to hope from it the means of judging how 
far we have been and shall hereafter be safe in making ad- 
vances to this contractor. Part of the information must come 
from Detroit. 
Major Genl. Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 23d 1814 

Har. Pa. 103 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inclose a letter from John Mason Esq. 
Comd. Genl. of Prisoners announcing the President's inten- 
tion of releasing on parole the British Prisoners, hostages 
in Kentucky, Pittsburg &c. The object of this note is to ask 
you to assign some discreet officer of our army to accompany 
them on their march to the frontier; to indicate the route 
most convenient for them and for us, and the place at which 
they may be passed over to a post of the enemy. Can they 
go from Erie? or must they go to Niagara? The form of 
the parole to be signed by them is inclosed. The prisoners at 
Pittsburg ^nll be retained until those coming from Kentucky 
will arrive there (Pittsburg). They will then go on together. 
Genl. Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 2oth 181 1 

Hur. Pa. 105 

Sir: 

I have the honor to inclose the copy of an order [not found] 
sent directly to Detroit for the purpose of saving time in the 
arrangements necessary to its execution. I am &c. &c. 
Major Genl. Harrison 



 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department April 29tli 1814 

Har. Pa. 106 

Sir: 

There are reasons for discontinuing all purchases made by 
commissaries. You will therefore be pleased to give your 
orders accordingly and direct supplies to be made by the con- 
tractor. The commissaries will send in their accounts for 
purchases made by them and accompany them by the neces- 
sary vouchers. If any abstracts for provisions of their pro- 
curing have been put into the hands of IMr. [B. C] Orr, or of 
any Deputy of his, the amount will be reported. 
Major Genl. Harrison 

Harrison to Shelby 

Head Quarters Cincinnatti May 2d 1814 
From GovoiTior Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book B" 49 

Dear Sir 

The term of service for which the militia at Newport were 
called out being about to expire, I have to request of your Ex- 
cellency to have detailed from the militia of your State, one 
Captain, one first Lieutenant one Second Lieutenant one third 
Lieutenant one Ensign five Sergeants, six Corporals, two 
musicians and ninety privates to relieve those now serving at 
New Port as a guard to the British Prisoners. 

As the engagements of those now in service will expire 
about the 12 or 15 inst., it is important that the new detach- 
ment should be pushed on as soon as possible. 

Until this day I had supposed that I had written to you be- 
fore on this subject but upon examining my papers I find that 
I was mistaken 

I am Dear Sir with great truth your devoted friend 

WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
His Excellency Isaac Shelby Governor of Kenhi.chij 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort 5th ]\lay 1814 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" 185 

Dear Sir: 

I have to acknowledge the r(>ceipt this moment of your fa- 



 

voiir of the 2nd inst., conformable to which I have issued my 
order to l\Iajor General Wm. E. Boswell to direct the organ- 
ization and march from his Division as speedily as possible 
a detachment of militia to the amount of your requisition, 
for the purpose of guarding the British prisoners at New Port 
for another term of three months. 

I have great doubts whether they can arrive in time to re- 
lieve those now on duty before the expiration of their term 
of service, but everything will be done (that can) to expedite 
their march — As those now on duty are volunteers and it 
being too late for them to engage in any business for the pres- 
ent season I think it most probable that they will cheerfully 
continue another tenor of ninety days or at least until they are 
duly relieved by the new guard — I have therefore directed 
Genl. Boswell to continue as many of the detachment now on 
duty as will consent to serve other ninety days. 

With sentiments of sincere friendship and esteem I have 
the honor to be 

your most obt. ser\i:. 

Isaac Shelby 
His Excellency Major General Wi^i. Henry Harrison 

Harrison to the President 

> 

Head-quarters, Cincinnati, May 11, 1814 

The Tippecanoe Text Book, It9 [Niks' Regisicr] 

Dear Sir — I have this day forwarded to the secretary of war 
my resignation of the commission I hold in the army. [Not 
found] 

This measure has not been determined on, without a refer- 
ence to all the reasons which should influence a citizen, who 
is sincerely attached to the honor and interests of his coun- 
try; who believes that the war in which we are engaged is 
just and necessary; and that the crisis i-equircs the sacrifice of 
every private consideration, which could stand in opposition 
to the public good. But after giving the sul^ject the most 
mature consideration, I am perfectly convinced, that my re- 
tiring from the army is as compatible with the claims of pa- 
triotism, as it is with those of my family, and a proper regard 
for my own feelings and honor. 

I have no other motives in writing this letter than to as- 



 

sure j^ou, that my resignation was not produced by any dimi- 
nution of the interests I have always taken in the success of 
your administration, or of respect and attachment for your 
person. The former can only take place, when I forget the 
republican principles in which I have been educated ; and the 
latter, when I shall cease to regard those feelings, which must 
actuate every honest man, who is conscious of favors that it 
is out of his power to repaj'. 

Allow me, etc. 

Wm. Henry Harrison 
James Madison Esq. President of U. S. 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville, May 12, 1814 

<^ . Har. Pa. 2S0 

For the better government, organization, and discipline of 
the Militia, I have laid off the Territory into three Divisions, 
six brigades, and twelve regiments, and have nominated the 
Major Generals and Brigadiers, a list of which I send on to be 
commissioned by the President of the U. S. agreeably to the 
provisions of the ordinance for regulating the Territories. 
Since the last return of the strength of the Territory there has 
been a very considerable augmentation and increase of the 
militia by a numerous imigration, and in the last return there 
is no mention of the Squadron of Cavalry, or of four Com- 
panies of Rangers. The increase of iiraiiigration which is very 
likely to continue very rapidly, and the return of the Rangers 
to the Militia will fully justify the arrangement. Not having 
any General officers appointed in the Territory, the ^Militia 
have been subjected to be commanded by General officers from 
the state of Kentucky, which has been a very considerable 
matter of complaint by them. I have arranged the officers as 
they are to take rank. For ]\Iajor Generals I nominate Joseph 
Bartholomew first in rank, who will command the second Di- 
vision. James Dill Second in rank to command the third Di- 
vision, and Robert M. Evans third in rank to command the 
first Division. For Brigadier Generals first Division, first 
Brigade, Hugh McGary — 1st Division 2nd brigade Walter Wil- 
son — 2nd division 3rd Brigade Joseph Paddocks, — Second Di- 
vision fourth Brigade William IMcFarland — third Division, 
fifth Brigade James Noble — Third Division sixth Brigade 



 

George Hunt — The commissions for the Brigadiers to be of 

the same date, who will take ranke agreeably to former services 

— The arrangement that I have made I think is for the good 

of the Service. There can be no doubt but it will have the 

effect to produce greater attention to discipline and give a 

considerable degree of consequence to the whole body of I\Iili- 

tia. 

I have the honor to be with respect your 

humble Servant ^ ^ 

Th. Posey 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department May 14th 1814 

^ Har. Pa. 107 

Sir: 

The inclosed copy of a letter to the President will sufficiently 
indicate the plan of campaign for the ensuing summer. Orders 
have been given by the Secretary of the Navy in conformity 
thereto, with the exception that two armed vessels and a de- 
tachment of Infantry, will prosecute the expedition against 
Makinaw. 

It will be for you to direct the number of men to be retained 
as garrisons for Detroit and IMalden. The residue will be held 
ready for the movement down the lake to Buffaloe whither will 
be taken also all that can be moved of the 17th 19th 24th and 
28th regiments of infantry. Brigadier [Duncan] I^IcArthur 
now relieved from Court IMartial services may be designated 
for the command of these corps. 

The adjutant general will transmit to you the new arrange- 
ment of the 17th and 19th regiments. 

Accept sir the assurance of my great respect. 
Maj. Genl. Harrison 

P. S. The President not having yet determined whether 
you shall act with, or without associates, in making the pro- 
posed treaty, your commission and instructions for that pur- 
pose are unavoidably delayed. 

Shelby to the President 
.;. _^ Frankfort, Llay 15, 1814 

T^ ^ Tippecanoe Text Bool:, 1^9 [Niks' RenisteA 

Dear Sir : ^ j 

The interest I feel for the prosperity of our beloved coun- 

44— 22GC4 



 

try, at all times, but especially in the common cause in which 
she is at present engaged, will, I flatter myself, be a sufficient 
apology for addressing you this letter. The motives which 
impel me, arise from considerations of public good, and are 
unknown to the gentleman who is the subject of the letter. 

It is not my intention to eulogize general Harrison; he is 
not in need of that aid, his merits are too conspicuous not to 
be observed ; but it is my intention to express to you with can- 
dor, my opinion of the general, founded on personal observa- 
tion. 

A rumor has reached this state, which, from the public 
prints, appears to be believed, that the commanding general of 
the northern army may be removed from that command. The 
circumstance has induced me to reflect on the subject, and 
give the decided preference to major-general Harrison, as a 
successor. Having served a campaign with general Harrison, 
by which I have been enabled to form some opinion of his mili- 
tary talents, and capacity to command, I feel no hesitation to 
declare to you, that I believe him to be one of the first militaiy 
characters I ever knew; and, in addition to this, he is capable 
of making greater personal exertions than any officer -with 
whom I have ever sei'ved. I doubt not but it will hereafter 
be found, that the command of the north-western armj-, and 
the various duties attached to it, has been one of the most 
arduous and difficult tasks ever assigiied to any officer in the 
United States; yet he surmounted all. 

Impressed with the conviction, that general Harrison is 
fully adequate to the command of tlie northern army, should 
a change take place in that division, I have ventured thus 
freely to state my opinion of him, that he is a consummate 
general, and would fill that station with ability and honor; 
and that if, on the other hand, any arrangement should take 
place in the war department, which may produce the resigna- 
tion of general Harrison, it will be a misfortune which our 
country will have cause to lament. His appointment to the 
command of the northern army would be highly gratifying to 
the wishes of the western people, except some who may, per- 
haps, be governed by sinister views. 

I confess the first impressions upon my mind, when in- 
formed of the defeat of colonel [William] Dudley's regiment, 
on the 5th of May last, were unfavorable to general Harrison's 



 

plans; but on correct information, and a knowledge of his 
whole plans, I have no doubt but they were well concerted, 
and might, with certainty, have been executed had his orders 
been strictly obeyed. I mention this subject because ]Mr. H. 
Clay informed me that he had shown you my letter, stating 
the impressions which that affair had first made upon my 
mind, on information that was not correct. 

Hoping that my opinion of this meritorious officer will not 

be unacceptable to you, I have candidly expressed it, and 

hoping the apology stated in the preceding part of this letter, 

will justify the liberty taken of intruding opinions unsolicited. 

I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your 

obedient servant. 

Isaac Shelby 
His Ex. James Madison, Pres U. S. 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department i\Iay 24th 1814 

• ; ■ Har. Pa. lOS 

Sir: 

Your letters of the 10th and 11th instant have been received. 
[Not found] Your resignation has been communicated to the 
President who is now on a visit in Virginia. 

As soon as the Commission is returned from the President, 
it will be transmitted, with the necessary instructions for 
holding the proposed treaty with the Indians. 

Col. R. ]\L Johnson and the Hon. Jeremiah i\Iorrov,' will be 
associated with you in this mission of which they are advised 
and requested to communicate with j^ou relative to the place 
of meeting. 

Major Lownsly of the Canadian Militia who has been re- 
cently made prisoner should be retained until further orders. 
IMaj. General Harrison 

Secretary of War to Harrison 

War Department, Jlay 28th, 1814 

Har. Pu. J 09 

Sir: 

Your resignation is accepted to take place on the 31st in- 
stant as you requested and Gcnl. [Duncan] I\IcAi'thur is ac- 
cordingly ordered to take command of the District. 



 

I beg you Sir, to accept the assurance of my gi-eat Respect. 
Major Genl. Harrison 



Col. Robert McDouall to Indians 

MiCHlLLlMAClNAC June 5, 1814 

Mich. Hist, and Pion. Soc. Pub. XV, 5S1 

j\lY Children : 

I embrace the opportunity when we are here met to cele- 
brate the Birth Day of the King, your great Father, to reply 
to the words which you lately addressed to me; on this happy 
occasion, I am proud to see such an assemblage of distin- 
guished Chiefs & Warriors around me, many of vdiom have 
already signalized their valor in his service during this war. 
I thank you all for your past services, but particularly for the 
proof of loyalty and attachment you have shown in hastening 
to the defence of the Island when threatened by the enemy. 
You have now proved that you merit the benevolence & kind- 
ness with which your Great Father has always treated you; 
be assured that the interests of his red children will never 
be forgotten by him, that he will keep his word & the promises 
which he has made you. 

My Children, Listen to my words, that I may make you 
acquainted with the auspicious events which have lately taken 
place. Your Great Father Sir George Prevost has received 
powerful reinforcements, and is at the Head of a large Army 
of Your White Brethren, who have again defeated the Ameri- 
cans, in another attempt to invade Lower Canada. Kingston 
and Fort George are now places of great strength, and con- 
tain formidable Garrisons; we are in possession of the whole 
Niagara Frontier and also of its harbour v\^hich the enemy 
last year found so advantageous. Our Fleets on Lake Ontario 
are also more numerous, and stronger than those of the 
Enemy, tlie impoi-tant Fort of Oswego has lately been taken 
from them by our ships, while theirs dare not stir from the 
shelter of their harbours. 

My children, Everything looks well for us, the black & 
louring clouds that spread darkness around us are dispersed, 
and we have once more over our heads a clear and serene 
sky. The Great Spirit shines on our just cause, but froTSTis 
on that of the deceitful Americans, because they have cruellj'' 



 

oppressed you, they have robbed you of those lands which you 
inherited from your brave ancestors, and still they are not 
satisfied, the fertile Country which they have usurped, only 
encrease their appetite for fresh encroachments, and you will 
gradually be driven toward the sitting sun. 

My Children You possess the Warlike spirit of your Fathers 
you can only avoid this horrible fate, by joining hand in hand 
with my warriors in first driving the Big Knives from this 
Island, & again opening the great road to your country^ I 
shall then be enabled liberally to supply your Vv^ants; You 
will once more see the Traders in your Villages, v^dth Ammu- 
nition for yourselves, and clothing for your women & chil- 
dren ; the days of your prosperity will return, and the songs 
and the dance be again heard in your land. 

My children, The time is favourable for this, and will soon 
arrive. The King your great Father has destroyed his foes 
on the other side of the big Lake ; He is now the most power- 
ful monarch in the world ; and has no other Enemy but the 
Americans. You know we were often victorious over them 
when but few in numbers, how then will they stand against 
the invincible Warriors & the mighty Fleets which are now 
coming against them? Already they tremble at the thoughts 
of this, and know not which vray to turn to escape the tre- 
mendous vengence which they know they have deserved. 
They are conscious that resistance is vain, and that their 
power compared to that of King George, is like dust before 
the wind. They therefore ^^ish to lay down the Tomahawk 
& treat for peace. 

My Children, I have heard of the message which the Ameri- 
can have latelj' sent to your red Brethren; it is sufficiently 
humiliating, for it aclmowledges their incapacity to carry on 
the war with the King Your Great Father; it likewise shovrs 
their usual disregard to truth, for they say that when a peace 
is made, he will withdraw, from you, and that they then will 
punish all those who do not now renounce our friendship. 

My Children, When these perfidious people fail in war, they 
try to succeed by artifice & cunning, qualities to which they 
excel all other nations. You must therefore beware how you 
are deceived by their stratagems, which is meant to sow dis- 
seriiion among the ti'ibes, in order that one after the other, 
they more easily become the \ictims of their treacheiy. 

My Children, I again ask, which of you can be so blind & 



 

infatuated, as not to sec that the big Knives will never be 
satisfied, until they possess all your lands and destroj* you 
root and branch from the face of the earth. They have no 
pity for you, and openly avow this wicked intention. Which 
of you do not know that it is the powerful protection of the 
King your gi-eat Father, which has hitherto saved you from 
this miserable fate, and which can only save you from it in 
future. 

My Children, Listen well to my words, none of you must 
be misled by this deceitful message, for it will be dangerous 
for you to go astray into the wrong road, and difficult for you 
to return. What is there in it but a convincing proof that the 
power of the Enemy is on the decline and instead of intimi- 
dating your young men, should inspire them with fresh cour- 
age to get back their old boundaries & restore the days of 
plenty and happiness among you; Listen again my children, 
the time is at hand when these great blessings can be recov- 
ered. 

Mtj Children Should the King your great Father deign to 
listen to the proposal which the Enemy have made for peace, 
it will be on the express condition that your interests shall be 
first considered, your just claims admitted and no infringe- 
ments of your rights permitted in future. 

My Children doubt not but this will be the case. The King 
your great Father has assured you that he will never abandon 
his red children whom he has so long fostered and adopted. 
The Great Chief at Quebec, Sir George Prevost has also given 
his word to the same effect, this ought to set your minds at 
rest upon the subject, for they are not the promises of the 
faithless Americans but of those who hate duplicity and false- 
hood. 

My Children I opened my ears and listened attentively to 
the words w^hich you addressed to me. I was moved v\'ith 
compassion when you told me of your v/ant and distresses last 
winter, and that some of the supplies intended for you did not 
reach you owing to the distance. Now that you are here, I 
will endeavour to make up as well as I can for the disappoint- 
mejit and to give you proofs of my esteem, and of the confi- 
dence which I place in your valor and courage. 

My Children I am highly pleased tliat you have listened to 
the wise councils of your friend and chief the Red Head, 
whose constant study is for your advantage and to do you 



 

good. Your Great Father at Quebec lias confidence in him, 
and in appointing him your chief, has given you a strong 
proof of his paternal regard. 

My Chikbi I wish you to show your gratitude by obeying 
him in all things that he wishes you to do. I recommend to 
you that the utmost friendship and harmony prevail among 
the different tribes, and that the young men do not disgrace 
themselves by any disturbance or impropriety of conduct. It 
is proper that they should listen to the voice of their Chiefs 
& of thier Fathers, &. derive instructions from their Council 
and experience. 

My Children I am delighted with what your Great Chief 
the Red Head has told me; that in your wars with the Big 
I^iives you have been equally distinguished by your bravery 
in the field and by your mercy to the vanquished; that in no 
one instance has their helpless women and children sustained 
an injury. Let me exhort you to a continuance of this praise- 
worthj^ act, which is the more meritorious on your part, con- 
sidering the provocation which the enemy have given you. 

My Children Happy are those warrors who rush into the 
fight, having justice upon their side. You go forth to combat 
for the tombs of your forefathers and for those lands, which 
ought now to afford shelter and sustenance to your wives and 
children. !May the Great Spirit give you strength and courage 
in so good a cause, and crown you ^\ith victory in the day of 

^^^^^^' Lt. Col. Robert McDouALL 

Posey to Secretary of War 
•, Jeffersonville Ind. Ter. 23 June 1814 

Sm: Ha,: Pa., S3 

You will receive inclosed a letter [April 12 above] from IMr. 
John Johnston Indian agent to I\Ir. Benjn. Huffman an in- 
habitant of this Territory relative to a child of his taken by 
the Indians. If you can be instrumental in regaining the 
child, it will be a very humane and friendly act in restoreing 
him to his parents. The discription recited in I\Ir. Johnston 
letter, I am informed by Wm. Huffman answers to that of his 
child except the hair is of a shade between red and yellow. 

I am very respectfully 
Your Obedient Scrvt. . 
Th. Posey 



G 

Shelby to Harrison 

Frankfort June 28ih 1814 

From Governor Isaac Shelb7j's "Letter Book B" 112 

My Dear Sir : 

I had the pleasure last evening to receive your favour of the 
27th inst., Soon after I wrote you last I was determined to 
accept of the Mission to treat with the North W. Indians in 
that determination I was a good deal influenced by the pleas- 
ure I should derive of acting once more with you for the inter- 
est of our country But the constitutional Barrier which has 
since presented itself has made me decline all thoughts of the 
journey of which I have already advised the president of the 
United States of my determination. 

The 17th section of the 6th article of the Constitution of 
Kentucky declares in express terms that "No person holding 
or exercising any office of trust or profit under the United 
State shall hold or exercise any office of trust or profit under 
this Commonwealth." The office of a Commissioner to treat 
with the Indians is an office of trust and the necessity of com- 
mission from the president (which I have received) is the 
strongest evidence of the fact. 

I have not a single doubht but my acceptance of the Com- 
mission to treat with the Indians would vacate the office of 
Governor of Kentucky and altho, I care very little about this 
office I wish I was rid of it upon Honourable terms — I would 
not do an act by which my Country might be thrown into a 
state of confusion & distraction — for there are not wanting 
amongst us men enough ready to lay hold of any pretext to 
disturb the public mind — when you have reflected on these 
subjects you will I have no doubt think that my objection to 
accept the m ;sion is well founded. That your efforts to serve 
your Country in the arduous task before you may be crov.aied 
with real advantages to her interests and with honour to 
yourself is the sincere prayer of My Dear Sir your very affec- 
tionate friend &, most obt. servant. 

Isaac Shelby 
Major Genl. Wm. Henry Harrison 

P. S. present me respectfully to Governor Cass — 







THOMAS POSEY 

Thomas Posey, second aiid last Territorial Governor of Indiana, 
was a neighbor of the Washingtons and Harrisons of Virginii:. He was 
boin near Alcxandiia, July 9, 1750. In 1774 he joined the Dunmore 
expedition against the Ohio Indians, marching under General Lewis to 
the field of Point Pleasant, where he distir.guished himself in that bloody 
battle, October 10, 1774. The following year he helped his ])atriotic 
neighbors drive Govei'uor Dunmore out of Virginia. During the devolu- 
tion he was in the service continuously — under Washington in New Jer- 
sey, under Morgan at Saratoga, under Sullivan against the Iroquois, 
under Washington at Monmouth, under Wayne at Stony Point, under 
Washington at Yorktown — and made an honoiablc ]'ecord. 

February 22, 179-'^ he was aj^pointcd a Biigadier General and joined 
the army, under his old commander, Wayne, in Ohio. Decenibei' 11), 
17'J8, he Avas a];i)ointed a land commissionei- in Viiginia. About 1800 
he ca)rie to Kentucky and became a membei- of the kjgislatuic. Just 
before the war of 1812 he moved to Louisiana and soon aL'ter was ap- 
pointed a United States senator to finish the unexpii-ed ieini of Senator 
Destrjhan. 

February 14, 1813, President Madison appointed Posey governoi' of 
Indiana territory. He served till Indiana became a state, J'ecenibe)-, 
181(), when he became Indian agent on the Wabash. He died at Shav/nee- 
town, Illinois, March ID, 1818. 



 

Posey Convening Assembly 

Jeffersonville July IG 1814 
Western Sun, July 23, ISII^ 

PROCLAMATION 

Whereas circumstances of a nature highly important to the 
welfare and interest of the territory, render it necessary that 
the Legislature should be convened at an earlier period than 
is fixed and prescribed by law. Therefore, I Thomas Posey, 
Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the Indiana 
Territory, do issue this my Proclamation, Requiring the at- 
tendance of the members of the Legislative Council and House 
of Representatives of said territory, who may be elected at 
the ensuing election on the first Monday in August next, to 
meet at the town of Corydon, the seat of government, on 
Monday the 15th day of August next, at which time will be 
laid before them for their consideration, such subjects as will 
require their attention. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Jef- 
fersonville, this 16th day of July, 1814. 

Th. Posey. 

^ Posey to General Assembly 

Corydon, August 15, 1814 

Mss. in Secretary of State's Office 
Western Sun, Angiist 27, 181J, 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and Gentlemen of the 

House of Representatives : 

The circumstances which have been considered to exist by 
the passage of a law at the last session of the legislature, 
entitled "An act reorganizing the courts of justice", have con- 
strained me to convene the legislature at the present period, 
believing it to be necessary that the law should undergo a 
reconsideration and amendment; or malce such other arrange- 
ments as in the discretion of the legislature may be thought 
advisable. 

The present existing law reorganizing the courts of justice 
has not only been thought defective by tlie judges of the 
superior court, but by a number of lav/ characters, and others, 
men of information and experience. Some of the courts have 



 

been partially organized, and in some counties there has been 
no court established under the present law, and none of the 
courts have proceeded to do business considered of any mate- 
rial consequence. That, taking into consideration the griev- 
ances the citizens of the territory labour under in the delay, 
and stop put to the proceedings of the courts, I have thought 
it my indispensable duty to convene the legislature as early 
as possible after the election- 
It may also be advisable that the militia lav,- should undergo 
a reconsideration. The mode of calling out the militia into 
actual service in time of invasion is not so clearly defined as 
it may be, and by a reconsideration, other defects probably 
may be discovered which may make it necessary to amend. 
At all times it is necessary to have the militia well organized 
and kept in good training, but particularly at the present crisis 
of the state of affairs, so interesting to the U. States. Peace 
may take place between the U. States and G. Britain, at a 
short period, but from recent circumstances that have taken 
place in Europe, I am of opinion that peace is much more 
remote than many calculate upon ; and the best waj' to have 
an honorable peace is to be well prepared for war. I do not de- 
spair of obtaining an honorable peace, neither have I a want 
of confidence in the administration of our general government, 
or in the disposition of our citizens at large to risk their lives 
and property for the security of our just rights. God will 
protect our country if the citizens have virtue, and will lay 
their shoulders to the wheels of government. Better would it 
be for the credit of our nation to wage a perpetual war, than 
be disgi'aced by a relinquishment of the rights of freemen. Si^ 

The length of the present session depends upon yourselves; 
you can make it long or short, as may best comport with the 
interest of our territory. I shall not only feel it a duty in- 
cumbent upon me to cooperate with you, but it will be a pleas- 
ure for me to do so, and to render every possible service for 
the public good. In the course of your deliberations, I recom- 
mend harmony, & wish you a pleasant session. 

Th: Posey 



 

Posey to General Assembly 

CoRYDON August 18, 1814 

Western Sny2, Seijiembo' S, ISUt 
Mhs. in Secretary of State's Office 

To the Honourable President and Members of the Legislative 

Council: 

It is with much pleasure I observe in your answer to my 
communication that my conduct in convening the legislature 
at the present period meets your approbation, and that you 
approve of the several subjects offered for your consideration. 

I am of opinion with you, that the law reorganizing the 
courts of justice is far from being so defective as many have 
considered, and as has been handed out to the community ; and 
I am of opinion that had the courts been organized to the 
extent that was contemplated when passed, that it would have 
been attended with happy consequences and given very gen- 
eral satisfaction. 

In the course of your deliberations to provide a remedy 
for our present deranged judiciary, I have full confidence that 
you will use every exertion in your power to have the best 
possible system that you can devise, to secure to our citizens 
their just rights of life, liberty, and property. I receive with 
pleasure your sincere wish for my happiness, and most sin- 
cerely hope and wish you may individually and collectively 
enjoy health and prosperity. 

I am, with perfect respect and regard, your obt. servt. 

Th: Posey 

Isaac Shelby to Thomas Posey 

Charlestown September 15th 1814 

Mss. in Indiana State Library 

His Excellency Thomas Posey 

Governor and- Commander in Chief of Inda Tery 
Sir 

Not having saw Colo [Joseph] Bartholomew last evening 
as I expected in consequence of it being late in the evening 
as I passed, I this day called to see the Colo and communicated 
to him the subject of our conversation when I was last in your 
Company — Upon which the Colo observed that in Justice he 
could not feel himself sufficiently qualified to fill that Office, 



 

and discharge the duties which would be incumbent upon him, 
And at the same time requested me to return his warmest 
thanks to you for the high Consideration your Excellency 
entertained of him &c; The Colo then observed there were 
men in the County he thought better qualified for that Office 
than himself, and Particularly named Judge [William] Good- 
win, as he had heretofore filled the Office of a Judge in our 
Former Court of Common Pleas, which Office he had Honor- 
ably filled, and as Mr. Goodwin had experience and was also 
Better qualified than himself, he, would certainly much rather 
Judge Goodwin would be named to your Excellency — when 
I discovered that the Colo was averse to it, I Rode over to 
Judge Goodwin's, to whom I expressed the Colos. wish &c. and 
as the Judge had been named also to j^ou, I solicited Mr. Good- 
win upon the occasion, who expressed much reluctance to ac- 
cept, having heretofore spent a considerable length of time in 
discharging the duties of a member of the Court, and would 
rather some other person could be had that was Better quali- 
fied— 

However the Judge after some consideration observed he 
was never unwilling to serve his Countrey in any way that he 
thought he could render them any kind of good — And that if 
your Excellency should think proper to confer on him the 
appointment he would with pleasure accept &c 

Not presuming to Dictate to your Excellency I feel no kind 
of doubt in saying that Judge Goodv/in [appointed Sept. 17, 
1814] will Honourably fill the Office should you think proper 
to appoint him — 

With Sentiments of high consideration I am &c 

Isaac Shelby 

Posey to William Polke 
■ . JEFFERSONVILLE 15th September 1814 

Police Mss. furnished hy Mrs. Rximely 

Dr. Sir: 

I herewith enclose to you the commission for the Associate 
Judge for the county of Knox, & a commission for coroner of 
Sd. county, also a commission for Isaac Blackford Esqr. as 
circuit Judge of the 1st District, & a connnission for yourself 
to administer the oath of office. 

I have no blanks in the office at present for Justice of the 



 

Peace, we were expecting them from the printer every day, as 
soon as they come to hand I shall a commission for W. Mc- 
Namee as Justice of the Peace. After your clerk is commis- 
sioned & taken the oath of oflice &c. he will have the power to 
administer oaths of ofhce. As soon as your Judges have 
taken the oaths of office I wish them to proceed immediately 
to make choice of a Clerk of the Circuit Court & send on the 
nomination as soon as possible [see Oct. 4, below] . 

Yours very respectfully 

Tns. Posey 

Endorsed on back: William Polke Knox County 

Posey to Secretary of War 
Jeffersonville Indiana Territory 16th Sept. 1814 

■ Har. Pa. 293 

Sir: 

Friendly Indians in a small number have resided at Vin- 
cennes nearly 10 months, and there is an addition made to 
them at different times now making the number 17, some of 
which are found to be very useful in scouting and following 
after Indians who at times commit depredations on the fron- 
tiers and near to Vincennes. I have ordered that rations 
should be furnished them, also some necessary clothing. It is 
expected that more will come in. I wish to be advised upon 
the subject. It will be necessary to appoint some person to 
attend to them. Mr. Joseph Barron Indian interpreter for 
this Territory would be a proper person. He resides at Vin- 
cennes. 

. . I am very respectfully 

. ' . Your Obt. Servt. 

Th. Posey 
General John Armstrong, Secretary of War 

William Polke to Posey 

Vincennes, October 4th 1814 

. i '. ; Mss. furiiislied by Mrs. Favnic S. Ritiiicly 

Sir 

I have received commissions of the Circuit Judges Mr. 
[Isaac] Blackford, Circuit Judge Daniel Sullivan and James 
B. McCall associate Judges [see below] and proceeded to ad- 



 

minister the oath of office to the associate judges on the 21st 
of September at which time I conminnicatcd that part of your 
Excellency's letter to the Judges wishing* them to proceed 
immediately to the nomination of a clerk of the Circuit Court 
the Associates after consultation proceeded to the nomination 
of a Clerk as it was uncertain whether the nomination could 
with safety be delayed untill the arrival of Mr. Blackford at 
Vincenncs as the Court Came on Vvithin a few days and I 
informed the Judges that in a conversation with Mr. Black- 
ford on the Subject he had informed me Stranger as he was 
at Vincennes he should concur in the nomination of the Asso- 
ciates for a Clerk, on the same evening Mr. [Robert] Bunton 
one of the Candidates for the Clerkship presented a petition 
addressed to your Excellency signed by a number of respecta- 
ble characters praying his appointment as Clerk and wished 
my signature to which I declined observing to him that I 
wished not to interfere in favor as they observed to Mr. Bun- 
ton that your Excellency had authorized the Judges to nomi- 
nate a Clerk and advised him to present his petition to the 
Judges for their consideration and Received for an answer 
that he had a similar petition for the Judges and that Send- 
ing the same to your Excellency would do no harm or words 
to that amount. I then returned Home Satisfied in having 
Done my Duty and yesterday morning early came to this 
place in order to administer the oaths of office to Mr. Black- 
ford and the Clerk so that no neglect of mine should impede 
the courts proceeding to Business on my arrival I proceeded 
to administer the oath of offiice to Mr. Blackford. When he 
informed me your Excellency had enclosed a Blank Commis- 
sion for the Clerk and authorized him to fill up the same v/hich 
on mature reflection he had Declined and informed your Ex- 
cellency thereof I sincerely regrett the course this Business 
has taken as at the time the Delegation from Knox wished 
you to postpone the appointment of Clerk untill the Judges 
should nominate one and you was so obliging as to ace- de to 
their wishes no diffiiculty was expected from that course of 
proccedure as from the communication. I expect you will 
receive by this mail your Excellencj'' will be in full possession 
of all the circumstances necessary to be known. I hope you 
will proceed to the appointment as soon as possible as the 
County is suffering seriously for the want of such an offiicer 



 

particularly several Estates within my knowledge who cannot 
obtain Letters of administration before tlie appointment and 
it is all important the stock should be sold as soon as possible 
which must be my excuse for troubling; your Excellency at 
this time. I remain your Sincere friend [see Sept. 15 above]. 

Wm. Polke 
His Excellency Thos. Posey. 

P.S. The Associate Judges wishes me to inform your Ex- 
cellency that Mr. Bunton laid the petition mentioned above 
before them and they took the same under consideration in 
their nomination. 

Shelby to Posey 

Frankfort Octr 31st 

From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" Q19 

Sir 

I have the honor of inclosing herewith a Copy of an indict- 
ment against one Isaac Holeman, who I am informed has fled 
from Jefferson County [Ky.] to your territorj^ — in persuance 
of the Act of Congress in such case provided I have to request 
of your Excellency to have him arrested, and information 
thereof communicated to me that he may be brought to trial. 
Should it be found more convenient you may, in case of his 
arrest, cause him to be delivered to any person designated by 
Judge Cosby. 

I have the honor to be 

Respectfully - - 

Your mo. obt. servt. 

Isaac Shelby 
His Excy. Thomas Posey Govr. of Indiana 

• Posey to Secretary of Wat. 

Jeffersonville, Ind. Ter. 3 Nov. 1814 

Har. Pa. 295 

Sir: 

I herewith inclose to you the copy of a letter which I re- 
ceived by express from Joseph Barron Indian Interpreter at 
Vincennes. In my answer to him I have ordered the friendly 
Indians to be received and furnished vrith rations and a pres- 
ent of some trifling tilings and a few blankets should they 



 

stand in need of them. I have likewise given orders to assign 
to them a proper place for an encampment, near to wood and 
water and have ordered that a commissioned officer from the 
]\Iilitia of conciliating disposition and friendly disposed guard 
should be stationed near their encampment for the purpose of 
protecting the Indians from evil disposed men, and to keep 
order and prevent their stealing from or insulting any of the 
inhabitants. It is necessary to appoint an agent to attend min- 
utely to the wants and necessaries of those Indians and receive 
all friendly Indians that may come in. I have made a tempo- 
rary appointment of Joseph Barron, Indian interpreter to dis- 
charge the duties assigned. 

I wish to receive instructions from the department of war 
relative to the foregoing subject, and such other circumstances 
as may octur relative to Indian affairs. There has been for 
12 months or more 17 friendly Indians at Vincenns under 
my protection, who have received regular supplies of pro- 
visions and some articles of clothing. Of this circumstance, 
I gave information to Gen. Armstrong secretary of war and 
requested that he would instruct me upon the subjects as well 
as to any other friendly Indians that might come in. 

I also wrote to him that there was clothing which had been 
deposited and which was in charge of the former Governor, 
that all the blankets which had been delivered to Gen. 
[Samuel] Hopkin's militia agreeable to orders (Genl. [John] 
Gibson informs me) but as to the validity of the orders I am 
not informed. All the woollens are also given out and what 
now remains, are muslins, callicoes, shawles and trifling arti- 
cles all much dammaged. There are some saddles and keggs 
of powder etc. I am of opinion much waste has been made, 
but if the few articles on hand were sold thej^ would bring 
something to the public whereas by keeping they probably will 
be a total loss. I have never received an answer from the 
department of wai' either upon the subject of Indian affairs, 
or the Indian goods and if convenient should be glad to be 
advised. 

I am very respectfully your 
Obedient Servant. 

Th. Posey 

Hon. James IMonroe Secrctarij of War 

City of Washington 



G5 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jfeefrsonville Ind. Ter. 12th Nov. 1814 

Har. Pa. SO 2, S03 

Sir: 

About a week since, by last mail, from this I wrote to you 
upon the subject of Indian affairs and enclosed to you a letter 
from Joseph Barron Indian Interpreter at Vincennes, respect- 
ing the subject. 

I have this moment received by mail a letter from Judge B. 
Parks of Vincennes, giving me information that upon the 
notice given by Little Eyes a chief mentioned in Barron's let- 
ter inclosed to you [see above] of the encampment of I^Iain- 
polle's [I\Iarpack's] Potawatomies, who have been commiting 
considerable depredations in the neighbourhood of Vincennes 
and Fort Harrison, and now encamped on the road to St. 
Josephs on Yellow creek at a place call'd the great cut off 90 
miles above Ft. Harrison, 40 in number that Capt. [Pierre] 
Andre commanding a company of Rangers at Vincennes, a 
brave and determined officer, set out on an expedition the 6th 
Inst., with two hundred rangers and mounted men and 25 
days provisions in order to strike at IMainpolles encampment, 
or where he and his party may be found. He has taken with 
him Little Eyes or a petit onounted, who was desirous of ac- 
companying the expedition also Joseph Barron Interpreter. 
Should Capt. Andre be fortunate in falling in with Mainpolle 
and his Indians, I have no doubt of his success. 

Capt. [William] Russell who commanded at Vincennes upon 
being informed of the death of Brig. Genl. [Benjamin] Hov>'- 
ard, went on immediately to St. Louis to take command there. 

You will please to answer my letter of the Sd inst addressed 
to you upon the subject relative to instructions respecting 
the reception of Indians who may come in proffesing friend- 
ship. They must be fed, and have some necessary clothing 
furnished at expense of the public. Should it be thought 
proper to have an agent appointed for the purpose of attend- 
ing to their necessities any instruction which I may receive 
shall be duly discharged. 

I am very respectfully 

Your Obt. Servt. 

Th. Posey 
Col. James Monroe Secretary of War 

City of Washington 

45—21:664 



 

Barron to Posey 

ViNCENNES Nov. 12 1814 
Har. Pa. 297-298 

merely with a view of getting near Vincennes for the pur- 
poses of trade and friendly intercourse. They further stated 
that there were many other families or large parties equally 
anxious to come in, could they only have assurance of being 
well received, among which a camp of Kickapoos of about 20 
cabbins residing north of Tippecanoe. Upon this conference 
it Vv'as determined that Little Ej^es should be detained until 
your pleasure in the case should be known but as they had 
promised their family to return in eight days, and warned 
them in case they did not, to ascribe their absence to some 
fatal accident or occurrence and immediately to break up their 
camp and fly back, it was deemed expedient that Tacko set 
out tomorrow in order that he may reach them before the time 
expires. I shall continue to support and protect Little Eyes, 
and any other friendly Indians that may come in, in conform- 
ity with your directions, and shall expect your farther com- 
mand in this relation. I would further beg leave respectfully 
to sugger/i: to you the propriety of making some trifling pres- 
ent to each one that may com in provided there be proper 
deportment. Not that they have hinted that any such thing 
is desired or ecpected, but merely as a measure dictated by 
policy. 

I presume one or more of the officers will furnish you with 
a corresponding narative. and now sir, after having done 
what I conceived to be my duty in this business I respectfully 
await your dictates as to the best means of bringing repent- 
ant enemies over to peace and amity, and your orders as to 
the part I am to act therein, 

I have the honor to be very respect 

Your Obt. Servt. Joseph Barron 

Indian Interpreter 

P. S. 

Little Eyes gives information that the friendly Kickapoos 
already mentioned are in two parties, one about 12 miles 
above Tippecanoe and the other about 16 miles fartlier and 
that about 60 miles from them on the road to St, Josephs on 



 

Yellow Creek at a place called the Great Cutoff is a band of 
about 40 Potawatomie warriors under J/Tainpoke and that 
these are the Indians that have killed our men and stole their 
horses at Ft. Harrison and the neighbourhood. The informa- 
tion comes through the Kickapoos mentioned who state that 
they have a small prairie full of horses. That they slip out 
from their hiding place and sell the horses, come down here, 
get a resupply, return with them etc. Now as it appears that 
we have enemies on the north, it seems to me a measure of 
indespensible caution and in this I have the concurrence of 
all with whom I have conversed, that in order to distinguish 
between the friend and the foe, that all Indians that are re- 
ceived as friendly be place on our West or south, say Embar- 
ras, little Wabash, or White river, near the mouth in all which 
places game i:^ abundant. This point is with deference sub- 
mitted. [Fragment.] 



J. B. 



Benjamin Parke to Posey 



ViNCENNES, IND. TER. 13th. Nov. 1814 

Har. Pa. 299-301 

Sir: 

Capt. [Frederick] Sholts and Lt. [Hyacinth] LaSsell ar- 
rived from Fort Harrison this evening. 

About the time Capt. [Pierre] Andre maj'ched from this 
place, Lieut. LaSseli crossed the country to White river for 
Little eyes people and with them (10 or 12 warriors and 20 
woman and children) joined the Captain at Ft. Harrison. 
Two Miamics who came to Little eyes camp, while the latter 
was here, gave Capt. Andre the following information. That 
there are about two hundred Kickapoos, warriors and a few 
Potawatomies on the Virmillion about three hundred Pota- 
watomies at Tippecanoe and other bands of that tribe scattered 
from there to the Chicago and other posts of the enemy. The 
Kickapoos, in part are represented as friendly and the greater 
portion of the Potawatomies decidedly hostile. About the 1st 
of Oct. a number of these Kickapoos and Potawatomies re- 
ceived a considerable present of amnumition and clothing 
from a British trader near Chicago and the last of this month 
another supply was promised from the same place. The re- 
pulse of [George] Cro.r.han at Mackinac, and the capture of 
Prairea Do Chain wei'C passed upon those Indians as sure 



 

progiiostigations of future success and that next spi ing;. De- 
troit, and Vincennes were to be taken. 

That the Tiitish were using every exertion to keep the Indi- 
ans steady to their interest — and promised the estabhsliment 
of a post at or near Chicago that the few Potawatomies that 
visited at Greenville at the treaty were advised to that step 
by the British to get powder and ball, to be used against our 
people on their return — And that the Kickapoos iDeiixg ques- 
tioned as to their motive in going to the British at Clr'cago, 
answered, that their fatlier, the President was too sparing of 
his presents. 

Lieut. Lassell has known the Miamies who gave this infor- 
mation for ten or twelve years; and has great confidence in 
their integi'ity. Capt. Andre believing his force much too 
small to march into the Indian country as intended, halted at 
Ft. Harrison and yesterday dispatched Little Eyes to the Kick- 
apoos, to ascertain more precisely their intention. 

Lassell believes that the Weas (upwards of two hundred 
souls) and probably a part of the Kickapoos will come in and 
a prospect of a small supplj' of ammunition and clothing will 
no doubt induce some of the Indians really hostile to profess 
peace and claim our protection, and their wants supplied for 
the winter, desert and turn their arms against us in the spring. 
Under these circumstances I must beg the favor of more pre- 
cise instruction than I have yet reed. What place is to be 
assigned for the residence of the Indians that may come in? 
and what is the nature and extent of the supplies with v\iiich 
you wish them furnished? If they are fixed beyond the set- 
tlements where they might derive a partial subsistence from 
hunting, they will not only keep the frontiers in alann, but 
they will themselves be liable to injury by mischievous white 
people, and however well disposed, any ill treatment from us, 
would occasion their instantly rejoining the hostile Indians. 
If brought within the settlements, they will be an intolerable 
expense to the Government but probably it may be cheaper to 
feed and clothe them than to wage war against them. 

In regard to the Inidians generally, whilst the British, or 
their agents have access to them, they will never remain at 
peace with us and should the Lliamies remain in the Indian 
country this winter, they will, if not from inclination, at least 
from a dread of the Potawatomies be again at war with us 
next spring. Possibly it might be best for peace not to be 



G9 

made with, or any protection afforded any of the Indians, but 
upon condition of their entering into our service, and sending 
their women and children within our settlements. V/e would 
then have a strong pledge for their fidelity, and their services 
against the hostile Indians might be rendered eminently use- 
ful. 

I have the honor to be veiy respectfully Sir Your Obt. Svt. 

Govenior PosEY ^- P^^ke 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonvillb Ind. Ter. 18th Nov. 1811. 

o _ . ■ Har. Pa. 30^, 305 

I am of opinion froni recent information that the Indians 
are about to become extremely troublesome upon our frontier. 

I have by express just received a letter [Nov. 13 above] 
from Judge Benj. Park of Vincennes a copy of which I here- 
with inclose to you. 

I have written very lately to you upon Indian affairs, and 
requesting your instructions upon that subject you will dis- 
cover in a considerable degree from Judge Parks letter what 
may be necessary to be done. Untill I receive instructions 
from the department of war I have authorized Judge Parke 
and Mr. Tusaint Dubois both residents in and near Vincennes 
to receive the friendly Indians and have them encamped at 
some suitable distance (near to wood and water) from Vin- 
cennes to have them supplied with rations by the contractor, 
authorizing him to issue provisions for the Indians; and do 
for the Indians that may come in, whatever may appear for 
the best advantage to promote the public welfare. Should 
you think it necer jary to appoint an agent to attend to these 
friendly Indians that may come in to Vincennes, I could rec- 
ommend Mr. Tusaint Dubois who is a man very much re- 
spected and to be I'elied on, who has been an old Indian trader, 
is well acquainted with a great many of them; speaks the 
Indian language, and has been a resident at Vincennes for at 
least thirty or more years. It will be necessary that supplies 
of provision some articles of clothing and some ammunition 
be ordered for them. 

T am very respectfully yours 

Your Obt. Servt. 

Th. Posey 



 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES Nov. 18, 1814 
Har. Pa. 309-3U 

Sir: 

Yours of the 12th inst. has been received. Information by 
the last mail renders it pro;)able that Montreal and iTlackinac 
will not be obtained this campaign, and those places in the 
hands of the English, the Indians will receive their accustomed 
supplies of arms, and ammunition and clothing for another 
year. Whilst the war continues with Great Britain, and the 
subjects of that power have access to the Indians the latter 
will also be engaged in war with us. Indeed v/here they 
break and make peace, they still entertain an implacable 
enmity against us, and which manifests itself in open hostili- 
ties on the slightest occasions that occur. The Indians feel 
the greatest regard for the French but cut off from all inter- 
course with that nation, the British have the next place in 
their affections, the Americans in v/ar or peace they detest. 
The reason is obvious. The French while they possessed the 
Canadas asked for no more land than was necessary for their 
trading establishments. Their settlements occasioned no 
deminution of game, no interruption of the Chase, They 
exchanged goods for peltry many of the Traders mariied into 
Indian families and adopted their language, manners and dress. 
Their trade was beneficial, their policy conciliatory and the 
extension of the settlements of the British Colonies excited as 
lively resentments in the minds of the Savages, as have since 
been manifested in their v^^ars against the Americans. The 
policy of the French has since the peace of '63 been pursued 
by Great Britain and friendly connections with that Govern- 
ment and enmity and hostility against the Americans are cul- 
tivated and maintained through the agency and influence of 
the desendants of the ancient Canadian French. They are to 
be found at every village and camp from our frontier settle- 
ments to the Slave Lake and the Mountains and by their em- 
ployment only the N. \V. Company were enabled to extend 
their trade and obtain the control they now possess and exer- 
cise over the ludian^. But, in addition to the machinations 
and influence of the Traders there are other sources of irri- 
tation. They dread and are exasperated at the extension and 
proc= -^ss of our settlements. There are Indians now living 



 

"who in their youth, were accustomed to cross the Allegheny 
moimtains in their war excursions. They now find our set- 
tlements at the ^Mississippi and the Lakes. Ten or twelve 
years ago they enjoyed extensive hunting grounds on the Ohio 
and before the present war commenced our settlements had 
forced them back toward three hundred miles from that river. 
The Indians are alarmed for their lands, the British for the 
Canadas and hence the famous projects of Tecumseli, of Unit- 
ing all the nations East of the ]\Iississippi and south of the 
lakes and prohibiting the sale of lands by any Tribe without 
the consent of the whole confederacy. Fifty or sixty years 
ago the Peorias, Cahokias, ]\Iicheganians, Kaskaskias, and 
Peankashaws, especially the two last, were numerous and war- 
like, three of those tribes are now, I believe extinct, the others 
nearly so and the few that remain are the most worthless 
vagrants of their color. Whatever the Indians may appre- 
hend fate has in reserve for them thej' doubt not, but that 
their misfortunes and calamities will proceed from the Amer- 
icans, they will never treat with us in good faith whilst the 
British hold any part of the Continent contiguous to them and 
if they make peace it will be founded in hypocracy and vio- 
lated the first favourable opportunity that occurs. The Dele- 
wares may be considered an exception. They are hov:ever the 
only one of the small bands that were with the N. W. Army 
need not be mentioned. I speak generally of the Indians. 
Tribes that had participated largely of the bounty of the Gov- 
ernment, and Chiefs who had been caressed and indulged to 
the extent of their desires were on the commencement of 
the war amongst the foremost in raising the Tomahavrk 
against us. 

An officer at the head of his army — after giving them re- 
peated defeats, is the most competent negociator to treat vritli 
the Indians. Tlie first treaty of Greenville was of longer dura- 
tion than it otherwise would have been as General Wayne 
was the agent employed to make it; but even that Treaty 
would have been violated long before it was had it not been 
for the influence of the British agents having prepared tlie 
Indians for war. They wished the relation betv/een us and 
England to assume a more decisive character before they com- 
menced hostilities and it was contrary to their vievvs that the 
.battle of Tippecanoe was fought. 



 

If the information derived from the ]\Iiamis and communi- 
cated to you in mj^ last letter be correct, the motive of the 
Potawatamies in re-establishing themselves on the Wabash 
is clear, it is for the purpose of driving the T^Iiamis into the 
hostile confederac}' and if they remain beyond the frontiers, 
it will in four months be accomplished. And next spring, as 
supplies can be obtained by the Indians from Chicago as they 
were formerly at Maiden, our situation will be precisely vrhat 

it was in 1812. t i i-u tt < i ^ 

I have the Honor lo be very respect. 

Sir Your Obt. Servant 

^ _, B. Parke 

GoveiTior Posey 

B. Parke to Posey 

VINCENNES Nov. 20th, 1814 
Har. Pa. S27, 32$ 

Sir: 

I have this day received a letter from Gov. [William] 
Clarke. Information recently conveyed to him by the Indians 
of the Illinois River induces a belief that the object of the 
assemblage at Tippecanoe is hostile. This together wfOi the 
information from the INIiamis removes all doubt upon tlie sub- 
ject. The British are still in possession of Prairie De Chain 
and it was rumoured that a detachment of Troops v/ere on 
their march from Montreal by the way of Grand River, to 
strengthen that Post. Rest assured that if ^Montreal and 
Machinac should remain in the hands of the English till next 
spring, that the frontiers of this and the two neighbouring 
Territories will receive a more severe scourging than they 
have yet suffered. 

I have the Honor to be respectfully Sir Your Obt. Servant. 

Gov. POSEY ^- P^^^^^ 

P. S. At the date of the Governor's letter Col. [William] 
Russell was in pursuit of some Indians in the direction of 
Boon's Lick on the ]\Iissouri and expected to return to St. 
Lewis before Wednesday next. I hope the Col. vdien he hoars 
the change that has taken place on the Wabash will return to 
this place. The Possee at Tippecanoe ought to be surprised 
and driven off directly. The safety of the frontier of this 
Teri'itory depends on keepin the hostile Indians beyond the 
Illinois River. 



 

B, Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES 23rd. November 1814 

Har. Pa. SO 9 

Sir: 

Your letters of the 15th and 18th inst were received on 
Monday evening, I had hoped that you should have furnished 
me instructions more specific than I have yet received and I 
beg you to be assured that I feel a just sense for the conii- 
dense you are pleased to repose in me but under an authority 
so general and unlimited with no information of the treaty 
of Greenville except from vague report or any knowledge of 
the policy that the President might wish to be pursued 
towards the Indians, whilst attempting to secure the frontiers 
from Indian depredation, I may involve the interests and 
counteract the views of the Gen. Govt. Under these circum- 
stances I shall not encourage the visits or enter into any ar- 
rangement with any of the Indians. With such as may come 
to Ft. Harrison a friendly understanding will be cultivated, 
some provisions occasionally furnished, and to facilitate their 
hunting ammunition very sparingly distributed. I will keep 
an interpreter at that post and should any considerable num- 
ber come in I will go there myself. There is not much danger 
to be apprehended from the hostile Indians before the month 
of February by that time they will be in motion and before 
Christmas it is to be hoped that the direc-tions of the secretary 
of war may be received. 

I handed Mr. [Touissant] Dubois your letter. He declines 
accepting the agency offered him. He can neither read nor 
write, but in the way you proposed he can be useful. I be- 
lieve his zeal and enteii^rise were frequently seiTiceable to 
Gov. Harrison. 

I have the honor to be with respectfully your Hm. Ser. 

B. Parke 

P. W. I had determini' ' yesterday to send a copy of our cor- 
respondence to the Secretary of War and to seek special in- 
structions from that Depar. I have this morn, abandoned it. 
If I do no good I will endeavor to do no harm. 



 

James Bigger to Posey 

ViNCENNES Nov. 23, 1814 
Har. Pa. 329 

Dear Sir: 

On yesterday Negomin a war chief of the Delaware Tribe 
came into the settlement v>ith the object of obtaining permis- 
sion for himself and party of Friendly with the Whites on the 
frontiers. His party consists of twenty men with their fam- 
ilies. I directed the said chief and his party to keep twenty 
miles without the settlement on sand creek until I could know 
from your Excellency your wishes respecting the party. I 
gave the liberty to some of the party to come in and procure 
salt and some other necessaries in as much as they were suf- 
fering. They will be in in the course of four or five days. 
Negomin himself in ten or twelve. I wish information of 
your Excellency how to act. 

I am with Esteem Yours 
Obediently 

Gov. Posey '^^^^^^ Bigger, Cajjt. U. S. R. 

Posey to Secretary of War 
Jeffersonville Indiana Territory 25th [28th] Nov. 1814 

Har. Pa. 306, 307 

Sir: 

I am convinced that your time is very precious at the pres- 
ent periods, which makes me the more reluctant to make any 
encroachments upon it; but as the subject upon which I have 
been addressing and am now addressing for your considera- 
tion, is of considerable importance I think it will be a sufficient 
apology. 

Judge Benj. Parke, whome I vested with such powers as I 
may possess, for the purpose of acting as agent for Indian 
aftairs at and in the vicinity of Vincennes, has been communi- 
cating with me upon the subject all of which communications, 
I have inclosed, you copies, [see above] and have solicited you 
to either give me instructions or appoint an agent or define 
to me, or whomesoever you may think proper, the necessary 
course to be taken relative to receiving any bands of Indians 
who profess friendship to the U. States. It is probable they 
must be fed and clothed in as frugal a manner as possible and 



 

til -it they must hrve a moderate supply of ammunition for 
hunting. And it will be necessary to consider whether they 
should be encamped inside or outside of the settlements. 

I am very respectfully 
Your Obt. 

Th. Posey 
Honble. James Monroe, Secretary of War 

P. S. I have never been furnished with the proceedings of the 
treaty held last summer by Gen. Harrison at Greenville, neither 
do I know any thing relating to the policy of the President or 
department of War upon the subject of Indian Affairs. 

My residence being at this place and the Indians generally 
coming into Vincennes obliges me to appoint an agent there. 

I think Judge Benj. Parke v/ill accept the appointment for 
Indian affairs at Vincennes and the country about Ft. Har- 
rison, should you think of having one appointed. He having 
resided in the territory a number of years and pretty conver- 
sant in Indian transactions while Genl. Harrison was Gov- 
eiTior will make him a proper person for the appointment. 

PosEY TO Secretary of War 
Jeffersonville Indiana Territory 26th Nov. 1814 

Har. pa. 326 

Sir: 

I have just received further communication from Judge 
Ben. Parke and Capt. Bigger [see above] of the rangers rela- 
tive to Indian affairs copies of which I here\^ath transmit for 
your further information. This is the third letter to you upon 
the subject of Indian affairs and not having received any in- 
structions from the department of war, relative thereto, I 
hope to be informed of the person or persons, or department 
that is, or may be authorized to attend to the business of 
Indian affairs in this Territojy. Probably the business comes 
properly within the notice of the commanding ofTicer of this 
district, or of such regular officers as may command at diffei- 
ent posts or stations. Since the duties of the Governors of 
the Territories have been curtailed and military concerns, or 
opperations are vested in the regular officers, I do not feel 
authorized to act, except against any sudden incursions of the 
enemy. The present situation of the friendly disposed, as 



676 INDIANA HISTOPwICAL COLLECTIONS 

well as the hostile Indians, demands immediate attention and 
for the present time, and untill the secretary of war gives 
proper authority or information where the proper authority 
is vested, I have so far as my authority extends (if I have 
any) authorized Judge Parke of Vincennes and a Mr. TuSaint 
Dubois near thereto, who has been an old Indian trader & 
pretty well acquainted with a great many tribes of the Indians 
to act in conjunction as agents for Indian affairs in that quar- 
ter. I did recommend JNIr. Dubois to the department of War 
as a proper person to be appointed Indian agent, but I am 
informed he will not accept the appointment. 

I am veiy respectfully your Obt. Servt. 

"^ Th. Posey 

James Monroe, Sect, of War 



B. Parke to Posey 

Vincennes November 29th, 1814 

Har. Pa. 291-292 

Sir: 

A few daj''s since several Miamis and Kickapoos came to 
Fort Harrison. Amongst the rest were Labossierre, LaFrano- 
bois aiid Negro Legs. Labossierre appeared to be suspicious 
and manifested no disposition to conciliate and it would seem 
that the object of his visit was to induce Little Eyes and his 
band to return to the Indian Countiy. In a private council 
he stated to them that [William] Conner v>-as the only lionest 
man that he knew amongst the Americans — that, frank and 
candid, he gave him the news entire — that, he had informed 
him, the City of Washington had been taken by the British 
and the President, driven from his house and that orders had 
been given to the people of Vincennes and the neighbouring 
settlements, to be ready, on the shortest notice to abandon the 
Coutiy Labossierre added that the Indians need not be solici- 
tous about cultivating the friendship of the Americans if they 
came within the settlement of the Whites, they would be ex- 
posed to ill treatment, to be throv/n into prison etc. and that 
if thej'- would remain back in the country the British would 
i m restore them to iho. quiet possession of their land. An 
Indian who says he was present at the Council, gives infor- 



 

mation of this speech. William Conner Labossierre informant 
is a Brother of John Conner, formerly Interpreter for the Del- 
awares. What employment he is in on White River I know not, 
— Whether this talk originated with Labossierre or whether 
he received it from Conner, as an Emissary of the British, is 
indifferent. — the manner in which he is propagating it mani- 
fests an mifriendly disposition tov»''ards the U. States. Labos- 
sierre has been orator for and a leading man amongst the 
Weas for many j^ears past, 

I forwarded instructions to [Joseph] Barron agreeably to 
my letter of the 23 inst but, before they were received, Little 
Eyes wishing to come dov^ul, Barron gave him permission and 
he is now on his way by water to this place. I vrill endeavour 
to dispose of him and his people (about 20 persons) so that 
they will receive no harm, and be as little expense to the Gov- 
ernment as possible. Wishing Barron to be here, I have sent, 
[Michael] Bruillet, to Fort Harrison a copy of my instruc- 
tions to him is inclosed. On Saturday night, last, one horse 
and on Sunday night five horses vrere taken from the Bus- 
seron settlement 25 miles distant from this place — supposed 
to be stolen by Indians. A party of Rangers, are in ursuit 
of them. But with Indians at least profosedly lijondly, 
hunting in the neighbourhood of the frontiers, under the 
sanction as it is said of the Greenville Treaty, and assailed by 
hostile Indians — the Rangers in pursuit will be as likely to 
fall in with friends as enemies and a I\Iiami will not be read- 
ily distinguished from a Potawatomy or Winebago a friendly 
Deleware had like to have lost his life a few days since by a 
party of Public Surveyors on White River the consequence of 
such an accident must be obvious. The ]\Iiami boundary is 
within five and thirty miles of our settlements betvv'cen the 
Wabash and White River. 

I have the Honor to bo very respectfully Sir 
Your Ob. Servt. B. Parke 

Gov. Posey 

P. S. just as I had closed the above, I rec'd your letter of 
the 26th ins! lo advise with M. Dubois is certainly what I 
shall wish to do. But I repeat that if his agency should be 
required he can be most beneficially employed in the way I 
mentioned in my last — and in no other. 



 

B. Parke to I\IicriAEL Brouillette 

ViNCENNES, Nov. 29tli, 1814 
Har. Pa. 2S8, 2S0 

Sir: 

You will proceed without delay to Fort Harrison to receive 
and confer with such Indians as may come to that place. 
For the present no encouragement will be given to the Indians 
to come to that place or to siwy P^i't of the Wabash Settle- 
ments, with a view of receiving presents from the Govern- 
ment, or any of its agents — but, such as may come to the 
Fort, you will receive with kindness and endeavour to detach 
them from the British and their emissaries in the Indian 
Country and to conciliate their affections towards the United 
States. 

The object of your being placed at Fort Harrison is to ob- 
tain information of what is passing in the Indian Country 
and for the accomplisliment of which you will use your best 
endeavours. Your extensive acquaintance amongst the 
Wabash Indians will enable you (if it can be done at all) to 
collect correct information of their numbers, positions, views, 
and the talks that may be sent tliem from the British or the 
Illinois and Mississippi Indians, and the manner in which 
those talks may be received — as also the supplies they may 
receive from the British — the channels through which and the 
places vfhere, and the Tribes or persons to whom delivered. 
In furtherance of this, you will be furnished with a few arti- 
cles of Merchandise which you will distribute as occasion may 
require. 

There being many of our citizens out exploring the country, 
it will not be altogether safe for the Indians to hunt, below 
the boundary line. You will therefore advise them not to 
come below Raccoon Creek for that purpose. Such as come to 
Fort Harrison ought to bring a flag. 

Yours respectfully 

Michael Brouillet Intopretcr Parke 

Posey to Secretary op War 

Jeffersonville, Ind. 6th Dec. 1814 

Har. Pa. 287 

Sui: 

I liave just received further communications from Judge 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS G79 

Benj. Parke of Vincenncs [see above] relative to Indian af- 
fairs, copies of v/hicli I herevrith inclose to yon, thinking it 
my duty to ali'ord you every information in my power respect- 
ing Indian affaij's, until I am informed of the policy of the 
president, and receive instructions, or a notice to whom in- 
structions are or may be given upon the subject. I have writ- 
ten several letters to you, and to Gen. Armstrong before his 
resignation and have not received any answer or instructions 
relative to Indian affairs. 

I am very respectfullj^ 

Your Obedient Servant 

Tn. Posey 
Honble. Jat.ies ;Monroe, Secretary of War 

City of Washington 

B. Paeke to Posey 

ViNCENNES 7th Dec. 1814 
^ Har. Pa. 317 

Sm: 

Information was received last evening from Capt. [Fred- 
erick] Sholts at Fort Harrison, from which it appears that a 
few days ago the principle chief now with the Vermillion 
Kickapoos came to that fort with strong professions of amity 
and good mil toward the U. States. The Capt. took the chief 
and his wife to his Cjuarters to lodge, and v/hile they were 
asleep one of the strangers fired his piece at them through a 
window and killed a squaw. 

The chief reported that in a few days a considerable num- 
ber of her people might be expected at the Fort all fiiendly 
disposed. To receive them, a.^. also to endeavor to patch up 
the unconscionable outrage of the rangers, Mr. [Touissant] 
Dubois sen. will set out for the Fort tomorrow. It is neces- 
sary that a prompt endeavor should be made to heal the wound 
occasioned b}^ this outragious murder of the sciuaw. I would 
go to the Fort myself but I have been in bad health for some 
time, and the vveather is now extremely inclement and prob- 
ably 1\lv. Dubois is more competent than I ;.m to accomplish 
the object in view. 

Your letters of the 2Sth ult. and tlie 'ith inst. I haA'o received. 
I have tlic honor to be with respect Sir 
Your Obi. Scrvt. 

TT- -n 11 r^ -n^.T... J^- Pakke (Copy) 

His Excellency Gov. PoSEY ^ '"^ ' 



 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES Dec. 21 1814 

Har. Pa. 3-21-3 2 J, 

Sir: 

Mr. [Touissant] Dubois retunied from Fort Harrison oii 
Sunday last. The Kickapoos chief had left the Fort two or 
three days after the murder of his wife — meeting at that 
place with some men of the same tribe. ]\Ir. Dubois sent for 
them for him. He came with his family and profiting by the 
occurence the little Otter a Kickapoo Chief Laposure, Negro 
Legs and La Frambois of the Weas and ]Miamis, with about 
three hundred men women and children, also came in. Their 
professions were amicable and the Kickapoos accepted the 
present that I sent to appease his resentment for the loss of his 
wife. As regards the Indians, that unpleasant affair may be 
considered as satisfactorily'- settled. 

Mr. Dubois represents the Indians as extremely necessitous. 
Their arms out of order Vvith little or no amunition and 
their clothing miserable. They express a vrish that some ar- 
rangement could be made that would enable them to have 
access t- our traders and above all that they could get their 
arms repaired. You will judge of the propriety of the course 
that ought to be pursued. To hunt they must have their arms 
in order — to procure clothing and ammunition they must have 
an opportunity of vending their skins and furs. As these 
people have made a peace with the United States they con- 
sider that they have some claim to the privilidge that they 
ask and it is very certain that if they do not obtain it from 
us they will seek it else where. They v>ill go to the British. 
The Emissaries of the latter are vigilant and are now endeav- 
ouring to reattach them to the hostile confederacy. The loss 
of the Tygress and Scorpion and the retreat of General 
[George] Izard have been communicated to them in a manner, 
to give them a high Idea of British prowess and to induce a 
belief that our affairs are in the decline. Tlie hope of the 
est<iblishment of a post, for their convenience at Prairie Vachc 
on the St. Josephs near the southern extremity of Lake Michi- 
gan is still encouraged and the assurance repeated that if they 
would adhere to the British they should be reinstated in all 
their lands. 

From the character of the Indians their jealousy of. the 



 

Americans and attachment for the Britisii M-hilst we are at 
war with the hatter, and their agents and traders have the 
means of furnishing them supplies, I consider pacific arrange- 
ments of the Government with them as mere expedients. Es- 
pecially if they are not enabled to obtain their wanted supplies 
either in Donations from the Government or from an inter- 
course with our Traders. If from the Treaty, we are to con- 
sider them friendly, they ought to enjoy a portion at least 
of the benefits they were accustomed to derive from a state 
of peace. 

If you should think proper to license any person to trade 
with the Indians, it might be advisable that they should not 
vend their goods below Fort Harrison. The irritation of the 
people from recent injuries, and their being some of the most 
inconsiderate and unprincipled men in tlie settlements on the 
frontiers that ever disgraced humanity, it might be unsafe 
for the Indians for the purpose of Trade to come below the 
Fort and if it should be thought proper to repair their arms a 
Gun Smith might be established at the same place. 

The Indians appeared to be so urgent upon the subjects of 
Trade and gettijig their arms repaired tliat Mr. Dubois prom- 
ised them that ho would endeavor to obtain an answer to their 
application in a month or six Vv^eeks. 

Totally ignorant of tlie views of the President I have been 
more particular in stateing these subjects to you. If it should 
comport with the views of the Government to grant the re- 
quest of the Indians possibly they might be as conveniently 
accommodated at Fort Wayne or the Deleware Tov/ns as at 
Foil; Harrison. 

Mr. Dubois volunteered to go to Fort Harrison but as he 
was detained some days longer than I expected he would have 
been, I think he ought to have an allowance especially as I 
consider his services meritorious. He was absent ten days. 
I had to soul Mr. [Josepli] Barron to interpret for him with 
him — he has been accustomed to receive an extra allovrance 
for extra services of this kind. He was also employed ^^^th 
Capt. [Pierre] Andre in the month of November twenty-one 
days. During Barrons absence, I had to employ a m:'n to act 
for him here promising to recommend him to you ^or such 
w.iges as you might think propei' to allow for Dubois, I 
would mention three dollars per day and Barron one dollar 

40— 226G1 



 

and the necessary expenses of each and to the other Mr. 
Payette fifty cents per day. The several claims are submit- 
ted for your consideration. 

Your letter of the 11th inst. has been received. A Ranger 
of Capt. [Frederick] Slioltes company is suspected of having 
murdered the Kickapoo squaw. He is in close confinement at 
the Fort — whether he will be tried by a court martial or by 
our Territorial Court I know not. From a late act of the 
Legislature it would seem that I have no authority to inter- 
fere. But however aggravated his guilt or decisive t^ie proof 
I entertain no expcctatio]i from past experience of his being 
punished. Since ]riy residence here several outragous mur- 
ders have been committed on the Indians — No one has been 
punished. In one very clear case, the Grand Jury refused to 
find a Bill. These circumstances induced me to endeavor to 
effect a prompt accommodation according to the Indian mode, 
with the Kickapoos and it is highly probable that it is all the 
redress they will ever receive. 

I have the honor to be very respectfully 
Your Obt. Servant 
Gov. Posey ^' P^^e 

Posey to B. Parke 

Jeffersonville 25th, Dec. 1814 



Sir: 



Har. Pa. 31S-320 



Yours of the 21 inst [see above] I received by last mail and 
shall transmit a cop3^ to the secretary of war. I have not 
received answers to any of my conmninications to the depart- 
ment of v/ar upon Indian affairs, and am at a loss to imagine 
a reason. Should it bo the opinion of the President or secre- 
tary of war that Governor of the Territory already possess 
sufficient authority — clothed with the pov/ers of agency rela- 
tive to the superintendency of Indian aHairs yet it would be 
necessary to receive instructions as relates to the policy of the 
Gen. Goverjiment toward the Indians, particularly those tribes 
who come in with professions of friendship. I know nothing 
of the results or conditions of the treaty v/hich took place last 
summer at Greenville. It shurely Vvill be the best policy and 
most co]iducive to the j^ublic. goo! under existing circum- 
stances (so large a num])er of Indians having come in Avith 
frie}idly overtures to take shelter under our goverinnent) to 



HARRISON: 

favor their friendly offers, and to aid and assist them. If we 
neglect or reject them the British eniisaries and hostile tribes 
will be actively engaged in their endeavours to gain theni over 
to join our enemy. From what I can learn, there are at pres- 
ent among those Indians who have come in as friends several 
Indians trying to effect this purpose. 

You say three hundred have lately come into Vincennes and 
that you have directed they shall be encamped at or near Fort 
Harrison, where all that have, or may come in to your parts, 
are ordered to rendezuou.s., to meet with such supplies as can 
be procured for them. I know of no arrangements made by 
the Gen. Government to supply the Indians. There is a law 
to supply the Indians. There is a law of Congress to license 
persons to trade with the Indians, \^ithin their own limits; 
and there is a law of the Territory to license persons to trade 
with them, within the part of the Territor^^ to which the In- 
dian title has been extinguished. I shall grant a license under 
the Territorial law, to a person to trade v/ith them at Fort 
Harrison, but wi; h -'ou to recommend a suitable per; on. The 
Indians may exp..- some present/. They must be of a very 
partial nature, unlill I can hear from the Gen. Government. 
1 hope Government will make provision for the friendly In- 
dians and appoint some particular station where they may 
receive supplies. 

With respect to a compensation to j\Ir. Dubois and others, 
who have or may be engaged in Indian affairs, I will endeavor 
to be informed upon that subject, and will give you informa- 
tion. I am very happy to find that ]\Ir. Dubois has had the 
address to appease and bring about a reconciliation by a suita- 
ble present to the chief whose wife was murdered by the U. S. 
Ranger. I hope the fellow will meet a punishment justly due 
him, for perpetrating such a horrid crime. 

I have already vested you with such authority as I possess, 
which from a wrait of information or instructions from the 
Gen. Government, I am not able to define, particularly as to 
the policy to be observed. I am well assured you will do all 
in your power to promote the interest of the U. States. 

I am very respectfully 
Your Obt. Servt. 

Til. FOSEY 

Honblc. Judge Ben. Parke Vincennes (Copy) 



 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville 2Tth Doc, 1814 

Har. Pa. 315, J16 

Sir: 

I herewith inclose to you sundry documents, which I think 
essential that you and the President should see. I have writ- 
ten several letters to you which I thought necessary that you 
should be made acquainted with their contents. The Indian 
affairs in this Territory are becoming very important and re- 
quire the attention of the Gen. Government. 1 am cntireh- 
unacquainted with the policy to be observed toward the Indiari 
tribes, who are daily coming in. I know of no provision made 
to afford supplies in this Territory and should they not meet 
v.'ith supplies and attention from our Government they most 
assuredly will go to the enemy Vv4io are ready to supply them 
and are making every exertion to gain them over. I have 
prevailed with Judge [Benjamin] Parke who resides in the 
quarter where the Lidians generally come in, to use his exer- 
tions to conciliate their affectioris, and furnish them occasion- 
ally with pr,)visions and clothirig — such articles as they are 
really in great need of and which probably may be obtained 
from the merchants of Vincennes. The whole of them will be 
encamped at or near Ft. Harrison with liberty to hunt on the 
frontiers and trade with such person as I shall license for the 
purpose under a Territorial lavr. They are at present in a 
verj^ distressed situation, as j^ou may observe from Judge 
Parke's letter. There are about twenty families come into, 
or near Valony. I have been informed they are encamped on 
Sandy Creek [see Nov. 23 above], fifteen or twenty miles 
north of Valony about 70 or 80 miles from this, in Washing- 
ton county. They request to be allowed to hunt and trade. 
The inhabitants on the frontiers appear to be well satisfied 
that they should remain there, thinking it will afford a degree 
of safety from the depredations of the hostile Indians. I be- 
lieve I shall license some person to trade with them. ]Mr. Du- 
bois will give every assistance in his power to Judr.e Parlve. 

I am very Respectfully 

your obt. Pervt. 

Til. Posey 
Hon. James Monroe, Sec, of War 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS G85 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville Ind. Ter. 14th Jan. 1815 

Har. Pa. S38-3JfO 

Sir: 

Your letter of the 22nd Ult. came to liand by last mail, the 
contents of which shall be attended to. I have in sundry let- 
ters addressed to the department of war, been verj^ particular 
to give information as relates to Indian affairs in this Terri- 
tory. One of the 16th Sept. last to Genl. Armstrong and to 
yourself one of the 3rd Nov. the 12th 26th and 28th one of 
the 6th Dec. and of the 27th [see above]. I should not feel 
concerned were I certain those letters or any of them reached 
the department of War, but from no acknowledgement of the 
receipt of any of them, I am fearfull they have miscarried. 

Your letter of the 22nd Ult, [not found] mentions that "It 
has been intimated to this Dept. that several of the hostile 
tribes within the neighbourhood of your Territory arc desir- 
ous of renewing with the United States a state of peace." 

The information conveyed in my letters was respecting In- 
dians that had actually come into our settlements with their 
fa] lilies with a desire of being received upon friendly terms 
and treated in a friendly manner in affording [a sheet gone 
here] 

P. S. 

I am informed by the Honble. Jonathan Jennings repre- 
sentative from this Territory in the House of Representatives 
in Congress that he had it from the Department of War, that 
not more than one Maj. Genl. and two Brigadiers will be com- 
missioned for the Militia of this Territory. In that case I 
recommend Joseph Bartholomew as Maj. Gen. Ind Militia aiid 
James Dill for the Eastern half of the Territory and Walter 
Wilson for the Western half of the Territo)y as Brigadiers 
Ind. Militia. 

T. P. 

Pierre Andre to Posey 

VlNCi:NNES 8th Feb. 1815 
Har. Pa. i^G, SIJ 

Dear Sir : 

I herein give you the information received by Lt. [Hya- 
cinth] Lasselle respecting the Indians. An Indian states to 



 

Lt. Laselle that the Indians have received fifty cag's of povrder, 
lead and flints in proportion at the St. Joseplis and he was 
also informed by one of the Kicliapoos that in the course of 
six weeks it v.'as tlie intention of the Indians to make an 
attack on Ft. Harrison arid would return to the British ini- 
mediatelj* after the attack. He heard one of the Miami In- 
dians also observe on tlie parade one day on seeing the 
me]-! parade, that they should not do it longer than six weeks. 
:;e ^,'as also informed by the Indian called Parish Constance 
that Lapoo. ■ r had received three invitations from the British 
since last fa;!, Lapoosier has also invited Little Eyes v;ith his 
party to go and join him at his camp. 

One of the Kickapo^s has told an old Frenchman who he 
considered as a particular friend that he will give him infor- 
mation when the Indians intend making the attack on the fort. 
The Indians are somevviiat dissatisfied that Government has 
not given presents except what they purcliase with their 
peltry. 

I have two Indians in confi:iement at the Garrison for mis- 
behaving themselves or in consequence of their having at- 
tempted to kill me. 

I am with respect 
Your Humble Scn't. 

Pierre Andrie, Caryl . U. S. Pumgers (Copy) 
Gov. Posey, Jeffersonville 

• B. Parke to Posey 

Vincennes Feb. 15, 1815 

Har. Pa. 340-0 5 2 

Sir: 

I returned from Corydon on the niglit of the 12 inst. Dur- 
ing my absence six horses were taken from the other side of 
the river immediately opposite the village supposed to be 
stolen by the Indians. A short time since tliree Potavvato- 
mies came to Ft. Harrison one of whom for his indolence and 
ma); -O's was chastised by the Commanding Ofiicer, leaving 
the fort with the others, he v.ounded several cattle v.'ithin 
view of the Fort and escaped. The other tsvo vv'^ere taken, 
but upon the ad\ice of I\L [Touissaint] Dubois were after- 
wards discharged. On the afternoon of CAinday last a small 



 

party of Indians same to Biisseron settlonent, killed a man, 
wounded another badly and took two boys prisoners. A man 
is also missing from the same settlement supposed to be killed 
or taken. It is more than prol^able that this mischief was 
done by the Potawatomies, but as Little Eyes and his party 
and other bands of the Miamies were in the neighborhood of 
the frontiers and might h-.i fallen in with by some of our 
scouts, I directed the inter]n*eter as soon I learned the above 
to go to Little Eyes and advise him of what had happened 
and for him and the other Miamis to remove to the neighbour- 
hood of the Delav\^ares on White river. I have often admon- 
ished the Miamis of the danger of hunting near the frontier 
settlements (see my instructions to Brouilette Nov. 29th). As 
I had no evidence of the Ivliamis having committeed an act of 
hostilit}^ since the treaty I thought that justice and humanity 
required this. I fear the precaution may be useless as I am 
since informed that a considerable party of Citizens rendez- 
voused and marched yesterday with the avowed purpose of 
exterminating Little Ej^es party and other bands friends or 
foes, within their reach. The injuries v/hich the Indians have 
inflicted on the inhabitants of the frontiers are sufficient to 
exasperate them to a high degree, but that men having some 
pretensions to civilization and professing to be Christians 
should under any circum; tances manifest such a Dial^olical 
disposition can scarcely be believed. Yet I am told that a 
preacher of the Gospel is at the head of this party of llrA- 
men. 

I herewith enclose you a letter I have received from Lieut. 
[Hyacinth] Lasselle. I think it better to send you the Orig- 
inal than to attempt any translation. I consider it important 
not that I believe there is any probability that the English vrili 
aid the Indians with Cannon in an attack on Ft. Harrison, or 
that there are five thousand Indian v/arriors at St. Joseph, Chi- 
cago, an.' Udiowaky ?, but it shows the diligence ajid zeal of the 
agent and party and of tliat power in disseminating amongst 
tlie Indians whateve]- will have the tendency of strengthening 
their prejudice and increasing their irritation against the U. 
States. It is highly probable that Little Eyes is correct as 
regards the Miamis. What motive could the m^an have in 
misr> presenting the people of his own nation that Labossieur 
is a British partisan. I have been convinced for three months 



 

but whatever the feelings and views of the ]\IiamiK may be, 

situated as they are, in respect to our settlements, and the 

hostile Indians they cannot remain neutral. They cannot 

muster more than four hundred warriors and are unable to 

oppose their hostile Neighbors the Potawatomies. Besides 

the hostile parties that attack the frontiers commonly retreat 

through their country, to excite suspicions against and to 

draw our scouts amongst them. They must be removed from 

the Country, and taken under the immediate protection of the 

Un, States or they v/ill shortly in all probability be arranged 

with the hostile Indians against us. With respect to stolen 

horses. It appears that several that have been taken since the 

treaty are in the possession of the Miamis and Kickapoos. 

They allege that they procured them from the Potawatomies. 

It may be so. I have urged them to bring in all that have 

been taken since that period, and that their excuse of having 

purchased them from the Potav/atomies was inadmissable. 

Agreeably to your instructions I have employed a Gun 

Smith to work for the friendly Indians. You v/ill see the 

terms upon which he is engaged and the instructions under 

which he is to work for the enclosed notes to Brooks & Brou- 

lette. 

I have the honor to be vitli great respect 

Your Obedient Servant. 

tT- -c^ n n -n^M^,. B- Parke 

His Excellency Gov. Posey 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville 18th Feby 1815 

Har. Pa. 31,5 

Sir: 

Your letter of the 7th Dec. 1814 I have received by the last 
mail. It was addressed to me at Kaskaskia and no doubt has 
been the rounds of several hundred miles, with a detention at 
the several post offices. I am sorry it did not come to hand 
in due time it would have been very satisfactory and is so at 
the present time as having instruction from the Department 
of War relative to Indian affairs, tho I have acted pretty much 
in conformety to the instructions upon my own responsibility, 
but shall now proceed with confidence. 

It is to be apprehended that the Bi'itish will set the Indians 
on our frontier settlements early in the ensuing spring. I 
herewith enclose you a copy of a letter received within a few 



 

days from Capt. Pierre Andre [Feb. 8 above] in command at 
Fort Harrison. 

The friendly Indians are generally encamped in the neigh- 
bourhood of Ft. Harrison and a fcvv near Valony and the 
frontier of Franklin county. I have licensed proper charac- 
ters to trade with them. The British arc using every en- 
deavor to draw them off from us. 

Your instructions at any time will be gladly received, and 
executed as promptly as possible. 

I am with great respet. 

Your Obt. Servant 

Hon. James Monroe Sec. of War '^^^' ^^^^^ 

P. S. I shall take the necessary steps to be prepared for 
any invasion of the Indians on the frontiers of this Territory. 

The friendly Indians have had some partial presents made 
them, but they are more unhappy at beirig deprived from get- 
ting whiskey than any other circumstance. 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jefferson viLLE 21st Feb. 1815 

-, Hai: Pa. S^S 

Sir: 

I herewith enclose to you a copy of a letter just received 
from Judge B. Parke [Feb. 15 above] merely to show you the 
indefatigable industry of British agents among the Indians. 

Should the Indians make their threatened attack I have no 
doubt we shall be prepared to receive them. I have ordered 
a detail of militia to be held in readiness to m;!rch at the 
shortest notice. The Rangers and regulars at Vincennes, 
Fort Harrison and the frontiers of the Territory are at pres- 
ent under the co)nmand of Maj. Zachary Taylor of the U. S. 
Infantry. He is a very attentive officer and will do his duty. 

I should be happy to hear that an expedition was concerted 

to undertake an enterprise up the Mississip]n against the Bi'it- 

ish and Indians that may be embodying to inake a stroke upon 

our frontiers. t ir n 

I am very respectfully 

: , :y ;: Your Obt. Servt. 

Til. Posey 
Honblc. Col. James Monroe, Sect, of War 

City of Washington 



 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES May, 10, 1815 

Har. Pa. 6',5/^ 

Sir: 

The regular soldiers in Garrison at this place v/ere mostly 
enlisted for the war, and I suppose will shortly be discharged. 
One Company of Rangers v/as discharged the beginning of 
this month. The balance of that Corps that is now in this 
quarter must be discharged in about six weeks. What then 
v/ill become of Fort Harrison? As to the Fort at this place 
it might be abandoned with propriety, but I would respectfully 
suggest the necessity of Fort Harrison being occupied. Pos- 
sibly it might be best to remove the Foi't to this boundary at 
Raccoon Creek or the Vermillion River. I have heard that 
Col. [James] Miller v/ith his Rogt. is on his march to one of 
the Territories. Probably you may see him and he may have 
authority to arrange in respect to tlie above. I have just 
written to Col. [William] Russell Vvdio is still at St. Louis, on 
the Subject. 

Respectfully, 

Your Obedient Serva.nt 
B. Parke 
His Excelency Gov. Posey 

P. S. If it were possible for you to visit us and remain here 
a few Vv^eeks, I am confid(-nt it would be highly beneficial to 
this part of the Territory. 

Laframboise to Parke 

Fort Harrison TJay 17, 1815 

Har. Pa. 332 

My father: 

I am sorrj?" to tell you tliat the chiefs v/ho were sent v/ith 
your speech to the Patav/atomies and Kickai-oos have re- 
turned — for this reason — I ]:new that the Bi'itisli have in\'ited 
them to their country and tluit they Vv^ere gone.- 

My father — I listen with pleasure to your sjnjeeh. It v/ould 
be unnecessary foi* us to go to the Kickapoos and Potav/ato- 
mies knowing they could tell us nothing but lies. 

My father — You ] now th:it the Kickapoos and Potavv ato- 
mies told you at Vincenr.es tliat they had sent and Express to 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS G91 

their nations for you — and that they consciiled to send the 
express at Fort Harrison. They told you a lie. 

My father — I bch'eve that the Britisli have sent for the In- 
dians to inform them that peace has been made between the 
U. S. and Great Britain. 

My father — the British sent for us (the Weas) — we are 
determined not to g'o. 

Laframboise 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES May 19 1815 

Har. Pa. 54.? 

Sir: 

I have just received an Express from Fort Harrison by 
which I am informed that the Kickapoos and Potavv-atomies 
are gone to the British. LaFrambois says that the Idiamis 
will not go. I will &r]id you a c .py of his speech [see May 17 
above] by next mail and which I have not time now to copy 
as the mail is closing. I am novv^ satisfied that my arrange- 
ment with the Indians v»dll end in nothing. 

I have the honor to be respectfully sir Your Obt, Servant. 

B. Parke 
Gov. Posey 
P. S. Your letter of the 12 inst. is received. 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES May 25th 1815 

Har. Pa. C50-.J(U 

Sir: 

I informed you in my letter of the 18th inst. of the arri^•al 
of the Owl and two other Indians. The one his son, tlie other 
called Popping Dick [see index McGowan]. I put them in a 
house v/here I was in hopes tlicy v/ould be safe. Frid<'iy night 
a gi.;i was fired througli the door Vvdiich wounded Dick in the 
foot. He M'as sent to tlie fort and is undo' the care of the 
surgeon. The Owl an.d his son I took to my own liou^e. A 
trader starting for Fort Harrison on Monday, I got them jn:!- 
vately to his boat and v\'as in hopes of bein; . rid of them. Tlie 
trader finding it as lie thouglit, dangerous to proceed returned 
next morning'. I shall have some diil'iculty iu g(;tLing them oil' 



 

as I have been in formed over and over that all the road from 
this to the frontier are constantly patroled for the purpose 
of intercepting and destroying" these people on their return. 
This is a sad state of society and such as I hope never again to 
witness. Believing that some parties of citizens might prob- 
ably attempt to do some injuiy to the friendly Indians, I ap- 
prized them of it, advised them to remove which they were 
to do on ]\Ionday. Since I was told that a large party of citi- 
zens have passed the frontiers determined to put to death 
every Indian they meet. I do not believe that they will find 
the Weas. 

The Ov/1 inforjns me that he heard the same report.s in the 
Ind'-n country of which I have lately informed you that the 
Kic)' ooos and Potawatomies are not to be relyed on and that 
Pec is clearly for and gone to the English. 

I iclose you a letter I have just received from the Col. 
[William] Russel). As you are in full possession of all the 
infoi lation relative to the situation of affairs here you vrill 
deteii.iine on the measures it is necessary to adopt. [Pierre] 
Andre's Company was discharged the first of this month but 
I believe he a^ his Lieut. [Hya^ inth] Lassal" would enter 
again; if nec^_ ;ary could soon get his company together. 
[Frederick] Sholts I believe intends to leave the Service. He 
has promised me to write you respecting his Company. 

The party mentioned by Labousiur was the one that de- 
feated ]\Ir. Morrison. Twenty-five of them returned by La- 
bosiurs camp with four horses and some other plunder of 
]Morrison's Camp, and Mr. Boyez of this place prisoner thay 
had taken anolier prisoner but being badly wounded they 
Tomhav/.ced him. One of Morrisons party is still not ac- 
counted for. Sin-ma-dall [Six Medals] mentioned by La- 
bossiur is a son of the Five Medals who signed the Treaty at 
Greenville. 

I most earnestly repeat my request tliat you will imariedi- 

ately visit this part of the Territory. I assure you I thir.k 

it indispensibly necessary and am happy to learn that youi' 

health is so completely restored that you could do it witliout 

the least personal inconvenience. 

Yours respectfully 

^ B. Parke 

Governor Posey 

P. S. 

Since v/riting the above a man has come in who had been 



HARRISON: MESSAGP^S AND LETTERS 693 

with the party of citizens I have mentloiied. He loft them 
(from 60 to 100 in no.) beyond the frontiers on the trail of 
the retreating- enemy Indians and determined to follow them 
till last night. If in this pursuit friendly Indians be fallen in 
with they cannot be readily distinguished from Enemy In- 
dians. Of the danger to which they ought to subjected on 
such occasions I have repeatedly informed them and from it 
endeavored to convince them of the necessity of active execu- 
tions on their part to prevent the approach of the hostile In- 
dians. But I believe if they have committed no act of hos- 
tility it is very certain that they have never raised hands to 
oppose the passage through their county of the hostile Indians 
from the upper country. However they have frequently given 
information at Fort Harrison of some approach. 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES, May 25, 1815 Evening 

Har. Pa. 337 

Sir: 

I do not know that as Governor you have authority to order 
Militia into the Service of the U. S. and you will determine 
whether Col. [William] Russells Letter confers any. 

As to my opinion, I really think that two companies ought 
to be immediately raised for the protection of the Wabash 
settlements. Possibly one, ^vith [Frederick] Sholts Company 
as a mere defensive measure might answer. 

If you should determine to call any men into service please 
state specially the terms and conditions upon which they are 
to serve. The period of service — pay — whether found — or to 
be found by the public in rations — to be mounted or dis- 
mounted — and the number officers — non-commissioned officers 
and privates to a company. 

Sholts' Company as I have iiiformed you goes out of service 
the beginning of July. The Captain wishes me to inform you 
that although he is desirous of quitting the Service he will if 
necessr^ry continue for a term longer. He can have a com- 
pany i.imediately after his Ranger command expires. I think 
him a good officer as much so at least, as any you will probably 
get. He say.i that his Lieut. [Enoch] Blasdel will continue 
if desired. He is a clever fellow. 

Captain [Pierre] Andre and Lieut [Hyacinth] Lasselle have 
called upon us and requested me to inform you that they v.ill 



694 INDIANA IliSTORlCAL COLLECTIONS 

enter ag'ain with pleasure. I beJiovc you could not get two bet- 
ter men liere. If desired they can have a company in two or 
three days. The other Subaltern [Harvey] Gregg \Vd, join 
them, at a word if notified of it. 

John F. Myers and Pierre Laplante have requested me to 
mention them as desirous of raising a companj^ of volunteers 
for the defence of the frontiers. The former, formerly be- 
longed to Captain [William] Perry's Rangers and the latter 
to [Parmemis] Becke . and Andres. They think that they 
could raise m company with ease. How well they would officer 
one I do not know. Captain Sholts thinks it would not do. 

After the first next month of this Ranger Corps, Sholts 
Company only, continues in service there ought to be from 
fifty to one hundred men in Garrison at Fort Harrison. 

Should Militia be called for and it be so arranged it would 
be much the best that they should be furnished by the publick, 
Rangers furnishing themselves is an abominable feature in 
that system and the contractor here says he is full}^ competent 
to furnish what will be necessary foi two companies. 
Yours respectfully 

B. Parke 
Governor PoSEY 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville Ind. Ter. SOtli T»Iay, 1815 

Har. Pa. S.10 

Sir: 

I herewith inclose sundry documents recently re^ .dved from 
Judge B. Parke who acts as deputy Indian Agent at Vinccnnes, 
Fort Harrison etc. You will observe from those documents 
that our frontier is very much infested by hostile Indians. I 
am fearful from information received through various chan- 
nels that the Indians will be extremely troublesome. Scout- 
ing p.Tties are not sufllcient to keep them under; probably it 
will be necessary to send a coiisiderable force into the Indian 
country to bring them to a right understanding. This is a 
measure to be considered by the departm.cnt of war. Certain 
it is, that some s])eody and effectual measures should be 
ado])ted to r ve security to our frontier settlers. True it is, 
that I could and have at sundry times ordred out the Militia 
to scour along the fi'ontiers, but this mode proved inelfectual. 



 

The time of service of the rangers has g'enerally expired and 
we have no regular forces, You will please to write me upon 
the foregoing subjects. 

I have the honor to be vrith great respect. 
Your Obedient Servant. 



Honbl. the Acting Sect, of Vv'ar, 
City of \Vashtngton 



Til Posey 



Posey to Secretary of War 
Jefferson viLTE Indiana Territory August 3rd, 1815 

Har. Pa. Shl-Sh^ 

Sir: 

The rangers having served tlie time for which they were 
raised and being discharged and the hostile bands of Indian.s 
committing depredations upiai our defenceless inhabitants, I 
ordered several companies of -Militia to guard tlie frontiers, 
but before they were organized I received a requisition from 
Col. [William] Russell (who vras in cominand of this district) 
to have two complete companies of mounted l^Iihtia to supply 
the place of the rangers. I then declined ordering out all the 
Militia infantry and have agreeably to the requisition raised 
two volunteer companies of mounted I\Iilitia to serve six 
months except sooner discliarged. As soon as they were 
mustered into service the muster-rolls were sent q\\ to the com- 
mandant at St. Louis supposing it to be the proper channel 
to report through and the commandant (Col. Russell) re- 
turned the muster-rolls. It being necessary they should be re- 
ported to the department of vrar through some channels, I 
have herewith enclosed them accordingly The IMount; d vol- 
unteers above mentioned cannot furnish themselves v/ith ra- 
tions and forage. Col. Russell gave orders that the contra! tor 
should furnish rations but has r\\v le no arra igement for sup- 
plying forage. I could wish to have instructions upon that 
head and it will be necessary that tliey should be attended in 
case of sickness by a physician. The commandant at St. Louis 
would give no ii' .tructioriS relative to forage or medical aid. 

I am very respect, vour Obt. Ser „ „ 

' • Th. Posey 

Acting Sect, of War, City of W.^siiington 

P. S. The Indians heretofore hostile, still discover a very 
inveterate & hostile disposiLion. I am of opinion nothing sat- 



 

isfactory will take place with them as to a peaceful disposition 
until they are humbled. 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES Nov. 1st, 1815 

Har. Pa. ^53-356 

Sir: 

On the 19th Ult. I informed you of my intention of visiting 
the Weas and Vermillion Kickapoos. I saw all the Chiefs but 
one and was much gratified with their orderly conduct and the 
desire they manifested of attoning for their past errors and 
misconduct. They now appear to be sensible of the iDenefits 
resulting from a state of peace and the interest tliey have in 
preserving it. 

A chief of the Vermillion Kickapoos treated with the Com- 
missioners, and made peace at Portage Des Sioux, were on 
their way to the Embarrass and Sangamond, the former a 
branch of the Wabash, the latter of the Illinois and both in the 
adjoining Territory. Those on the Enibarass will be about 
one and those on the Sangamond not more than three days 
Journey from Fort Harrison. He further states that on their 
arrival on those waters for their Winters hunt a deputation of 
their Chiefs intended to visit me. There are still too many 
exasperated, unprincipled men in those settlements to render 
it safe for the Indians to come to this place. And should the 
Chiefs of that Tribe really wish to see me, I will meet them 
at the Fort. They however properly belong to Gov. [Ninian] 
Edward's agency and I am ignorant of liie arrangemer ts that 
have been made at Portage des Sioux. 

The same chief informed me that he had understood that 
the Shaw];eese and other adherents of the Prophet intended 
to re-establish themselves at Tipi ';canoe. Should those mis- 
creants return to that place it will be for the purpose of ex- 
citing mischief and dissentions amongst the Wabash Indians. 

In the spring of 1812 a miserable remnant of the Pyanka- 
shaws residing in the neighbourhood of this place were for 
their siifety advised to remove back into the Indian Country. 
They settled on the neighbourhood of the Kickapoos. Russels 
expedition drove them i'roiii thence. Tliey then went to the 
Missouri where they were taken piisoners by a detachment of 
Rangers avid Militir. They h;'.ve since been under the pro- 
tection of <!.nd I believe subsisted by tbc V. State in the Mis- 



 

souri Ty. They now earnestly solicit to return to their old 
hunting grounds on the Embarrass and little Wabash and liave 
sent me a talk to obtain permission for that purpose. They 
have I believe a considerable Tract of Country between the 
lands they sold the United States and the lands of the ICicka- 
poos but all in the Illinois Territory. I shall therefore not 
give the permission solicited unless instructed so to do. Were 
they pennitted to return all public business might be 
easil}' dispatched with them, as also the Prairie Kickapoos at 
Ft. Harrison, as it now is with the Weas and Vermillion Kick- 
apoos. 

Maj. [Willoughby] Morgan occupying Fort Harrison with 
two companies it is no longer convenient for the inteipreter 
and Gunsmith to remain in it. I have purchased near the 
Fort a small Cabin, part finished completing that and building 
another adjoining it f o ■ a shop accommodation will be afforded 
them. The house will also serve as a place of rendezvous for 
the Indians who resort to that place. On Saturday last Maj. 
Morgan discharged the Militia Rangers raised under the requi- 
sition of Col. Russell a few months since. 

Whilst the Rangers were in Service, I had to hire an ex- 
press but in a single case, the Officers of that Corps kindly fur- 
nished me men for that service. I had occasion frequently 
for them. Scarcely a week elapsed that I did not receive a 
communication from the Indians that required attention as 
it would not be prudent for [Michel] Broulette to send an In- 
dian messenger to mo, it will scarcely be possible for him to 
get an express at tl; Fort. And to depend on transient per- 
sons would not comprt with the Public Interest. I could wish 
to engage a man for three five or six months upon the terms 
on which the rangers were enlisted. Until Januarj^ he ought 
to go to the Fort and return weekly during the frosts and 
high waters of the winter and spring once in t\>'0 weeks. I 
believe it would be as che- p, cheaper to the Goveramcnt than 
hireing men as occasion may require and would insure a safe 
and expeditious mode of transmiting inteligerjce to and from 
the Indian Country. 

The proposition is respectfully submitted for your determi- 
nation. T i.r n r<- 

I am respectfully Sir your 

Obe. Servant. 
His Excellency Gov. Posey ^' "^^^^^ 

47—2266: 



 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville Ind. Ter. 12 Nov. 1815 

Har. Pa. S57 

Sir: 

Thinking it necessary that the department of war should 
be made acquainted with the present temper and disposition 
of the Indians within my district, I herewith enclose to you a 
copy of a letter from Judge B. Park [Nov. 1 above], who 
I have been under the necessity of employing as an assistant 
in Indian affairs owing to the dispersed situation of the In- 
dians at different st-itions upon our frontiers. In addition to 
Judge Parke's letter, I inform you that all the tribes at other 
stations as well as Ft. Harrison are very amiably disposed. 
All the friendly Indians have been greatly distressed for the 
want of provision and to relieve their distresses only in a 
moderate degree, I have given them partial supplies, which I 
presume will meet the approbation of Government. I have 
licensed Traders to furnisl the Indians at the different sta- 
tions and I am in hopes they will be enabled to furnish them- 
selves considerably if not altogether by hunting. In all the 
accounts which I have sanctioned and sent on to the depart- 
ment of War, I have endeavored to economise as much as pos- 
sible and have endeavored to explain the necessity of furnish- 
ing the several articles charged by accompany 'ig documents 
where they were not sufficiently explained in tlie account. 

I am with great respc .'t 
;;; Your Humble Servt. 

-.- ' v. r .-■ Th. Posey 

Honble. William H. Crawford 

City of Washington 

'' ■■• ';"' Posey TO General Assembly 

Jeffersonville Dec 4 1815 

ii. ss. in Sec. of State's Office 

Regular Message 

Gentlemen of the Legislative Council ana of the House of 
Rcprcsentaiivcs: 
The period for the meeting of the legislature of the terri- 
tory has once more arrived, and it is with th most heartfelt 



 

satisfaction that I now congratulate you, that since your last 
meetincT, a bloody war has been terminated by an honorable 
peace, le blessings of which have been diffused and felt 
throughout our beloved country. We cannot be too grateful to 
that providence, in whose hand:; are the destinies of nations, 
that he has blessed our efforts in a just and arduous struggle, 
with a poY/erful and ambitious enemy, and finally crowned 
them with the most glorious sue ss. This event has furnished 
a new era in our history, from Vv liich the most flattering pres 
ages may be drawn ; it has taught us confidence in ourselves, 
and demonstrated the efffciency of a free government in war, 
as well as in peace. These political blessings which are of a 
nature so interesting and important, were not obtained but at 
the expense of blood and treasure and individual privation; 
these however are the natural concomitants of war, and should 
be cheerfully submitted to, in order to insure great national ob- 
jects. In no section of the union is there more cause for 
rejoicing at the restoration of peace than in this territory. A 
cruel and bloodthirsty enemy, who border on our frontier, and 
whose mode of warfare ] the indiscriminate slaughter of the 
infants, the aged, and ihe helpless part of the community, 
have agreed to bury the tomahawk, and once more live with 
us in the bonds of friendship. From this event has flowed 
and is still flowing the most lasting benefits to our country; 
an emigration which is rapidly populating our fertile lands, 
and which in a little time will enable us to be admitted into 
the political family of the union as an independent state. 

Permit me to recommend to the legislature the propriety as 
well as justice of imposing as modei'ate taxes on the emigrants 
to the territory as may be compatible with the public interest. 
Most of them ha\ removed from a great distance, at a con- 
siderable expense. They have to encounter many difficulties 
in opening their farms for cultivation, before they can derive 
a supp;.-rt, much more a profit from them ; and con? oquently 
their ability will be excus^^d from contributing largely for a 
short time to the public exigencies. These circumstances are 
not unknown to you genthnnen, and I make no doubt "svlien 
you take up the subject of taxation you will give them that 
consideration which theii" importance merits. 

The present seems to be a favorable time to airn your atten- 
tion to the promotion of education and the improvement of the 



 

state of roads and highways. Both of these subjects h;..ve 
been already acted on. By reviving them a knowledge of 
their practical operation, may demonstrate the necessity of 
making alterations and improvements that will be extensively 
useful. 

A revision of the territorial lav, s is highly necessary and 
should be taken up as early in the session as possible. There 
have not been for some time any of the acts of 1808 or 1810 
to distribute to justices of the peace and others who wore en- 
titled to them; in fact from their detached and deranged situ- 
ation, the laws have become complicated and difficult to be 
searched out and properly understood. 

Every dictate c'^ prudence recommends an amendment to 
the militi • system, so as to render it free from any unnecessary 
delay in its operation, and to secure by more certain and ade- 
quate punishments, prompt obedience to such requisitions as 
emergencies may fi'om time to time require. 

I cannot close this communication, without expressing my 
coniidcj ice in a wise and honorable result to your deliberations, 
and assurances of the faithful zeal with which my cooperating 
duties will be discharged ; invoking at the same time the bless- 
ing,-^, of Heaven on our beloved country. 

Th. Posey 

■'- • ' Harrison to Congress 

Cincinnati December 20, 1815 

Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Af. I, 650 

In a letter which I had the honor to receive from Mr. Fisk, 
who was the chairman of a committee appointed, in. the spring 
of 1814, to inquire into the complaints of improper interfer- 
ences with the contractors by the commanding generals, and 
which letter was dated August 3d, 1814, he says, that he "had 
formed an unfavo ible opinion of me, from some statements 
which had been made to the committee, suppoiled by docu- 
ments, chiefly my ov/n letters, substantiating the following 
facts, viz : that, in a letter addressed by me to the contracted' 
Mr. [B. G.] Orr, about the 24th of June, 1813, I informed liiin 
that I had provisions enought on hand for fourteen thousand 
men for one yeai-, that about the 2'lth of August of the same 
year, I made a large requisition upon him for supplies, which, 
in consequence of the former letter, he was unable to furnish, 



 

and that I liad also caused large purchases to be made by the 
commissaries of the army after the said 2-lth of Juri:\ and 
that, notwithstanding- all this, the army vranted provisions at 
Maiden, and on the expedition to the ^Moravian towns." Never 
was there a more artful combination of truth and falsehood 
than this statement contains. The army did not want pro- 
visions at Maiden; it remained at that place but one night. 
The troops had drawn provisions for that and the following 
day, and there \Yere at least eighty thousand rations on board 
the vessels, at the wharfs, at the distance of only one hundred 
yards from the encampment. I should indeed but illy have 
deserved the situation which I occupied if I had invaded an 
enemy's country without a single day's provisions for my 
troops. Could I, for a moment, have presei^-ed the confidence 
of a single man in the army under such circumstances? 
What Vv'ould have been the feelings of the volunteers, and their 
venerable and patriotic leader? Would not the latter have 
denounced me immediately to the Government as entirely' in- 
competent to t-\e command? And yet I do Imovr that, not- 
withstanding the army did want provisions when operating 
on the Thames, so entirely evident was this want beyond exer- 
tions of mine to prevent, that Governor Shelby, who vas inti- 
mately acquainted with i\\\ my plans, and wit" the whole 
course of my conduct has continued to speak of me, and to 
write of me, in a manner far (I must acknovrledge) beyond 
either my merits or pretensions. His letters to the President 
will prove this. I shall advance nothing in this statement 
without adducing evidence in support of it, although the state- 
ment which I shall make will be so consistent that I trust it 
would, of itself, have carried conviction to the minds of the 
committee. I ask them, therefore, to refer to my official ac- 
count of the operations at Detroit, and upon the Thames, in 
which it is stated that the vessels which had been sent back 
from ?<Talden for provisions had been driven to the lower end 
of the lake, by a storm, and that they had not arrived at that 
time, nor, indeed, did they arrive until after I had sailed for 
Buffalo. L'i on what, then, could tlie army, the prisoners, the 
Indians, with whom I was treating, and the inhabitants of 
Detroit, a part of whom I v»;'.s' obliged to supply, subsist from 
the 27th of Sc]'tembcr to the 12th or 15th of October, but upon 
the provisions which were taken over with the troops? I 



702 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECliONS 

acknowledge that the}' were not well supplied, but tlie issues 
could not have been less than seven thou. sand rations per diem. 
Fiom the following statement it will appear that the contrac- 
tors, and not me, were to blame for the deficiency of pro- 
visions, and that if I had relied entirely upon them the army 
would have starved. I cannot find in any of my letters to 
the contractors, that I ever said I had provisions for fourteen 
thousand men for one year. In the letter of the 20th of June, 
the paragraph in relation to this subject stands tlius: "there 
is, I imagine, full as much provisions on 1 nd, the property of 
the United States, as will be wanted for the campaign, some 
fresh beef excepted." 

In the letter of the 22d of June, I state, that "there will be 
quite provisions enough for all the troops that are to be em- 
ployed at least until the 1st of December," The difference be- 
tween the statement is, however, not at all material to the 
argunTnt, since I broadly acknov/ledge that I not only directed 
the C( ractor to procure no provisions for the campaign, but 
compL.ined to the Secretary of War that he had made consid- 
erable purchases at Cleveland. By ef erring to a map of the 
State of Ohio, the movements of the northwestern army on the 
three lines of operation leading from the first to the second 
military base may be traced as follows, viz: the right line 
ascending the Scioto river from Delaware and descending San- 
dusky river to Upper and then to Lower Sandusky. The left 
taking the direction c' that branch of the T\Iiami of the Ohio 
which interlocks with die i^Iiami of the lake, crossed the Por- 
tage between them, and descended the latter river to Fort 
Meigs. I shall advance nothing in this statement but what is 
supported by an original document sent with it, or which will 
be confiremed by the persons to whom I shall refer, and who 
a:"e within reach of the committee. For the quantity of pro- 
visions on hand at the date of my letter to ]\Ir. Orr, 24th June, 
see original returns of the commissaries, marked No. 1. I 
have no return by me of the quantity of provisions on hand at 
Fort IMeigs in J. le, 1813, but the deposition of Captain 
[Williar.i] Oliver, th/ commissary, accompanying this, will 
furnish it. ]\Iy estimate is eight hundred barrels of flour and 
a much larger quantity of meat. If this estimate is correct, 
we have on the left and centre lines, and at Fort I^.Ieigs, which 
terminated th( .n, flour equal to nine hundred and forty thou- 



 

sand rations, and half that number of rations of salted acat. 
The above provisions were purchased under a particular order 
from the Secretary of War. These facts can bo ascertained 
by reference to the War Otnce and Colonel [James] ]Morri- 
son, and ti.e honorable ]\Ir. Creighton. Admitting; that of this 
quantity there had been consumed, on the 24th of June, 1813, 
four hundred thousand rations, which is a large allov\'ance, 
there will remain for this line, one n.illion five hundred thou- 
sand of all the component parts of the rations, meat excepted, 
for a considerable quantity of the meat procured for this line 
had bci I driven to Fort ]Meigs in the preceding winter, and 
there salted. 

From these facts it will be admitted that, on the 22d June, 
1813, 1 was authorized to say we had provisions enough on 
hand for the campaign. But by what sad reverses were these 
bright prospects so blasted that it became necessarj'' to pur- 
chase more provisions, and in August to call upon the con- 
tractors for a large supply? From the affidavit of Mr. Pirtt, 
and from the personal evidence which he will give to the com- 
mittee, it \n\\ be seen that it is not true that provisions were 
purchased by the commissaries of the army after the month 
of June, and before the montli of September, excepting some 
beef cattle, to no g. -at amount, to make the other component 
parts of the rations on hand complete rations. The call upon 
the contractor was rendered necessary from the follovring cir- 
cumstances : The provisions on the left line were brought 
from the I\Iiami country, and deposited at St. Mary's on the 
river of that name, and at Amanda, on the Auglaize, (called 
on the map Tawa town) and boats were prepared at each of 
those places to take them for fort jMeigs. The greater part 
of the boats were upon the arrival of General [Green] Clay's 
brigade of Kentucky militia in the latter end of April, and by 
that ofiicer very properly taken to convey his troops to the 
re ief of fort ]\Icigs, then besieged by the enemy. Part of the 
flour was, however, taken down as far as Fort Winchester, 
and there left, that the troops might be unincumbered with it 
in their approach to the enemy. After the siege of fort I\Ieigs 
was raised, orders v/ere given to provide other boats at St. 
T^i'uy's and Amanda, (those which had descended could not 
be taken back) and when I wrote to th'i contractors, on the 
22d of June, I had still strong hopes that, by the usual re- 



 

currence of a fresh at that season, the provisions might be 
brought down. In this hope I was, however, disappoint<'d. 
Mr. Piatt knows better than I do how much of it reached fort 
Meigs. My own belief is that a very fevv^ barrels of that 
which was deposited at Fort Winchester arrived, and that in 
a damaged state. Very early in the spring a large deposite 
of flour had been made at fort ]\Ieigs; to that place also, largo 
droves of hogs and beeves were driven from Urbana and 
Franklintoii. The preservation of this provision engaged my 
early and particular attention. The flour was put under 
cover before the sick wei'e sheltered in any other way than by 
tents; barrels were ordered to be prepared for the pork and 
beef; but, as it was necessary to salt it before these could be 
made ready, the meat was put in la^ . e vats which were 
deemed safe, as ship carpenters were employed to make and 
calk them. Notwithstanding all my personal care and atten- 
tion, hoY;ever, a great part of the flour as well as the meat 
spoiled. During the siege of fort Meigs the covering of the 
flour was destroyed by the enemy's shot, and a great number 
of the barrels shattered, and the whole exp.;sed to the eoli- 
th' aed rains which fell for several weeks. Apprised of this 
circumstance, I directed that it should be overhauled, sift d 
and repacked, and iS much as possible baked into biscuits. 
This business was in full operation when the enemy made 
tlieir seco]id appearance, and caused it to be suspended. Upon 
the final report of the state of the provisions at fort Tileigs in 
August, I found that a considerable quantity of the flour had 
been destroyed. A great doal of the salted meat was vho 
spoiled, supposed to be occasioned by the shot from the 
enemy's batteries causing the reservoirs to leali. The garri- 
son, too, had been obliged to use the salt meat contrary to my 
intention, as the communication was intercepted, and the 
fresh beef could not be taken to them. The supplies upon the 
right Vvdng had also sufl'ei'ed very materially. The flour was 
principally i.archasc.l in the neighboi'hood of Cliiiicothe, froin 
whence it was taken in wagons to Franklvnton, Delaware; 
from those places to Norton ; from Norton to Upper San- 
dusky, a id from that to Lov/er Sandusky. From these re- 
peated changes of the carriages, f]'om the frequent loading and 
unloading, and from the excessive bad I'oads, the barrels Vv'ere 
much broken, ar.d the militia officers, v.dio commanded at the 



 

several d 'pots, were' not as attentive as they oiigiit to have 
been in the construction of sheds to keep them from the 
weather. From these causes the greater part of the flour vras 
much injured, altliough it was all examined, and the sound 
part separated from that which was damaged and repacked; 
the loss was very considerable. The consumption upon this 
vring was also unexpectedly inci'eased to an enormous amount 
from the number of the Ohio militia wliich turned out to repel 
the second invasion of the enemy, and from the unnecessary 
retention of tv/o thousand of them at Upper Sandusky, after 
the enemy had retired. On the 18th of August I had ascer- 
tained that there v/ould be a deficiency of salted provision in 
the public depots, and as I knew that the contractors had a 
quantity of iliat article at Cleveland, which they never had 
been required to purchase, I addressed a letter to their agent, 
requiring of them two hundred thousand rations of salt meat 
for the consumption of the troops when in Canada. I did not 
at that time suppose that the flour would be wanted ; but as it 
would have been unjust to have obliged the contractors to fur- 
nish the salted meat, which was then scarce, and upon which 
they would probably lose, I gave then the option of furnishing 
the other parts of the vation or not, as they pleased. See the 
original draughts of my letter, (No. 2) and ^Ir. Greely's an- 
swer, (No. 3) enclosing the return of provisions on hand a. 
Cleveland, by which it will appear that they had at that time 
upwards of three-fourths of the whole quantity demanded. 
It is true that I\Ir. Orr (see his letter No. 4) contradicts the 
statement of his partner, Mr. Greely; but the reason of his 
doing so was soon explained. Upon his arrival at headquar- 
ters, about the 7th of Scpteniber, he stated to me that the Sec- 
retary of War would not pay his draughts unless they were 
sanctioned by me upon an estimate of the cost of provision 
which I might require of him. I agi'eed to authorize his draw- 
ing, upon his submitting an estimate. His letter and esti- 
mate, (No. 5) will show that he ^^^shed the Government to 
advance the whole cost of the three hundred thousand rations 
vv'hich had been required ( i him, although he had on hand the 
greater part of the amount purchased with funds that had 
been placed in his hands when he took the contract. I refused 
to sanction his drawing for more than a reasonable advance 
upon the provisions which wei'c then to be purchased. Tlie 



 

whole affair was explained to the Secrctaiy of War in a letter 
of the 8th of September. This refusal of mine to suffer Orr 
to draw for sixty thousand dollars to purchase one hundred and 
thirty-five thousand rations, (which was tlie quantity wantod 
to make up the three hundred thousand which v/ere I'cquired ) 
gave the first shock to the good understanding which had sub- 
sisted between us, and my taking him severely to task, when 
the army ^yas crossing the lake, for not providing vessels to 
transport his provisions, entirely destroyed it 

From the foregoing s^ tement it willi I trust, be acknowl- 
edged that, In June 18la, I w s authorized to say that there 
w.s sufficiency of provisions in the public stores fci the con- 
templated campaign, and that there was nothing unjust 
towaras the contractors, or injurious to the public interests, 
m the demand of three hundred thousand rations in the latter 
end of Augiist, since I knew that the greater part was on 
hand I acknowledge that, at the time I gave the order, I 
thought it probable that all the salted meat required could not 
be procured, and certainly I should not have blamed thecon- 
tractors for not performing impossibilities. The troops did 
not suffer because this provision vras not purcl ed but thev 
were stinted in their supplies at Detroit, because the contrac- 
tors did not (as they might have done) procure the means of 
tiansporting their provisions across the lake. The demand 
for. the three hundred thousand rations was made to render 
security more sure"; a maxim that should be constantly in 
the mmd of every general when providing for the subsistence 
01 his :.rmy m a wilderness, or in an exhausted country Hov^ 
many m other respects well-planned enterprises have failed 
fmn neglecting it? The great King- of Prussia, who, .bove 
all otl .T generals, was famous for ascertaining the subsis- 
tence of his army, failed in an attempt upon Olmutz, in the 
seven year s war, because for once he trusted to a single 
resource Had he succeeded in this attempt, he mMn. m % 
few week's ; fter, have dictated the terms of peace to the 
Empress Queen in her ca])ital. But, without recurring to re- 
mote examp^ ., our own annals furnish a fatal instance of the 

lln^n f ; 'i ' '^^'''' ^'^^"'^^^ Wilkinson says that he was 
unable to ake Montreal in the fall of 1813, because ho was 
not joined by the corps under General [Wade] Hampton; and 
the latter asserts that he could not form the desired junction 
lor want of provisions 



 

I have never heard that the retention of the provisions, pur- 
chased by the agents of the United States in the hnnds of tlieir 
commissaries after the commencement of JMr. Orr's contract, 
formed a part of his complaints against me. If such, should 
be the case, hovrever, Colonel ]Morrison will give the commit- 
tee the most satisf; etory information upon the subject. It 
was in pursuance of his advice that I prescribed the terms 
upon which the provisions should be delivered, and Vvdiich were 
refused by 'Mr. Orr. 

Mr. Orr has asserted that he cleared one hundred thousand 
dollars by the contract, and that, but for me, he would have 
made three hundred thousand. (See the depositions of Cap- 
tain Reed, late assistant deinity quarter-master general and 
three other gent/emen, marked No. 6) I know of no act of 
mine that could have operated so injuriously to the interests 
of the contractors, unless in the two instances in wh'ch their 
entire failure to supply the troops was cor:; cted by purcliases 
made by the officers of the United States. Upon my return 
into the district, in .January, 1814, Captain Oliver, the com- 
missary, waited on me to inform me that he was then em- 
ployed, under an order from Brigadier General Cass, in pu'-- 
chasing provisions for the troops at Detroit, who were almost 
in a starving situation in consequence on the neglect of tlie 
contractors to comply with General Cass's requisitions. I ap- 
proved of the order which had been given to General Cass, and 
his successor, in the command of Detroit Colonel Butler, and 
directed Captain Oliver to continue his exertions to execute 
them. (See the deposition of Captain Oliver, No. 7.) I had 
scarcelj^ disposed of this affair wlien I was alarmed by the 
intelligence received from Llajor General Gano, of the Ohio 
militia, to whomi was entrusted the defence of Lowei' San- 
dusky and Put-in-ba3% at the latter of which lay the prize 
ships taken from the enemy, that the troops at those places 
were siip]:ilied with provisions from the contractors had been 
unavailing. (See T deposition of General Gano No. 8) The 
matter was so urgent that no time was to be lost. Captain 
Oliver was, th .'efore, instru.cted to make a contract for the 
delivery nf forty tliousand rations, at Lower Sandusky, with 
the utmost possible despatch, to make the best bargain he 
could for the interests of the contractors, but to give a price 
whi( h would insur: the delivery of the p] ^visions. What less 



 

could have been done in the tv\^o cases here mentioned? Should 
I have countermanded tlie orders given by General Cass and 
Colonel Butlei-, by the execution of which alone the important 
posts at Detroit and I^.Ialden could be preserved, or should I 
have permitted the enemy to retalie the ships in harbor, at 
Put-in-bay, which vvould have enabled them again to contend 
for the superioi'ity on the lakes, for fear that I sliould deprive 
Mr. Orr of the opp;irtunity of making three hundred thousand 
dollars instead of one hundred thousand? 

In order to gain credit to his complaints of persecution 
from me, it Vv^as conceived to be necessary by Mr. Orr and his 
friends lo assign some motive for it, and they have chosen to 
account for it by supposing partiality, on my part, towards 
Mr. John IT. Piatt, the Deputy Commissary General. As this 
officer was allowed a certain per centum upon his expendi- 
tures, his emohriiient, consequently, increased by every order 
to purchase provisions. The contractors Vv^ere made to fail, in 
order that business might be throv/n in Piatt's hands ; and I 
believe that it has been more than insinuated that we divided 
the spoil. By referring to Mr. Piatt's deposition. No. 9, it 
will be seen, and the fac :'an be verified by his account;' which 
have been passed at the War Office, that after the commence- 
ment of Oi'r's contract, Piatt never received an ord'. r from me 
to purchase any provisions, but in a single instance, and that 
was some beef cattle for the purpose of making the flour and 
other component parts of tue rations in the hands of the 
United States commissaries complete rations. Tiie order for 
the purchases to remedy the failure of the contractors at De- 
troit and Maiden, in the winter of 1813-1814, was given when 
I was out of the district, first by General Cass, and aftervv^ards 
by Colonel Butler, that for the supply of Sandusky and the 
Bass islands' was committed to Captain Oliver. To give color 
to my supposed subserviency to the interests of Mr. Piatt, it 
has, I understand, been asserted that I drew him from obscur- 
ity to place him in the lucrative ofilce which he filled. This 
story is just as false as the inference that is drawn from it. 
I was a perf( ct stranger to Mr. Piatt when I found liira upon 
the frontier.^ of this State acting as purchasing commissary 
under an appointment from General Hull. I continue i him in. 
opposition to Iho claims of a friend of eighteen years sti.inding, 
because I was informe.I that he had given great satisfaction 



 

to Hull's army by his zeal and industry. (See certificates of 
Generals Taylor, Findlay, and Colonel Jesup -narked No. 10) 
With Mr. Piatt I never had any connexion, but in the relation 
of commanding" general and commissary, in my life. If exam- 
ined upon oath by the committee he will testify that all the 
pecuniaiy trar;sactions v^'hich ever passed between us were me 
renting a house from him iri Cincinnati for my family, for 
which he charged me more than the preceding tenant had paid ; 
his purchasing two yoke of oxen from my farm after I had left 
the army, and a book account of fifty dollars, principally for 
articles furnished my family in my absence. In a case of this 
kind, where even the suspicion of improper conduct would be 
nearly as fatal to my character as a conviction of guilt, all 
delicacy should be laid aside and the affair examined to the 
bottom. It is, therefore, my earnest vvish that Colonel J.Iori- 
son, Mr. Piatt, and such other officers as served under me, 
who are within reach C the committee, may be required to 
testify.' not only as to the f ; cts, but to declare their opinion 
and the general impressions existing in the army. It would 
be V cy difficult to exhibit positive proof of the corruption of 
a commanding general, bi^t there are a thousand circum- 
stances which might come to the knov.icdge of those about 
him which would be quite as convincing as the most authentic 
document. I do not indeed think it vrould be v. rong to make all 
public officers account for any sudden increase of vrealth. To 
show that this has not bee my case, I h ve procured the d po- 
sit ■ jn of General Findlay and Mr. Burnett, to shovv' that I left 
the army poorer than when I entered it, and that I have since 
been obliged to have recourse to loaris to put my farm in a 
situation to support mj^ family. The high characl : of these 
gentlemen \vi\\ be vouched for by all the Ohio delegation. 

I have no claim to push the investigation I have solicited 
further than is necessary to my own defence, but if with a 
view to a better understanding of the operations which may 
be nececsar\'' in a future war, the House of Rei)resentatives 
should determine to give greater scope to the inquiry, the re- 
sult v/ill, I am sure, prove the correctness of the places v.-hich 
were adopti a for the support of the Northv/est^ini army, and 
that the actual cost of the supplievS will bear a favorable com- 
parison with that of any other army -\%'hich preceded it in the 
same tract, or v/iih tho/ whi-, h, in the late war, were cm- 



 

ployed in otlier sections of the country. I do not coiisider 
myself, hov, er, rcLponsible for the amount of money which 
maj^ have been expended by the army under my command, 
excCijting* as to its faithful application, so far as that de- 
pended on me. I am, indeed, ignorant of the amount. All 
that my duty required me to know, was that it was as little as 
possible, to give security to the measures which I was directed 
to pursue. My opinion may differ from many, with regard 
to the quantum of supplies necessary to produce that security, 
and I may perhaps be blamed for having ordered them to be 
provided on a scale unnecessarily large. It cannot, hov/ever, 
be b.y those who are acquainted with the countiy which was the 
scene of our operations, or who v/ill recollect that the army 
under General St. Clair was in a starving condition when it 
was defeated, and that of General Wayne, after a preparation 
of two and a half j'^ears, was scarcely able, upon very reduced 
allowance, to reach the poi t of its destination. 

William Henry Harrison 
Late Major General hi the United States Army 

General Assembly TO Posey 

CORYDON Dec. 26 1815 

;•■; Har. Pa. /,^7H50 

LEGISiATIJRE OP INDIAN. 

House of RErRESENTATivEs 
-'■-■' ' • " :/ Resolution of the House 

Resolvf.i unanimously by the House of Representatives of 
Indiana, That Ezra Ferris and Joseph Holman bo, and they 
are hereby appointed a committee to w^ait upon his Excellency 
the Governor of this Territory v/ith the following Address, as 
expressive of the sentiments of this House. 
To his Excellency Thomas Posey, Governor of the Indio.na 

Territory 
Sir: 

The House of Representatives, owing to your absence at the 
opening of the present sessio . of the Logislature, were pre- 
vented from making a formal answer to your v/ritten com- 
munication: They now take the oppoitu«i.ty of informing 
your Excellency, that tiiey highly approbate tlie measures you 



 

were pleased to recommend ; but owing to the prospects of 
going into a State Government shortly, they have thought 
proper to postpone the consideration of some of the subjects 
recommeiided, until the next session of the Legislature; and 
wishing to express the sentiments of esteem and respect v/hich 
they feel towards your Excellency, before they are dissolved 
as a legislative body, the last, perhaps, that will act as such 
during our Territorial existence, the., cannot refrain from 
declaring their perfect approabation of your offical conduct as 
Governor of this Territory. During your administration, Sir, 
many then existing evils have been remedied; and we particu- 
larly admire the calm, disp;i,ssionate, impartial conduct of your 
administration, which has produced the salutary effect of 
quieting the violence of party spirit, harmonizing the interests 
as well as feelings of the different parts of the Territory ; and 
under your auspices, we have become as one people. We cor- 
dially wish renovated health, domestic happiness, and public 
applause, which you so justly merit, may accompany your 
future days, and be the rev»^ard of a life devoted to your coun- 
try's service. 

Dennis Ppjnnington 
-■' • •■ ■ ' *• i Speaker of the House of Representatives 

■ ■ Governor's Refly 

Mr. Spea er, and gentlemen of the House of Represen- 
tatives OF the Indiana Territory: 

The address of your House, delivered by your committee, 
Messrs. Ferris and Holman, I receive with unspeakable pleas- 
ure, and deem it to have a i lace among the most consoling 
everit of my life Yes, gentlemen, the approbation of so re- 
spectable a body, relative to my administration, will make an 
impression upon my mind that can only be eradicated by a dis- 
solution of my existence in this life. But while life remains, 
and I continue in the reputable station wliich I hold, you shrill 
always find m.e devoted to render to the citizens of our Terii- 
tory all the faithful services which are committed to my 
charge, and made my duty to administer. 

The probability is, that we shall sliortly take a stand as a 
state, and add orxe more brilliant star to the Union of our be- 
loved country; and let my station be as it may, bother public 
or private it shall be devoted to do all the good i can to serve 



 

and promotG the happiness and welfare of my fellow-citizens. 

You will please to receive my thanks for the impressive 
manner in which you appreciate my services, and the interest 
you take for my personal welfare. Please to accept my best 
wishes that each individual may enjoy health anu prosperity 
through your public and private life; that upon your retire- 
ment, you may have a happy meeting with your families ; and 
th:'-t you may be under the providential care of the Supreme 
Governor of the Universe. 

Th. Posey 
The Honorable the Sieaker of the House of Representatives 

26tl. Dec. 1815 

Harrison to John McLean 

Cincinnati Decern er 29, 1815 

A771. Sta. Pa. Mil. Af. I, 658 

Dear Sir : 

From Mr. [Jaco].] Burnet and other veiy respectable char- 
acters who have lateb^ returned from the Eastern States, I 
have learned that the industry and motives of a few enemies 
have produced an impression so general an ' unfavorable to 
my reputation, that it becora- s a duty to my family, my char- 
acter, and even my country, to endeavor to remove it. There 
was no means of accomplishing this which appeared so proper 
as tl 't of ?n investigation by the House of Representatives. 
I have accoi dingly solicited one by a letter address i to their 
Speaker, which is here^vith enclosed: [see Dec. 20 above] it is 
also accompanied by a statement wiiich I have prepared, with 
a number of docinnents to support it. The letter having been 
presented, you will oblige either to put the statement and 
documents also in possession of the House or deliver them to 
the Committee that ma}'' be appointed, as you may judge 
proper. I cannot believe that there will be any hesitation to 
grant nr, rc:iu : but if there should, I hope you will be pre- 
pared to suppoil my claims. Mr. Bassett, who is my near 
relation, Mr. Pleasants, and Mr. Nelson of Virginia, will all 
of them readily yield you thvAv aid, as would Mr. Clay himself 
if he should have an opportunity of speah'^ig. I wil^ thank 
you Uj m£:ke knowTi my wishes to these gentlenien. ... think 
it is probable that you may be one of the committee: if you 
arc, I must repeat in this private letter what I have said in 



 

that to the Speaker, that I wished the investigation to take 
the greates possibk' scope, and that no sense of delicacj'' 
towards me should prevent the asking the officers v/ho may be 
summoned before the cominittcj any questions which will 
probe the subject of the investigation to the bottom; and if I 
have a friend on the committee, he will take that course with- 
out the least apprehensio; that any thing will come to light 
which would cause him to blush for me. Others have served 
the country more successfully, but none with more i:oal and 
fidelity than I have done. I claim no reward, I would be con- 
tented vvith > ■curity ; but I cannot rest under unmerited ob- 
loquy. I see that my old opponent (Proctor) has been se- 
verly reprimanded by the Prince Regent. My fate has been 
more hard than his. He had (I presume) a fair trial, I have 
been condemned unheard. His crime was the loss of an army 
and a province; mine of having incurred (in what way I 
know not) the hatred of a minister, and forcing a coritractor 
to do his duty. 

I have selected you as the medium of fdving the enclosed 
papers their destination as well from the high opinion I enter- 
tain of your character ..< your being the Representative of my 
district. The trouble you may give yourself on this occasion 
will be gratefully remembered by dear sir, your friend imd 
humble servant, 

William Henry Harrlson 
Hon. John McLean, Esq. 

Burnet and Findlay to Congress 

Cincinnati Jan 20, 1816 

Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. Af. J, 058 

Hamilton County, ss: 

Before me the subscriber, one of the Justices of the Peace 
in and for the county of Hamilton, came personally James 
Findlay and Jacob lurnct, who, on oath, depose and say, they 
are intimately acquainted v/ith Major General William Henry 
Harrison, and that during the time lie coirmianded the north- 
western army, they had some agency in the management of 
his priva' pecuniary concerns, .'-nd know that he borrowed 
money . defray the ordinary expenses of his family. They 
furtlior state, that since his resignation, he has increased the 
loans that v/ore made during the wai', for the pu pose of im- 

48~22GC4 



714 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTION J 

^ proving and stocking 'is farm at North Bend, whic]) loans he 
has not refunded to the present day. And these deponents 
state further that the said General William H. Harrison is 
jointly interested with them in fifteen thousand dollars of the 
stock of the Tvliami Exporting Company, which is all the stock 
o^Mied by him in thjit bank, ^vllich amount of stock was pui'- 
chased with money received f)- sm the sale of land situated in 
; e Miami, purchased and o^nied jointly by him and these 
deponents prior to the commencement of the late war. These 
deponents know that the General is, and for many years past 
has been, possessed of a large and very valuable real estate; 
but whk'h has not been sufficiently productive to defray his 
ordinary expenses, in consequence of which he has been under 
the necessity of having recourse to loans, as above stated. 
These deponents know, that he proposed, since he left the 
service, to sell his bank stock for the purpose of raising 
money to enlarge the improvements on Ins farm, which was 
pi'evented by an offer from the bank to extend his accommo- 
dations. These deponents being intimately acquainted with 
the property business and circumstances of General Harrison, 
are convi :^d, that he did not add to the value of his estate 
during the war, and that he left the army more embarrassed 
than he was when he entered it. The conviction produced on 
our minds, by a long, intimate, and confidential acquaintance 
with the General, requires us to declare, on this occasion, that, 
in point of ho^ior and integrity, he is not excelled by any per- 
son in the circle of our acquaintance, and that we believe he 
would rather saci'ifice his fortune than add to it by an ac! 

dishonest or dishonorable. 

Jat^ies Findlay 

Jacob Buknet 

Sv/orn and subscribed to, this twentieth day of January, 
1816, by James Findlay, one of the Deponents before mc. 

Andrevv' Mark, J. P. 

State of Ohio, Rosr County, I\Tayor's office, Chiliccthe, SS: 

I, Levin Belt, Mayor of the town of Chilicothe aforesaid, 
do hereby certify, tb it the foregoing deposition was sworn to 
and subscribed before mo, by Jacob Burnet, oiio of the mem- 
bers from Hamilton County, of our pi'cr.ent Legislature, now 
in session in thi place. 

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and 



HARRISON: " ^^-SSAGES AND LETTEHS 715 

affixed the seal of iny o.', o this twenty-sixth day of January, 
in the year one thousand eigh.t hundred and sixteen. 

Levin Belt, Mayor 

Posey to Secretary of War 
Jeffersonville Indiana Territory 25th Jany. 1816 
Dr. Sir: Har. Pa. j^r^s, j^sj, 

The third of March ensuing brings my appointment as Gov- 
ernor of this Territory to a close, probably the President may 
be apprized of this. I herewith enclose to you an address of 
the House of Representatives to mc [see Dec. 26 above]. If 
conristant with the views of the President, I shall readily 
accept of a reappointment. 

Some of our citizens are very restless to go into a State 
Governmicnt. I wish the people were v/ell prepared for iYio. 
measure, but I may say with propriety that at least two thirds, 
or three fourths are not able to contribute but veiy little, if 
anything to the support of a state; and there is also a very 
great scarcity o.: talents or men of such information as are 
necessary to fill the respective stations, and offices of govern- 
ment. No doubt you have seen the memorial of the two 
Houses of the Legislature to Congress for the purpose of goin; . 
into a state government. If Congrc ss should be so benevolent 
as to grant all applied for, there would be no difllculty except 
the want of men of good information. 

It is calculated that we shall go into a State government in 
twelve or eighteen months. I think three years v/ould be 
short enough to place the Territoi-y in a situation for the 
change. But so anxious are maiiy, that no doubt they will be 
ready to accept of any teriiis. We have numbers sufficient, 
and that is .ill Vv^e can boast of. 

In the mtercm, should a new territory be laid off, or sliouki 
anything occur in creating an office; or should any vacancy 
take place- the office of which I might be thought adequate to 
perform the duties of I sliall be very thajilvf ull for an appoint- 
ment. Were I not needy, and in so.ne degree thinking my;-olf 
entitled to a cla'm of some attention (however small) fi'oii: 
my country I would not ask the favor. 

I am with much respect and esteem 

Your obt. ..crvt. ^j^_ ^^^^^ 

Honble. Col. James Munroe Secrekiry of Sktte 



 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENNES Fc' 6th, 181'') 
Har. Pa. S7'Z-S7h 

Sir: 

For some time rcpoii.s have been circulating' in the Indian 
Country that the F' kapoos attached to the Prophet had ceded 
to Captain [Mattb... .\'^] ElUott's son the Silver Twines which it 
is supposed by Traders and Indians are on the Vermilhon and 
that the British intend to take posession of them and estab- 
lish a fort on that River in a fevv^ months. That as the British 
would make war on the Americans next Spring an oppo}'tu- 
nity would then be offered of revenging the death of the Kick- 
apoos who was killed in October last near Detroit. That War 
talks had been distributed. That ;j'eat dissatisfaction and 
angry countenances were manifested by m.any of the Indians 
and that In Ap; '1 or May next tlic Indians intc'id to iiold a 
Grand Council to consult upon their : Tairs. 

I have just now learned from a source tolerably authentic 
that the British have dispatched runners to all the chiefs of 
the different Tribes to invite them to T\Ialden for the purpoijc 
of arranging the necessary measures to compel the Gc erix- 
ment of the United States to admit British. Traders to a par- 
ticipation in the Indian trade within the Territory of the 
United State and that some of the Indians are now on their 
way .0 Maiden to confer witli the British on this subject. 

Whetlier those machinations proceed from the perfidy of 
the British agents british traders or british Indians wit-iin our 
Territory must for the present be a matter of conjecture. 
The experience of tlie last thirty years however authorise the 
belief that it may be fairl^^ ascj^bed to the former and I am 
also inclined to this opinion from the information a spy who 
was at Maiden and Sandv/ich in September last has given me. 
He say;.; the British were then intriguing v/itli Pecan and 
other Chiefs vvith respect to their trade. It was insinuated 
that the Indians had a right and ought to insist upon the 
Britisii Merchants being i:dmitted into their country. A/iat 
the Indians v/ould deri\'e greater advaninges from the trade 
of the British merchants in respect to the quality and price of 
goods than fro.i i the Americai: and that the Indians Wvtuld 
be in^ ted to Maiden in the course of the winter to consul t 
upon Uie subjects, I have great confidence in the India a v, j 
comrnuiiicated this information to me. 



 

I give the following anclote as authorised. Shortly after 
the peace of 83 the Britih agent at Detroit was desirous of 
prevaihi.g- upon the IndiaiiS to continue the war against the 
Americans. A council was assembled at Detroit detection 
was apprehended and the council removed to the Moravian 
Towns in Upper Canada there the Indians were promised 
arms and what 'ver might be necessary to enable them to pros- 
ecute the war and the means devised for their receiving them 
in such manner as not to implicate the British Government in 
respect to the Treaty of Peace then recently made between 
that Government and the United States. A gentleman of re- 
spectability now here was at the council. 

I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir 
Your Obedient Servnt. 
p <^ B. Parke 

Since vv^riting the above a Miami has sent me a message 
thri >h a respectable Channel that not long since a Kickapoo 
probcibly of the Otter Band liid a Pottawatomie of Gomas* 
band came to- the Miaraies at Mississinnevv^ay with a war letter 
from s they said the Pattaw-.tomy and Kickapoo Trib . 
They said tliat those a'ibes intended to make Vv^ar against the 
United States next Spring, that they might even take some 
scalps this Winter, they wished the Miamis to unite with 
them if not they vv-ould consider and treat them as enemies, 
they alleged the sur eying the mniitary lands between the Illi- 
nois and Mississij'^^n and the non arrival of their ammunities 
as a cause of their hostile views. The Miamis refused to ac- 
cept their belt. 

I have been extremely ill of an influenza but I ai.i so far 
recovered that I expect to ].:ave hoi.ie for Gov; don next week 
and after Court intend to visit yoa at Jeffeisonville. I v/ish 
to have a personal conference with you in respect to Indian 
affairs. p p 

Copy of a letter froin Jiidge B. Parke to Gov. Po:^.ey 
B. Parke TO Posey 

ViNCENNES Feb. 11 1816 
Har. P'l. 379, 380 

Sir: 

Ti Indians are constantly inquiring when they may expect 



718 INDIANA IITSTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

their annuities. Much uneasiness and some ill Vvill have been 
mf.nifested on account of their non arrival and their makins' 
this a subject of complaint might probably be considered as 
an evidence of an unfricidly disposition. I have told them 
that there had not yet been time to enable the President to 
send them on. Could the Indians receive their annuities 
shortly, I believe it vv^ould produce the best effects. 

From the Indian Treaties published it appears that the Ver- 
million Kickapoos are not provided for in the manner that 
the other Wabash Indians have been. The annuity under the 
Treaty of the 9th Dec. 1809 is not revived. As the latter are 
to receive the sam ;. amount to \Yhich they were entitled in 
1811 it might be unpolitic to malco a solitary exception of the 
former. 

I have t],e honor to be & . B. Parke 

To Gov. Posey 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville, Ini' Ter. March 16th 1816 
Sir: 

1 hej-ev.'ith inclose to you two letter [Feb. 11 above] lately 
received from Judge B. Parke deputy assist and Indian Agent 
at Vincennes. 

I have tlie honor to be with respect and /esteem Your Ob.t. 

^^'■^'- TK. POSEY 

B. Parke to Posey 

Vincennes 15th Feb, 1816 

Har. Pa. 370 

Sir: 

The Little Ducks informs that a short time since a Wea 
party of Sauky sixty in number, v;^ere on their march to pun- 
ish the Miamis (or rather Vv^ea:;) for the Death of Renard, 
(see my letter April 20th 1815) who was crippled at this 
pla-^e last A. ril by Sto)ie Eater but that tlirough the intei- 
position of the Kickapoos they had been induced to abandon 
the pi'oject r.nd return to their own country. 

This may appear to be rather an improbable tale but from 
the well kno^^^'l friendship that has long since subsi.sted be- 
tween the Sauks and Kickapoos I think it probable that the 
little Du;.ks is correct. 



 

, It is i-roi osed hy soniO of the Citizens of the Eastern part 
of the Territory to petition tlic President to open a negoti- 
ation for extinguishing the Lidian title to the Country in- 
habited by the Delawares. 

However desirable it may be to acquire that Country a 
more improper time than the present could not be selected to 
make the attempt. The Delawares might not object but the 
Miamis are joint owners with them jf the country watered 
by White River. No cession of the Fornier would be valid 
without the consent of the latter. That I am v/ell assured 
could not now be ol tained and it would be at the risk of a 
new \var that the proposition would be made to them. 

The 8th of Novembe" last I mentioned to you V. d it was 
desirable to obtain permission of the Delawares and Miamis 
to open a road through tlie Delaware counby or a direct 
route from Dayton to this place. To this I believe they would 
accef'e and for a time nothing more ought to be attempted. 

At the same time I mentioned the case of Laframbois' Horse 
is the horse or an equivalent likely to be recovered? K not 
tis time I gave Laframbois as I promised a Hoi'se to re- 
munerate him for his loss. Labc. -.eiure is dead. 1 liope aiid 
expect that Laframbois \\m11 supply his place the Weas could 
not make a better choice. 

A son of 1he Grand Poc is substituted by the Eickapoos fo. 
the deceased Renard. The latter was a good man the family 
of the former is one of tli most mi'.cliievous in the Indian 
Country. 

I have the Honor to be 

B. Pakke 

Copy of a letter from Judge B. Parke to Gov. Posey 

'V- •■ ' ■ B. Parke to Posey 

■ ■ VINCENNES Feb. 19 1816 

Har. Pa. 375-378 

Sir: 

A Wea i "orms tliat the Lliamis have received a Talk, from 
the Winabagoes and jther nations in that quarter desiring 
them to cause the Americans to remove fi'om the Lands ( i 
the Vv'abash purchased in 1809 and that should it be neces- 
sary they v/ould render such aid as vrould enable thon to 
effect it. 



720 INDIANA HIS". (/RICAL COLT.ECTIONS 

- The above wa^:. first coniinimic. Led by a very Vv-orthless fel- 
low but has since been confirmc^d by an Indian of a good char- 
acler and who has long- been very much attached to my Intsi:- 
preter. 

A Kickapooe lately from Maiden states that two Attav/as 
and Chippeways 'lad been killed at or near Detroit by the 
American.', and tl, .t those ti'ibes were so much irritated that 
they contemplated hostilities. 

Another Kickcipoo told my Interpreter at the Fort confi- 
dentially that me::it of tlie young' men of his Tribe v/ere more 
inclined to war than peace, he stated fui'tlier th^.t a Kickapoo 
chief lately fi'om Maiden had reported that the British were 
strengthening- themselves in Canada shortly expected a rein- 
forcement of Troops and that they had informed the Indians 
that as the Americans had vio;:;ited the Treaty in sheding 
Indian Blood they would make war on them next spring- to 
avenge thei injuries. 

You may recollect that towards the close of the Grand 
Council at Detroit Ve Prophet with some Kickapoos etc Vvith- 
'.'rew went over to the British and refused to sign the Treaty. 
It is to those misc]-eants that we e indebted for the circula- 
tion through the L:.dian country of so many mischievou, tales 
from Maiden. 

It might be supposed that the kindness and humanitj'' the 
candoi and integrity manifested by our government in the 
intercourse with the Indians contrasted with the conduct of 
the British Government would conciliate and attach them to 
the former and totally aleniate them from the latter. It is 
however not tlie fact, but precisely the reverse. The Ameri- 
cans they almost unanimously distrust and detest but as oc- 
casion mvites they hesitate not a moment in throwing them- 
selves in the Arms of the British.. The most vulgar con- 
temptable trader of the NW. Company can exercise a more 
extensive and decisive influence over them than the most dis- 
tinguished agent the President has in employ. And thus it 
will ahvays be vdiilst the British Agents or Traders have ac- 
cess to or can maintain any Ivind of intercourse v/ith tht . 

There was neither deception or intrigue practised in obtain- 
ing the treatj'- of 1809 it was fairly and honorably negoti. ted. 
The several Tribes who were Parties to it were highly grati- 
fied \/ith the arrangement and it Wiis probably for a time the 
most popular treaty evci" made on the Wabash. Nine m nth;3 



 

;ifter, the Propliet at the instigation of the Bi'itish a id sup- 
ported by his posse of Winebagocs at Tippecanoe first taught 
the Miamis to believe that they had been deceived and de- 
frauded of the lands acquired by that treaty. Labossieure 
took the lead amongst the Weas, and until his deatli perse- 
vered in his opposition and muririurs. His memory is warmly 
cherished by many of the band and 1 suspect some collusion 
between them and the distant Indians with respect to th, re- 
ported threat of the Winebagoes, etf. I believe that some 
mischievous project is on foot but ^ ether it is confined to 
a few restless intriguous fellov/s or extends to tribes I can- 
not deteri ine probably I may be able to asc rtain there facts 
in the course of two or three weeks. 

I ha^ c the honor to be B. Parke 
Governor PosEY 

Davis Floyd to Posey 

February 24th 1816 

Har. Pa. 371 

Sir: 

A Delaware Indian by the name of Nagomen Lately on a 
visits to the trading houses i drift wood River in a confiden- 
tial manner communicated io a person there in my employ 
to be communicated to your Excellency that a part of the 
Potawatomies and a part of the Kickapoos v/ere still mad 
and would probably strike the white pec; Io the ensuing 
Spring that the British tlieir Fathers would also soon be mad 
and that they would be supported by tliem. 

This Delav.are is a mafi of consi^'erable consequence in the 
Delaware nation being one of their first war Chiefs — lie is 
entitled to the confidence of the Americans having accom- 
panied Gen'l Harrison on l,.s expedition against Canada. 
Whether the uneasiness is general or confined to a few rest- 
less vagabonds time alor e can develop. Certp.''i it is the fel- 
low who gave the information is sijicerc in his belief. 

I am res] ctfully your Obedicit Servant 

Davls Floyd 
His Excv Gov. PosEY 



722 INDIANA IIISTOIUCAL COLLECTIOrS 

B. Parke to .'osey 

VINCENNES Feb. 29, 1.81G 
Har. Pa. 383 

Sir: 

Tlie LittiG Ducks and another Kickapoos inform IJiat there 
are two Pottawatomis and one Otawas in tlie neighbonrhood 
of the frontiers who intend to steal some horses and perhaps 
take •<■■ sccdp. 

I am respectfully Sir /our Oby. Servt. 

};. Parke 

Posey to SECRfiTARY of War 

Jefferson viLLE, 1st l^iarch ISIG 

Har. Pa. 368 

Sir: 

From recent information. I think it is discoverable that the 
Indians entertain a hostile temper and disposition toward 
the U= States. They surely contemplate mischief toward the 
settlements upon our froiitiei ^ and probably upon the whole 
of the Northwestern frontiers. 

I herewith inclose to you copies of sundry letters from 
Judge B. Parke deputy Indian agent, and one from Maj. 
Davies Floyd [see above] who is licensed to keep a trading 
house for the Indians [on Di-iftwood] . Should any thing far- 
t];or transpire relative to the unfriendly temper of the In- 
dians, it ''all be made known to you. 

I have tiie \:onor to be very respectfully 
Your Obi. Scrvnt 

Th. Posey 
Hon. William H. Crawford Sccretanj of War 

City of Washington 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNOKNNES IMarch G, 'IG 

liar. Pa. 331, 382 

Sir: 

On Thursday evejiing, I learned that a fow^ days before an 
Ip' m came to a party of Harris' surveyors on tlie N. W. 
sir of the Wabash, eight or ten miles distant from Fort Har- 
ri;:.on defaced the marlcs tliey had made on a corner tree and 



HARRISON: ]^^ESSAGES AND LETTiJRS 72? 

manifested such a degree of anger and resentment towards 
them that apprelicnding* he would proceed to open violence, 
Harris and all his i eople abandoned their work and came to 
the Fort. They add that they thought from his lohistlmg 
and whoo'ping there was a party within hearing ready to sup- 
port him. I should infer precisely the reverse believe he was 
entirely alone and that there v'as no necessity for discontinu- 
ing the survey. The circumstance, however has excited alarm 
and Harris is not inclined to resume the work unless an ar- 
rangement should be made for ensuring th< personal safety 
of himself and hands. I have offered him an escort of friendly 
Indians which for the present is all that I think necessary. 
Should he not accept it other measures must I suppose be 
t; ' en. 

A Kickapoo quavv" informs rry i iterpreter that incaiy of 
the Pottawato -. having been ii. ited by the Briti li are gone 
to Maiden anc- that many more are about procecdin;- to the 
same place. 

I am very respectfully Sir You.r Obt. Servant. 

B. Parke 
His Ex. Gv V. Posey 

P. S. Your 1 ,.ter of the 23ih ult. by Col. [Allen B.] Thorn 
has been received. 

B. Parke to Posey 

ViNCENl'ES April 10th, 1816 

Har. Pa. SSi, 3S5 

Sir: 

By the .'_rd article of the treaty of Fort Wayne (7th June 
1803) it was stipulated that the Tiibes who were parties to 
it should annually recei\c a quantity of salt, not exceeding 
one hundred and fifty bushels. The Weas and Vermillion 
Kickapoos have lately ^-'eminded me that they expected ilie salt 
to which they were entitled under that article. 

No injury has yet been done oi the frontiers and the little 
Ducks and others ca the Vermillion Kickapoos vehemently 
deny any knowledge of the warriors of their tribe contem- 
plating the perpotr:,tion of mischief. 

Inclosed herewith arc tv/o talks delivered on Sunday last to 
Ma,', [Willoughby] Morgan at Ft. Harrison. Lafrombois is 
a \ ea and the Ducks a Vennillion Kick^i}; >. It appears 



 

Ihrt they are sM\ indisposed to yeikl with respect to the dis- 
puted boundary. The Weas miO. Vermillion Kickapoos are 
too contemptablc to admit of the suposition that this plan 
of opposition orig-iLated with them. The pretention has been 
a-Z/anced under an idea that they would be countenanced and 
supported by the other Indians. To the British they appear 
to listen with complaisance and attention, and promptly ac- 
cede to the arraiigement proposed by them. Lafrombois too 
has received a belt from the british advising the Weas to bo 
quiet and no'- injure the americans. These stories are in- 
tended to amuse, are but half told and the balance may prob- 
abl}^ be pointed out in a few days. Lafrombois insinuates 
that I acted improperly in selecting- the Indians, I intended 
to invite to the Cc: ncil. I told the^n that I should send for 
all the Miamis the v^'ermillion Kickapoos, and the Delawares 
and as the little Otter of the Prairie Vv'as a particular friend 
of ihe Vermillion band, frequently transacted business with 
them and vvith their ovm chiefs signed their treaties that I 
should send for him also but as to the other chief of the 
Prairie Kiclrapoos, I l^ ould not send for them. The Vermil- 
lion Kickapoos are intruders, but they have for raa' y years 
been in the quiet possess!*; of the country they inhabit on 
the Wabash a^-J Vermillion and may novv^ be considered as 
the rightfull occupants. ,-. p.^^^p 

Go 7. Posey 

P. S, I believe the story of the Squaw. She is of a power- 
full fan lly and disregards the Ducks and his squav'. A 
Kickapoo left the Ft. Ilaslily just after she arrived, and I 
believe gave notice to the .var party that v,'as approaching 
our settlements that they were discovered. I am of the 
opinion that no mischief will be done till the term of the 
grand council is over. I have attended to your instructions 
and have no knowledge of any intruders on Ii:.dian lands in 
this Territory. B. Parke 

Posey to Secretary of War 
;,. . Jeffersonvillb Indiana Territory 20th April 1816 

q . Har. Pa. 3S6-3SS 

I h' -.^ewith incivso to you two talks [following] of the In- 
dians also the c y of a letter just received from Judge B. 



 

I'..rke. [Apr. 10 above.] He advised of meeting t}i; t lie 
liad with the Indians at Fort Harrison of recent date and 
that he had appointed the 23 of May for a grand council of 
tlie Indians to be held at sd place. He observed that he had 
communicat'.d v/ith you and given you an account of the re- 
sult of the meeting apologising to me for the step he had 
taken ; that it was owing to the siiortness of the time and the 
necessity of the communication reaching the department ^ 
war i]' the most speedy manner. He furnished mo with copies 
of his letters communicated to you. 
I am very respectfully 

Your Obt. Servant. 

TH. POSr-Y 

Hor-)le William H. Crav/ford, Secrclanj of War 
City of Washington. 

Lafrombols said th..t he had but little to commuriicate and 
that related to peace. That Pecan had se: i a m.essage to all 
i'e Miainis informing them that he was about ecitablishing 
a village et Eel River, and invited them to bring their wives 
and c'uildren thei-e. That they would endeavor to establish 
their village in the old form. Tl^^t their presents would be 
delivered at Ft. Wayne, that the com -nan ding officer at Ft. 
Wayne told him that there were many dishonest agents but 
he would see that justice was done them. That tlo President 
would fulfill all his ey;jr ,:ments with him snd that he La- 
frombols) had learned that the British had sent a belt to the 
Kickapoos advising them to remain at peace. 

Being asked whetlier the Indians Iiad thought fartlier on 
the subject of the disputed boundary Lafrombois ansv/ered 
that it was the general sentiment amongst tlie Indians the t 
Gen. Harrison, Barron the Interpreter, and all the Indians 
w' h 1 been at tl e treaty (probably that of the 30th Sept. 
1800) should be called togetlicr. That it was probable that 
some of the Indians did not understand the subject. That 
the Kickapoos had been sejit for but that they had nothinL 
to do with it. That th ■ land never belonged to them. 

It being suggested that their opposition to the treaty re- 
peatedly ratified, might be considered unfriendly. Lafrom- 
bois o] . rved that were the President ofTended he could not 
help it. That it would be hard were the Indians to be de- 



 

frauded of all tlicir land^. The Lilllo Ducks said that t\vo 
young- men had arrived with .■ belt of Vv'-ampiim from the 
British, i'liat the Brit; li told them thai they must remain 
at pea-, e and neitlier kill tlic white people or steal their horses. 
That if they went to war again tliey would be ei'terminated 
that they were too weak. That when the British and Ameri- 
cans made peace, the latter promised to cloth and feed the 
Indians plentifully but when they looked upon them they sav^^ 
them naked and starving. That they did not expect this. 
That the Americans had not complied with their promise. 
That the young men Vviio brought the belt, had told the Iri- 
dians, that the British gave them more than 'hey could de- 
stroy whilst the Indians v/ithi^: the American Territorj'- had 
scarcely any thing to eat. 

That the British advised the Kickapoos to collect in a vil- 
lage o the V/abash. That they would do so bit had not yet 
fixed u; .)n a place. That the E -itish advised tlie Miamis to 
do the same thing and for the Miamies and Kickapoos to live 
together as friends. That if the Kickapoos sav/ any of the 
Pottawatomies moving tov/ard the frontiers for a, mischiev- 
ous pi ,>ose they Vv^ere advised by the britisli to give infor- 
mation of it to the Ame: leans. (Copy) 

B. Parke to Posey 
' ' ViNCENNES April 25 18 IG 

Har. Pa. ^90-392 

Sir- 

Sunday Little Eyes informed me that the British ha.. 
advised the Indians not to permit the survey! g and settle- 
ment of their lands purchased froin them untill they recei\ ed 
their annuities from the Unitoi' States. That a talk to that 
effect had been dispatched to all the Indians of the Indiana 
and Illinois (and to the Mahas Richards and C. of the IMis 
souri) and furtlicr that in the course of this year a great 
council would be held at Port ge Desoux. That an agent of 
the British would attend it to see that the Indians had jus- 
tic;; done them l^y the U. S. in v/hat evc" regarded their lands. 
He added that the exceptic 'able conduct of the Wcas and Ver- 
milli' n Kickapoos at Fort Harrison Vv .; jus' ly to be attributed 
to the BriMsh. 
' You ar: acquainted v/ith the favorable opinion I \\i\\Q of 



 

Little Eyes. He has never deceived me and h( ever extraor- 
dinarj^" or improbable his communication may ax>pear, I assure 
you I have :o doubt of its truth. 

I rej:,ret that Little Eyes was not at tl.'c con -il but bein,fj 
at a distant hunting ground he was not invited. 

Little Eyes observed the conduct of the Weas and Vermil- 
lion Kickapoos had been disingenious and flag-rantly unjust. 
That they all knew the land had been sold and the boundary 
fairly established and that instead of cavc'Tng or preten.divig 
they knew nothing of the sale they ought frankly to have 
acknowledged the cause of their objection to the surveying of 
the land. That liis friendship for the U. State induced him 
to offer me his advice. That when the Indians assem.bled at 
Ft. Harbison, I should deli"'/er them their annuities whicli 
"\ ould instantly remove all obstacles to the quiet occupation 
of the land. Otherwise, he apprehended they would persist 
in t' eir opposition. 

'li.e since "ity of Litile E; cs may be questioned, but vdiat 
ever was his motive for suggesting this arrangement, it is not 
to be dorbted that the immediate delivery to the Indians of 
their annuities would have a good effect. Seven iUv ths have 
elapsed since the treaty at Detroit and ere this they profess 
to believe their goods might have been forwarded. They do 
not, or will not comprehend the explanations frequently given, 
as to the cans .■ of this delay. British agents or Traders or 
disaffected Indian: ha x repeatedly informed them that the 
U. States vfoul / keep their land, but that tliey v»'-ould paj^ tliem 
nothing for it. That they need not expect their annuities and 
that the President vfould deceive them. 

B. Parke 
To Gov. Posey 

Posey to Secretary of War 

Jeffersonville 4th May 1816 

Har. Pa. 589 

Sir: 

I herev/ith inc' .e you a copy of a lettei' just received from 
Judge B. Parke, [Apr. 25 above] I think of a nature worthy 
to be attended to. I have information from oihor quaiiers 
of the same nature. The Indian are very loud a.-d restless 
in their complain' s, of not having received their annuities. 



 

They are under strong apprehenyion that the II. StatcG mean 
to defraud them and take their kinds from them without mak- 
ing compensation. Tiiere is a quantity of salt due th^^jn by 
treaty which is mentio^ied in a formci* letter of Judge Parke 
a copy of which was i olos d to you. I have given them par- 
tial supplies of salt, with supplies of provision at different 
times '.ut they want the quantity of salt stipulated to I^e given 
the- 1 by treatj^ I do not conceive myself authoiized to g'rro 
it to them without directions from the department of war. 
I have the Honor to be very respect 
Your Obt. Servant 

Th. Posey 
William H. Cravv^'^okd, Secretary of V/ar 

Posey to Secretary of Wah 

Jeffersonville 11th May 1815 

Hai\ Pa. 303 

Sir: 

The information given of the 19t;i Ult. from the Depart- 
ment )f v ', came to hand by the last mail. That the an- 
nuities 'lie the Kickapoos, Weas, and Peankaiiaws for tl: 
years 1813, 14, 15 and 16 have been ordered to be p rehased 
and sent on to my care and also three thousand tv/o hundred 
(..ollars worth of goods to be distributed as prese; .s to the 
Indians at siich times and on such occasions as I may deei.i 
proper. 

I shah carefully attcu'l to all the instructions and think it 
verv importarif that the goods should be sent on as speedily 
as possible. 

I have the honor to be with great respect 
Your Obt, Servant 

Th. Posey 
Hon William K. Crawford, Secretary' of VJar 

Resolution of Constitutional Convention 

CoRYDOi, Indiana Jud' 20 181o 

I'ar. Pa. J,10-.i,12 

Be it ordained by the Representatives of the people of the 
Territory of Indiai a in Conventio met at Corydon on Mon- 



) 

day the tenili day of June in the year of our Lord eighteen 
hundred and sixteen that sve do for ourselves aiid our pos- 
terity, ag-ree, determine, declare and ordain that wo will and 
do hereby accept the propositions of the Congress of the 
United States, as made and contained in their act of the nine- 
teenth day of April, eigiiteen hundred and sixteen, entitled 
"An act to enable the people of the Indiana Territory t > form 
a Constitution and Sta^e (Government, and for the admission 
of such State into the Union on an equal footing vvith the 
original States". And we do further for i.-^rselves and our 
posterity, hereby ratify, conliini, and establ' \i the boundaries 
of the -aid State of Indiana as fixed, prescribed, iai.:I dov/n, 
and established in the Act of C' i gross aforesaid, and we do 
also fui-ther for ourselves ?nd our posterity, hereby, agree, 
determine, declare, and ordain, that each and every tract of 
land soil' by the Unit d States within the said State, and 
which shall be sold from and afte.. the first day of December 
next, shrll be and remain exempt from any tax laid by order 
or uiider any autho; ity of the said State of Indiana, or by or 
under the authority of liie General Assembly thereof, v/hether 
for State, Cf 'y, or To^=. nship, or any other purpose what- 
ever for the ;j. )\ of five ye^rs from and a^ter the day of sale 
of any such tract of land and we do moreover for ourselves 
and our posterity hereby declare and ordain thaj this o di- 
nance and every part thereof shall foi-ever be and remain ir- 
revocable, and inviolate without the consent of the United 
States in Cong-; ess assembled first had and obtained ;^or the 
alteration ther'.of or any part thereof. Done in Convention 
June 29th 1816. By order of the C'-nvcntion, 

Jonathan Jennings 
President of tlie CGnvention 
Attest : 
William "Tendricks, Secy. 

Gibson to Secretary of State 

Jefferson viLi.:. July 6th 1816 

liar. Pa. J^: ) ',() 

Sir: 

I have the honor to enclose you a transcript •' f the proceed- 
ings of the Executive of the Indiana Tei-ritory fo}' the hali 
year ending the 30th of June 1816. [Not found] The Con- 

49— 22GC1 



730 INDIANA HISTORICAL COL..ECTi()NS 

venticii of the Territory closed its sgp .ion of tlirce weeks on 
Saturday the 30th ultimo. They Imvc formed a Constitution, 
and detci'mined to commence the oper^-tions of theii- State 
Government the fii'st Mon^^ny in November next. I h' i^e It 
wiil be in my power to transmit you a printed co_;.y of it by 
next mail. 

I have the he or to be v/ith high consideration of esteem 
and respect 

Yr. most obt. servt. 

Jno. Gibson 
The Honble. James IIokroe, Sccty. of Siatc 

To THE Senate and E use of Repeesentatives of the 
United States the Memoeial op the LEciSLA'iijiiE of tih'' 
Indiana TEr ttory ]\Iost Respectfully SiiEVr' ri : 

That tiiv inl .bitants of the said Territory suffer evils from 
the nature of their political institutions to which it becomes 
their nnperioi's duty to seek a constitutional remedy. VvHien 
an interesting' portion of the american population unite in 
forming* a wish for an important chang-e in their political 
situation it may be fairly infei'cd that ) o palliative • can lessen 
the evils they endure and it is an happy circum.-;..ance that 
th' redress which is he object of the present memoii il ■.) 
obtain has been foreseen provided for and will excite in its 
acco)nplisiiment neither* convulsioii nor storm. 

Your memorialists v;ill not arraigni the wisdom of Congress 
in forming the ordinance for the Government of the North- 
western Territory. They may have had solid reasons fo)' giv- 
ing to the Territorial O]' Coloneal governments ilu: singular 
monarchial feature they now exhibit. But it will be allov/ed 
that all those governments present features vciy little recon- 
cilable to the principles vhich ha\c go\-erncd the institutioris 
of the different states of the Union. 

Born and educated in the different states of tliu Union; in 
the enjoyment of civil and political rights, they think it haixl 
to be in a degree disfranchised as a pcop .; wlion 1hcy have 
done 710 crime, but by their niigratiofi thither confered a bono- 
ht to the Uidted i ^ates. 

Your memorialists deeply impressed wiLh a sense of tlK'i!' 
}.rovincial dependence, in b/half of themselves and cc i&titu- 
ents now make a solcnm appeal to th nati;*ii,'il Le;:i;;>la!.in o 
and pray tluit they Uiay have the liliorty of forming a con- 



 

' stitution and be admitted as an independent ;:.tate into the 
Union upon the same footing- as one of the oi-iginal states. 
The unexampled increase in population of the state of Ohio 
warrant the ijolief that similar consequences vrould attend 
the emancipation of Indiana, It is principle anr not men or 
measures that Vv-'e complain of, and confiding in i e justice of 
our cause we doubt not of our case meeting proper considera- 
tion and you memoi-ialists as in duty bound will ever pra}' 
etc. 

GiJNL. YV. Johnston, S'peakcr of the House of Rcjrrescntativcs 

and 
Jas. Bi'^GGS, Picsidsnt of the Lcgidc ive Council 

Posey to Seckbtary of Waf, 

Jeffersonville Inc. Ter 24 Se. t. 181G 

Har. Pa. 3'.)J^, COo 

Sir: 

At different shipmenis from the arsenal near Pittsburg 
sent on by Maj. [Abram R.] Woolley, I have received a fov/ 
days sirico tlie whole of the goods ordered l^y Govcrnmeiit to 
my address. The U. &. pi-esen' and the annuities for the 
Weas, Kickapoos and Pyankasliav.^s for the years 1813-14-15 
and 16. And yesterday I shipped thera to Viiicennes to be 
delivered there to Judge C Parke to whom I have given direc- 
tions to send them immediately on to Ft. Harrison ■ dis- 
tribution, except the Pyankashaws an'iuities vvjiich I have 
directed to be stored at Shav/nectovvm under the care of Mr. 
Joseph U. Street subject to be called for by Col. Pierre 
Menard Indian Agent at Kaskaskiii for him. to deliver to the 
Pyankashaws agreeable to the solicitatio;i of Governors [Will- 
5!.; i] Clark and [j 'inian] Euv/ards by whom I was infonned 
that it w^ould be very inconvenient for the Pyankashaws to 
attent at Ft. Harrison. They living at a considerr]4e dis~ 
t, nee therefrom and they being miserably poor and needy 
the four hundred dolUfs that I am authorized to draw upon 
the department of war for to ]jo ])aid them in cash if equally 
convenient to goverimicmt I would be glad to obtain an order 
upon the receiver at Vincenncs or Kaskaskia for. 

I have the Honor to be with great resp^^ct Your 01 . Servant 

Til Posey 

P. S. 1 shall a'tend at Fort Harrison by the time the goods 
reach, there for the purpose of v "sti-ibuting them. 



732 INDJArlA HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS 

Posey to Seck^jtaky of War 

Jei Cj ONVlLLE 2yth Sept. 1816 
Har. Pa. COT 

Sir: 

Yours of tlie Gth inst. I have received 8"iving- iiriormalion 
of my .i.ppointment together with Judge B. Parke and Phidilio 
Sharp for holding.: a treaty with the Indians for a purchase 
of land. 1 have al.'^o received a letter of instructions relative 
thereto of the 12th inst. and shall pay the ner sary atten- 
tion to tJie business. I have written on to Judge Parke and 
Mr. Sharp and expect an ar3^angeine]]t will take plac;. imme- 
diately to carry into execution the design of the President. 
The goods sent on to nie to Ido distributed to the Indians at 
present I expect to make use ot. while engaged iit the treaty 
and it may be that I shall have to make some purchases. I 
sli order supplies of provisions but it w'U also bo necessary 
to nave the con'i'nand of sorre money, co -d an arrangement 
be made to get money from some of the receivers of tnis part 
of the country or from some of the Banks? Of this you will 
please 'nfo]"7i me. 

I liave the lion'' to bo ■ "th great respect 
Your Obt S.irvant 

Til Posey 
Hon the s- ty. of War Wiij.iam H. Crawford 

Posey Tr "eci tary of War 

ViNCENNES 24th Oct. 181 

Sir: 

j arrived here or Monday in oi'der to meet some Indian 
chiefs that are here and am on my way to F. Plaiiison to 
the Treaty to be held there. The Water is so extrcinely low 
that the Indian annuities and presents have not yet rea-.Icd 
this plac I am anxioi -y waiting for thorn and shall go on 
to Ft. iiarrison with. tli:;m for tlie pui'p. c of distributioii. 
Tln\e chiefs are hero to visit my elf and Judge Park. Little 
Eyes and Sa,co of the Weas. I am very attentive o them, 
have made them ,^omo presents etc. They ap/pca]* tu be in a 
pretty good humor we have met and conversed several times 
sometimes upon the business of tao land, but verjv litely upon 



HARI ISCV^: MESSAGES AXD LETTEIIS 733 

that subject whenever it is mentioned it comes froi i them- 
selves. We dont wish to say much upon that subject untill 
they receive their annuities and presents. I ship'd the In- 
dian goods from JefFersonville all in good order on the 27th 
Ult. Since here I have sent an expa'css to know what detains 
them and to know :..t whr.t time vro may expect them, The 
success of the Treaty very much depends upon a spc y dis- 
tribution of the annuities and presents. I think the business 
in a pretty good train an?' that thei'c can scarcely be any 
doubt of success 'n the pui'chase of some land more or less 
the least quanti may be a million of acr.s a great chance 
for more. We m.iy be under the necessity of maldng more 
presents than what is committed to my char;"-e — for that i ur- 
pose $3,200 is the ammount. 

I have this moment heard fi'om the boat brin;, ing on tlie 
Indian goods. The goods are all safe, but the boat cannct 
progress for vvant of water. I must use some method by 
small craft or waggoning to get them on. The treaty will 
hold on the e'l 'venth next month. 

I have t]:e honor t bo very respectful!" 
Your Obt. Servant 

Th. Posey 

Ilonble. Wm. II. Crawford, Secretanj of Vicir 

Posey to Secretary of War 

VlNCEZ\>:i Nov. 21 IS 16 

Har. Pa. 30J-367 

Sir: 

In furnishing an estimate of tjie expenses of the T dian 
Dept. at this pf ?e I have thought it v.'ould be but to exlribil 
a statement of the disbursements that have been made on 
account of that Dept. from the time I came into office up to 
the present period and which appears from tlie papers lierc- 
with enclosed r arked A & B. From these you will bo enabled 
to judge of the propriety of the estima.o mark C, an^- vrlucl"; 
is also enclosed. 

The Py-mkashaws having removed bcyoiul tlie ^lississipiu. 
I forward- i annuities to the Agent at Kaskaskia and he lias 
dcli\ ed iom to the Indians and beiieviog that the CIov. 
would hereafter send theii. -m io th;it i>hice, I \vc\\ \]<A in- 
cluded tlierein the estimate enclosed. 



 

' ]\Iy intercourses willi the Dciewares, Upper Miainis and Pot- 
tawatamies has not been such as to enal^lo me to asco'tain 
tJi.; number of persons belonging: to those tribes. The Wcas 
amount to four liundred arid sixty and the Vcrniilllon Kicka- 
poos to four hundred and forty persons. 
I have the Honor to be vei-y respectf. 

Sir Your Obedient Servant. 

[Thoimas Posky] 



An f> timatc of the Lxp riscs of tl\(,> liuli;ui Dopt. ;vt Vinceiraes 
or year 1817 



,'inm '. lies 


Prp.^jciits 


Provisions 


Ti'anspof- 
Intion 


llf)iisc rent 
& Fuel 


Wcas 


Kicliapoos 


Dols ots. 


Dolls. Tts. 


i:)ol. Cts. 


Dol. Cis. 


Dol;;;. Cts. 


Dolls c; . 


1150 


1000 


•!•;: 


5000 


or:-':- 


75 



Expenses. 


Some Worl: at 

Vincenncs 


A,c;ent 


Tntcrpretur 


CunP'.iiihat 
F(.. IImv. 


Dols Cts. 


Dols CLs. 


Dels. Cts. 


Dols. Cts. 


Dol. Cts. 


100 


GO 


1500 


121S 


1095 



E.xpross Tvider 
from Vinociine.=: 
to Ft. Ilanisoii 

Dollars Cl^, 



Total 



Doll:ns Cent.' 



319 37>^ 



165S7 373.; 



HARRISON: IMESSAGES AND LETTERS 7:^5 

Abstract of jjiovisioii is^>uecl by the Coutrac')!; to tlic TiKJiniis at 
Viiicentics and T rt HajTiso)> fron tbe Lst of Sc'pionbor ISU to 
Isl Novcmbej' ISK) 

At Viiiccnue- 





pouin!'^ of 


jjouti'l-':; (.[ 


l)ou;ul.s of 




porind of 




beef 


Hour 


porlc 




soap 


Sep ct 0(^1 












1814 


1070 


770 








Novoniijci-. . 


(jOf 


310 








Decembci'.. . 


812 


788 j.;; 


58 


Ob; 




Januar^ ISl.j 


•123 


■r? 


3i'2 


12 ',2 




1 ■■bruftJ ■■•. . . 


20 


3..') 


330 


5' ■■ 




r larch 


]01 


7!il 


■ ■> 


3 




Ajsril 


50 


■1-. 3 


4 OS 






May 


5S 


210 


2on 


8 




June 


202 


103 








July 


180 


180 








August 


288 


281 




3 




S^ tembor.. 


304 


30 ^ 




12 




October .... 


2,;7 


237 




3 






552.-) 


5571 j J 


2100 


53bi 




Novcrnl icr . . 


635 


735 




11 




Decciibor... 


I'.H) 


270 




28 




January 1810 


4]0 


515 




3-1 


2 


Fcl)i-u;,ry . . . 


325 


410 




30 




March 


254 


25 [ 




10 




Api'il 


108 


3ys 


70 


07 




May 


•JU 


44!) 


3"0 


40 




June 




141 


J. 1 






July 


75 


50'; 


421 


39 




August 




1033 


943 


43 




8<'pt ember.. 


140 


1012 


9G0 


Q4? of 
Salt 




October .... 


110 


100- 


1772 


02 






2103 


770..: 


4073 


370 


o 


brt. Down . . 


5525 


5571 K 


2100 


■,'V ■> 




Total 


7028 


132733 V 


0773 


i2?,}C 


2 



nop 



INDIANA HISTORICAL COT.! .FnTIGNS 

At Ft. Hn.rri.son 



Sept i'^ Oct. ISll 

jToveinbcr 

December 

January 1815 

February 

March 

Api-il 

May 

Ju..' 

July 

August 

Septouibcr 

October 



Noveiiiber. . . 
DeccriibL-r . . . 
January 1810 . 
I'ebruary . . . . 

March 

April 

May 

Jmie 

July 

AugU:<t 

September . . . 
October 



brought doM'n. 
Total 



l)OUfKl; 

of 
beef 



87(3 



87G 



15 
■1.J.J 

51' J 
2nS3 
152 !>^ 



3170 



7300 
87C 

S17ij 



of 
fhju)' 



87G 



876 



12^2 

2S2 

3150 
::>M7 



4375 



of 



Oil) 

J 300 



3o; 



12032K' 2048 

870 ■'! 



1290^ 



2018 



of 

.Salt 






qts. lbs 

W'hi.'-kev f;oai) 



13 



13 
Oil- 



1 

72 
31 j 

5;' 
2fK;'''. 



14 
13 



672 



771 : 072 



HARRISON: MESSAGES AXD Li^TTEi'S T^T 

Ab.stract of th(> Exi)fn.s(\s other tliaii }')ro\i>ions i<sin.d by th'.'- 
(CoRtracto ■) c-f the I'ulian Dej)t— 




Transpor- 
tation 


House ilcnl, 

and 

Fnel f<u- 

iiidians 


Expi 


ess 


KeepiuiT 

li^d. 
Tlorses 


Kccpin;.' 

Public 

Horses & 

liorse hire 




Dolls. Cio 


D.,,ils. Ct-: 


'.■,>!. 


Cts 


D.iii-:. Cts. 


Doll.-. Cts 






33 . 


















38 .... 






13 25 

115 ... 

•13 75 


50 

150 
1 10 








101 50 

7700 123 i 


25 
.. . , 


% 75 


10 .... 




7S10 62>^ 


20." 


3i0 


25 


40 75 


100 25 





Ferriages 


Medical 
Aid 


GunSi.oith 
\ ork At 
Vince'Uics 




DoHs. ^^ts 


Dolls. Cts. 


Dolls. Cts. 

.",0-1 /in 




3 . . 


Note — Tliprr- is now on I-ind of t'-' 


3 .... 
i 50 


35 ... 


nbovc; .■■ntoi;:i! of Prc-icni;' j'^ircha.-i? 

for the y:-:\r ISH'i 

Amt. for. by CiV. .3200 

of i'oo-Ih pur. in 20S5 


10 50 




810 23jo 


52S5 Doh. 



3s INDIANA HiSTOlUCAL COLLECTIONS 

Depi't'tmcnt under tho siiperiiitendanccs of Gi.iveriior T Po-r v 



riinSniith Work at 
Ft. Har. 


Assistant 
liidi.in 
Agvra-. 


C: 

A.K 


Hi. 

•iai 
nt? 


1 

i Iii'cvprctc - 




Wages 


Purcha.sp of 
.Shop <t Iron 

Doll. C:^. 


1 \'ineonti. .-j 


Har 




Dol. Ct,5. 


Do!s. Cts. 


Dol.?. 


Cts 


Dols. Cts. Dolls. 


Ct^. 










75 


' 390 








SO .... 

4S0 .... 
4fj.) . . . 


30 
1411 


1 624 .... 
, 024 .... 
: 5S0 .... 


CO 
511 
533 


20 


890 .... 
915 


ISl 75 


m 








ISOo .... 


181 75 


9G0 .... 


lol4 


25 


; 2224 .... 

j 


1104 


so 



Extra 

A_llov,'anco 

to 

Interpret ors 


Occ.n.sionates 

Interpret ors 


Txprcs- 
Rides from 

VineeiM!",-; 
to I ■: 
Harrison 


Tot 


1 
j 

a! i 

1 
1 




D- 's. Cts. 


Dolls. Cts. 


Dolls. Cts. 


Dolls. 


Ct.s.j 










491 

2022 

S- : 

32421 


oo; .J : 

60Mi 

393ii 
1 




137 .... 
51 .... 

16 50 


10 50 
50 12}^ 


39 .... 
307 37>^ 




204 50 


CO C2>^ 


3 : 36M 


44,409 


30}..i| 
1 





P0SP]Y TO SECKETARY OF WAR 

\ iNCEN>; .:-, 6th Deci 1816 

Har. Pa. .^o:-^'):- 

Sir : 

YoiiTs of the 23d Sept. I rcc'd at ihi.^ place. In ordor to 
lav bcforj the Indians I'l- subject which you Iiavo recoir- 
iiiended respectinr'' the furnishin.u" ihvm mecli iiics i Jioii:iht 
it would ad'ord yoa a i^ood opportunity to recuiiimeiKi to them 



IlARRISOX: :SU:SSACES AXD LETTEJIS 7:^9 

to go into a Stale v)f civilization for iniless tlioy have a (..usiiv^ 
tu become civilized, I\Iecliaiuc:s will be of very liltlo ii j lo 
them. '! 'iCieroi'o 1 made a ypc^ech to llio]!! upon the subject. 
a copy Oi. wiiic 1 I herewith enc]o.>e to you [follovriiiy.-]. Whcv 
I have said is mei'dx' recommendatory ^md not p :-' ively e, 
gaging that government vrill comply v.ith what I advise, ex- 
cept as to furnishing them with mechanics for which they 
\ 'Ore t''' make a compensation. I hope what I have recom- 
mends to the Indians may not be thought to arrogate, as 
exceeding the duty of an Indian agent. I should li]'o to have 
the sentiments of the Depr,..tment of wrv upon tlie subject 
^'^hicli I have recommendL • to the Indians; for I ^^ould not 
by any means have the thought that I v.^ould do aiiything con- 
trary to the sentiiients of government. The Indians received 
(; parently) rny advise with great attention, and by their 
re. *y was well plea.cd that their f^^hers the Americans would 
have so tender •: regard for them as to assist then] in en- 
deavoring to civilize them. They said they would take tlie 
subject in'O consideration and after making it generally 
]rao\Mi amc-ng their peoiple the vv'ould probal;ly by n; spring 
■ ive an answer; and v , to the su' '-^ct of receiving n: chanicb 
it should ;3e considered sei-arately. 

I have the hoiior to be very respectfully yonr Obt. St'r\i.. 

Til. Posey 
The Honble The Sec tary of War 

City of Washing': ^i 



A Speech Delivehed by GoveRx^joii Posey /igent for I; diax 

A FAIRS TO S:.VEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY I::DIANS AT FT. 

Harrison 
/I . /„, ; . , 22nd Novr. 181 G 

Har. P". ,404-.; (;- 

My CJiikh n: I am happy to meet with you this day anc; 
to have tnis opportu ity to oi ju )ny mirid and speak to yon. 
Unstop your ear , Oi'en your eyes, look, b.ear and consider 
well v.iiat your father '^, /eac terpen is goir., lo say to you, l!:t 
it sink d( p into your hearts, and if >'0u approve of my ad- 
vice you should follovr it, but you ha\e a riglit to follow it 
or not as you may tliink proper, tho I must request you to 
kcc]') this my advice in your memory ar.d tell it 'o your cliil- 



740 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIO: 3 

d,reii your chijdi'o:--i's children and let it be handed di wn \o 
fut re genera^ ions what Weactonon ncv: say< to yor : 

A/.'/ Red Children: Weas, Kickapoos, Potatwatomies, Chiefs 
and Warriors and whatever other bands may be preyent, a 
great inany of you are collected here at this place, look up 
to the great Spirit, the Father and creator of the Heavens 
the earth, and every living creature; He is now looking dovni 
upon, us; He knows our hearts and is acquainted witii every 
thing .hat is done either by us or- in any way wliatever. If 
we do what pleases him he smile: upon us and •vill rcvrard 
us if anything (• it displeases him he is angry and will punish. 
us either in this world oi' in the world where our Spirit go 
and p}" bably in both. 

My Children: 'T'he Great Spirit has put 'is lavrs into the 
hearts of all his children of whatever complexion, vrhether 
white, Rv 1 0}- Black; of whatever nation tongue and kindred, 
they all kno'^ -hen they do right and when tl'iey do wrong 
as well be acceptable to youj' fat. ler tlie President and great 
council of the nation. 

Mv cjiildren: Look and see how hap])y many of the people 
av'- 'lat have got into a settled state, S; the Cherikees, tlie 
Chi.kasaws, Choctav>^s and some of tlie Crorks, tliey live liap]v..- 
and are increasing. Why not follow tlseir example and be 
ha 'py too? They have th ir good houses, their good planta- 
tions, stock of every kind to subsist on, and a great deal to 
sell to the white people. Many of them are getting ^-ery rich. 
Do ye follovv^ their examph^. They don't steal and plunder 
the v/hite people and one another. Now my advice to you is 
in order to be at peace and friendslM]) with tlie \'\liite people. 
and vvith each oth( ' that you do nut steal and ])lunde]-, ar.d 
if you have anything that some of your bad men have taken. 
deliver it u,> that the right o^\mer m; y get it again. We have' 
some bad men amoiig us as well as you have but we stri^•o 
to kc-ep them from stealing, plundering and treating you ill, 
and if they have an^'thing belonging to you it must be re- 
stored to you. 

My ('kildren: This may be the last time I n.iy ever see 
you but if the great Spirit pleases to give me life and healtli. 
I expect to s(-< you again next spring, v.hen you expect to sec 
us or some others that your father tl P]-esident will send 
to me^^t you upon the business f < . vrliicn we were sent to see 
you, aud have a tallv. We all know that i" is ou duty to lovo 



HA -■>V'TQ.OM. ATT.'''-"-.' ^ /''"■><-.' ^ "'^\ T P^"rT~''''C "^ '■ '• 

tlio great Spirit aiul keep his lav;s; He furin^Iics us with 
■very good ihini;- — with Vviu.l ^^'e eat, drink and v;ear — then 
we ought to Io\e him, and he has told us lo k)ve liini, tc l:eep 
his jaws, in our hearts, to love on anothei- lovu our fatliers. 
mothers, our l)rothers and sisters and our wives and clukli'trii. 
We must do no wrong one to another; we nuist be in peace 
Yvuth c.il men — not kid, not steal and not have malHce in our 
]:earts one to anotlier. 

Mu Children: Your Fatlier the Presiderit, the great Am^eri- 
can. Council wish you Vvell and wish you to be in friendship 
and at peace willi the American peopk', v ith one arioiher and 
vrith r I. nations of people; they wish you to oe iiappy, and 
would a sis; you if you would strive to make yourselves luippy. 

My C'tilld: sn: I have grown old in tlic service of my coun- 
try-. I have s ved as a war chief in time of w. r and ha\c 
s-r\'ed in mc ''' i> ace. I have >■ ai and expei'ic ced a grca". 
deal of the ti ansactions bet -een man and man, and can giN- 
you good advice. The time lias come thr.t men are '.visor, 
n ore enlirr ened, have greater expericns, :- arv.. knc more tlie 
great spirit than formcj-ly. 

xl/// Children: Your father ^e President and ' 'eat .- leri- 
can council \v.sh to see yow happy and hear thai you have a 
desire to be settled, I '^m authorized to tell you and my advice 
to iou seeing and knu. ing (i.ltiio you possess a great deal of 
land) youi' subsistcince by hunting has dinrnishea and is daily 
decreasi; ', tlie wi^d animals by which you used to be sup- 
po ed ha\e got so scarce IJ it i with great difficulty (in 
ma.iy parts where you reside) furnish yourselves with nour- 
ishment — ^then my children why not set about immediately 
to alte your niude of life? Settle yourselves in villages or 
otherwise, ruse s^ock oC every land particularly cattle ar 1 
hogs, cultivate th:; earth, raise coi-n and othei' kinds of iib- 
sistance, build houses, and learn the useful arts; have your 
chudren taught to read and write and to love the Great Spirit 
and ser\"e lii i. If you incline tc- follow my advice ,.ou mu;a 
give me infc.mation as soon as you can^. And I v.ill give 
information to y<. u- father the Piwsidcnt and great Council 
of tie Naiion, who I have no doubt v/ill assist you, ihe>' will 
s, nd trad m; n to shovi'' you liow^ to bulk lious;. , an.-, make 
necessary furniture, to make plouglis, axes, hoes, ant; every 
kind of usef ull toi : ; you will have men sent t sliew j'oii liow 
to cultivate your fields; you have son horses that may be 



742 I^s lAJA IIISTORIt.AL COLLECTIONS 

1 .;; to plough, aiic; niore can. be I'urmV' 3c!; jx>ii will hrivo 
oxc , carts, sled, and lia^ness ol" e\'ei'y kind u-'f^rull for you 
and you will hnvQ women sent to teach you'' ^voinen how to 
spin, wea\e, and r-.ako your clothin^^', to make a beginnhig 
u.'.efuU teols and •mplements of husbandry, and some pro- 
vision will be sent to you. 

Now my Children: Ali'io a g-'ca' deal may be given to 
you, you I^now that all tnesc services cannot be done I'or 
nothing; some compensatioii must be made you liavo it in 
your power to make such kind of componsatiori vrith you, 
\ hen you expect, to have the Dclav, 'es i-uid M'.vmies v/ith 
you. But ].\. the meantime if you sliould ii;^]: ■ up your mijids 
upon the subjects wLiclt I have n 'iitioned to you, you must 
mak„ it known to i ic. The way v/ill always be open to me 
for comi iunication. If you make your mind k ov/n to T ajor 
[Jojm T.] Chun who commands a> Ft. HariUon to Jud: e I>. 
Parke or ^Toseph Barron In" ; Interpreter at Vincenru- it 
will soon find me. I sha'' ue either at Vin^ onncs or at no 
^:rer!t distance irom thence. It iiay be iiat I shaii !?e at Ft. 
u lai :"ison again in the course of a month or two your annuities 
v/ill be d( ivercd o you as soon as the coun ' brc ks up, 
after v 'lich we shall part for t' ^s time, and novv"" I pray that 
the great Spirit may talco you into his Holy keeping-, ajid 
guide you unto ; 11 truth and do not foi,,_-,et v, at Weactonon 
has said to you, he will ilways do what the great Spirit may 
enable hiin to do for your good. You ha\^e given me the 
name of Weactonon, I think it an lionorab: ? name, and shah 
hand it down to my Children. I nov/ shakr- Tiands with you 
GaJTiclin or Madison; L Itle-Eyes o]- Wasidn;^ m, Ston eater, 
Jackson, Little Ot:: , Little Ducks, ?^Iegrolcge, Yellow-L avc! , 
and the rest of the Villag;. and War Chiefs. 

To this speech several of the chi Ts replied and was wll 
pleased saying they would give an answer on or before next 
spring. That in the meantime they would consult their re- 
spective 1 mds and ti'ibes and make the contents of tijc spc: 'di 
known gx iierally araorxg them. 

I^OSWY TO SECRLTAKY OP WAR 

ViNCENNES lOth Deci-. ISIG 

Yours of tlu \[\\ Ocir. I I'c. ivod at t'lis place early in 
Novi'. Agieeabi, to the requisil' -w therei]! co!!i:ained and in 



HARRISON: jIJ^ISSAGES AND LET^'E^S T-i:- 

, order to make my r.. - vl upon tlie subject accurate ujkI -pro-)- 
erly ex} .inccl upon .i..' dilierent items tlie names and prol)- 
able numbers of tlie tribes under my superintendency, th. 
amo-int of the annuities paid tbeid, the amount of presents 
other V'-?,ii provision which rjght to be d'stribilted ; inong 
then:, the annual expense of in-ovisions issued to them, and 
an est'^nate of thie authorized .nd. contirigent exjicnses of my 
agency, incUidirig not only the items just enumerated, but 
also my pay and emoluments and tliose of the interpreti s 
an'" other persoiis in ^ ly employment as agent. 

Wlien I received yo .a- letter I v\-as on my vay to treat vitli 
the adians at Ft. Harrison, I had not documents with me. 
and I t'^iought by postpones ant of the report to you I could 
mal: ■ it much i ore satisfactoiw after the treaty. When the 
trcc"; y broke up ai.d I returned t^'. t' "s place I immediatel\ 
set about to mnko 'he report bv there were documents av 
Jeffersouville ' t v. ore necessan' lo be oL'ained. t have dis- 
patched av' ex; •(;. which I expect will return m a fow days, 
but not in ;i a' for the rep' "t to go by the return of next 
mail vrhich will be on tha 12tl; Inst, tho. the report could be 
ready to Stud > H" in a few days aii..r. By t'^e next r :ccc:.ding 
ma 1 it will be certainly sent on, and will reach you the first 
or second week of Jan;,-, next. 

The business of the agency I find increasing very much. 
The salary of the agency as annexed to tliis office of Gov- 
ernor of the Territory vv'as S800, this su-ni as a salary for tho 
agent of this station (Ft. Hri-rison an..'., its dependencies) is 
surely v'ery inadequate. The duties of the agent are proljably 
equal to those discharged by an}" other agent, and of course 
the sah'vy ought to be equal. I wish the Piosideiit to take 
this subject into consideration, a; d that you would a ' Mso me 
what I ain to receive as my salaiy from the time I wer.t out 
of office as Go^■er::or of Indiana Territory. 

I have the hone ' to be very respectfully, 
Your Obt. Servt. 



Tn. Posey 



Ho]ible. Secretary of War 
City of W.vsiitng'; jn 



'"44 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLLECTIOKS 

Report of Harrison Invest .gation 

January 23, 3P-17 

Am. Sta. Pa. Mil. A/. 7, cil? 

Mr. Richard M. Johnson made tlio followmg repovt: 
T...J select committee, to whomx was referred the letter and 
documents from the acting- Secretary' of War on tlie subject 
of General Harrison's leti:er, (Dec. 20, 1815) asli lca^'e to 
report : 

That tliey have investigated the facts involved in this in- 
quiry bv- the examination, of docm ■ ts, and a gre;i'; v unber 
of the m.ost respectable Vvitnosses pcrsoually acquainted with 
the transacticis pon v/hicli. tlie inquiry originated; aud the 
con- riittec ■ e unanimously of opinion that Genera.] Harrison 
stands abo\e suspicion, as to hi having lad any pecuniary 
or imp -per connexion v/ith the officers of the commissariat 
foi- the supnly of tl;.: r,orth western army; that he did not 
wantonly oj iie.properly interfere vv'itli the rights of con- 
tra' tors, and that he was in his measures governed by a 
prop-r zeal diid dcvoiion to the public interest. The connnit- 
tec as^' leave to be discharged from the fur '• coit si deration 
of the su' -ct; an(', as tlie papers refer '■ pa^L to ..tc conduct 
and tra ctions of the contractors of the northwestern army, 
wl-ose accounts are unsctled, and only incidentally involv ■! 
in this inquiry, that the papers be ti'.-irismitted to the Depa - 
me t of War. 

CoxnmL'.nicated to the House of Rci es'jntati\'es. 

FaRRISOI-; to hlOTEAiJ 

NORTU Benp, 14th Nov. 1817 

CJioicaa Mss. JJ/, L.- Louit; McrcaniUe Lv. /«,•;/ 

Dear c;i.i 

The lapse of years has lut obliterated from m.y memory 
the civilities I rec' ivcd from you on my several visits to St. 
Louis. T wish nevv' to add to tlie oliigation by re(jue::tinr 
f'-r tlie be .or hereof ]\.Ir. Jnu. L. Watkius auy aid ycu nia\- 
have in your power to ani"oi-d him in the prosecution of ';is 
view; He wishes to be employed as a Teaches- of yoiilh be- 
ing v ell acquainted with the Latin aud Gicolv I/ni,',';uar;o and 
the "' itlnnatics. 

He lived for a con.'.:der;ible time as a tutor iu. in ■ lamib/ 



HARRJ; ON: MESSAGES AND LETi^ERS 7 5 

and ]ias since superintend. I an Academy in Shelijj ville Ivy. 
in both o.r which situations has given j2;'reat satisfaction. Any 
civiHties or scrviC"S you. ma; rend -r him will be acknov/I(?d^:ed 
by me. 

Bo pleased ..> present e in the most resi- 'ctful ternis to 
Madame Choteaii to yo^ • brother and his fa jly an.d those 
of McFom^ ad and Mr. Gratiot. 

I am yr'b with gieat respect and R(\<i'ard 

\VlLLIAAI IT, IlARETSON 

Aug. CitOTEAU, Esq. 

IlAKRlHON TO TlI'TON 

Nor H Bend neai Gleves 6th Dec. 1883 

Tipton Mss. Ind. StoJc Lihrary 

Dear General 

I liave had your remarks on the i.'- tides whic.i appe .red 
in the Kenincky intelligencer repubi >hed in the Han- ^ ton 
hiiiUigincer of this state in which one of the fortvis was pub- 
lislied some thne last summer. Tvly ov/n replj' will come oit 
next Saturd:,. I thong' it best to piibhsh omo docurnenl.^- 
which were furnished by Wah'er T;iyIor & ot' ers, when those 
infamous chai;i,-es wliicli tlie writer f, the Kentucky Irlcl- 
ligenocr has revived first made their app avance in print, 
and that Hiey phould be .• comp?nied Vyiih some explanatory 
remarks from myself. Th.is vvould have been unnecessary if 
your publication had been under your proper signature. At 
least it would have been so as fa] as my \'i :'ication v/as con- 
cerned. 

I ' ;g you to believe thr-t I fee' tiie warmest gra.itudo for 
the kind feeling- you exprer.s for me in the conclusion of your 
piece. Indeed it has been a souicc of the greatest gratifica- 
tic i to me amidst the per -ecutions I have suffered thnl I hav.-^ 
rarely faih. J to fmd a friend when ever I meet witii im- one 
w-K) hi; served under ivy command or with me ui)dor the 
CO;, nai..! ol; others. A;, instance of tbe latter occur/cd tlii. 
day. A man wh ■ now ]cr;ides in Indiana & who served with 
me cix years as :. Corpora) iri the first Ti. S. Reg. Infy. under 
GenoT' . St. ChiM' & Wayne, r.-dled on me. The moment I 
laid my eyes on irim I kficw liim as i lO person wlio ai the- 
instant he v/as about t(.) bo ex' -'uted I hai the happiness to 

f.O— 22CCi 



7- 

,stop the i)roccc'(l)i)i:,s hy Jiaiuling- to Iho ofncvr of ilie day 
pardon fyom the commanding general. He v/as then (17^.' i; 
a vox, Innidsome young man oi 22. His criine was tluit of 
having f i'erv d his guard (v/hich lie commai)ded to take care 
of the c.-.itle 'l the a-cray) to kill oiie of tliem. Ho was pr;- 
donc'' from tiie yalhintry he had displaied in the ac- .i nt 
the rapids of the ]\iiami of the lake a few v\-eeks beir> Oi in 
wliich he had received a flesii wound, Ne.ver did I see a n:?.ri 
brave death with mor fortitude. Until tlie ]) ^rdon was an- 
nounced his countenance was marked b}' a ^;u^ n indigiiaiioi; 
which he felt as he informed me f}'om tlio ignominiou ■' :..ll" 
which had beeii assigned to him. When his ;irnis \'.'ere Joos- 
oncd & the rope removed from his neck he leaned out of th*; 
w^aggon in \'h.ich he had been placed, took a youn gii"'! (who 
was hio mistress & who had stood weeping by the side of .be 
waggon) in his arms kissed her &. folding his arms reg^rcvd 
the ]au::hter which he cij'cumstances produced & the filin 
off of the /umv (wliich had bee;, turned out on tlie occasion' 
with equal in-ifrerence. I believe i' w^a proved on h^s tria' 
that ^^e was absent from his guard wiien they killed tlic animal 
b:'t that covdd not be admitted as any -.xtenuation of t'.; 
crime by the Court- j^^artud. Tliis mart wlioso nai e is Jam 
Redding came to g. from me a certificate of his servic '. 
Having liea. d of the j^.;. obability of the soldiers of 'hese e? Siv 
wars being placed upon ihe pension list. It app^:ar3 to iri? 
that sucli ought to be tise case. The troops who served wiT: 
]ia" '^r, St, CTur &, Wayne unde;; svent excessive Jiardship? 
& received a very small compensation. 'The privates vre:. e 
allowed only $3 dollars ."Cr r ontli. For a year an hal,' I w; 
T^nsign on the pfiy of f-^lS per mon h & two rations and altbo 
I fared mise ibly so high was e\A'ry nec(^:-sar>' that I coul'l 
not live upon it & procu' e proper Regim- Tals. WHien I be- 
came the Aide- •^-Camp of. the Commanding General I ]■-- 
cived the pay c-: emolumimts of a Major of the hue \ sich 
was $6'; r ' 4 rations & $1/. for forage for month ]jui ev'%1 
this was ]■. ^'oly sufr'Tent to vCep me in cha' iug, hoses, T 
equipments. I was ob^ligcd i keep t\vo horses &■ sucli r we. :■ 
fit for an aid u: cainp cou d not [)e obinincd bn- lc>s th. 
from $1B9 to $250. I say fit for .•,■. aid do cariVj.', bee: vis 
none but those of gre .i ^•' o/igih, a' i!\^iiy &. flectnoss will s-: 
swoj- for tliat service. le deliveiv' of an order a jitmi. : 



HAlaUSON: MES^ \GES AND LETTEKS 747 

soo]}or or later might bo proclut vo of mc. t hqtIoiw. conso- 
qucncc:-;. 1 know indcicd two instaiicej- in \\liich tlic li-. os oi" 
0ilicei';s bCcU-iiig important order,-.:, v/ero pi'esoi'VGd by lie llecl- 
ness and acti\ ity of tticir Iiorsc::;. At th". seigc of I'^rt r/Ieigs 
on the cventiiil 5ih oi' i\iay, 1 hiad .' it the squadron ■.■'i 
dra^-oons under th.e command of Cc.o. Bail to cover the land- 
ing of Gen. Clay's troops above tiie fort. Seeing- with my 
(flass that Ball (in the plain on the Ri.ver) was al>out to bo 
attacked from the high ground^ ^vithiii rifle distance, by a 
body of Indians (my aid de camp being at that moment other- 
V7ise ( iployed) I sent Quarter I'-Taster Euboj to direct Ball 
to aoCcad the hill & drive off the Indians whc .; pos^^ion was 
on tlie flank of the r( ito t.;f Clay's troops to the F ' Eu- 
banks I'oute was also a'ong that plain which C' posed him 
likewise to the fir^ of the Indians. To give him every pos- 
."■iblc chance I mounted him on one of my ovv'n horses. As 
1 anticipated, the Indian,, began t fire on h' .i before he g-t 
one fourth ]>art of the way but being under full speed he was 
not hit, TJ,. re ran a ditch through the pi:. in which had be^ 
dug to drain r pond. Unluckily, Eubanlv came to tlu pari: 
which, was Y:'/y' and deepest. He a' ipled .) ma! • the 
le p but the horse frightc::ed at the yenov/ clay b:inl-: of the 
o; posite side suddenly vrheeled & ran off. E. hv.wcver stoped 
Si t.urned him & giving him the whip & spur again lirought 
' im up & obliged him to take the leap, a mou: trous lea" it 
^,as. 

The xndiau: were all the while firing at him but so ex- 
tremely rapid was his ino\:''mcnt '^ th Indians being mucli 
above him he xaped unhurt. Tlse otiier instance to wliich 
I :icfe]red occiirred to myself at the Battle of tfie Rapids of 
the Miami (not ]\'"aumee) of the lake. Whilst tlie advanced 
light troops were engaged with the Indians &, the infantry 
0: 1 'le line were fonning G iL Wayne sent me with nn order 
to the di' 'Toons on the ri:_,:it to charge for the pur] ,se of 
chccki f' ;c advance of the enemy ujitil the lino was forme^'. 
As the nearest way, I took the diagonal lir,;: in front ■ f the 
I;ifantr--. When I reached the point opposite the riglit bat- 
talion of the 1st sub legion they were eng.'iged vriih the In- 
dians who had driven in the light troops: \vhich covered th.^ 
part of the line. I was thus exposed to -h^- hrc of both bit 
my gpllant teed Viore nif oirward \vith siu i ra,:' Miy that I 



718 INDIANA HISTORK^AL COI.LECTJOXt 

e^;cal)ed uiiliuj-L. W 1 ['atiguo you with these 6 tails, so uniii- 
tercstiiig' to ail biit ihoso wlio v;ere coiicoi ntxl in thern you 
mil i: attribute il to 'ny having < :un:ht something of the o-ir- 
rul.ity if yonr constituent old Heading. j\Iy j^iincipal oijjo^t 
in wiiting t^ is letter is to enqiii)'e whether you Ivriovr any 
thing of a Delaware chief called N^icoming who vva.- with rne 
at the battle of the T"i mes c^: aii other c lied Little Boa-^-r 
of the same tribe, The latter was the person (tlicn a lad of 
18 years old) who saved my life by killing the Indian wlio 
was sent by the beligcrent Indians to assassi-'-^ate me v.-hc'i 
I was \ '[h the :rmy at Sen ;c;. on tiie Sandus'.y. ;-Iy ob:t-cl 
in enquiring" after these meni is to g-^o them .o go with v\-} 
on ;n expedition I meditate up the Missouri on to the fr;;.- 
tiers o;' Mexico. Notvv^ith standing the gj'eat sacrifice of pro;> 
erty I have made to pay my own del't & those for wliich I 
was bour ] as securitj^ I still owe about ??12''0O the g.ei .v'r 
pai't as endorser fo]- Thomson Ncbv of Cijicinnali who is 
quite : le to pay it if he '^ad the inch la' ion to do it. I have 
been ; 'king every exertion in )!iy power to make my ag i- 
cultu al pursuits productive enough to pay my current ex- 
penses as well as the interest of ivy debts & a ^ .idual i:- 
du. "on of the capital. I hav; not yet succeeded. I ' r. ?, 
however a project in progress hich n^ay pi event the ne^es- 
sh. of recurring to the scheme above mentioned. T am pro- 
paring an ajiparatus foi' ' ' n drying corn in the manner prac- 
ticed at the Brandywine mills. If it succeeds as I Q^-ncci, 
I can pu.t my corn in a state either ground or unground l-; 
be transpoi t. d to the dist- nt markets wi^'hout risk of spoiling 
&; at considerable profit. If it de^^s not succeed I can have 
recourse to the other p oject. Bat as such an undent king 
must be commenced in May or June it is necessary lo tak-.. 
some of the steps necessary to its success in the course fji 
this winter. Two Indians such as I kno v Nicomi;ig »!i t'n? 
Beaver to be may be of great service to me on an expediti- .. 
of the kind T contemplate. You will say perhaps tl:at s h 
an enterprise -s nol suitable to my advanced ag^ If : y 
heali . shoi.ld continue until the f.jirii^g as good as u novr is 
I would have v- hesitation in under !aking it. My co- -tii.;- 
tio'' seems suitvd to exposure & liardsliip. But ;\i. an;-.- rai'..- 
it my corn dr\ ;ng scheme fails 1 shall have no aUt-.i^: ti^ :■. 
The Bank U. S. Vvdiich is my c redilor for all of the [iilegib- ] 
debt must soon \:ind up its cnK-eiiis. I have rcW so )nuch 



Hi\RiaSON: ME^^SACP^^S AND LETTERS 710 

of my property tluit kIigiiIcI I be obliged to sell a.v; much as 
would clear mo of debt 1 should be left without the means 
of suppc ting the large family o}* inore propc.'~-ly families 
which ai-e dependent upon me, VaiT js other scliejpes ha\'(^ 
been thought of, ojiamijied & aljadoned. It v.'ould rcquii'e a 
great deal of time to qualify me for the bar or for the prac- 
tice of Physic altho I was a student of the latter for neai'ly 
two years before I entered the ainiy. I never could succeed 
in the mercantile business even if I had capital to commence 
it. Such pursuits are neither conr.eriial to my iiature or tl; 
iiabits r my life. I might take one of the 1 ;g Hotels n 
Cincinnal' but the same objections oppose it, \.'\ih the addi- 
tional or of the burden it v/ould inij^c e upon my "amily. 
To the hi; ting &. trapping expeditioji no objection can be 
made but the on bovc sug ^sted viz personal hardships & 
personal hazard. hose I was never accustomed to regard 
wher I vas in tlie sei'vice of rny countiy neither should they 
form an obstacle to an enterprise having foi* its object the 
adv.miage of my family. 

I h :ve heard fiom :- y son Benjamin within a few ('.ays. 
He was then on ihe Big Horn I .ver and was concluding a 
small trapping ex];edition farther west on his owti account. 

I send you '^cIosg ' th -amilton paper containing the 
"Voiunte.. .' " & the Editors remarks on the piiblications o^ the 
Kentucky I teUigettcer. 

F Gsent my re pects to my frier d Hendricks. 
I am D*.ar General 

Very Sincerely yr friend 

W. H. Hi, .isa 

P. S. A nephew of mine will be in Washington this vrinter 
0'\ sor, .' -.usiness with Congress, lie is from tlie county in 
Va with Gov. Tyh^ •. 1 have enclosed i line of introduction 
to hi' .. He is a highly respectable &. .viniable man. Ciov. T 
will info • .1 you of his vrrival, I enclose you 
Honb-e. (;en. Joi-IN Xm-xON 

Hal •' iON TO TiproN 
' ■ ■' ■ "' NORTJi Bkn;' 2nd May 18o. 

iiEAR GENi^RAL 

Your le'ter enclo; 'ng the article rom the Mechanic reached 
me in duv' time. It iVun;' m<" iri bad he. 1th, in bad spirit &. 



750 INDIANA HISTORICAL COLI.ECTJON.- 

, feeling more like a iiiisa ithi-opo tluui I have evrr done in 
my life before, & tJierefore tho mr "gnant altack of "iii<:' 
friend to truth" did not make the imiiressiun U;;oii ::ie whi:-h 
it wouli,. have done at another time. I still however thc^lA 
I might ansver it & in tiie mean tinic determined to v.-rite 
to three of the ge ilemen who v.-er- in my ftaff at the battle 
of the Thames to see 'f their recolle. lions of tlie circum- 
stances agre*^-^ with mi^ e. 

I Iiave rec ed ansvrers from all & all coincide v. ith me in 
their relation f the facts bearing o. the case. 

Wlien yoi! le/.r them you vrill be convinced that this attacl: 
(altho as yo say it is a nal' ali..ir,) is as malignant a or:o 
as any of ti^ose which . r near 20 years have have been 
made upon me. I sent the extract ,\ou forwarded to Colo. 
Todd bat if I recc :-ct arright it asserts tliat 'X-( iudr Perry 
& several other American Officers as well as British ofiiceis 
who knew Tec' '.athe saw and recognized his body." Now I 
will venture my L,-ad if Comdr Perry or any of the Amer:- 
can fhcers or any Am-rican Sold jr vh > was in the action 
had ever seen Tecumth-. in tlieir lives, myself only excepted, 
I ^ ouh' make the sai : venture that no c ncer of the Eriti: .. 
. '^:gidar army saw the body ti at was supposed to be T — e. 
For early in the morning after the action I sent them down. 
the river to a farm house & only tw; of them were permitted 
to returr again to our camp in chi rge of an officer to s- ar. ■ 
for some baggag • whicli had been plund'. ed from them by 
the women of their o\"i\ a my. I was persuaded t(o that 
no e of them heard anj^ thing certainly about the death of 
T- -e until after their arrwal at Detroit & then only as ;. 
rumour. The British trciops forniing the left wing of thtj 
army could not see &. could not possibly know what passed 
bet'veen the Indians & those who were opposed to the i in 
the swamp on their right. I have said that no British o'lic- : 
of tneir Regular a my .ad seen & recogiiized the body ;>f 
Tecumthe & in 'his I am supported b.y Colo. Todd wiio wa- 
the A .?t. Inspector -enl. of the army (& the Senior oi'ic •; 
of that dcpart^nerit . .■esent) & to Vvdiom the char,; .:• of tl. 
Br'tish dicers were comni: led) & by Coio. OTallon & Major 
Chamb vTS the former one of my regular Aids de Camp i I'm. 
latter a volunteer Aid de camp. But neither of the two 
former ]ior jayself (unt^: I got the cnclosod leltor from Ciiaoi- 
bers) ever heard tbit ' j had taltcn Colo Ba'^y a i^.Ie.cht, of 



HARRISON; MESSAGES AND LETTLRS 751 

Sandwich mA a Militia C^^lonel to see tlio bociy. The cau^^: 
of V not havhij; been mentionGd to m<; by Clianibe: s is state*"' 
in liis letter. 

In the morning ai'tei' the action I ijidcrfit( kI that a C~n- 
adian ho had beci cpntiircd in the i-etreat had asserted that 
T — G was killed I \v( o see this man & he told n.;.' -iiat he 
had ,-ec : Tecunithc wounded mortally & that the Indians had 
wonndea him. If I am not mistalvcn this man (the Canadian) 
died of a wound he had received. Another Canadian in- 
formed O'F Hon that he w.s told on the retreat that T— e 
v/as killed. He -said he would easily recogiize T — e & I di- 
rected CT to take (he man & examine the ' odies which were 
left on the ground. He reported to me thiit tlie man. recog- 
nized a body as T — e & declared that an other bod:,- ^v}:icb h\y 
near it wrs tne Prophets. But that body had two eyes. The 
I opliet w;,- kno'wn to have but one &, the Ca^adi-ln ackno^vl- 
edy-T; ■ ' was m^^takon. Toward the evening" of that day 
I took ;i;mGi'. Perry & several othee officers & went a ex- 
amine <.ie ' edy which had been thi; designated as — e. I 
found it in uie situati described by CI imbers & vas very 
much m-jriined & ii'r=' led. I was certain tlu: I had seen 
the p: rson ijefore bui. .. could not delermiijc whether it was 
T — e or a Potawalimi Chief who had always been ■ ith hhn 
when ever 1 had seen him. 

Th'; face was much swd'en & it appeared to have Imd a 
stre ' witii a Tonnaw: or sometliing els. over the top of 
t ie nead. O'Fallon says that he h \d on a cotton huiUnig 
siiirt vchen he ; w liim. I think nowever the body was either 
naked or the s./irt v/as roliod up above the breast whc. I 
saw it. The British writer says thn' he v/a. ''disting^'.h'iud 
by wearing a leiither shirt" now altlio you vv'cre n iny hundr;'d 
: dies from the Thames at the time yet from your knov>ded. e 
of the predv ictioii of the N. A. Indians for thiit article of 
dress you v/ould no doubt give it as your opinion thid y'vA Oi 
tlv- 1800 or 2,000 Indians who were in the action (or n er 
it ■'!' Nine tc (lis of the wlsole numbc}- did n ;. lire a gan) 
there must haee been some hundicds who Were thus "d' - 
tinguished" greatly' vexed & mortiaed at the nuit;;dati(m (jf 
the body I would not suffer any persfin vvdio liad b^on v.t- 
t' .: cd {■■:■ the British; iinvy to be called to ■■'XaivMne it c:. was 
desirous inat it should be attrib ted to our Indians who v,-ouid 
I \a(.'\v suii'er no loss of honour I>y it. fjut yei 1 veas morally 



752 INDIAVA HISTOiaCAL COLLECTIONS 

' cijriD^n that tiioy (oi,-- Indians) i s n(;. co]umitted i.. I 1- 
the c my eiilu- ■ that E—g or eariy th(3 next monnn^r ^ py,,.. 
cccded to Detroit ^vith Comdr. Perry to nako arraiig-eincnt-. 
for an cxpcditi.-^n to the upper lances. I prepared vny officia.l 
dispatch on my arrival ' ..t as the de.'th of Tccnnthe slil^ 
remahied i;, a great d^'gree m- tain 1 did not inention i:. 
I was hov>- ever morally certai-. tliat he was killed but as 
one account siatos hi' f)oing wounded & taken off I was un- 
willing to ru tlic rislc of having my report contradictcl hy 
tlu: '' est evidence viz. that of his presenting himself alive to 
his [illeg'ble] Provost. My dispatch was submitted to Ge ;■. 
Shelby for his cori'ection if there v as any error. Lie made 
none & declared that . mple justice, w; s done to all oiicerned. 
If I had mentioned tlie probability of T — e's d('ath , could .;'-;i 
have with any ort of justice attributed it to any individuai 
n-jr indeed c ml,: I have deta-m]ued t) - . 70/7)5 by whi^di it 
had been ^ne. From ,y ikci> inforr \ inn I should ha- 
attributed it to the Infantry, because I iiew tl^at they hi 
encountered the LdiaL neav L- the spot. As 1 found thni 
hotly engaged wiLi the India when I repaired fi'om th 
i.ght to the left of ou-_ line, ii war: not r \y inte. tir.^i llr 
Johnson's Corps should crvjv.3 [n contact N.-ith the Indii - n; 
did I k-.ow until I saw ^ sta aent in McAtfee's his; y • ■■ 
what exien- it Lad done so. ] knew indeed that Colo. J — i. 
had been Wv mded by Ind us f;T he told me so i, ad^ied t]i:.t 
he Jiad killed uro of them, when I visitted him shoj'tly aftc]' 
the action. I have b'^en c I'cavouring to recollect vrhc]i ii 
was tiiat I nrst iiea. J that it was supposed tliatT — v/a- killed 
by Colo. Johnson. I am satisfied that it v.. s not until ni - 
return to Ohio in the Febry. foil ving & I believe not until 
some time in the sprin;.. CiiambL:.,- (v.dio went immediately 
heme after the action) says that he is satisfied that he did 
not hear it for several months & so say both Todd &. O'FaLon. 
The latter say:- that "when he I'oturned to Ky ait';^r the v,-a:' 
w. s ovt he ^■. as asked this question "whether if Colo. Joli; - 
son did kill an Indian there ■ as ;iol tnorc pro' abiliry t'at 
it was T — e than any otbc:. And he avoA\'od aiiirmativcl,. " 
Now this is precisely the ground th.;t I always took, '^"^hoii 
evertV ' circumstance was mentioned in my pr( ;;v'nco I aLvnys 
referred to tlie fact that CoL^ Ji had info/med mn i.;nnc- 
diately after r!!p action that he had kiUed an Indian & b'^foro 
lie couLi ha\ heard that '. — -e was .hilk:d -& ha\'i — li-'ard .1 .i;:"; 



HAKPJSON: MESSAGES AND LETTERS 7r>:l 

good an ovlty ' ni T — e had said to Genl. P}-oc1o>" a lev,' day.'-"; 
before at Chatham Creel; that he was determined to coiiqiier 
or die. (His expression Avas "jiere Genl. liaiiison or I shall 
lay 'Ur incs") I coiicluded that it Wi- most prfibable that 
seeing fj'om the position of Colo. Jn that he was the Comch*. 
of the party whicli was about to -^ssail him T — e had singic^.d 
liim out rushed r.pon him ci feV in the contest This opiv;!on 
i have alwaj's expressed. The object of tlie autlior of the 
"friend to truth" is to hx upon nie the crim? of having with- 
iield the informatic of ih" death o^ Tecum the from cnmit\' 
to or jealc' ;y to Colo. J — n. Far froin feeling uny enmity 
toward him T was upon the most intin- •.te terms of friend- 
shi,, v/ith him. Theie v/as not indeed an individual in the 
army for whom ' felt warmer regard. And as to je; ^oiis}' 
in the name of ;"'ommun sense of Vv'hat could I be jealous? 
Of his br. 'ery? No becan.ae I have- d.one him in that r- spect 
ample justice. None but Coij. Daviess' fi.i'.nds &. this Knn^ e 
& fool vdio dares to assume the garb oi '"ruth" would ever 
have tiu Li^.ht ^f the Commdr. in chief of an army ;eing 
jealous of the gal' ni^y of a "'elc officer, lut whatever might 
have ■ '']! my fc.'Jngs I ce. ainly never heard it suggcc :-d 
that • 0. J — ns ^vas tiie arm by which T — e came toll is death 
until e mont^'S after. Indeed I am certaiii not until I 

had r ;ned my commission in the army. None of J-ns. 
corps ; ow T- -e nordidT~-eorany rf his Indians kiiov/ John- 
son. Of cou-'se it could only be asserlained that -ih. latter 
kilicv. t- former by an investigation &, a comparison of cir- 
cumstarices &. this was not done initil iift. r the campaign. 
The British officers of course could hav Irnov/n n^ hing of 
the matter as they were in an other pait of the field & had 
sufficient occupation in the --■ion & no opportu7iity of making 
inquiries af terv. rd. 

Whatever infoimation in relation to the afifair whi; they 
gave !;o th British hi.': orian they must have acquired wirile 
tl y •.■/ere prisoners in Kenty. If truth really was the o' "::t 
of the ^--riter Vvdio made tl]is attack Uii)on me ought he i to 
ha^■v b(,en struc' wiin the circumstances that none ol tlie 
Western historian of the war nor ;iny oiie else in the \V',\ster]i 
Country had blamed me •' r not menti; dug iAi^r death of 
Tecumthe. ?" less than tv*; of tlv liistorys of Ih.e Vv^ai- were 
written by m; .nbers of Johi'sons ;o)'ps. Ouic by one or Ins 
Captains (McAlTee now our :i^harge des affairs at Bogoa) 



 

& ihe other V)y a l\h\ Druwn oi N w York who sci'ved as a 
vcluntver in vbe Reo;t. & yet botli nf them alt]i,o the ix\or::0. 
friends of Colo, Johnso]i sp ak of my wliole ;. oudra-t Y\"it:: 
marked approbation. But I am tired of this subj.— t. All 
my friends here have strongly protested agaijisfmy ;ipp-"ar- 
ing in ; rint in answer to this vile slanderer vJiom I take 
to be ti": san' v^ v\ o some years ago sent an annonimons article 
to the L Jitor of the Ne\\- Yk. Coaintl. Advcrr. in which it was 
said that when our troops got neai the enemy I was no vrlitvo 
to be found & that Col. . J — n made all the arran<5ei icnts for 
the action. I strongly suspect tliat I could guovs v;] ^- v/a- 
the author o:' both. I must enjoin it upon you my dear .Tcn. 
not tj pi:blish this lettv r nor auuthing that is in i- in arj 
m''mier or sJia^ ?. 

i have been obliged to abrndon my inten; 1 trip to the 
West. In Febiy, I was prc^ iring to go to N Orleans to 
obtain thi'orgh the assists' ce of a vriued friend I 1 :\yq thcv, 
thi- -neans of ca'"]'ying my pr^ 'ect Im execution wh . I was 
arrested b;- a violent illness m the effects f ■' which I I .^ve 
not to this moment rec. vc ed & to my astoni; hmen' & great 
re^Tot my son Bcnjamiji returned from the RcKky JMcurtai:- ■ 
soon afte . In his trip he cont iv.-l to squander at least 
$1,0. in a maner totally unaccountable. Since I c mmcnced 
tb'o letter m;, son Scott returned from N. 0. On his w?: 
dc n he lost one of his boats & no; rly the whole cargo. Iz 
wa^; sunk by the falling of trees & it \\-as with no small rik 
that hin^ & Benjamin &, two r hei's that w -e in the boil 
saved their li\-es.. Our entire loss is about $' 00. I had [il- 
legible] onlj^ $400 & tj Cc.rgo v,\>uiu have > old readily f^ v 
$1100. In my < dvanced age I am jiot a favorite of Forturn?, 
But come what may, neiL er to licr frowns nor tothepeltings 
& persecutions I have experience;! cc may still experience fror.i 
those from whom I had a right to •'^^xpect diffei-ent treatmenl. 
v.'ill make me succumb. 1 will, i. use the language of thx- 
Tennessr^ '7'oion«el, endeavor still to "go ahead" altho in n\ 
exertions .;> jo so like the boy on the sleet I go tvro step- 
backv. ard for one Hiat I go for\ "rd. 

Eat amidst all my dilliculties 1 have a con; dation in bc- 
]■ ving that I have a few faith "ul friends & ihero is ru, e 
amon, t them whose dsintei'estcd ■dtachmenl.; 1 \alnc more 

tha]i yours 

/ cc'^pt mv b«: -t wi,>;:/ :^ 

W. H. iiAiirrsoK 



HARRTSON: MESSAGES A:^D LET'.'u^ - 7"") 

P. S. Colo, -eld Ik's just -^viMtl-?!! t- ac tliat ho jiiIctkIg 
to aDswei- ^'the rricnd of truth" & tlv I i : wi'^ lo'v/ard it (■ 
you to be inserted in the Media vie. I mention ttiis in con- 
fidence. He will anr^wcr ef^\-'ctually. 

Return me Chamber's lett-,!'. 

"R: bb Gcnb Tipton 



Hatikison'to CoivUliT"'':]i; 

Cl jinnati 2Brd Octr 1 '5 

La::sclle M>-s. lad. Sluic lAbnu'y 

C ::ntlemen 

Wher I liad th'^ Iionour to r'X:ei've yo:ir letter of the 17tu 
Ar ist last inviti. j me to particJiiale in the celebiatiun of 
th anniversiiry of th bait ^^ of Tippc' anoe on tlr spot ■ liere 
it Avas fou^^ht I was ai^prehen^dve b:at it would not be in my 
povj.r t attend, ardently as it wa, my wish to do so. I do 
t ' od however to (.'elay my an ^ver lor some time in the 
hop: hat something might occur to enable me to g b m 
incli jubons by ab ending without vi'^' !;iiig any ( di^^atieiis -t 
duty in relation to tl;. ollico I hold ihis county. I am ]••,.' 
ho \ 'ever reluctantly constrained to abandon the idea. Ti:- 
CO L't v:f which I am clerk is 'x\^s>j- In S'/osion with no probabil 
it; of its adjournment until after the day of the celebration 
shall hrvc passeb. All thi;it remains therefore is to oRer you 
my thanks for Wvo. ' ;• :jur you have done me by the in\'it^iion. 
<fe particularly i'or UiQ m: nner in wliJch you have ^een pleased 
to s}:K-}ak of my public services. 

The attendance 'vf the y uth oi e r roun'^y upon siub a 
celebration on the spot which was bie seen of the pati'" lie 
devotion which it is the object to hoiiour, camiot but be . i- 
ductive of the greatest advanti'ge. It wdll inspire them vm 
the feeliiig and sentiments v/hich ann' lated Daviess "i Spc^ri- 
cor Owen Sz Warrick under tlie influence of v»'hich th' y aba.n 
donrd their fires" les tbfir bi.oiness <b th^ir families to .-jain- 
tair the l^onour and itit'-v-: :.:t ol" th(b:' country ami(bd peiils 
& e .:i;:ers which they had (;ea}iy r();>ieon & A^hich t!"icy 
determined to disregard. Tli^-Jr fall & all the atleivbnit ci]~ 
cum 'lances sufOciently p^ a;; that 'bis was their dctei'i bna 
tion. 

I sec sign'd to \-)\\v lei ei- (R?ntlenn'i) !ianies irb lately con- 
n ded with the went you intend to ci'iebrate, ( le of theiii 


pai ncular'y, vhitli v:ill ahviU's be associal 1 wi. i Iho gio-y 
of ■(• cifhievGrncnt. To ihonQ wIk) are thus ;:i(.i-tted the rccc' 
leclioii of this (•irciini^;taiicc shoukl constitute nu addiliojial 
mo'ive ior the disdiarge of all tlie duties wliie, appeidahi to 
the /haraetev of the pati'iot & citizen soldier. 
I am Gcutleuien witli ■roat Ilesiv-xt 
Your Hum S rt 

W. IL liAnRiSf.o; 
Messrs Spear S. Tipton 

STANLSLAI S } jA sselle 

&■ 

Dani l Sparks 

Co))r,n.Uicc for the cekhrailon af 
the battle of Tiirpccunoc 
