VOL. I JANUARY, 1842. NO. I.



THE AMERICAN PIONEER.

In presenting the first number of the Pioneer to the public, it is unnecessary
to give more than a brief outline of the objects and plan of it. The speci-
men now offered, will furnish a better view of what it is intended to be, than
any thing we could say. It may not be amiss, however, to observe, that in
the commencement of such a work, the variety of matter from which to
select for it, is not so great as it is hoped will be the case in future.

The Logan Historical Society, of which the Editor is Corresponding Sec-
retary, the objects of which it is intended to promote, is composed of some
of the best men of the country, who intend to collect and preserve for the
use of posterity, all that can be collected of early or incidental history, of the
early settlement and successive improvements of the Western country, and,
as collateral therewith, of all North America. Living witnesses can yet be
found to testify of events as early as our revolutionary struggle, and well
authenticated tradition will reach farther back. The kind of information
sought by the Society is fast fading from the memories of the living, and
sinking into the grave with the departing. It is a matter of regret, that so
much has already escaped forever beyond the reach of man; and let this
admonish every pioneer patriot to lose no time in writing their narratives and
placing them in the repository now opened to receive and to preserve them.
Much of incidental history and instructive anecdotes have found their way
into the ephemeral prints of the age, there a few years to await a like fate by
the ever-varying changes of time.

To collect and to preserve every thing of the kind for the use of the future
historian, as well as to do justice to departed worth, are the principal
objects of the Society; and to advance those objects and to publish those
interesting documents, for the use of the present generation, are the functions
of the American Pioneer. It will at once be seen that the Pioneer takes new
ground, that it occupies a position occupied by no periodical of the day.
That without such a reciprocating repository and the presenting of succes-
sive opportunities for collecting, comparing, enlarging, correcting and con-
firming, much incidental history can never be brought into one useful reposi-
tory. The recital of one incident, will lead to the recital of others which it
brings afresh into the memory of other venerable pioneers. Youthful com-
panions, long forgotten and unknown to each other, will be introduced to a
fresh acquaintance, and in the pages of this work they can meet by mutual
and joyous greetings. When the historian commences to collect facts and

3



4 The American Pioneer.

incidents from which to collate a regular history, he knows not, without
much labor, where to seek, or whom to ask for them. It is true that
individual industry may, through a course of years, collect and lay up much
valuable materials ; but like the miner, he may search in the immediate vicin-
ity of the brightest gems, without discovering them. This difficulty, the
A.merican Pioneer is intended to overcome, and we trust that the efforts we
are now making will be found to be of the utmost utility. Who that have
mixed among men, but have heard aged pioneers remark that they could add
to, confirm, or correct narratives given in histories ? It is evident that pub-
lished histories afford no such opportunity for improvement as is now offered.

Systematic arrangement of articles under different and respective heads,
will be both unnecessary and inconvenient, if not, in some cases, quite imprac-
ticable. We propose to collect and publish narratives relating to land-hunt-
ing, immigration, settlements, subsistence, improvements, agriculture, manu-
factures, navigation, literature, arts, &c. &;c. These will be found in books,
pamphlets, newspapers, and especially what is received in manuscript from
the memory of witnesses, which we hold in the front ranks, for what has
been already published, is not so important now to republish, except for the
purpose of addition, confirmation, or correction.

Facts related may at times seem to have a party bearing. This is common
to all history, and inseparable from some oi it; but let us here advertise our
correspondents that the truth and justice of history is our motto, and nothing
intended to have a partial bearing on any agitating or exciting question, will
be intentionally placed as such in the pages of the Pioneer, and that they
must excuse us for omitting such parts as may seem to have that or other
injurious tendency. We shall, however, carefully deposit and safely keep,
for the use of posterity, all they send, and parts that we may not publish,
may at another time and in other hands, be of great utility.

Whether novels or fictions, professedly such, should or should not be
encouraged, is a debatable point; but whether romances, mere creatures
of the author's imagination, should be given as facts and mixed with his-
tory, or not, admits of no argument. The injury of such a course, as
tending to lessen the credit of history, from the difficulty of detecting the
fiction, is too conspicuous, to require debate to settle.

However well any historical fact may seem to be established, the pages of
the Pioneer and the mind of its Editor, will, we hope, both remain open
for the reception of any evidence tending either to correct or to confirm it ;
but it is intended that neither shall be open to angry discussion merely to gain
points or to secure particular interests. Truth leads to the general good, and
anything leading to that, will be not only admissible, but thankfully received.

With the best intentions, and these observations, we launch our bark and
set sail, trusting, under an all-protecting Providence, to the helm of our judg-
ment, the current of public sentiment, and the aid of our friends, for the safety
of our voyage and the success of the expedition. JNO. S. WILLIAMS.

Chillicothe, 0., Jan. 1, 1842.



The Logan Historical Society.



THE LOGAN HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

In an assembUige of y)ioneers and citizens from different parts of
the Scioto Valley, at Westfall, in Pickaway county, July 28, 1841,
Judge Corwin of Portsmouth, a pioneer of tiie last century, in a short
impressive speech, stated, that from the best information he possessed,
we were on or very near the spot where Logan, the Mingo chief, the
Indian philanthropist and friend of the white man, delivered his cel-
ebrated speech, sent to lord Dunmore, creditable to mankind and
honorable to him and his nation. The venerable pioneer concluded
by proposing that, as if listening to the speech, we uncover and
resolve ourselves into a society, determined to perpetuate those prin-
ciples for which Logan suffered the sneers of his red brethren, by the
erection of a monument to his memory, and by the careful collection,
safe keeping, and lasting preservation, for the use of posterity, the
many scattered but interesting fragments of the history of the early
settlements of the western country, as well as what remains of the
first and successive settlements of North America. Whereupon, un
covered as we were in the sight of God, all present resolved them-
selves into a society, determined to carry out the wishes of every one,
as expressed by the proposer, and also to invite all who are warmed
with American feelings to aid them in their enterprise. They then
elected Felix Reuick, Esq., of Ross county, another pioneer of the
last century, President, and Jno. S. Williams, of Chillicothe, Record-
ing and Corresponding Secretary.

Being thus organized, they unanimously Resolved,

1. That this Society shall be called the Logan Historical SociETr.

2. That we will erect a monument to the memory of Logan's
worth, on the very spot which the best evidence we may collect shall
designate as the one on which his speech was delivered, or as near it
as a suitable situation can be procured.

3. That his speech, as given by Thomas Jefferson, shall be fully
engraved in gilt letters on said monument, which shall also bear the
name of that great patriot who preserved that speech for us. — In the
base of the monument shall be deposited a copy of Jefferson's Notes
on Virginia, and the Declaration of Independence, and Constitutions
of the States and United States, the previous proceedings of the
Society, and the name of every member thereof.

4. That we will use oin* best endeavors to ascertain where the
remains of Logan lie, and, if found, we will remove them to the mon-
lunent, or do such acts as shall prevent the place of their repose from
being forgotten.

5. That we will collect and safely keep all that is or can be well
authenticated of aboriginal history.

6. That as a main and ever during object of our association, we
will, with all convenient speed, secure from oblivion, and preserve
for posterity, the unpublished history of our early and successive
western settlements, and, as collateral therewith, of all North Amer-
ica, much of which is fast fading from the memories of our early set-
tlers, or sinking into the grave with those who had an active part in



6 The Logan Historical Society.

a series of hardships, privations and improvements which have no
parallel.

7. That we do now most cordially invite all Americans to join our
society and to co-operate with us, not only in doing justice to depart-
ed worth, but in conferring a blessing on coming generations, by aid-
ing us to put in a tangible form and safely keeping, for their amuse-
ment and instruction, the true history and luscious anecdotes of
early times, which, being equally astonishing and much more use-
ful, will possess a charm — truth from their fathers — that romances,
the inventions of men, never can exhibit.

8. That we will each contribute money and labor to carry out the
several objects of our association, and that all who in like manner
shall contribute either well authenticated documents or money, or
who shall, without pecuniary reward, aid us by their labor, shall be
received by us as fellow-members and have their names enrolled as
such, and if received, their autographs preserved among the archives
of the society.

9. That annual reports of our receipts and expenditures, our pro-
gress and our prospects, shall be published. And we respectfully
request editors and publishers to give these proceedings and future
reports publicity, and each send the paper, to be, with the publisher's
name, recorded, and thus be preserved for the use of posterity.

Resolved further, That a committee of three from each county
represented in this assemblage, be appointed as an executive commit-
tee for such county, to give special aid and attention in carrying out
the several objects of the society. Accordingly, Hon. Geo. Corwin,
Hon. Wm, Old field, and Moses Gregory, Esq. were appointed for
Scioto county. The Hon. Samuel Reed, Hon. Jno. I. Vanmetre, and
John Carolus, Esq. for Pike county. Wm. M. Anderson, Owen T.
Reeves, Esqs., and colonel Jno. Madeira, for Ross county. Wm. B.
Thrall and Philo N. White, Elsqs., and Dr. M. Brown, for Pickaway
county. And Hon. Gustavus Swan, and Noah H. Swayne, and
John G. Miller, Esqs., were appointed for Franklin county.

It was furthermore Resolved, That the citizens of each and every
county in the United States, and particularly in the western country,
and especially in Ohio, be, and they are hereby invited and respect-
fully requested to, appoint three or more of their active and patriotic
citizens as committees co-ordinate with the above, as media by and
through which the citizens may contribute to the objects of this soci-
ety, Provided, Nothing herein shall be construed to lessen the force
of the request to all and each in his own name and on behalf of his
friends and neighbors, to aid us in our enterprise ; but it is intended
to prevent unauthorized and pretended agents from imposing upon
the community.

Resolved, Th'Ai we request all communications, subscription papers
and monies designed for the society, to be sent to the corresponding
secretary in his official capacity, which he is hereby instructed to
acknowledge, and under a proper system, safely to keep agreeably
to the genius and for the objects of the society.

FELIX RENICK, President.

Jno. S, Willi.\ms, Secretazy.



Cresap's fVar.



OUR TITLE PAGE.

The design is intended to represent Logan in the act of delivering his cel-
ebrated speecli to general Gibson, at Old Chillicothe, now called Westfall,
on the west bank of the Scioto river, four miles from Circleville and fifteen
from this city. The dove seen resting on the branch, and other parts of the
design, are easily understood. As some degree of interest may be felt in the
life of Logan, and the circumstances which called forth the speech, we pro-
ceed to give a sketch of them.

LOGAN, THE MINGO CHIEF.

It has been truly stated that no piece of composition ever did more, if so
much, as the speech of Logan, the Mingo chief, to form the mind and devel-
op the latent energies of the youthful American orator. Its influence has
extended even into the halls of Congress, and has been felt upon the bench
and in the bar of this nation ; nay more, the American pulpit has been graced
by energies which that speech has, in its warm simplicity, called forth. It
is a speech which Jefferson confessed he w^ould be glad in truth to own.
We may then cease to wonder that its genuineness has been questioned ; and
being confident that it can be satisfactorily established to be Logan's very
speech, we will proceed to give some account of its author, and the circum-
stances which led to the delivery of it. We give these accounts with the
double view of informing those of our patrons who may not know it, and
of having our account corrected or confirmed, should our friends possess the
means and disposition to do it. We shall first give some extracts from
Drake's Indian Biography, hook v., p. 41.

" Logan was called a Mingo* chief, whose father, Shikellhnus, was
chief of the Cayugas, whom he succeeded. Shilccllimus was attach-
ed in a remarkable degree to the benevolent James Logan, from
which circumstance, it is probable, his son bore his name. The
name is still perpetuated among the Indians. Fur magnanimity in
war, and greatness of soul in peace, few, if any, in any nation, ever
surpassed Logan. He took no part in the French wars which ended
in 1760, except that of a peace-maker; was always acknowledged the
friend of the white people, until the year 1774, when his brother and
several others of his family were murdered, the particulars of which
follow. In the spring of 1774, some Indians robbed the people upon
the Ohio river, who were in that country exploring the lands, and
preparing for settlements. These land-jobbers were alarmed at this
hostile carriage of the Indians, as they considered it, and collected
themselves at a place called Wheelmg creek, the site on which
Wheeling is now built, and, learning that there were two Indians on
the river a little above, one captain Michael Cresap, belonging to
the exploring party, proposed to fall upon and kill them. His advice,

• Mengwe, Maquas, Magna, or Iroquos, all mean the same.



8 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

although opposed at first, was followed, and a party led by Cresap
proceeded and killed the two Indians. The same day, it being
reported that some Indians were discovered below Wheeling upon
the river, Cresap and his party immediately marched to the place,
and at first appeared to show themselves friendly, and suffered the
Indians to pass by them unmolested, to encamp still lower down, at
the mouth of Grave creek. Cresap soon followed, attacked and
killed several of them, having one of his own men wounded by the
fire of the Indians. Here some of the family of Logan were slain.
The circumstance of the affair was exceedingly aggravating, inas-
much as the whites pretended no provocation.

" Soon after this, some other monsters in human shape, at whose
head were Daniel Greathouse and one Tornlinson, committed a
horrid murder upon a company of Indians about thirty miles above
Wheeling, Greathoxise resided at the same place, but on the oppo-
site side of the river from the Indian encampment. A party of thir-
ty-two men were collected for this object, who secreted themselves,
while Greathouse, under a pretence of friendship, crossed the river
and visited them to ascertain their strength; on counting them, he
found they were too nnmerous for his force in an open attack. These
Indians, having heard of the late murder of their relations, had deter-
mined to be avenged of the whites, and Greathouse did not know
the danger he was in, until a squaw advised him of it, in a friendly
caution, "to go home." The sad requital this poor woman met with
will presently appear. This abominable fellow invited the Indians
to come over the river and drink rum with him ; this being a part of
his plot to separate them, that they might be the easier destroyed.
The opportunity soon offered; a number being collected at a tavern
in the white settlement, and considerably intoxicated, were fallen
upon, and all murdered, except a little girl. Among the murdered
was a brother of Logan, and his sister, whose delicate situation
greatly aggravated the horrid crime.

"The remahiiug Indians, upon the other side of the river, on hear-
ing the firing, set off two canoes with armed warriors, who, as they
approached the shore, were fired upon by the whites, who lay con-
cealed, awaiting their approach. Nothing prevented their taking
deadly aim, and many were killed and wounded, and the rest were
obliged to return. This affair took place May 24th, 1774. These
were the events that led to a horrid Indian war, in which many inno-
cent families were sacrificed to satisfy the vengeance of an incensed
and injured people.

"A calm followed these troubles, but it was only such as goes before
the storm, and lasted only while the tocsin of war could be sounded
among the distant Indians. On the 12th July, 1774, Zo^a?^, at the
head of a small party of only eight warriors, struck a blow on some
inhabitants uponthe Monongahela, where no one expected it. He
had left the settlements on the Ohio undisturbed, which every one
supposed v/ould be the first attacked, in case of war, and hence the
reason of his great successes. His first attack was upon three men
who were pulling flax in a field. One was shot down, and the two
©Ui^rs takeiL These were marched into the wilderness, and, as they



Logan's Celebrated Speech. 9

approached the Indian town, Logan gave the scalp halloo, and they
were met by the inhabitants, who conducted them in. Running the
gantlet was next to be performed. Logan took no delight in tor-
tures, and he in the most friendly manner instructed one of the cap-
tives how to proceed to escape the severities of the gantlet. This
same captive, whose name was Robinson, was afterwards sentenced
to be burned; but Logan, though not able to rescue him by his elo-
quence, with his own hand cut the cords that bound him to the stake,
and caused him to be adopted into an Indian family. He became
afterwards Logaii's scribe, and wrote the letter that was tied to a war
club, the particulars of which we shall relate farther onward."

We will give a further account of the circumstances which led to the de-
livery of the speech. It is very concise, and found in Jefferson's Notes on
Virginia, Barton's edition, page 65. The occasion of Mr. Jefferson bring-
ing it in here, as will be seen presently, was in refutation of the belief of
some European naturalists, that the American soil and climate tended to
weaken the mental energies of the human race. Speaking of the Indians,
Mr. Jefferson says :

" The principles of their society forbidding all compulsion, they are
to be led to duty and to enterprise by personal influence and persua-
sion. Hence eloquence in council, bravery and success in war, be-
come the foundations of all consequence with them. To these ac-
quirements all their faculties are directed. Of their bravery and
address in war we have multiplied proofs, because we have been the
subjects on which they were exercised. Of their eminence in orato-
ry, we have fewer examples, because it is displayed chiefly in their
own councils. Some, however, we have of very superior lustre. I
may challenge the whole orations of Demosthenes and Cicero, and of
any more eminent orator, if Europe has furnished any more eminent,
to produce a single passage, superior to the speech of Logan, a Min-
go chief, to lord Dunmore, when governor of this state. And, as a
testimony of their talents in this line, I beg leave to introduce it, first
stating the incidents necessary for understanding it.

" In the spring of the year 1774, a robbery was committed by some
Indians on certain land adventurers on the river Ohio. The whites
in that quarter, according to their custom, luidertook to punish this
outrage in a summary way. Captain Michael Cresap, and a certain
Daniel Greathouse, leading on these parties, surprised, at diflerent
times, traveling and hunting parties of the Indians, having their wo-
men and children with them, and murdered many. Among these
were unfortunately the family of Logan, a chief celebrated in peace
and war, and long distinguished as the friend of the whites. This
unworthy return provoked his vengeance. He accordingly signal-
ized himself in the war which ensued. In the autumn of the same
year a decisive battle was fought at the mouth of the Great Kanha-
way, between the collected forces of the Shawanese, Mingoes, and
Delawares, and a detachment of the Virginia militia. The Indians
were defeated and sued for peace. Logan, however, disdained to be
seen among the suppliants. But lest the sincerity of a treaty should

Vol. I.— B



10 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

be disturbed, from which so distinguished a chief absented himself,
he sent, by a messenger, the following speech to be delivered to lord
Dunmore.

" ' I appeal to any white man to say, if ever he entered Logan's
cabin hungry, and he gave him not meat: if ever he came cold and
naked, and he clothed him not. During the course of the last long
and bloody war, Logan remained idle in his cabin, an advocate for
peace. Such was my love for the whites, that my countrymen point-
ed as they passed, and said, ' Logan is the friend of white men.' I
had even thought to have lived with you, but for the injuries of one
man. Colonel Cresap, the last spring, in cold blood, and unprovoked,
murdered ail the relations of Logan, not even sparing my women
and children. There runs not a drop of my blood in the veins of
any living creature. This called on me for revenge. I have sought
it: I have killed many: I have fully glutted my vengeance: for my
country I rejoice at the beams of peace. But do not harbor a
thought that mine is the joy of fear. Logan never felt fear. He
will not turn on his heel to save his life. Who is there to mourn for
Logan ? — Not one.' "

Mr, Jefferson wrote his notes on Virginia, as he states, in 1781-2, They
were first published in Paris, and afterwards in the United States. In 1797,
great excitement was raised against him by the Cresap interest, in which it
was, among other things, insinuated that he wrote the speech himself, Mr.
Jefferson defended himself in an appendix to his Notes, the preface to which
is as follows :

"The Notes on Virginia were written in Virginia, in the year 1781
and 1782, in answer to certain queries proposed to me by Mons. De
Marbois, then secretary of the French Legation in the United States ;
and a manuscript copy was delivered to him. A few copies, with some
additions, were afterwards, in 1784, printed in Paris, and given to
particular friends. In speaking of the animals of America, the the-
ory of M. de Buifon, the Abbe Raynal, and others, presented itself
to consideration. They have supposed there is something in the soil,
climate, and other circumstances of America, which occasions animal
nature to degenerate, not excepting even the man, native or adoptive,
physical or moral. This theory, so unfounded and degrading to one
third of the globe, was called to the bar of fact and reason. Among
other proofs adduced in contradiction of this hypothesis, the speech
of Logan, an Indian chief, delivered to lord Dunmore in 1774, was
produced, as a specimen of the talents of the aboriginals of this coun-
try, and particularly of their eloquence ; and it was believed that Eu-
rope had never produced any thing superior to this morsel of elo-
quence. In order to make it intelligible to the reader, the transaction,
on which it was founded, was stated, as it had been generally related
in America at the time, and as I had heard it myself, in the circle of
lord Dunmore, and the officers who accompanied him: and the
speech itself was given as it had, ten years before the printing of that
book, circulated in the newspapers tlirough all the then colonies,
through the magazines of Great Britain, and the periodical publica-



Logan's Celebrated Speech. II

tions of Europe, For three and twenty years it passed uncontra-
dicted; nor was it ever suspected that it even admitted contradiction.
In 1797, however, for the first time, not only the whole transaction
respecting Logan was affirmed in the pubUc papers to be false, but
the speech itself suggested to be a forgery, and even a forgery of
mine, to aid me in proving that the man of America was equal in
body and in mind, to the man in Europe. But wherefore the forge-
ry; whether Logan's or mine, it would still have been American.
I should indeed consult my own fame if the suggestion, that this
speech is mine, were suffered to be believed. He would have a just
right to be proud who could with truth claim that composition. But
it is none of mine ; and I yield it to whom it is due.

" On seeing then that this transaction was brought into question, I
thought it my duty to make particular enquiry into its foundation.
It was the more my duty, as it was alleged that, by ascribing to an
individual therein named, a participation in the murder of Logan's
family, I had done an injury to his character, which it had not de-
served. I had no knowledge personally of that individual. I had
no reason to aim an injury at him. I only repeated what I had heard
from others, and what thousands had heard and believed as well as
myself; and which no one indeed, till then, had been known to ques-
tion. Twenty-three years had now elapsed, since the transaction
took place. Many of those acquainted with it were dead, and the
living dispersed to very distant parts of the earth. Few of them
were even known to me. To those, however, of whom I knew, I
made application by letter ; and some others, moved by a regard for
truth and justice, were kind enough to come forward, of themselves,
with their testimony. These fragments of evidence, the small re-
mains of a mighty mass which time has consumed, are here present-
ed to the public, in the form of letters, certificates, or affidavits, as
they came to me. I have rejected none of these forms, nor required
other solemnities from those whose motives and characters were
pledges of their truth. Historical transactions are deemed to be well
vouched by the simple declarations of those who have borne a part in
them ; and especially of persons having no interest to falsify or dis-
figure them. The world will now see whether they, or I, have injur-
ed Cresap, by believing Logan's charge against him ; and they will
decide between Logan and Cresap, whether Cresap was innocent, and
Logan a calumniator !

"In order that the reader may have a clear conception of the trans-
actions, to which the different parts of the following declarations
refer, he must take notice that they establish four different murders.
1. Of two Indians, a little above Wheeling. 2. Of others at Grave
creek, among whom were some of Logan's relations. 3. The mas-
sacre at Baker's bottom, on the Ohio, opposite the mouth of Yellow
creek, where were other relations of Logan. 4. Of those killed at
the same place, coming in canoes to the relief of their friends."

Here we see that Mr. Jefferson declares "It is none of mine." He then
proceeds, as he states, to give letters, certificates, affidavits, &c.: three or four
only of them we will insert; and first, as a matter of history, we will give



12 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

that of colonel Zane, a person who, in his life-time, was known to the Edi-
tor, and also the deposition of James Chambers.

Extract of a letter from co/one/ Ebenezer Zane, to the honorable
John Brown, one of the senators in Congress from Kentucky;
dated Wheeling, Feb. 4th, 1800.

I was myself, with many others, in the practice of making im-
provements on lands upon the Ohio, for the purpose of acquiring
rights to the same. Being on the Ohio at the mouth of Sandy creek,
in company with many others, news circulated that the Indians had
robbed some of the land-jobbers. This news induced the people gen-
erally to ascend the Ohio. I was among the number. On our arriv-
al at the Wheeling, being informed that there were two Indians with
some traders near and above Wheeling, a proposition was made by
the then captain Michael Cresap to waylay and kill the Indians upon
the river. This measure I opposed with much violence, alleging that
the killing of those Indians might involve the country in a war. But
the opposite party prevailed, and proceeded up the Ohio with captain
Cresap at their head.

In a short time the party returned, and also the traders, in a canoe ;
but there were no Indians in the company. I enquired what had be-
come of the Indians, and was informed by the traders and Cresap's
party that they had fallen overboard. I examined the canoe, and
saw much fresh blood and some bullet holes in the canoe. This fully
convinced me that the party had killed the two Indians, and thrown
them into the river.

On the afternoon of the day this action happened, a report prevail-
ed that there was a camp, or party of Indians on the Ohio below and
near the Wheeling. In consequence of this information, captain
Cresap with his party, joined by a number of recruits, proceeded im-
mediately down the Ohio for the purpose, as was then generally un-
derstood, of destroying the Indians above mentioned. On the suc-
ceeding day, captain Cresap and his party returned to Wheeling, and
it was generally reported by the party that they had killed a number
of Indians, Of the truth of this report I had no doubt, as one of
Cresap's party was badly wounded, and the party had a fresh scalp,
and a quantity of property, which they called Indian plunder. At
the time of the last mentioned transaction, it was generally reported
that the party of Indians down the Ohio were Logan and his family ;
but I have reason to believe that this report was unfounded.

Within a few days after the transaction above mentioned, a party
of Indians were killed at Yellow creek. But I must do the memory
of captain Cresap the justice to say, that I do not believe that he was
present at the killing of the Indians at Yellow creek. But there is
not the least doubt in my mind, that the massacre at Yellow creek
was brought on by the two transactions first stated.

All the transactions, which I have related, happened in the latter
end of April, 1774; and there can scarcely be a doubt that they were
the cause of the war which immediately followed, commonly called
Dunmore's War. I am with much esteem, yours, &c.,

EBENEZER ZANE.



Deposition of James Chambers. 13

The deposition of James Chambers, communicated by David Hid-
dick, Esq., Prothonotary of Washington county, Pennsylvania,
who in the letter enclosing it shoivs that he entertains the most
perfect confidence in the truth of Mr. Chambers.

Washington County, SS.

Personally came' before me, Samuel Shannon, Esq., one of the
Commonwealth Justices for the county of Washington in the state of
Pennsylvania, James Chambers, who being sworn according to law,
deposeth and saith that in the spring of the year 1774, he resided on
the frontier near Baker's bottom on the Ohio : that he had an inti-
mate companion, with whom he sometimes lived, named " Edward
King :" that a report reached him that Michael Cresap had killed
some Indians near Grave creek, friends to an Indian, known by the
name of "Logan:" that other of his friends, following down the
river, having received intelligence, and fearing to proceed, lest Cresap
might fall in with them, encamped near the mouth of Yellow creek,
opposite Baker's bottom : that Daniel Greathouse had determined to
kill them ; had made the secret known to the deponent's companion,
King ; that the deponent was earnestly solicited to be of the party,
and, as an inducement, was told that they would get a great deal of
plunder ; and further, that the Indians would be made drunk by Ba-
ker, and that little danger would follow the expedition. The depo-
nent refused having any hand in killing unoffending people. His
companion. King, went with Greathouse, with divers others, some of
■whom had been collected at a considerable distance under an idea
that Joshua Baker's family was in danger from the Indians, as war
had been commenced between Cresap and them already ; that Ed-
ward King, as well as others of the party, did not conceal from the
deponent the most minute circumstances of this affair ; they informed
him that Greathouse, concealing his people, went over to the Indian
encampment and counted their number, and found that they were
too large a party to attack with his strength; that he had requested
Joshua Baker, when any of them came to his house, (which they had
been in the habit of.) to give them what rum they could drink, and
to let him know when they were in a proper train, and that he would
then fall on them; that accordingly they found several men and wo-
men at Baker's house ; that one of these women had cautioned Great-
house, when over in the Indian camp, that he had better return home,
as the Indian men were drinking, and that having heard of Cresap's
attack on their relations down the river, they were angry, and, in a
friendly manner, told him to go home. Greathouse, with his party,
fell on them, and killed all except a little girl, which the deponent
saw with the party after the slaughter : that the Indians in the camp
hearing the firing, manned two canoes, supposing their friends at Ba-
ker's to be attacked, as was supposed : the party under Greathouse
prevented their landing by a well-directed fire, which did execution
in the canoes : tiiat Edward King showed the deponent one of the
scalps. The deponent further saith, that the settlements near the river
broke up, and he the deponent immediately repaired to Catfish's
camp, and lived sometime with Mr. William Huston : that not long

2



14 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

after his arrival, Cresap, with his party, returning from the Ohio,
came to Mr. Huston's and tarried some time : that in various con-
versations with tlie party, and in particular with a Mr. Smith, who
had one arm only, he was told that the Indians were acknowledged
and known to be Logan's friends which they had killed, and that
he heard the party say, that Logan would probably avenge their
deaths.

They acknowledged that the Indians passed Cresap's encampment
on the bank of the river in a peaceable manner, and encamped below
him ; that they went down and fired on the Indians, and killed sev-
eral; that the survivors flew to their arms and fired on Cresap, and
wounded one man, whom the deponent saw carried on a litter by the
party ; that the Indians killed by Cresap were not only Logan's rela-
tions, but of the women killed at Baker's one was said and generally
believed to be Logan's sister. The deponent further saith, that on
the relation of the attack by Cresap on the unoffending Indians, he
exclaimed in their hearing, that it was an atrocious murder: on
which Mr. Smith threatened the deponent with the tomahawk ; so
that he was obliged to be cautious, fearing an injury, as the party
appeared to have lost, in a great degree, sentiments of humanity as
well as the effects of civilization. Sworn and subscribed at Wash-
ington, the 20th day of April, Anno Domini 1798.

JAMES CHAMBERS.

Before Samuel Shannon.

This testimony fully establishes the culpability of the whites, and the
gross injustice and injury done to Logan. We write it with horror and
shame.

To show also the feelings of Logan on that occasion, we will introduce to
the reader's notice a note left by Logan at a house where the family were
made victims of his vengeance. The note bears, evidently, an impress of
the mind which poured its simplicity and ardour into the celebrated speech.

Extract of a letter from the honorable Judge Tnnes, of Frank-
fort in Kentucky, to Thomas Jefferson, dated Kentucky, near
Frankfort, Mark 2d, 1799.

I recollect to have seen Logan's speech in 1775, in one of the pub-
lic prints. That Logan conceived Cresap to be the author of the
murder at Yellow creek, it is in my power to give, perhaps, a more
particular information, than any other person you can apply to.

In 1774 I lived in Fincastle county, now divided into Washington,
Montgomery and part of Wythe. Being intimate in colonel Pres-
ton's family, I happened in July to be at his house, when an express
was sent to him, as the county Lieutenant, requesting a guard of the
militia to be ordered out for the protection of the inhabitants residing
low down on the north fork of Holston river. The express brought
with him a War Club, and a note, which was left tied to it at the
Jiouse of one Robertson, whose family were cut off by the Indians,
and gave rise for the application to colonel Preston, of which the fol-
lowing is a copy, then taken by me in my memorandum book.



Robinson's Declaration. 15

"Captain Cresap,

« What did you kill my people on Yellow creek for ? The white
people killed my kiti, at Conestoga, a great while ago; and I thought
nothing of that. But you killed my kin again, on Yellow creek, and
took my Cousin prisoner. Then I thought I must kill too ; and I
have been three times to war since ; but the Indians are not angry :
only myself. Captain JOHN LOGAN."

July 21st, 1774.

With great respect, T am, dear sir.

Your most obedient servant,

HARRY INNES.

The reader of the Pioneer is here reminded of the captive whom Logan
forcibly rescued from the stake, and became Logan's secretary, as given from
Drake above. We now give from Jefferson's Appendix, the "declaration of
William Robinson," as follows :

The Declaration of William Robinson.
William Robinson, of Clarksburg, in the county of Harrison, and
state of Virginia, subscriber to these presents, declares that he was, in
the year 1774, a resident on the west fork of Monongahela river, in the
county then called West Augusta, and being in his field on the 12th
of July, with two other men, they were surprised by a party of eight
Indians, who shot down one of the others and made himself and the
remaining one prisoners; this subscriber's wife and four children
having been previously conveyed by him for safety to a fort about
twenty -four miles off; that the principal Indian of the party which
took them was captain Logan; that Logan spoke English well, and
very soon manifested a friendly disposition to this subscriber, and told
him to be of good heart, that he would not be killed, but must go
with him to his town, where he would probably be adopted in some
of their families ; but above all things that he must not attempt to
run away ; that in the course of the journey to the Indian town he
generally endeavored to keep close to Logan, who had a great deal
of conversation with him, always encouraging him to be cheerful and
without fear ; for that he would not be killed, but should become one of
them; and constantly impressing on him not to attempt to run away;
that in these conversations he always charged captain Michael Cre-
sap with the murder of his family : that on his arrival in the town,
which was on the ISth of July, he was tied to a stake, and a great
debate arose whether he should not be burnt; Logan insisted on hav-
ing him adopted, while others contended to burn him : that at length
Logan prevailed, tied a belt of wampum round him as the mark of
adoption, loosed him from the post and carried him to the cabin of an
old squaw, where Logan pointed out a person who he said was this
subscriber's cousin; and he afterwards understood that the old wo-
man was his aunt, and two others his brothers, and that he now stood
in the place of a warrior of the family who had been killed at Yel-
low creek: that about three days after this Logan brotight him a
piece of paper, and told him he must write a letter for him, which he
meant to carry and leave in some house where he should kill some-



16 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

body ; that he made ink with gun-powder, and the subscriber pro
ceeded to write the letter by his direction, addressing captain Michael
Cresap in it, and that the purport of it was, to ask " why he had kill
ed his people ? That some time before they had killed his people at
some place (the name of which the subscriber forgets,) which he had
forgiven ; but since that he had killed his people again at Yellow
creek, and taken his cousin, a little girl, prisoner ; that therefore he
must war against the whites : but that he would exchange the sub-
scriber for his cousin." And signed it with Logan's name, which
letter Logan took and set out again to war ; and the contents of this
letter, as recited by the subscriber, calling to mind that stated by '
Judge Innes to have been left, tied to a war club, in a house, where
a family was murdered, and that being read to the subscriber, he re-
cognises it, and declares he verily believes it to have been the identi-
cal letter which he wrote, and supposes he was mistaken in stating
as he has done before from memory, that the offer of the exchange
was proposed in the letter ; that it is probable it was only promised
him by Logan, but not put in the letter ; while he was with the old
woman, she repeatedly endeavored to make him sensible that she
had been of the party at Yellow creek, and, by signs, showed how
they decoyed her friends over the river to drink, and when they were
reelhig and tumbling about, tomahawked them all, and that whenever
she entered on this subject she was thrown into the most violent agi-
tations, and that he afterwards understood that, amongst the Indians
killed at Yellow creek, was a sister of Logan, very big with child,
whom they ripped open, and stuck on a pole : that he continued with
the Indians till the month of November, when he was released in
consequence of the peace made by them with lord Dunmore : that,
while he remained with them, the Indians, in general, were very kind
to him; and especially those who were his adopted relations; but
above all, the old woman and family in which he lived, who served
him with every thing in their power, and never asked, or even suffer-
ed him to do any labor, seeming in truth to consider and respect him,
as the friend they had lost. All which several matters and things, so
far as they are stated to be of his own knowledge, this subscriber
solemnly declares to be true, and so far as they are stated on infor-
mation from others, he beheves them to be true. Given and declared
mider his hand at Philadelphia, this 28th day of February, 1800.

WILLIAM ROBINSON.

In direct reference to the genuineness of Logan's speech, Mr. Jefferson, in
his letter to governor Henry of Maryland, given in the appendix to his

Notes, says: ^

"When lord Dunmore returned from the expedition against the In-
dians, in 1774, he and his officers brought the speech of Logan, and
related the circumstances coimected with it. These were so affect-
ing, and the speech itself so fine a morsel of eloquence, that it be-
came the theme of every conversation, in Williamsburgh particular-
ly, and generally, indeed, wheresoever any of the officers resided or
resorted. I learned it in Williamsburgh ; I believe at lord Dun-
more's; and I find in my pocket-book of that year (1774) an entry



Jejfersoii's Letter to Governor Henry. 17

of the narrative, as taken from the mouth of some person, whose
name, however, is not noted, nor recollected, precisely in the words
stated in the Notes on Virginia. The speech was published in the
Virginia Gazette of that time, (I have it myself in the volume of ga-
zettes of that year) and though in a style by no means elegant, yet it
was so admired, that it flew through all the public papers of the con-
tinent, and through the magazines and other periodical publications
of Great Britain ; and those who were boys at that day will now at-
test, that the speech of Logan used to be given them as a school ex-
ercise for repetition. It was not till about thirteen or fourteen years
after the newspaper publications, that the Notes on Virginia were
published in America. Combating in these, the contumelious theory
of certain European writers, whose celebrity gave currency and
weight to their opinions, that our country, from the combined effects
of soil and climate, degenerated animal nature, in the general, and
particularly the moral faculties of man, I considered the speech of
Logan as an apt proof of the contrary, and used it as such; and I
copied, verbatim, the narrative I had taken down in 1774, and the
speech as it had been given us in a better translation by lord Dun-
more. I knew nothing of the Cresaps, and could not possibly have
a motive to do them an injury with design. I repeated what thou-
sands had done before, on as good authority as we have for most of
the facts we learn through life, and such as, to this moment, I have
seen no reason to doubt. That any body questioned it, was never
suspected by me, till I saw the letter of JNIr. Martin in the Baltimore
paper. I endeavored then to recollect who among my contempora-
ries, of the same circle of society, and consequently of the same recol-
lections, might still be alive. Three and twenty years of death and
dispersion had left very few. I remembered, however, that general
Gibson was still living, and knew that he had been the translator of
the speech. I wrote to him immediately. He, in answer, declares to
me, that he was the very person sent by lord Dunmore to the Indian
town ; that, after he had delivered his message there, Logan took
him out to a neighboring wood ; sat down with him, and rehearsing,
with tears, the catastrophe of his family, gave him that speech for
lord Dunmore ; that he carried it to lord J)unmore ; translated it for
him ; has turned to it in the Eiicylopedia, as taken from the Notes on
Virginia, and finds that it was his translation I had used, with only
two or three verbal variations of no importance. These, I suppose,
had arisen in the course of successive copies. I cite general Gibson's
letter by memory, not having it with me ; but I am sure I cite it sub-
stantially right. It establishes unquestionably, that the speech of Lo-
gan is genuine ; and that being established, it is Logau himself who
is author of all the important facts."

It will be noted that Mr. Jefferson says general Gibson ^'translated" the
speech for lord Dunmore. It will also be noted that he says he quotes gen-
eral Gibson's letter from memory. We have seen no reason to suppose it
was a translation. Mr. Robinson, who was Logan's secretary, (see just above,)
stated that "captain Logan spoke English well;" and Mr. McClung, on the
authority of Simon Kenton, whose life was, doubtless, saved by Logan's

Vol. I.— C 2 *



18 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

influence, says "Logan's form was striking and manly, his countenance calin
and noble, and he spoke the English language with fluency and correctness/*
See Sketches, Cincinnati Edition, page 105.

That Logan delivered his speech in English, there is no reason to doubt,
and that Mr. Jefferson called it a translation by mistake, is by no means
strange. We will now adduce the affidavit of general Gibson, which relates
to the genuineness of the speech, in which he says that " Logan, after shed-
ding abundance of tears, delivered to him the speech, and that on his return
to camp he delivered it to lord Dunmore," — not that he translated it for lord
Dunmore. Logan delivered it to him, he delivered it at camp, and no doubt
both deliveries were in English.

Mleghany county, SS. >
State of Pennsylvania. \

Before me, the subscriber, a justice of the peace in and for said
county, personally appeared John Gibson, Esq., an associate Judge
of same county, who being duly sworn, deposeth and saith, that in
the year 1774, he accompanied lord Dunmore on the expedition
against the Shawnese and other Indians on the Siota ; that on their ar-
rival within fifteen miles of the towns, they were met by a flag, and a
white man of the name of Elliott, who informed lord Dunmore that
the chiefs of the Shawnese had sent to request his lordship to halt his
army and send in some person, who understood their language ; that
this deponent, at the request of lord Dunmore and the whole of the
officers with him, went in ; that on his arrival at the towns, Lo-
gan, the Indian, came to where this deponent was sitting with the
Corn-Stalk, and the other chiefs of the Shawnese, and asked him
to walk out with him; that they went into a copse of wood,
where they sat down, when Logan, after shedding abundance of
tears, delivered to him the speech, nearly as related by Mr. Jefferson
in his Notes on the State of Virginia ; that he the deponent told him
then that it was not colonel Cresap who had murdered his relations,
and that although his son captain Michael Cresap was with the party
who killed a Shawnese chief and other Indians, yet he was not pres-
ent when his relations were killed at Baker's near the mouth of Yel-
low creek on the Ohio; that this deponent on his return to camp de-
livered the speech to lord Dunmore ; and that the murders perpe-
trated as above, were considered as ultimately the cause of the war
of 1774, commonly called Cresap's war. JOHN GIBSON.

Sworn and subscribed the Ath Jlpril, 1800, at Pittsburgh, before
me, Jer. Baker.

Mr. Jefferson, in summing up the evidence collected by him and published
in his appendix, very jusdy observes :

" Of the genuineness of that speech nothing need be said. It was
known to the camp where it was delivered ; it was given out by lord
Dunmore and his officers ; it ran through the public papers of these
states ; was rehearsed as an exercise at schools : published in the pa-
pers and periodical works of Europe ; and all this, a dozen years be-



Genuineness of Logan's Speech. 19

fore It was copied into the Notes on Virginia. In fine, general Gib-
son concludes the question for ever, by declaring that lie received it
from Logan's hand, delivered it to lord Dunmore, translated it for
him, and that the copy in the Notes on Virginia is a faithful copy."

Here we see, Mr. Jefferson from the erroneous impression in his mind that
the speech was translated, falls into the same mistake again ; doubtless, with-
out proper reflection, and asserts that to be in the evidence, to which he
refers, which is not in it. Hence, the idea of there being any evidence of
its being a translation, is fallacious. If there exists, any where, evidence that
that most eloquent production was a translation, we will thank any person
for it, and will give it a conspicuous place in the American Pioneer. The
truth is what we seek. But until that testimony shall appear, we shall claim
for our native tongue the honor of having produced it.

To see that the genuineness of Logan's speech is questioned, even at this
day, we have only to turn to the Portsmouth Tribune, of September 3rd,
1841, where we will see the following:

" If evidence really exists as to who first committed the speech to
writing, and when, and the identity can be established to a reasona-
ble certainty, the facts will be received with much interest. It is not
impossible it may be found in print in one of the few newspapers of
that day. We believe that Mr. Jefferson states that he saw it so
published when he was a young man. We pretend to the possession
of no evidence reflecting light on the question other than that pos-
sessed by most others. The absence of historical proof of the partic-
ular circumstances, the intrinsic evidence of the paper itself, and the
current impression of early times, combine to form the opinion we
expressed. We must confess on re-perusal of the speech, it savors to
our taste oiivhite man " too viuch,'" and Mingo too little."

The very respectable editor of that paper, as we understand, became sub-
sequently convinced and now advocates what we call the right side. We
Avill, however, for the sake of others, give further testimony in confirmation
of what is above adduced from Mr. Jefferson.

The doubts of the Portsmouth Tribune attracted the attention of the Hon.
Elisha Whittlesey, well known as a congressman, who, in a letter to a gen-
tleman in Chillicothe, that was published in the Scioto Gazette, September
20, 1841, says:

" I shall make three extracts from the American Archives, vol. 1.
At page 485 is an extract of a letter from Cumberland, dated June
21st, 1774, from which I extract the following: — 'All the poor peo-
ple who was [were] scattered over Allegheny Mountain, are either
moved off or gathered in large numbers, and making places of de-
fence to secure themselves. All these misfortunes, and the hves and
property of the unliappy people who are among them, are owing to
the barbarous murder, no other name can I give it, committed by
Cresap and one Greathouse, with their men, on a few Indians who
resided on, or lived near the mouth of the Yellow creek.' Taken
from the extract of a letter received at Philadelphia, dated Carlisle,



20 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

June 4, 1774, at page 506: — 'We are informed that young Cresap,
who first began the quarrel with the Indians and murdered a num-
ber of them in a cowardly manner, has received a letter of thanks
from lord Dunmore.'

" From page 1020. ' Williamsburg, Va., February 4, 1775. The
following is said to be a message from captain Logan, an Indian
warrior, to governor Dunmore, after the battle in which colonel
Charles Lewis was slain, delivered at the treaty: — I appeal to any
white man to say, that he ever entered Logan's cabin but I gave
him meat ; that he ever came naked but I clothed him. In the course
of the last war Logan remained in his cabin, an advocate for peace.
I had such affection for the white people, that I was pointed at by
the rest of my nation. I should have even lived with them had it
not been for colonel Cresap, who last year cut off in cold blood all
the relations of Logan, not sparing women and children. There
runs not a drop of my blood in the veins of any human creature.
This called on me for revenge. I have sought it — I have killed
many, and fully glutted my revenge. I am glad that there is a pros-
pect of peace, on account of the nation ; but I beg you will not enter-
tain a thought that any thing I have said proceeds from fear ! Lo-
gan disdains the thought ! He will not turn on his heel to save his
life ! Who is there to mourn for Logan ? No one. '

"The speech was published in New York, on the 16th of Febru-
ary, 1775, as being an extract of a letter from Virginia, In a few
words it varies from the above. So does the speech as published by
Mr. Jefferson in his Notes on Virginia. The speech, as published in
New York and by Mr. Jefferson, are not in every word alike, and
where either vary from the speech as published in Williamsburg, its
polish and beauty, as well as subUmity, are lessened. No white
man ever improved the eloquence of an Indian orator in any
particular."

Truly, no white man ever could improve the native eloquence of the for-
est. Further to confirm this, we give the following extract from a letter we
received, dated Lexington, Ky., November 6, 1841. It is from the Hon.
Robert Wickliffe, Sen.

" As many have doubted the authenticity of Logan's speech, par-
ticularly the late Luther Martin, who charged Mr. Jefferson with its
fabrication, I state for your information, that Mrs. Howard, a very
aged and intelligent lady, the mother of my wife and of general Ben-
jamin Howard, who died in the service during the last war, and
yoimgest sister to colonel William Preston, one of the commissioners
to whom Logan's celebrated speech was delivered, informed that her
brother brought the speech from the treaty, and she read it, and that
according to her best information, Mr. Jefferson's publication or draft
of it was strictly correct. She said that her brother allowed copies
of it to be taken, and that several of them were in existence in the
county of Augusta for many years after the speech was delivered



Tale about Lonan. 21

That she heard her brother give a narrative of the speech and of
Logan."

We will now take our readers back to Drake's Biography, book v. p. 46.

« There are, perhaps, still some who doubt of the genuineness of
Logan's speech, and indeed we must allow, that there are some cir-
cumstances laid before us in Dr. Barton's Medical and Physical Jour-
nal, for the year 1808, which look irreconcilable. Without impeach-
ing in the slightest degree the character of Mr. Jefferson, such facts
are there compared, and disagreements pointed out, as chanced to
come in the way of the writer. It appears from the French traveler
Robin, that, in the time of our revolution, a gentleman of Williams-
burg gave him an Indian speech, which bears great resemblance to
the one said to be by Logan; but differing very essentially in date,
and the person implicated in murdering the family of Logan. The
work of Robin is entitled "New Travels in America," and we have
only an English translation of it. It is therefore possible that some
mistakes may have crept into it, or that Robin himself might have
misunderstood the date, and even other parts of the affair ; however,
the probabiUty is rather strong that either the speech of Logan had
been perverted for the purpose of clearing Cresap's character of the
foul blot which entirely covered it, by wilfully charging it upon anoth-
er, or that some old speech of his upon another occasion, had been
remodeled to suit the purpose for which it was used. Upon these
questions we must leave the reader to decide. Robin has the name
of the chief, Lonan. Some Frenchmen may write it thus, but I
have before me those that do not, and more probably some English
pronounced it so, and so Robin heard it. The way he introduces the
speech, if the introduction be fact, forever destroys the genuineness
of the speech of Logan of 1774. It is thus :

" ' Speech of the savage Lonan, in a General Assembly, as it was
sent to the governor of Virginia, anno 1754.'

" Now it is certain, if the speech, which we will give below, was
delivered in the Jlssembly of Virginia, in the year 1754, it could
not have been truly delivered, as we have given it, to lord Dunmore
in 1774. That the reader may judge for himself, that of 1754 follows.

" ' Lonan will no longer oppose making the proposed peace with
the white men. You are sensible he never knew what fear is — that
he never turned his back in the day of battle — No one has more love
for the white men than I have. The war we have had with them
has been long and bloody on both sides. Rivers of blood have run on
all parts, and yet no good has resulted therefrom to any. I once more
repeat it — let us be at peace with these men. I will forget our inju-
ries, the interest of my country demands it. I will forget — but diffi-
cult indeed is the task! Yes, I will forget — that major Rogers cru-
elly and inhumanly murdered, in their canoes, my wife, my children,
my father, my mother, and all my kindred. — This roused me to
deeds of vengeance! I was cruel in despite of myself I will die
content if my country is once more at peace ; but when Lonan shall
be no more, who, alas, will drop a tear to the memory of Lonon I ' "



22 Logan, the Mingo Chief.

Is it likely that such a speech would ever have been delivered in a General
Assembly, and sent to the governor of Virginia, and no one but Robin know
of it ? Hovs^ is it, that this French traveler should get to know of things
done in Virginia, unknown to Jefferson and to every one who lived there?
It is, however, not uncommon for itinerant authors to find out things
about us, that no American can.

Before closing this notice of Logan's life, we will take the reader back to
the Appendix to Jefferson's Notes on Virginia, and from the testimony of a
Moravian missionary, Rev. John Heckewelder, show, in corroboration of
Kenton's and Robinson's evidence, not only the strong probability, that
" Logan did speak English fluently and correctly," but the strong improba-
bility that he could not. Look at the station, the respectability of Logan's
father, his associates, and the fact of Logan's conversation with Heckewel-
der, and that Zeisberger knew him from a boy, and you can hardly believe
he did not know how to speak English, should it be asserted on any but the
best authority. We now give the testimony.

" Logan was the second son of Shikellemus, a celebrated chief
of the Cayuga nation. This chief, on account of his attachment to
the English government, was of great service to the country ; having
the confidence of all the Six Nations, as well as that of the English,
he was very useful in settling disputes, &c. &c. He was highly
esteemed by Conrad W^eisser, Esq. (an officer for government in the
Indian department,) with whom he acted conjunctly, and was faith-
ful unto his death. His residence was at Shamokin, where he took
great delight in acts of hospitality to such of the white people whose
business Jed them that way. His name and fame were so high on
record, that count Zinzendorf, when in this country, in 1742, became
desirous of seeing him, and actually visited him at his house in Sha-
mokin. About the year 1772, Logan was introduced to me, by an
Indian friend, as son to the late reputable chief Shikellemus, and as a
friend to the white people. In the course of conversation, I thought
him a man of superior talents than Indians generally were. The
subject turning on vice and immorality, he confessed his too great
share of this, especially his fondness for liquor. He exclaimed
against the white people for imposing liquors upon the Indians; he
otherwise admired their ingenuity ; spoke of gentlemen, but observed
the Indians unfortunately had but few of these as their neighbors, &c.
He spoke of his friendship to the white people, wished always to be
a neighbor to them, intended to settle on the Ohio, below Big Bea-
ver ; was (to the best of my recollection) then encamped at the
mouth of this river, (Beaver,) urged me to pay him a visit, &c.
Note. — I was then living at the Moravian town on this river, in the
neighborhood of Cuskuskee. In April, 1773, while on my passage
down the Ohio for Muskinghum, I called at Logan's settlement,
where I received every civility I could expect from such of the fam-
ily as were at home.

" Indian reports concerning Logan, after the death of his family, ran
to this ; that he exerted himself during the Shawanese war, (then so



Character of Logan. 23

called) to take all the revenge he could, declaring he had lost all con-
fidence in the white people. At the time of negotiation, he declared
his reluctance in laying down the hatchet, not having (in his opinion)
yet taken ample satisfaction ; yet, for the sake of the nation, he would
do it. His expressions, from time to time, denoted a deep melan-
choly. Life (said he) had become a torment to him: he knew no
more what pleasure was : he thought it had been better if he had
never existed, &c. &c. Report further states, that he became in some
measure delirious, declared he would kill himself, went to Detroit,
drank very freely, and did not seem to care what he did, and what
became of himself. In this condition he left Detroit, and on his way
between that place and Miami was murdered. In October, 1781,
(while as prisoner on my way to Detroit,) I was shown the spot
where this should have happened. Having had an opportunity since
last June of seeing the Rev. David Zeisberger, senior, missionary to
the Delaware nation of Indians, who had resided among the same on
Muskinghum, at the time when the murder was committed on the
family of Logan, I put the following questions to him. 1. Who he
had understood it was that had committed the murder on Logan's
family? And secondly, whether he had any knowledge of a speech
sent to lord Dunmore by Logan, in consequence of this affair, &c.
To which Mr. Zeisberger 's answer was : That he had, from that
time when this murder was committed to the present day, firmly
believed the common report (which he had never heard contradicted)
viz. that one Cresap was the author of the massacre ; or that it was
committed by his orders ; and that he had known Logan as a boy,
had frequently seen him from that time, and doubted not in the least,
that Logan had sent such a speech to lord Dunmore on this occasion,
as he understood from me had been published ; that expressions of
that kind from Indians were familiar to him ; that Logan in particu-
lar was a man of quick comprehension, good judgment and talents.
Mr. Zeisberger has been a missionary upwards of fifty years ; his age
is about eighty ; speaks both the language of the Onondagoes and the
Delawares ; resides at present on the Muskinghum, with his Indian
congregation; and is beloved and respected by all who are acquaint-
ed with him. JOHN HECHEWELDER.

The Indian reports which Mr. Heckewelder heard respecting the vengeful
state of Logan's mind, after making peace, is contradicted by all we know of
Logan. Is it to be wondered at, if a man outraged and destroyed by
us as Logan was, should seek relief in the bottle, and while under its influ-
ence, vent something like spleen and malice ? Would white men act much
better than he did ? That he loved strong drink, we are not disposed to
doubt, and that so good a man should see and confess his evils we might rea-
sonably expect. His censures of the white men for introducing strong drink
among Indians, showed his good sense. The truth of the reports that he
was killed in a drunken frolic, admits of serious doubts ; — we have, and shall
publish in the Pioneer, some evidence which runs in favor of his death by
disease, at old Chillieothe, on the banks of the Scioto river, fifteen miles from
this city, the place of his residence, and, as we believe, the very spot where



24 Territorial Chronology,

his celebrated speech was delivered, and where the Logan Historical Society
intend to erect a monument to the memory of his worth, inscribed with his
speech, so that in future ages our sons, from imperishable marble, may learn
something of the native eloquence of this new world.

Should it, however, be proved that Logan's after-life really was such
as the Indians reported, what shall we say ? Shall we condemn him when
we behold the learned professions of civilized and christian men profaned
by the baneful cup ? When it intrudes into the bar, upon the bench, and in
the councils of the nation, when the sanctity of the pulpit is sometimes inva-
ded by it ? No. We will drop a tear over human weakness, and let the
name of Logan live among those of the wise and good.



TERRITORIAL CHRONOLOGY.

[To be extended indefinitely, with all ascertained errors corrected.']

1784 The tract of land north-west of the Ohio river ceded to congress by
state of Virginia, reserving her military district between the Scioto
and Little Miami rivers.

1785-6 Congress acquires from the Indians, the lands watered by the Mus-
kingum, Scioto, and Great and Little Miami rivers.
Fort Harmer erected at the mouth of the Muskingum.

1787 July 13. — Congress assumed jurisdiction of the territory, and passed

an ordinance for its government. Appointed A. St. Clair governor,
W. Sargeant, secretary, and S. H. Parsons, J. W. Varnum, and J. C.
Symmes, judges, with legislative, judicial, and executive authority.
Aug. 1. — Colonel Anderson opened, at Louisville, Kentucky, an office
for the entry of lands in the Virginia military district.

1788 April 7. — Marietta settled by Rufus Putnum and associates.
July 9th. — Governor St. Clair and judges arrive at Fort Harmer.

July 15. — The governor, by proclamation, organized the territorial
government.

July 26. — Washington county erected, extending to the Scioto river.
Cincinnati projected under the name of Losantiville.

November 18. — Some emigrants arrive at Columbia and stay all win-
ter ; made settlement next spring.

December 25. — First day of public thanksgiving, by proclamation.

1789 Cincinnati laid out under its present name.
February. — North Bend settled by Judge Symmes.

April 16. — Columbia settled by Benj. Stites and associates. Fort Wash-
ington built. Building commenced in Cincinnati.
Belprie and Newberry settled.

1790 January 2. — County of Hamilton erected.
January 5. — Courts established four times a year.



Fort Harmer. 25

FORT HARMER, THE FIRST PERMANENT SETTLEMENT

IN OHIO.

[See Frontispiece.]
Our readers are presented below with an account of the settlement, drawn
up for the American Pioneer, by the indefatigable Dr. S. P. Hildreth, of
Marietta, who for this and his many favors, has our grateful acknowledg-
ments. To make the favor complete, he has sent to us the original draw-
ing of the fort and vicinity, taken by Joseph Oilman, Esq. in 1790, with lib-
erty to take a copy, which has been done, and is presented in the frontis-
piece. There, directly in front, you have a view of the fort and its syste-
matic, convenient, and tasteful arrangements ; beyond which move on west-
wardly, toward the right, the still waters of the Ohio, which, a little to the
left on the drawing, receive the waters of the Muskingum, beyond which is
a small view of the point now occupied by the city of Marietta. Beyond the
Ohio you have the Virginia shore, on which appears the farm of colonel Isaac
Williams, an early Pioneer, a biography of whose life, rich with incident
and instruction, is promised for the Pioneer. A little more to the left, is
observed the lower end of Devol's island ; beyond which, on the right and
left, rises, in majestic grandeur, the bold scenery which bounds the view, and
inspires a feeling of awe. Between the beholder and the fort are gardens, and
a litde to the left stands the council-house, where, in 1789, governor Arthur
St. Clair made his treaty with the Indians. Was not that the cradle of Ohio ?

FORT HARMER.

This fort was erected on the right bank of the Muskingum river,
at its junction with the Ohio, by a detachment of United States troops
under the command of major John Doughty, in the autumn of the
year 1785. It was not completed until the following year. The
position was judiciously chosen, as it commanded not only the mouth
of the Muskingum, but swept the waters of the Ohio, from a curve
in the river, for a considerable distance, both above and below the
fort. It was the first military post built within the limits of the pres-
ent state of Ohio, with the exception of Fort Laurens, which was
erected in the year 1778, on the right bank of the Tuscarawas, a lit-
tle below Sandy creek, by general Mcintosh, in the heart of the
Indian country, and evacuated in the autumn of the following year.
The fort stood on what is called the "second bottom," being elevated
above the ordinary floods of the Ohio, while between it and the
banks of the rivers, was a lower or first bottom, depressed about six
feet, on to which the descent was by a gradual natural slope. This
regular glacis was continued for a quarter of a mile up the Muskin-
gum and for a considerable distance below on the Ohio, adding

Vol. I.— D 3



26 ' Fort Harmer.

greatly to the natural and singular beauty of the spot. The outlines
of the fort formed a regular pentagon ; and the area, embraced within
Its walls, contained about three quarters of an acre. The curtains or
main walls of the fort were constructed of large timbers, placed hori-
zontally, raised to the height of twelve or fourteen feet, and were one
hundred and twenty feet in length, as was recently ascertained by
measurement ; the outlines of two of the bastions being still readily
traced in the earth. The bastions were constructed of large timbers
set upright in the ground, fourteen feet in height, fastened together
by strips of timber treenailed into each picket. The outlines of these
were also pentagonal ; the fifth side, or that opening into the area of
the fort, being occupied by the dwelling houses or quarters of the offi-
cers, as may be seen by looking at the sketch of the garrison accom-
panying this article. The barracks or quarters for the private sol-
diers, were erected along the sides of the curtains with their roofs
sloping into the fort. They were divided into four rooms of thirty
feet each, with comfortable fire-places, and afforded ample space for a
regiment of men. Commodious buildings of hewed logs were erected
in the bastions for the officers ; these were two stories in height, with
two rooms on a floor, and fire-places at each end. The large house
in the south-east bastion appears to have been used for a store-house.
From the roof of the barrack which stood in the curtain facing the
Ohio river, there arose a square tower like a cupola, surmounted by
a flag-staff", in which was stationed a sentinel ; the room beneath was
the guard-house. An arsenal built of large logs and covered with
earth, stood in the area of the fort near the guard-house, and an-
swered as a "bomb-proof" or magazine for the protection of their
powder. The main gate was next the river ; with a sally-port on
vhe side towards the hills, which rise abruptly from the level grounds
at the distance of a quarter of a mile. Near the centre of the fort
was dug a well, for the supply of the garrison with water in case of
a siege, although for ordinary uses it was brought from the river. In
the rear of the garrison, on the ground which had supplied the mate-
rials for building the fort, major Doughty had laid out fine gardens ;
these were cultivated by the soldiers, and, in the virgin soil of the
Ohio, produced an abundant crop of culinary vegetables for the use
of the troops. To the bravery and pride of a fine soldier, the major
also possessed a refined taste for horticulture. Peaches were planted
out as soon as the ground was cleared, and in the second or third
year produced crops of fine fruit. A variety of his originating is still
cultivated around Marietta, and known as the " Doughty peach."
Fort Harmer was so named in honor of colonel Josiah Harmer, to



Fort Harmer. 27

whose regiment major Doughty was attached. It continued to be
occupied by the troops of the United States until September, 1790,
when they were ordered down to Fort Washington, now Cincinnati.
A company under tlie command of captain Haskel, continued to
make the fort their head-quarters during the Indian war ; sending out
detachments of six or eight men, at regular intervals, to assist the col-
onists at Marietta, Belprie and Waterford in guarding their garrisons
against the Indians. The barracks and officers' houses, not needed
for the accommodation of the troops, were occupied by the inhabi-
tants living on the west side of the Muskingum river. The house in
the south-west bastion was owned by major Doughty, who made a
present of it to the late Hon. Paul Fearing, then a young lawyer, to
whom he was much attached. Mr. Fearing occupied it during the
war, and for two or three years after. The fort was a great conve-
nience to the new settlers, affording them comfortable dwellings as
well as a sure protection against the Indians. It does not appear that
any regular batteries were built within the walls for the mounting of
cannon, as it was in no danger of any attack from enemies who had
the use of cannon. One or two six pound field-pieces were mounted
on carriages, and usually kept on the bank just without the walls;
with these they could command the boats on the river. The hill
from which the drawing of the fort was taken, looked directly into it,
and cannon on its brow would sweep away every part of it. As a
post to awe and keep the hostile savages in check, the location was a
very judicious one. Between the walls of the fort and the bank of
the river, directly opposite to the mouth of the Muskingum, there
was sufficient space to muster a battalion of men; a part of this
ground was occupied by three stout log buildings, erected for the use
of the artificers attached to the garrison. The river has made sad
inroads on the site of the old fort. At this day not only the whole
ground between it and the water is washed away, but also more
than half of the site occupied by the fort, so that the stone wall of
the well, which was near the centre, is now seen projecthig from the
upright face of the bank. This continual crumbling of the banks has
widened the mouth of the Muskingum river so much, that during the
summer months a dry sand-bar or island occupies the spot that used
to be ten or twelve feet in depth. Before any clearings were made,
the huge sycamores, as they reclined over the water on the opposite
shores, narrowed the mouth of the river so much, that a person pass-
ing hastily by in the middle of the Ohio, would hardly notice its out-
let, so darkly was it enshrouded by these giants of the forest. The
hand oi cultivation has greatly damaged the permanency, and marred



28 Fort Harmer.

the beauty of the river banks on the Ohio, by cutting away the trees.
The roots acted as so many ligatures and fillets of net-work in pro-
tecting the earth from the wash of the waters, while their graceful
trunks and drooping branches served to beautify the shores of the
Bel-riviere. In digging away the bank, in 1840, to form a landing
or road up from the river, on to the site of the old fort, several inter-
esting relics were found which once belonged to the inmates of the gar-
rison. Amongst them were two or three copper coins of the earli-
est emission of the United States, shoe buckles, buttons, spoons,
knives and forks, with a number of four and six pound shots ; some
of these articles are now in the possession of the writer.

Although no attack was ever made on the fort by the Indians, yet
they often appeared on the hill in its rear, which commanded a full
view of its interior. From this elevation they often watched the
movements of the inhabitants as they went out to work in their gar-
dens and adjoining fields, and several were killed within gun shot of
the garrison. Of these tragical events no one possesses more inter-
est than that in which the Hon. R. J. Meigs, late governor of Ohio,
was engaged ; — it is^ as follows :

Border Incident. — Governor Meigs in great danger.

During the continuance of the Indian war, from 1790 to 1795, it
was customary for all the inmates of all the garrisons to cultivate
considerable fields of Indian corn and other vegetables near the walls
of their defences. Although hazardous in the extreme, it was prefer-
able to starvation. For a part of that time no provisions could be
obtained from the older settlements above, on the Monongahela and
Ohio ; sometimes from a scarcity amongst themselves, and always at
great hazard from Indians, who watched the river for the capture
of boats. Another reason was the want of money; many of the
early settlers having expended a large share of their funds in the
journey on, and for the purchase of lands, while others had not a sin-
gle dollar ; so that necessity compelled them to plant their fields.
The war having commenced so soon after their arrival, and at a time
when not expected, as a formal treaty was made with them at Mari-
etta in January, 1789, which by the way was only a piece of Indian
diplomacy, they never intending to abide by it any longer than suited
their convenience, and no stores being laid up for a siege, they were
taken entirely unprepared. So desperate were their circumstances at
one period, that serious thoughts of abandoning the country were
entertained by many of the leading men. Under these circum-
stances Mr. Meigs, then a young lawyer, was forced to lay aside the



Border Incident. 29

gown, and assume the use of both the sword and the plow. It is
true that but Httle ploughing was done, as much of the corn was then
raised by planting the virgin soil with a hoe, amongst the stumps
and logs of the clearing, after burning off the brush and light stuflf.
In this way large crops were invariably produced ; so that nearly all
the implements needed were the axe and the hoe. It so happened
that Mr. Meigs, whose residence was in Campus Martins, the garri-
son on the east side of the Muskingum river, had planted a field of
corn on the west side of that stream in the vicinity of Fort Harmer.
To reach this field the river was to be crossed near his residence in a
canoe, and the space between the landing and his crop, a distance of
about half a mile, to be passed by an obscure path through a thick
wood.

Early in June, 1792, Mr. Meigs, having completed the labor of the
day a little before night, set out on his return home in company with
Joseph Symonds and a colored boy, which he had brought with him
as a servant from Connecticut. Immediately on leaving the field,
they entered the forest through which they had to pass before reach-
ing the canoe. Symonds and the boy were unarmed, Mr. Meigs
carried a small shot-gun, which he had taken with him for the pur-
pose of shooting a turkey, which at that day abounded to an extent
that would hardly be credited at this time. Flocks of several hun-
dred were not uncommon, and of a size and fatness that would excite
the admiration of an epicure of any period of the world, even of
Apicius himself. Meeting, however, with no turkies, he had dis-
charged his gun at a large snake which crossed his path. They had
now arrived within a few rods of the landing, when two Indians,
who had been for some time watching their movements and heard
the discharge of the gun, sprang into the path behind them, fired and
shot Symonds through the shoulder. He, being an excellent swim-
mer, rushed down the bank and into the Muskingum river; where,
turning on his back, he was enabled to support himself on the surface
until he floated down near to Fort Harmer, where he was taken up
by a canoe. His wound, although a dangerous one, was healed, and
I knew him twenty years afterwards. The black boy followed Sym-
onds into the river as far as he could wade, but being no swimmer,
was unable to get out of reach of the Indian who pursued them, but
was seized and dragged on shore. The Indian who had captured
him was desirous of making him a prisoner, which he as obstinately
refused, and made so much resistance that he finally tomahawked
and scalped him near the edge of the water. To this alternative he
was in a manner compelled, rather than lose both prisoner and scalp ;

3 *



30 Fort Harmer.

as the rangers and men at Campus Martius had commenced firing at
him from the opposite shore. The first shot was fired by a spirited
black man in the service of commodore Abraham Whipple, who was
employed near the river at the time.

From some accident, it seems that only one of the Indians was
armed with a rifle, while the other had a tomahawk and knife.
After Symonds was shot, Mr. Meigs immediately faced about in
order to retreat to Fort Harmer. The savage armed with the rifle,
had placed himself in the path, intending to cut off" his escape, but had
no time to reload it before his intended victim clubbed his gun and
rushed upon his antagonist. As he passed, Mr. Meigs aimed a blow
at his head, which the Indian returned with his rifle. From the
rapidity of the movement, neither of them were seriously injured,
although it staggered each considerably, yet neither fell to the ground.
Instantly recovering from the shock, he pursued his course to the
fort with the Indian close at his heels. Mr. Meigs was in the vigor
of early manhood, and had, by frequent practice in the race, become
a very swift runner. His foeman was also very fleet, and amongst
the most active of their warriors, as none but such were sent into the
settlements on marauding excursions. The race continued for sixty
or eighty rods with httle advantage on either side, when Mr. Meigs
gradually increased his distance a-head, and leaping across a deep
run that traversed the path, the Indian stopped on the brink, threw his
tomahawk, and gave up the pursuit with one of those fierce yells
which rage and disappointment both served to sharpen. It was dis-
tinctly heard at both the forts. About eight years since, an Indian
tomahawk was plowed up near this very spot, and was most proba-
bly the one thrown at Mr. Meigs; as the rescue and pursuit from
Fort Harmer was so immediate upon hearing the alarm, that he had
no time to recover it. With the scalp of the poor black boy, the
Indians ascended the abrupt side of the hill which overlooked the
garrison, and, shouting defiance to their foes, escaped into the forest.

The excitement was very great at the garrison, and taught the
inmates a useful lesson ; that of being better armed and more on their
guard when they went out on their agricultural pursuits. Had Mr.
Meigs tried any other expedient than that of facing his enemy and
rushing instantly upon him, he must inevitably have lost his life, as
the Indian was well aware of his gun being unloaded. On his right
was the river, on his left a very steep and high hill ; beyond him the
pathless forest, and between him and the iort his Indian foe. To
his sudden and unexpected attack, to his dauntless and intrepid man-
ner, and to his activity, he undoubtedly owed his life.



Fitch's Steam-boat. 31

NAVIGATION BY STEAM.

In the investigation of this subject two leading objects of the society are
advanced, viz : that of doing justice to departed worth, and exhibiting the
successive improvements of the Western country, and collateral therewith,
of all North America.

There are few subjects more interesting or which are more important in
their practical results than navigation by steam, hence, to be correctly inform-
ed of the difficulties, the privations, the perseverance of those to whom we
owe so much, must be interesting; while the cold neglect and frequent
abuse, to which the greatest benefactors of mankind are frequendy subjected
by those who do not know, and cannot appreciate their worth, may teach us a
useful lesson. It may, or ought, to learn us caution in letting our ignorance
of a subject take the judgment-seat in our minds, and condemn that which
we do not understand, and which we have used little or no industry to inves-
tigate. That there is an improvement among us, in this respect, there is
much reason to hope.

Without intending to lessen the respect that is rightfully due to James
Rumsey, Oliver Evans, John Stevens, Nicholas Roosenvelt, Chancellor Liv-
ingston, Robert Fulton, and perhaps others, the energies of all whom, were
required to bring the public to see their interest, and to make this most noble
invention completely triumphant over prejudice and ignorance, we shall com-
mence with some account of John Fitch and his boat. A writer in the Fam-
ily Magazine, volume VI., page 386, doubtless on good authority, says:

"John Fitch and James Rumsey, in the year 17S3, without con-
nection or acquaintance, brought into form plans for the use of steam-
vessels on the great rivers and lakes, and along the indented sea-coast
of the United States. Both in 1784 exhibited their plans to V^^'ash-
ington. Rumsey made his project public by a model before his rival,
but Fitch first reduced his to successful practice upon the Delaware;
this was in 1785; in the following year Rumsey also succeeded in
starting a boat upon the Potomac.

"Fitch's plan may best be understood from his own description,
and the plate annexed :

" It is to be propelled through the water by the force of steam.
The steam-engine is to be similar to the late improved steam-engines
in Europe, these alterations excepted : the cylinder is to be horizon-
tal, and the steam to work with
equal force at each end there-
of. The mode of forming the
vacuum is believed to be en-
tirely new ; also of letting the
water into it, and throwing
it off against the atmosphere,
without any friction. The vm-
dertakers are also of opinion ri?.^ \.^ -o ^m x^ .-,

, , . . . , , ^ [Fitch s Paddle-Boat.]

that their engine will work




32 Navigation by Steam.

with an equal force to those lately improved engines, it being a
twelve-inch cyUnder ; and they expect it will move with a clear
force, after deducting the friction, of between eleven and twelve hun-
dred pounds weight, which force is to be applied to the turning of an
axle-tree on a wheel of eighteen inches diameter. The piston is to
move about three feet ; and each vibration of the piston turns the
axle-tree about two-thirds round. They propose to make the piston
to strike thirty strokes in a minute, which will give the axle-tree
about forty revolutions. Each revolution of the axle-tree moves
twelve oars five and a half feet : as six oars come out of the water,
six more enter the water, which make a stroke of about eleven feet
each revolution. The oars work perpendicularly, and make a stroke
similar to the paddle of a canoe. The cranks of the axle-tree act
upon the oars about one-third of their length from their lower end,
on which part of the oar the whole force of the axle-tree is applied.
The engine is placed in about the thirds of the boat, and both the ac-
tion and reaction of the piston operate to turn the axle-tree the same
way.

"The system of oars not proving successful, Fitch was desirous of
trying what had been tried before, viz. paddle-wheels, but was pre-
vented from want of funds."

The editor of the New York Sun, in July, 1839, related the following
anecdote respecting the experiment of Fitch.

" At the time of making the exhibition, Fitch remarked to the few scientific
gentlemen who would condescend to witness it: 'This, gentlemen, will be
the mode of crossing the Atlantic in time, and although I may not live to see
it, you may, when steam will be preferred to all other modes of conveyance ;
and it will be particularly useful in ascending the Mississippi.' He then re-
tired, when a person present observed in a tone of deep sympathy, ' Poor
fellow, what a pity he is crazy.' "

Knowing that the honorable Robert Wickliffe, Sr., knew something of the
history of John Fitch, he was asked, to give us, for the public, such informa-
tion as he possessed. In answer we received the following letter, which
will be read with intense interest.

Lexington, Kentucky, Nov. 6, 1841.
Dear Sir:

In answer to your letter of the 6th of November, instant, request-
ing me to say what I know, of my own knowledge or have derived
from others, concerning John Fitch, I can only state, that although I
remember to have seen John Fitch, that I had but little personal in-
tercourse with him; and recollect but little that he said during the in-
terview I had with him, although he discoursed about his invention
of steam-boats. When a boy, I remember reading, at my father's,
the controversy between Fitch and Rumsey, and that circumstance,
together with the amazing progress that the art in applying steam



R. Wickliffe's Letter. 33

has since made, induced me to be at all times desirous of ascertain-
ing, to my own satisfaction, the individual or individuals to whom
the world was most indebted for its use in the present age. And these
enquiries have resulted in a firm conviction that it owes much, if not
most, to John Fitch. The substance of all I can ascertain of Mr.
Fitch, either by parole or records, that I have seen, is, — that he was
a native of Connecticut ; a man of robust person and vigorous intel-
lect ; inclined to mechanics in his studies and habits, but not educated
a practical mechanic ; was speculative on religious subjects and re-
jected the Christian doctrine of the Divinity of Christ, but believed in
one supreme God ; and that in the maintenance of his principles of
religion, he was able, open, and free in his conversation and re-
marks, but was never heard to speak of his private affairs or family
connexions, by any one I have conversed with, except so far as I
shall hereafter relate. What time Mr. Fitch first visited the western
country, is unknown : but he must have been here before May, 1778,
as he obtained from the Court of Commissioners a certificate of pre-
emption for a thousand acres of land on Simson's creek, in this state,
for marking and improving of it, before May, 1778. The account of
his invention which he gave to a friend of mine, is, that in the month
of June, 1780, while he was sittmg on the banks of the Ohio, con-
templating its magnificence and reflecting on its great length from its
source to the ocean, and thinking of the vastness of the extent and
fertility of the whole valley of the Mississippi, he said to himself,
« A great and a good God, has never provided such rivers and such a
country for his creatures, without giving to man the power of reduc-
ing these rivers to his own use and purpose ; which can never efifect-
ually be done until he is able to overcome the currents of rivers by
some new invented mode of navigation." That he retired from the
river bank to his camp, but his mind was continually suggesting to
him plans by which the rivers, with bold and strong currents, could
be navigated against the flow of the streams, by some more effectual
method than man had then in use. That while thus reflecting it was
brought to his recollection, that he had read and heard of Mr. Watt's
use of steam, in propelling mills, and said to himself, " That if Mr.
Watt can propel mills with steam, I can navigate boats against the
stream with it." With his mind full of the idea that steam could be
applied, efiectually, in navigating rivers, he quitted the wilds of Ken-
tucky, determining to visit Philadelphia with a view to disclose to
some capitalist of that city, his thoughts on the subject of navigating
the rivers of America by the agency of steam. Mr. Fitch stated that,
on his way to Philadelphia, he passed through Winchester, in Vir-

5



34 Navigation by Steam.

ginia, where he spent some time to refresh himself, and that during
his sojourn at that place, he accidentally met with Mr. Rumsey, who
he discovered to be a gentleman of a philosophical turn of mind, and
that Rumsey so far gained his confidence, that he disclosed to him,
not only his speculation in the west, but his firm conviction that the
agency of steam might be used in navigation ; and if, on experiment,
it was found to answer, would add incalculable value to the fertile
lands of the United States, lying remote from the ocean ; and further
informed Mr. Rumsey, that he was then on his way to Philadelphia
to interest some capitalist in his views, and if successful, immediately
to sail for Europe, and visit Mr. Watt's mills and gain such insight
into the art of raising and applying steam, as would enable him to
carry into effect his plan for propelling boats on the rivers of Amer-
ica with steam. That after parting with Mr. Rumsey, he proceeded
to Philadelphia, where he addressed himself to the late William Bing-
ham, Esq., with such success, that Mr. Bingham supplied him with
means to visit England, which he did, and through the kindness of
Mr. Watt and others, was put fully into possession of the art of rais-
ing and applying the power of steam. And after doing so, returned
to Philadelphia, to exhibit, through the means of his friend and
patron, Mr. Bingham, his discoveries, by an actual demonstration of
the power of steam in propelling boats. Although my informant
was a gentleman of great accuracy in his knowledge of whatever he
attempted to impart, and was, in his narrative of the conversation he
held with Mr. Fitch, particular as to dates and persons, my mind does
not enable me to speak precisely of the date of Fitch's return to
America, but the impression on my mind is, that he could not have
spent more than one or two years in Europe.

On his return he was wholly destitute of means himself, but was
supplied by Mr. Bingham with money to build a boat, which he
did and put into the water of the Delaware, at Philadelphia. The
first experiment on this boat was made, I think, in the year 1785 or
1786. It run very well from Philadelphia to Bordentown. But on
the return of the boat the machinery, in some part, gave way, which
gave rise to the opinion that the scheme was a visionary one. But
Fitch set diligently to work to repair the machinery that gave way,
and to make considerable alterations in his boat, which again called
for advances from his patron. After he had completed his machinery
so as to make another experiment, he fixed a day and gave notice ;
and, in the presence of thousands of spectators, among whom were
members of congress, was witnessed the second departure of his boat
for Bordentown. The boat left the wharf in good style, with many



R. Wickliffe's Letter. 35

passengers on board, and so again reached Bordentown. But on her
return a part of her machinery again gave way. This failure seems
to have exhausted the patience and hberality of Mr. Fitch's patron,
Mr. Bingham, and poor Fitch was left without a friend to second his
zeal and confidence in the power of steam, to overcome the cur-
rents of our rivers. His scheme and himself were now both derided,
and he, for a while, yielded to a melancholy desperation, brought
on his mind from a full persuasion that he had effected all the
world ought to desire, to satisfy scepticism itself, of the power and
capability of steam and of its adaptation to the propelling of boats
on rivers ; and yet, that he had scarce made a convert to his discov-
ery, and, that even his only patron, in despair of the practicable use
of his invention, had discarded him.

In this period of his despondency, Mr. Fitch bethought himself,
that it was possible that the late John Brown, then a member of con-
gress, from the state of Virginia, and that part of it which now con-
stitutes the state of Kentucky, would aid him, either through his
credit or means, more fully to satisfy an incredulous world of the
practicability and great utility of his discovery. He, therefore, early
one morning (as Mr. Brown informed me) entered his room, while
congress sat in Philadelphia, and introduced himself as " John Fitch,
inventor of steam-boats, to John Brown, member of congress, from
the district of Kentucky in Virginia," which very extraordinary sal-
utation was, by Mr. Brown, politely returned with an invitation to
Mr. Fitch to be seated, when Mr, Fitch informed him of the facts and
circumstances attending his discovery and experiments, in substance
as I have related them, and concluded by saying, " Sir, I have discov-
ered and tested my discovery by actual experiments, what will be to
the whole union of vast importance, and to that part of it which
you represent of incalculable value. I have demonstrated to the
world, in the experiments I have made, enough to satisfy the most
incredulous, of the utility and importance of my discovery, but I can-
not get capitalists to assist me in making such practicable and useful
demonstrations as will convince the country, that as a matter of
profit, capitalists should take up at once, the business of navigating
our rivers with steam. With four hundred dollars more, I can ac-
complish whatever I desire to do, to remove all prejudices and enlist
friends to my invention, and I have called on you this morning, as
one, whose constituents are most deeply and vitally interested in the
success of my scheme, to attain from you that sum." To this re-
quest Mr. Brown replied truly, that he himself was a man without
capital or fortune, and that he was unable to grant the request. On



36 Navigation by Steam.

which Fitch, after an apparent pause on the course to be then adopt-
ed, with some displeasure remarked, " Then, sir, I will abandon my
object, but 1 shall go into the office of the secretary of state and re-
cord that I, John Fitch, inventor of steam-boats, have this day applied
to you, John Brown, member of congress from Kentucky, for four
hundred dollars to enable me to complete my invention of steam-
boats, which you have denied me. That it may remain there mper-
petua rei memoria, that in all time, it may be known, when others
shall (profiting from my labors) carry into practice steam-boat navL
gation, that I have been deprived of the reward due to my invention,
for the want of the paltry sum I have asked you for." Mr. Brown
informed me that Fitch left him then, abruptly, and he never saw
him again.

It turned out that while Mr. Fitch was in Europe, that Mr. Rumsey
built a small boat, not sufficient to carry a man, and by the applica-
tion of steam propelled it on some stream, perhaps Quantico creek, a
branch of the Potomac river, and claimed the priority of invention.
This gave rise to a fierce quarrel between Fitch and Rumsey, each
publishing their claims and statements to the world, in pamphlet
form. My father had both pamphlets, which I read when a boy, but
my mind is not impressed with even the substance of those pamph-
lets, so as to enable me to state them satisfactorily. In the winter of
1813-14, at Washington, I met with the late Richard Stockton, of
New Jersey, then a member of congress, who informed me that he
had been counsel for the defendant in a suit brought by Fulton, and
perhaps Livingston, founded on a claim of Mr. Fulton as the inven-
tor of steam-boat navigation ; that he had, before he left home, fortu-
nately laid his hand on John Fitch's pamphlet, containing a drawing
and description of his boat, and method of applying steam to propel
it, and that on reaching New York and comparing the drawings of
Fulton and Fitch, he was satisfied that both the principle and ma-
chinery were the same, with some slight variations, such as, that in-
stead of the fly-wheel of Fulton, Fitch's had paddles, but worked
upon the same principle that Fulton's wheel did in the application of
steam. That after minutely comparing the r^pective drafts of Fitch
and Fulton, he submitted them to the counsels of Fulton, who took
them until next morning to consider whether they would proceed
with the suit ; and that on the next morning, they returned into court
and dismissed the suit. Mr. Stockton went on to say, that he could
not doubt that Fulton had availed himself of Fitch's discoveries, not
only from the identity of principle and much of the machinery, but
from facts connected with the inventions of both, of which he had a



R. Wickliffe's Letter. 37

personal knowledge. After Mr. Fitch's interview with Mr. Brown,
he returned to Kentucky, with a view, no doubt, to realize some-
thing out of his pre-emption ; but he found that covered with adverse
claims, and in possession of wealthy and influential occupants ; so
that, until he ousted them by law, he was, measurably, without the
means of commanding the necessaries of life. His title proved the
best, but the heavy expenses which a long litigation involed him in,
and the low prices of lands then in Kentucky, left him but little to
hope for by way of support. He, at this period, seems to have be-
come desperate, and to have taken the fatal relief to his mind of
habitual intoxication, for when his tract of land was reduced to three
hundred acres, he made a bargain with a tavern-keeper, to give him
one half of it, if he would board him while he lived, allowing him
one pint of spirits each day ! ! He afterwards increased the quantity
of land on condition of an increase of liquor. I have seen and read
a copy of the records. To this the tavern-keeper agreed, which
soon terminated his existence. He died, and was interred in the pub-
lic burial grounds of the village of Bardstown, in this state. To his
latest existence, I have heard, he never failed to complain of the
injustice the world had done him, in not patronizing his invention,
and would often say, that when the world was wiser, it would profit

from his labors. Y"ours, &c.,

ROBERT WICKLIFFE.

Perhaps nothing will show the rapidity of improvement in the west and
south-west, more strikingly, than the contemplation of its steam-boat naviga-
tion. The first trip performed from New Orleans to Louisville and Pitts-
burgh, was in May, 1815 ; the second and third trips in 1817.

In the Louisville Advertiser of October 11th, 1841, we find a list of three
hundred and sixty-nine steam-boats, all navigating the western and south-
western waters, exclusive of those of Texas ; their names, tonnage, where
and when built, all given. Their aggregate tonnage over 50,000 tons!!
Supposing we had 5,000 miles of good turnpike, in place of the streams nav-
igated by those boats, allowing two tons to the wagon, it would require
25,000 wagons to hold the loads of these boats ! As we may set down the
speed of steam-boats, running night and day, at ten times that of wagons, it
would require 250,000 wagons to transport the shipments of the west, or a
wagon on every 106 feet of road, for five thousand miles! Consider this
and the constant travel, besides thousands of stages to convey steam-boat
passengers ; and consider how much goes and comes by way of the lakes ;
the Pennsylvania canal ; the Pennsylvania, Cumberland, and other roads, in
wagons, on the hoof, &lc., and, also, what thousands of tons descend the
Mississippi river, in flat boats, and we may well be surprised at the growth
of the west, and say its history should be minutely written.



38 Hockhocking and Wheeling. .;'

SIGNIFICATION OF HOCKHOCKING AND WHEELING.

Columbus, Thursday evening, December 16, 1841.

Dear Sir — I have just seen Mr. John Brittle ; I found him well
supplied with legendary lore, and ready to communicate. I hasten
to give you his narrative in my words briefly, fearing that a more
elaborate narrative would occupy too much time, and thus be too
late for this the first number of the Pioneer ; for I know that you
drive things at their utmost speed, and will not stop for trifles. But
to the subject.

John Brittle, formerly of Pennsylvania, was taken prisoner by the
Delaware Indians, in 1791, and lived nearly five years among them.
He lived with H ivhing u y-pooshies or Big Cat, most of this time,
and from him learned the origin of the name of Hockhocking creek.
It is this:

Hock-hock-ing signifies in the Indian tongue, a bottle or jug, or a
wooden canteen, or any such vessel used for holding liquids, but pro-
perly a bottle. About six or seven miles north-west of Lancaster,
there is a fall in the Hockhocking of about twenty feet; above the
fall, for a short distance, the creek is very narrow and straight, form-
ing a neck, while at the falls it suddenly widens on each side and
swells into the appearance of the body of a bottle. The whole,
when seen from above, appears exactly in the shape of a bottle ; and
from this fact the Indians called the creek Hockhocking.

I have also learned from him the origin of the name of that flour-
ishing city, WHEELING. It was originally called Weeling, which
signifies the place of a head. But Mr. Brittle's legend will better
explain how this is.

In the earliest period of the settlement of Pennsylvania, some
white settlers descended the Ohio river in a boat, and, stopping at the
mouth of Wheeling creek, were killed by the Dela wares. The sav-
ages cut otf the head of one of their victims, and placing it on a pole
with the face towards the river, called the spot Weeling. The Indi-
ans informed Mr. B. that the head was placed there to guard the
river ; I presume to guard the camp from the incursions of the whites.

Mr. B. says, that if an Indian were asked, after shooting a deer or
a bear, where he had hit the animal, his answer (if in the head)
would be '■'■ weelin^^\

Indian cure for the bite of a rattlesnake, or any other poisonous
reptile. — Wash, the part bitten instantly with water or any other
liquid. Nothing more is necessary. — This is also from Mr. Brittle j
he has seen it tried. Yours, respectfully, JNO. WHITE



fy



Jlncient Date Discovered.



39



[For the American Pioneer.]

ANCIENT DATE DISCOVERED.

Bainbridge, November 23, 1841.
Mr. Jno. S. Williams, Sir — Below I give you a draft of what
appears to be some very old lettering on a beech, near Paint creek,
called, by the Indians, Yoctangee. The letters and figures are T. L,
1750-1. The tree stands about one quarter of a mile south of the
great falls of said creek, and about half way from the falls to several
ancient mounds and fortifications. The letters and figures have
grown out of shape by the growth of the tree, and they bear other
marks of their great age, so as to leave no doubt in the minds of those
who see them that the date is genuine ; and now the question is, who
was T. L ? The letters occupy a distance of three feet four inches
around the tree, which at that point (four feet six inches from the
ground) is six feet six inches in girt. The tree is sixty-five feet high ;
it stands on a flat beech bottom, with many other trees of the same
kind near it. On another beech, a little to the north, are the letters
F. A. M., A. F,, Y. P., all bearing marks of great age, but no date
appears near them. In the first group the A is over the F and M,
agreeably to the ancient manner of lettering the name of husband
and wife ; A standing for the surname. The description and mea-
surement of the letters I hope will enable you to give a cut of them
in the Pioneer, so that, if possible, we may get to know what white
men were here ninety-one years ago. Yours,



D. C. CARSON.



F%. 1.



7§




Subsequently to the reception of the above letter, I received one from Mr.
John Smith of the same place, giving an account of another beech — say one



40 American Chronology.

hundred and fifty yards south-west of the above described — which also had
on it T. L. 1750-1, over which are the letters A: M', and under it F. E.
very plain, and something like a D, which would make F. E. D. Near
these, to the left, ] . Nov., all in very ancient lettering.

Feeling a considerable degree of interest in the truth or falsity of the above
date, I visited the spot, in company with Mr. Carson and Smith, and found
things as they had been described. From the appearance of the letters, their
shape, and also from the ancient manner of dating, viz. 1750-1, I was con-
vinced that the date was genuine. To satisfy ourselves, we selected another
tree of the size and appearance as that described by colonel Carson — say one
hundred feet from it — and cut through ninety-one years growth. It took five
and three-fourth inches in thickness, which would leave the tree over one
foot in diameter at the time the date was put on. Another tree of about the
same size was cut down, and in that the growth of ninety-one years was six
inches, the entire age of the tree one hundred and forty, showing that it grew
more in the first fifty years than it has done in the succeeding ninety-one years.
The cut above, figure 1, is made from colonel Carson's draft, to a scale of
ten to one. Figure 2, is half the size of the cypher as it was cut ; and figure
3 is half its present size after spreading by the growth. Although these fig-
ures are well shaped and distinctly marked, they can be seen a small dis-
tance only. The outlines are plain, by a roughness of the bark, which, on
the face of the letters and figures, is smooth and in color li\3 that on the
tree generally.

Any information respecting the persons who were among the Indians at
the falls of Paint creek ninety-one years ago as prisoners or otherwise, would
be thankfully received. Paint creek is a tributary of the Scioto river, west
side. We have been particular in this subject, not only to ascertain who T.
L. &;c. were, but to encourage others to give us like information and investi-
gations, from which might be gathered much useful historical knowledge.



AMERICAN CHRONOLOGY.

[7b be enlarged and indefinitely continued.']
1492 October 12. — America discovered by Columbus.

1497 North America (Newfoundland) discovered by John Cabot.

1498 South America discovered by Columbus.

Land of the United States discovered by Sebastian Cabot.
1585 First colony attempted — failed the next year.
1587 Second attempt to colonize — failed also.
1604 First settlement of Canada by the French.

1607 First permanent settlement of the United States, at Jamestown, Va.
1614 New York settled by the Dutch ; then called New Netherlands.
1620 One hundred and one pilgrims landed at Plymouth, Mass.



AME RICAN PION EER.

JDctotc^ to tl)c CrutI) a}\b lustlce of ijistorj).



VOL. I.



FEBRUARY, 1842.



NO. II.




[Columbia Baptist Church, consliluied by Dr. Siephen Gaiio, in 1790]



FIRST HOUSE OF WORSHIP IN OHIO.

James Given, Esq. furnished the sketch; and says, " It is just as it stood
in 1830, even to the loose weatherboarding." The back side was much the
most ddapidated. It was destroyed in about 1835. A liislorv of this house,
and a biographical sketch of the life of Dr. Stephen Gauo, the first pastor in

Vol. I.— F



42 First House of Wot'ship in Ohio.

it, are promised for, but unavoidably postponed to, a future number of the
Pioneer. The following original poetry was handed to us for the Pioneer by
major Daniel Gang. Both of the above gentlemen have our sincere thanks.

ON VISITING THE OLD CHURCH AT COLUMBIA.

Near where the Ohio winds its lovely way
Through plains with flowers and herbage richly gay,
High on a green, luxuriant, sloping sod,
In ruinous mantle clad, stands the lone House of God !

A strange sensation thrilled across my breast,

As its drear aisle my wand'ring footsteps prest ,

Its sound alone disturbed the pensive scene.

That spoke what it was then, and told what it had been !

The pulpit mould'ring nodded from the wall.

From which methought still rang the Watchman's call :

Some ancient seats in circles filled the space.

And seemed to say, " A choir has left this vacant place."

But 'tis not so : — here owls their vigils keep,

And driving winds in mournful murmurs sweep ;

The bat rejoicing flits along the gloom :

All else is still, and calm, and tranquil as the tomb.

Where are those eyes that traced those sacred linesj

Where truth, where majesty, and beauty shines]

Where are those hearts that have with fervor glowed,

When o'er Death's vale they viewed the Christian's blest abode ?

Where is the choir, that here so sweetly sang

The song of praise to God, and peace to man"?

Methinks, returning through the lapse of years, «

I hear their anthem notes soft stealing on my ears.

Deep in the grave, around this falling pile.

They sweetly sleep, forgetftil of their toil ; —

Have fled, and left behind this loud appeal,

" All, all on earth must die — 'tis Heaven's unchanging will !"

Then fare thee well ! — perhaps my feet again

Shall never tread thy silent, bleak domain 1

Yes, fare thee well ! — for list'ning Solitude

Waits to resume her throne in dark and frowning mood.

Yet may the hand of Time long spare thy brow.

Though covered o'er with many a furrow now ;

That generations yet to come may see

Some vestige left — some trace remaining still of thee.

Peace to the inmates that around thee sleep !

May angel bands their slumb'ring ashes keep.

Till Gabriel's trumpet rends the heaving clay.

And calls them forth to joys that never shall decay !



John BrickeWs Narrative. 43

JOHN BRICKELL'S NARRATIVE.

The following narrative was written especially for the American Pioneer,
the readers of which will doubtless peruse it with much attention. He was
four years and nearly a half among the Delaware Indians. The character of
the narrator stands high at Columbus, Ohio, where he has lived for the last
forty-live years, being one of the very first settlers of that vicinity. Any
one, we think, by conversing with him, will soon be convinced of the hon-
esty of his intention and the goodness of his memory. Although quite young
when taken prisoner, and a youth when he left the Indians, he is very clear
as to many important facts ; and being with them when they defeated St.
Clair, and when defeated by Wayne, he is a witness from the other side of
the line, which to us makes his narrative doubly interesting. The decision,
care and minuteness with Avhich the manners and customs of the Delawares
are related, renders that part of the history valuable. We might say much
more of this interesting narrative ; but ours is the duty to collect and present,
that of our patrons, to read and comment.

NARRATIVE OF JOHN BRICKELL'S CAPTIVITY AMONG THE

DELAWARE INDIANS.

CHAPTER I.

HIS CAPTURE AND JOURNEY.
Brickell's birth place and parentage — His capture — Meets with George Girty — Three days
without food — Got among acquaintances and went to the Tuscarawas — Indians go to
Pittsburgh on a trading expedition — Beaten by a drunken Indian — Runs the gauntlet — Is
given to Whingwy Pooshios, who adopts him into his family.

I was born on the 24th of May, 1781, in Pennsylvania, near a
place then known as Stewart's crossings of the Yohiogany river, and,
as I suppose from what I learned in after life, about four miles from
a place since called Beesontown, now Uniontown, in Fayette county.
On my father's side I was of Irish, and on my mother's of German
parentage. My father died when I was quite young, and I went to
live with an elder brother on a pre-emptioii settlement, on the north- ^
/ east side of the Alleghany river, about two miles from Pittsburgh.

On the breaking out of the Indian war, a body of Indians collected
to the amount of about one hundred and fifty warriors, and spread
up and down the Alleghany river about forty miles, and by a pre-
concerted movement made an attack on all the settlements ?'ong the
river for that distance in one day. This was on the 9th of February,
1791. I was alone, clearing out a fence row, about a quarter of a
mile from the house, when an Indian came to me, and took my axe
from me and laid it upon his shoulder along with his rifle, and then
let down the cock of his gun, which it appears he had cocked in ap-
proaching me. I had been in habits of intimacy with the Indians,



44 John BrickelVs Narrative.

and did not feel alarmed at this movement. They had been about
our house almost every day. He took me by the hand and pointed
the direction he wanted me to go ; and although I did not know him,
I concluded he only wanted me to chop something for him, and went
without reluctance. We came to where he had lain all night, be-
tween two logs, without fire, I then suspected something was wrong,
and attempted to run; but he threw me down on my face, in which
position I every moment expected to feel the stroke of the tomahawk
on my head. But he had prepared a rope with which he tied my
hands together behind me, and thus marched me off.

After going a little distance we fell in with George Girty, son of
old George Girty. He spoke English, and told me what they had
done. He said, " White people had killed Indians, and that the Indians
had retaliated, and now there is war, and you are a prisoner, and we
will take you to our town and make an Indian of you ; and you will
not be killed if you go peaceably, but if you try to get away we
won't be troubled with you, but we will kill you and take your scalp
to our town." I told him I would go peaceably and give them no
trouble.

From thence we traveled to the crossings of Big Beaver with
scarce any food. These crossings are pretty high up, I suppose twen-
ty or thirty miles from the mouth, and nearly in a line between Pitts-
burgh and New Philadelphia, on the Tuscarawas. We made a raft
and crossed late in the evening, and lay in a hole of a rock without
fire or food. They would not make a fire for fear we had attracted
the attention of hunters in chopping for the raft.

In the morning the Indian who took me delivered me to Girty, and
took another direction. Girty and I continued our course towards
the Tuscarawas. We traveled all that day through hunger and cold,
camped all night, and continued till about three in the afternoon of
the third day since I had tasted a mouthful. I felt very indignant at
Girty, and thought if ever I got a good chance I would kill him. We
then made a fire, and Girty told me that if he thought I would not
run away, he would leave me by the fire and go and kill something
to eat. I told him I would not. " But," says he, <' to make you safe
I will tie you." He tied my hands behind my back, and tied me to
a sapling some tlistance from the fire. After he was gone, I untied
myself and laid down by the fire. In about an hour he came running
back without any game. He asked me what I untied myself for? I
told him I was cold. He said, " Then you no run away ?" I said
"No." He then told me there were Indians close by, and he was
afraid thev would find me.



His Capture and Journey. 45

We then went to their camp, where were Indians with whom I had
been as intimate as with any person, and they had been frequently
about our house. They were very glad to see me, and gave me
food, the first I had tasted after crossing Beaver. They treated me
very kindly. We staid all night with them, and next morning we all
took up our march towards the Tuscarawas, which we reached on
the second day late in the evening. Here we met the main body of
hunting families and the warriors from the Alleghany, this being their
place of rendezvous. I supposed these Indians all to be Delawares,
but at that time I could not distinguish between the diiferent tribes.
Here I met with two white prisoners, Thomas Dick and his wife
Jane. They had been our nearest neighbors. I was immediately led
to the lower end of the encampment and allowed to talk freely with
them for about an hour. They informed me of the death of two of
our neighbors, Samuel Chapman "and William Powers, who were
killed by the Indians ; one in their house and the other near it. The
Indians showed me their scalps. I knew that of Chapman, having
red hair on it.

Next day about ten Indians started back to Pittsburgh. Girty told
me they went to pass themselves for friendly Indians, and to trade.
Among these was the Indian who took me. In about two weeks
they returned, well loaded with store goods, whisky, &c. After my
return from captivity, I was informed that a company of Indians had
been there trading, professing to be friendly Indians; and that being
suspected, were about to be roughly handled, but some person in
Pittsburgh informed them of their danger, and they put ofi" with their
goods in some haste.

After the traders came back the company divided, and those who
came back with us to Tuscarawas, and the Indian who took me,
marched on towards Sandusky. When we arrived within a day's
journey of an Indian town, where Fort Seneca since stood, we met
two warriors going to the frontiers to war. The Indian I was with
had whisky. He and the two warriors got drunk, when one of the
warriors fell on me and beat me. I thought he would kill me. The
night was very dark, and I ran out into the woods and lay under the
side of a log. They presently missed me, and got lights to search for
me ; the Indian to whom I belonged calling aloud, " White man !
white man!" I made no answer; but in the morning, after I saw the
warriors start on their journey, I went into camp, where I was much
pitied on account of my bruises.

Next day we arrived within a mile of the Seneca town, and en-
camped for the night, agreeably to their maimer, to give room foi



46 John BrickelPs Narrative.

their parade or grand entrance next day. That took place about
eight in the morning. The ceremony commenced with a great whoop
or yell. We were then met by all sorts of Indians from the town,
old and young, men and women. We there called a halt, and they
formed two lines about twelve feet apart, in the direction of the river.
They made signs for me to run between the lines towards the river.
I knew nothing of what they wanted, and started; but I had no
chance, for they fell to beating me so that I was knocked down, and
every thing that could get at me beat me, until I was bruised from
head to foot. At this juncture a very big Indian came up, and threw
the company off me, and took me b}'" the arm, and led me along
through the lines with such rapidity that I scarcely touched the
ground, and was not once struck after he took me till I got to the
river. Then the very ones who beat me the worst were now the
most kind and officious in washing me off, feeding me, &c., and did
their utmost to cure me. I was nearly killed, and did not get over
it for two months. My impression is that the big Indian who rescued
me was Captain Pipe, who assisted in burning Crawford. The In-
dian who owned me did not interfere in any way.

We staid about two weeks at the Seneca towns. My owner there
took himself a wife, and then started with me and his wife through
the Black swamp towards the Maumee towns. At Seneca I left the
Indians I had been acquainted with near Pittsburgh, and never saw
or heard of them afterwards. When we arrived at the Auglaise
river, we met with an Indian my owner called brother, to whom he
gave me, and I was adopted into his family. His name was Whin-
gwy Pooshies, or Big Cat. I lived in his family from about the first
week in May, 1791, till my release in June, 1795.

CHAPTER II.

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE INDIANS.
Indian hunting and cultivation — Description of their cabin and manner of sleeping — Divis-
ion of labor — The training of children — Their civility — Their morality — Their religious
ceremonies — Their family worship — Their general character.

While living in the family of Whingwy Pooshies, I had every op-
portunity of observing their manners, customs and religion, as well
as becoming an expert hunter. I lived as comfortably with them as
the circumstances of the nation would admit. They treated me very
kindly and in every way as one of themselves. My employment
was mostly hunting. Our home for the summer was on the Auglaise,
but in the winter we took hunting excursions on the branches of the
Scioto, the Hockhocking, Licking and Jonathan's creek. We culti-
vated about seven acres of corn. We kept it under no fence except



Manners and Customs of the Indians. 47

some poles and brush. We never fenced against hogs, for there were
none. We kept the few cattle and horses we had on high grounds,
where there was abundance of food for them, and they very rarely
troubled the corn fields.

Our cabin was of round logs, like those of the first settlers, except
the roof was of bark and it had no floor. It consisted of a single
room with a French made chimney of cat-and-clay. The door was
made of hewed puncheons. We had nothing more like bedsteads
than forks driven in the earth, from which there were cross-pieces to
holes in the walls, and lengthwise on these was laid bark in large
sHps : upon these were laid skins, which completed the sleeping ac-
commodations. On going to bed the men pull off all but their breech-
ing, and the women all but their shrouds ; and the clothes thus pulled
off were put under the head and served for pillows. They are not
very regular in going to bed, but in general are very early risers,
especially the young. They almost uniformly sleep singly on their
bunks, even small children. The men and their wives, and mothers
with their infants, making almost the only exception.

The squaws do nearly all the labor except hunting. They take
care of the meat when brought in, and stretch the skins. They plant
and tend the corn ; they gather and house it, assisted by young boys
not yet able to hunt. After boys are at the huntuig age, they are no
more considered as squaws, and are kept at hunting. The men are
faithful at hunting ; but when at home lie lazily about, and are of
little account for any thing else, seldom or never assisting in domes-
tic duties. Besides the common modes, they often practice candle
hunting, and for this they sometimes make candles or tapers when
they cannot buy them. Deer come to the rivers to eat a kind of wa-
ter grass, to get which they frequently immerse their whole head and
horns. They seem to be blinded by light at night, and will suffer a
canoe to float close to them. I have practiced that kind of hunting
much since I came to live where Columbus now is, and on one occa-
sion killed twelve fine deer in one night.

The Delawares are the best people to train up children I ever was
with. They never whip, and scarce ever scold them. I was once
struck one stroke, and but once while a member of the family, and
then but just touched. They are remarkably quiet in the domestic
circle. A dozen may be in one cabin, of all ages, and often scarcely
noise enough to prevent the hearing of a pin fall on a hard place.
Their leisure hours are, in a great measure, spent in training up their
children to observe what they believe to be right. They often point
out bad examples to them and say, " See that bad man ; he is despis-



48 John BrickelPs Narrative.

ed by every body ; he is older than you : if you do as he does, every
body will despise you by the time you are as old as he is." They
often point to good examples as worthy of imitation, such as braves
and honest men. I know I am influenced to good, even at this day,
more from what I learned among them, than what I learned among
people of my own color. Well might Jefferson say, " The principles
of their society forbid all compulsion."

Honesty, bravery and hospitality, are cardinal virtues with them.
Let a man prove himself remiss in either of these respects, and he
will soon find he has no business with that people. If a man proves
to be cowardly the finger of scorn is soon pointed at him, and he
hears " Squaw !" pronounced. In that way they turn a strong cur-
rent of public sentiment against all commissions or omissions of their
moral and religious code. In respect to hospitality and neighborly
kindness, they set a good example for any people to follow. It may
be truly said of them, in the language of Logan, "When did ever a
white man enter an Indian cabin hungry, and he gave him no
meat?" When a company of strangers or travelers come to a town
and encamp, they are not asked if they want any thing, but a runner
starts through the town proclaiming that strangers have arrived. On
this intelligence every family cooks of the best they have, and take to
the strangers, for which there is no thought of a charge being made,
or any thing given in return. If they want to be helped on their
way, every possible assistance is granted them m the same benevo-
lent spirit.

Their rules and traditions forbid any indiscriminate intercourse of
the sexes; and I believe as respects the crimes of fornication and
adultery they are the most strictly chaste and virtuous people on
earth. They worship the Great Spirit, whom they call Manito,
which signifies or conveys to their mind the idea of all-strength, or
rather all-sufficiency. They never used that name irreverently on
one occasion when I was with them. They have no terms in their
language by which they can swear profanely; and if they ever do it,
it must be by means of phrases learned of white men. Their young,
in a remarkable degree, reverence and honor the aged, especially their
parents. They do not covet each others goods, nor intentionally
make a false accusation against any one that I ever knew.

They have no observance of particular days, and hence nothing
like a sabbath. Excepting this, and the total neglect of the Jewish
customs of circumcision, they are remarkably near the Jewish rites
and ceremonies in their traditionary rules. (This I did not know till,
after being released from my captivity, I learned it from the Bible.)



Manners and Customs of the Indians. 49

They have their regular feasts, such as the first corn that is fit to use
is made a feast offering ; and wiien they start on a hunting expedi-
tion, the first game that is taken tiiey skin and dress wliole, breaking
not a bone, leaving on the head, ears and hoofs. This they bring to
camp and cook whole, and every one eats of it, and the rest tliey
burn entirely up. They also follow the Jewish law in respect to
things clean and unclean. I recollect no time that they eat of any
thing forbidden to the Jews, excepting once we were near starvation,
and I killed three rabbits and they eat of it, but with great reluc-
tance. They never eat of catfish, eels, or any fish without scales ;
neither do they eat beasts or birds of prey.

As respects women, they are remarkably strict. At certain times
the women have to seclude themselves entirely from company for
days, and to wash themselves all over, and their whole apparel, be-
fore they return to company. I know of no marriage ceremony
among them, and never heard of a case of se})aration and divorce.
The parties themselv^es by mutual consent come together, without any
interference or asking the consent of any one that I knew of When
the husband or wife dies, the widower or widow, especially the
widow, goes into strict mourning, even to the clothes, say for about
a year; after which they marry again.

In respect to public worship, they have none except such feasts as
are mentioned. They frequently observe family worship, in which
they sing and pray, but have noiliing like preaching among them.
They worship Manito very reverently. They believe in a resurrec-
tion after death, and in future rewards and punishments. They say
all who do Avell will be happy, but those who do bad will be in a
miserable condition. Their ideas on these points are remarkably
clear and distinct.

Taking the manners, customs, rites, ceremonies, and the observance
of whatever these people believe to be right for them to do or ob-
serve, they follow so closely in general, that as a nation they may be
considered fit examples for many of us Christians to follow. They
certainly follow what they are taught to believe right more closely,
and T might say more honestly, in general, than we Christians do the
divine precepts of our Redeemer. And will they not rise in judgment
against many of us, and condemn us for our careless negligence in
spiritual things? Should any object to these opniions of mine, and
pomt to the cruel treatment of their enemies and often barbarous
treatment of prisoners as proof to the contrary ; I will answer, and
say, consider their ignorant condition, and withal tliat they seem but
to act out the Jewish precepts, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth,

Vol. I.— G 5



50 John BrickeWs Narrative.

and blood for blood. I am strongly inclined to believe that their
ideas of right and wrong, some how or other, descended from those
laws. —

CHAPTER III.

ST. CLAIR'S DEFEAT AND WAYNE'S VICTORY.
St Clair's defeat and the spoils of the army — Conversed with several prisoners — Mrs. Dick
stolen from the Indians — Anecdote of Cheat's liberation — Indians flee before Wayne's
army — One of the spies taken and shot — Wayne's battle and victory.

The fall after my adoption, there was a great stir in the town about
an army of white men coming to fight the Indians. The squaws
and boys were moved with the goods down the Maumee, and there
waited the result of the battle, while the men went to war. They
met St. Clair, and came off victorious, loaded with the spoils of the
army. Whingwy Pooshies left the spoils at the town and came down
to move us up. We then found ourselves a rich people. Whingwy
Pooshies' share of the spoils of the army was two fine horses, four
tents, one of which was a noble tnarkee, which made us a fine house
in which we lived the remainder of my captivity. He had also cloth-
ing in abundance and of all descriptions. I wore a soldier's coat.
He had also axes, guns, and every thing necessary to make an Indian
rich. There was much joy amongst them.

I saw no prisoners that were taken in that battle, and believe there
were none taken by the Dela wares. Soon after this battle another
Indian and I went out hunting, and we came to a place where there
lay a human skeleton stripped of the flesh, which the Indian said had
been eaten by the Chippevvay Indians who were at the battle, and he
called them brutes thus to use their prisoners. During the time of
my captivity I conversed with seven or eight prisoners taken from
different parts, none of which were taken from that "battle agreeably
to my better impressions. One of the prisoners I conversed with
was Isaac Patton by name, who was taken with Isaac Choat, Stacy,
and others, from a blockhouse at the Big Bottom on the Muskingum.
I lived two years in the same house with Patton. I think I saw
Spencer once. I saw a large lad, who, if I recollect right, said his
name was Spencer ; he was with M'Kee and Elliot as a waiter, or
kind of servant, and, if I remember right, he was at the rapids.

Patton told me an affecting anecdote about Isaac Choat's libera-
tion. As Choat was sitting in a melancholy mood soon after he was
taken prisoner, his owner asked him what made him look so sorry ?
He said he could not help it, as he was thinking how his wife and
children got along without him, and how much they thought after
him. The Indian looked around and said, " I have a squaw and two
children, and I would look sorry too if I were taken prisoner and car-



St. Clair's Defeat and Wayne's Victory. 51

ried away from tlicin." The Indian then rose and put his hand on
Choat's head, and said, "Choat, you shall not stay away from them,
1 will let you go ; but I will not turn you out, or the Indians may
catch you ; I will go with you." Which word lie made good by
coming to the waters of the Muskingum with him, and then left him,
telhng him to go to his wife and children. After my liberation I
found Patlon at the mouth of Duck creek, near the Muskingum. He
repeated the anecdote about Choat's liberation, and said he got safely
to his family.

On one of our annual visits to the rapids to receive our presents
from the British, I saw Jane Dick. Her husband had been sold, I
understood, for forty dollars, and lived at Montreal. He was sold be-
cause he was rather worthless and disagreeable to tlie Indians. When
I saw her she lived at large with the Indians. She became suddenly
missing, and great search was made for her; but the Indians could
not find her. After my release from captivity I saw her and her hus-
band at Chillicothe, where she and her husband lived. She told me
how she was liberated. Her husband had concerted a plan with the
captain of the vessel who brought the presents, to steal her from the
Indians. The captain concerted a plan with a black man, who cook-
ed for M'Kee and Elliot, to steal Mrs. Dick. The black man arranged
it with Mrs. Dick to meet him at midnight in a copse of underwood,
which she. did ; and he took her on board in a small canoe, and
headed her up in an empty hogshead, where she remained till the day
after the vessel sailed, about thirty-six hours. I remember well that
every camp and the woods were searched for her, and that the vessel
was searched; for the Indians immediately suspected she was on
board : but not thinking of unheading hogsheads, they could not find
her. I saw the black man at Fort Hamilton as I returned from cap-
tivity, who told me how he stole Mrs. Dick oft', which was in every
particular confirmed by Mrs. Dick's own statement afterward. He
also told me that there was a plan concerted between him and the
captain to steal me oft" at the same time; "but," said he, "they
watched you so close I could not venture it." This I knew nothing
of until I was told by the black man, except that I observed the vigi-
lance with which they watched me. They would not let me sleep
alone as usual, nor even go to bring water without an Indian with
me. It seems as if they were impressed with the idea of some nia-
nceuvring against them. Agreeably to my better impression, this
happened the summer before Wayne's can)paign.

In the month of June, 1794, three Indians, two men and a boy,
and myself, started on a candle-hght hmiting expedition to Blanch-



53 John BrickeWs Narrative.

ard's fork of the Auglaise. We had been out about two months.
We returned to the towns in August, and found them enthely evacu-
ated ; but gave ourselves httle uneasiness about it, as we supposed
the Indians had gone to the foot of the Maumee rapids to receive their
presents, as they were annually in the habit of doing. We encamped
on the lowest island in the middle of a corn field. Next morning an
Indian runner came down the river and gave the alarm whoop,
which is a kind of yell they use for no other purpose. The Indians
answered, and one went over to the runner and immediately return-
ing told us the white men were upon us, and we must run for our
lives. We scattered hke a flock of partridges, and leaving our break-
fast cooking on the fire. The Kentucky riflemen saw our smoke,
and came to it, and just missed me as I passed them in my flight
through the corn. They took the whole of our two months' work,
breakfast,y/r/4:, skins and all. One of the Kentuckians told me after-
wards that they got a fine chance of meat that was left.

Wayne was then only about four miles from us, and the vanguard
was right among us. The boy that was with us m the hunting ex-
pedition and I kept together on the trail of the Indians till we over-
took them; but the two Indians did not get with us until we got to
the rapids.

Two or three days after we arrived at the rapids, Wayne's spies
came right into camp among us. I afterwards saw the survivors.
Their names were Miller, M'Clenland, May, Wells, Mahafly, and
one other whose name I forgot. They came into the camp boldly and
fired on the Indians. Miller got wounded in the shoulder; May was
chased by the Indians to the smooth rock in the bed of the river,
where his horse fell. He was taken prisoner and the rest escaped.
They then took May to camp. They knew him; he had formerly
oeen a prisoner among them and ran away from them. They told
him, " We know you — you speak Indian language — you not content
to live with us : to-morrow we take you to that tree, (pointing to a
very large burr-oak at the edge of the clearing which was near the
British Fort,) we will tie you up and make a mark on your breast,
and we will try what Indian can shoot nearest it," It so turned out.
The next day, the very day before the battle, they tied him up, made
a mark on his breast, and riddled his body with bullets, shooting at
least fifty into him. Thus ended poor May.

On the next day, being myself about six miles below with the
squaws, I went out hunting. The day being windy I heard nothing
of the firing of the battle, but saw some Indians on the retreat. One
Indian whom I knew, told me I had better go to camp, for the In-



Indians make Peace and Brickell Liberated. 53

dians were beaten, and they are preparing at camp to make their es-
cape. I went and found it as he described. The runners towards
dusli came in, and said the army had halted and encamped. We then
rested that night, but in great fear. Next morning the runners told
us the army had started up the river towards the mouth of the Au-
glaise. We were then satisfied. Many of the Delawares were killed
and wounded. The Indian who took May was killed; and he was
much missed, for he was the only gunsmith among the Delawares.

CHAPTER IV.
INDIANS MAKE PEACE AND BRICKELL LIBERATED.
The Indians near starvation and their cattle and dogs die of milk-sickness — How to relieve it
— They treat with the Americans and exchange nine prisoners — In the spring all go up
to Fort Defiance, and Whingwy Pooshies gives Brickell his choice to go home or stay with
him — Brickell chooses to go home and parts with Whingwy in tears — Indian names of
creeks, &c. — Brickell starts home and is received with joy by his sister in Kentucky —
Goes to his brother's near Pittsburgh, where he was again received joyfully. — Settles in the
neighborhood of what is now called Columbus, in 1797 — Conclusion.

Our crops and every means of support being cut off above, we had
to winter at the mouth of Swan creek, perhaps where Toledo now
stands. We were entirely dependent on the British and they did not
half supply us, and to make the matter worse, the shrub which causes
the staggers in cattle grew abundantly in that neighborhood. The
Indians knew it, and said in the fall while other vegetables were
abundant that as soon as they failed their cattle would eat it and die,
and then their dogs would eat of the cattle and they wouid all die
too. This they said before it happened, and I saw the cows eating of
it afterwards, and as the Indians expected, they began to die one after
another — next the dogs died. I know the shrub whenever I see it,
and am quite sure it will give the milk-sickness, as it is called, but
cannot say but some mineral water may give it too or at least aid the
leaves of the shrub. I showed the shrub to Mr. Renick, of the Sci-
oto vaJley. He took some home, and, as I heard, fed a favorite calf
with it, which killed it. The best and most simple, as well as effectual,
cure or relief for the milk-sickness, is to take a chicken and boil it in
water enough to leave half a gallon when the chicken is done ; then
let the patient drink constantly of that, without salt, and he will be
relieved almost immediately.

The starving condition of the Indians, together with the prospect
of losing all their cows and dogs, made the Indians very impatient,
and they became exasperated at the British. They said they had been
deceived by them, for they had not fulfilled one promise. It was
concluded among them to send a flag to Fort Defiance in order to
mieke a treaty with the Americans. This was successful. Our men



54 John BrickeWs Narrative.

found the Americans ready to make a treaty, and they agreed on an
exchange of prisoners. I had the pleasure to see nine white pris-
oners exchanged for nine Indians, and the mortification of finding
myself left, there being no Indian to give for me. Patton, Johnston,
Sloan and Mrs. Baker of Kentucky, were four of the nine, the names
of the others I do not recollect. Patton, Johnston and Mrs. Baker
had all lived with me in the same house among the Indians, and we
were as intimate as brothers and sisters.

On the breaking up of spring we all went up to Fort Defiance, and
on arrivmg on the shore opposite we saluted the fort with a round
of rifles, and they shot a cannon thirteen times. We then encamped
on the spot. On the same day Whingwy Pooshies told me I must go
over to the fort. The children hung round me crying and asked me
if I was going to leave them ? I told them I did noWknow. When
we got over to the fort, and were seated with the otncers, Whingwy
Pooshies told me to stand up, which I did ; he then rose and addressed
me in about these words, " My son, there are men the same color
with yourself There may be some of your kin there, or your kin
may be a great way off" from you. You have lived a long time with
us. I call on you to say if I have not been a father to you? if I
have not used you as a father would use a son ?" I said, " You have
used me as well as a father could use a son." He said, " I am glad
you say so. You have lived long with me ; you have hunted for
me ; but our treaty says you must be free. If you choose to go with
the people of your own color, 1 have no right to say a word, but if
you choose to stay with me your people have no right to speak.
Now reflect on it and take your choice, and tell us as soon as you
make up your mind."

I was silent a few minutes, in which time it seemed as if I thought
of almost every thing. I thought of the children I had just left cry-
ing; I thought of the Indians I was attached to, and I thought of my
people which I remembered; and this latter thought predominated,
and I said, "I will go with my kin." The old man then said, "I
have raised you — 1 have learned you to hunt. You are a good
hunter — you have been better to me than my own sons. I am now
getting old and I cannot hunt. I thought you would be a support to
my age. I leaned on you as on a stafl". Now it is broken — you are
going to leave me aiid I have no right to say a word, but I am
ruined." He then sank back in tears to his seat. I heartily joined
him in his tears — parted with him, and have never seen nor heard of
him since.

I learned the Delaware language well, and can speak it now about



Indians make Peace and Brickell Liberated. 55

as well as English, I will here give the Delaware names of a few
streams and can at another time give more. Sepiuig is properly what
we call a stream, there being no distinction into runs, creeks, and
rivers, as with us. They called the Ohio, Whingwy Sepung or Big
stream. Paint creek, in Ross county, I never heard called Yocton-
gee ; but we called it Olomon Sepung or Paint creek. Secklic Se-
pung or Saltlick creek, what is now called Alum creek. Whingwy
Mahoni Sepung or Bigiick creek, or what we call Big-walnut creek.
Keenhong-she-con Sepung or Whetstone creek, which is still its name.
The Scioto we so called, but it is not a Delaware name, and I do not
know its meaning.

It was about the first of June, 1795, that I parted with W^hingwy
Pooshies. The next day I started for Fort Greenville. I rode on a
horse furnished by the Americans. I was under the charge and pro-
tection of lieutenant Blue, who treated me with every kindness, and,
at Fort Greenville, had a good suit of clothes made for me by a tailor.
We had been there about a week, when a company of men arrived
from Cincinnati, among whom was a brother of my brother's wife,
with whom I had lived and from whom I was taken. He told me of
a sister I had who was married and lived about nine miles from Cin-
cinnati, up Licking, on the Kentucky side. I then left Mr. Blue, at
Fort Greenville, and went to my sister's. She and all the neighbors
seemed to be overjoyed, and a great crowd collected to see me and
hear about my living among the Indians.

I then went to Grant's saltworks, up Licking, to hunt for them.
I made money there at killing deer at one dollar a piece, and turkeys
at twelve and a half cents. I had nothing to do but shoot the deer
down and dress it or help to do it, as they always kept hands along to
carry in the meat, &c. I bought me a horse and had money left to
take me to Pennsylvania. I went with a man named Andrew
Lewis. There was great joy again at my brother's on my return to
his house from whence I was taken. My sister-in-law, in particular,
seemed much gratified with my return, as did the great crowd which
here again collected to see me and to hear the narrative of my cap-
tivity.

In 1797,1 came to this place, that is now Columbus, Ohio, and
have resided here ever since, generally enjoying good health, never
having cost a dollar in my life for medical aid, and without ever
wearing any thing like a stocking inside of my moccasins, shoes or
boots, from the time I went among them to this day ; and I can say,
what perhaps few can at this day, that my feet are never cold. At
another time, the Lord granting the opportunity, I will give more of



56 Early Attempt at Settlement.

the incidents of my life, as connected with the settlement and im-
provement of the country. One thing seemed remarkable. While
among the Indians I often prayed to be released from my captivity
and to live among a Christian people again, promising if the Lord
would grant that blessing, I would make open profession of his name.
Soon after my arrival in the neighborhood of Pittsburgh, I thought
the time had come, but my courage failed, and 1 prayed to be ex-
cused till I settled in the world. That prayer seemed to be granted;
and, soon after I settled on the Scioto, the impressions that the time
had come revived, with seemingly double force, and 1 was made to
give up, and have from that time to this enjoyed the consolations of
religion, which none can appreciate but those who have experience
in it. Given under my hand, in the city of Columbus, 0., this 29th
day of January, 1842. JOHN BRICKELL.



^^'/S^WVS^vsM*-



EARLY ATTEMPT AT SETTLEMENT.

The following information received from the Hon. George Corwin, of
Portsmouth, is truly acceptable. It embraces three subjects: — the difficul-
ties of settling the country; the origin of the names of places; the great
difficulty of milling in early times. All are worthy of a historical place
Either of these subjects, by itself, when all is collected that we hope will be,
Would make a most interesting history. Should any person be able and send
us a history of Robert Wood's old tub mill, near the mouth of Glenn's run,
in Belmont county, and, if we mistake not, the first in those parts, it will
especially gratify the editor, as being connected with his youthful associa-
tions. The first subject embraced in the following communication is indeed
truly interesting and valuable.

Mr. Jno. S. Williams, — I send you the following account of an
attempt that was made to settle the spot where Portsmouth now
stands, as I received it from one of the first settlers of the country,
who has gone to that country to which all the pioneers of the state
of Ohio are hastening. It was perhaps the first attempt to settle the
Scioto valley. The truth of the statement I never doubted. If, how-
ever, it should be incorrect in any particular, or might be corrected or
made more full, it would be highly gratifying to me.

In April, 1785, four families from the Redstone settlement in Penn-
sylvania, descended the Ohio to the mouth of the Scioto, and there
moored their boat under the high bank where Portsmouth now
stands. They commenced clearing the ground, to plant seeds for a
crop to support their families, hoping that the red men of the forest



%dn Indian Surprise. 57

would suffer them to remain and improve the soil . They seemed to
hope that white men would no longer provoke the Indians to savage
warfare.

Soon after they landed, the four men, heads of the families, started
up the Scioto to see the paradise of the West, of which they had
heard from the mouths of white men who had traversed it during
their captivity among the natives. Leaving the little colony, now
consisting of four women and their children, to the protection of an
overruling Providence, they traversed beautiful bottoms of the Scioto
as far up as the prairies above, and opposite to where Piketon now
stands. One of them, Peter Patrick by name, pleased with the coun-
try, cut the initials of his name on a beech, near the river, which be-
ing found in after times, gave the name of Pee Pee to the creek that
flows through the prairie of the same name ; and from that creek
was derived the name of Pee Pee township in Pike county.

Encamping near the site of Piketon, they were surprised by a par-
ty of Indians, who killed two of them as they lay by their fires.
The other two escaped over the hills to the Ohio river, which they
struck at the mouth of the Little Scioto, just as some white men go-
ing down the river in a pirogue were passing. They were going to
Port Vincennes, on the Wabash. The tale of wo which was told
by these men, with entreaties to be taken on board, was at first insuf-
ficient for then relief. It was not uncommon for Indians to compel
white prisoners to act in a similar manner to entice boats to the
shore, for murderous and marauding purposes. After keeping them
some time running down the shore, imtil they beheved that if there
were an ambuscade of Indians on shore, they were out of its reach,
they took them on board and brought them to the little settlement;
the lamentations at which cannot be described, nor its feeling con-
ceived, when their peace was broken and their hopes blasted by the
intelligence of the disaster reaching them. My informant was one
who came down in the pirogue.

There was, however, no time to be lost, their safety depended on
instant flight ; and gathering up all their moveables, put ofl" to Lime-
stone, now Maysville, as a place of greater safety, where the men in
the pirogue left them, and as my informant said, never heard of them
more. If any of them are yet alive, or if any one can give intelli-
gence of them, it would be thanld"ully received.

While on the subject of names, it may not be uninteresting to give

you a narrative of the origin of the name of Miller's bank, on which

was laid off the town of Jefferson, now called Piketon, About the

year 1795, two parties set off from Mason county, Kentucky, to locate

Vol.1— H



58 Early Attempt at Settlement.

land by making improvements, as it was believed the tract ceded to
the United States, east of the Scioto, would be held by pre-emption.
One of these parties was conducted by a Mr. Miller, and the other by
a Mr. Kenton. In Kenton's company was a man by the name of
Owens, between whom and Miller there arose a quarrel about the
right of settling this beautiful spot. In the fray Owens shot Miller,
whose bones may be found interred near the lower end of the high
bank. His death and burial there, gave name to the high bank,
which was then in Washington county, the Scioto being then the line
between Washington and Adams counties. Owens was taken to
Marietta whore he was tried and acquitted.

As it seems to be your intention, in publishing the American Pio-
neer, to give posterity an idea how the country was settled and what
shifts the pioneers were put to, I will give a kind of description of
two mills I saw in operation in very early times. The Jirst I shall
describe was in Kentucky, at Limestone. It was made of timber,
stone and buffalo hides : I am not sure there was any iron about it.
It came not within the scope of things worshiped in idolatry, for it
was like nothing else but itself, neither on the earth nor in the patent
office. It was to grind corn into meal to make mush and johnny-
cakes. It was constructed of round logs set in the ground to make
them stand up. Over them a roof of bark, under which was an up-
right shaft turning on a wooden gudgeon or pivot. Over the horse,
for it was a horse mill, extended arms from the upright shaft ; and in
these were holes like as you sometimes see in the arms of blades or
swifts on which weavers put skeins of yarn to wind. In these holes
were pins, over or around which was thrown a long buffalo hide tug,
or rope, made by cutting hides round and round into long strips and
twisting them. The different holes in the arms were for the purpose
of tightening this tug, or band. From these arms the tug extended
to and around the trundle to which the running stone was attached ;
and to prevent its slipping, the tug was crossed between the long
arms and the trundle which was a short log with a groove cut round
it. More effectually to prevent slipping, a bucket of tar was kept
ready to daub it. Still it was with great difficulty that the mill could
be kept going, even when the horses moved, and it was sure to stop
when they did.

It required a man like Job to tend this mill, but the miller was not
one of that temperament. He always seemed to doubt or distrust the
performance of his machine, and to be continually on the lookout for
some disaster or disappointment. I was once present when he got in
a team of fractious horses, which broke his tug and otherwise de



Mills in the Wilderness. 59

ranged the parts of his mill, which made him exclaim, among
other hard words, that such horses were enough to drive Satan out
of hogs. After some time spent in repairs, for damages were appar-
ently as easily repaired as the parts were liable to go out of order,
our miller was again making headway with his grinding operation.

The other mill I saw in the year 1797 on the Scioto river. It was
built on two large dug-outs or canoes, with a wheel placed between
them. This mill, after being moved up or down, as the settlers at
different stations needed its assistance in mashing corn, was tied to a
tree in a rapid current, which running against the wheel between the
canoes, turned the stones above, under a kind of umbrella made of
bark. At a distance it had the appearance of a crane flying up the
river. It made a sound, for the want of grease, like the creaking of
a wooden cart. Were such a thing at this day in the Western Mu-
seum, it would draw more custom to it than any thing there, not ex-
cepting the " Infernal Regions," by which they jest in serious matters
there. Notwithstanding all these properties in the mill and the diffi-
culty of tending it, the miller, like many of his occupation even at
this day, was accused of taking more than his share of the corn.
The complaints were at first surmises — then whispers — afterwards
common talk, and at last so loud as to attract the miller's attention.
To clear himself of this slander, he told his customers that his mill
ground so slow fie could not afford to watch it. That his practice
was to throw up a grist in the morning and go about other business
till night. That through the day the crows, blackbirds and squirrels
would come in for their share, which he was not bound to make up ;
and if they did not like that mode of doing business, they might go
to the next mill, if they could find it. Should any doubt the truth of
these anecdotes, it will be evidence that they know little about set-
tling in a wilderness, and for their information these things are writ-
ten. Yours truly.



^^>^\^^^^\Ar*»~—



ANECDOTES OF JESSE HUGHS.

Jenny^s Camp, Darby, Jan. 14, 1842.
Mr. Jno. S. Williams :

Bear Sir, — You desired me to give you an account of an expedi-
tion against the Indians, in which Jesse Hughs acted so conspicuous
a part. Hughs was bred up from his infancy in the hotbed of In-
dian warfare, in Harrison county, Virginia, on the head waters of
the Monongahela river, in the village of Clarksburgh. He was a
light built spare man, and remarkably active on foot, and from his



60 Anecdotes of Jesse Hughs.

constant practice of hunting, he became one of the best woodsmen
and Indian hunters of his day.

The following circumstance he related to me himself, and it has
been fully corroborated since by Mr, Joseph Harness, who was in the
expedition with him. The precise date of the transaction I do not
recollect, but I think it was near 1790. The Indians, about that time,
seldom did any other mischief in that neighborhood but steal horses.
The Indians, generally, crossed the Ohio river above Marietta, and it
was a dense forest from the Ohio to Clarksburgh, a distance of sixty
or seventy miles. The settlement had been a considerable time with-
out an Indian alarm. All were quiet on their farms. It happened
one night a man heard the fence of a small lot, he had a horse in,
fall; he jumped up and ran out, and saw an Indian spring on the
horse and dash off. The whole settlement was alarmed in an hour
or two, and they had a company of twenty-five or thirty men pa-
raded, ready to start by daylight next morning. They took a circle
round, outside of the settlement, and soon found the trail of appar-
ently eight or ten horses, and, they supposed, about that many In-
dians. The captain called a halt, and held a council to determine in
what manner to pursue them. The captain and a majority of the com-
pany were for pursuing them on their trail. Mr. Hughs was opposed
to it, he said he could pilot them to the spot where the Indians would
cross the Ohio, by a nearer way than the Indians could go, and if
they could get there before the Indians, they could intercept them at
the river and be sure of success. But the commander insisted on
pursuing the trail. Mr. Hughs then tried another argument : he
pointed out the danger in trailing the Indians. He insisted that the
Indians would waylay their trail, in order to know if they were pur-
sued, and would choose a situation where they could shoot two or
three of them and set them at defiance, and then alarm the others ;
and the Indians, when alarmed, would out-travel them and make
their escape. The commander found that Hughs was like to get a
majority for his plan, and appeared to be jealous that if Hughs' plan
was followed, he would lose the honor of planning the expedition.
Hughs, by some, was considered too wild for the command, and it
was nothing but jealousy kept him from it, for in most of their In-
dian excursions, Hughs got the honor of the best plan, or did the best
act that was performed. I'he commander then broke up the council
by calling aloud to the men to follow him and let the cowards go
home, and dashed off full speed, and the men all followed- him. Hughs
knew the captain's remark was intended for him, and felt the insult
in the highest degree, but he followed on with the rest. They had



Indian Horse Thieves. 61

not pursued many miles until the trail went down a drain where the
ridge on one side was very steep, with a ledge of rocks for a consid-
erable distance. On the top of the cliff two Indians lay in ambush,
and when the company got opposite to them they made a noise of
some kind, that caused the men to stop : that instant two of the com-
pany were shot and mortally wounded. They now found Hughs'
prediction fully verified, for they had to ride so far round before they
could get up the cliff, that the Indians made their escape with ease.

They then all agreed that Hughs' plan was the best, and iu"ged him
to pilot them to the Ohio river where the Indians would cross. He
agreed to do it; but was afraid it was too late, for the Indians knew
they were pursued and would make a desperate push. After leaving
some of the company to take in the wounded men, they put off for
the Ohio river, the nearest way they could go, and got there the next
day about an hour after the Indians had crossed it. The water was
yet muddy in the horses' trails, and the rafts that they crossed on
were floating down the opposite shore. The company now was
unanimous for returning home and giving up the pursuit. Hughs
now got some satisfaction for the insult the captain gave him : he said
he wanted to find out who the cowards were. He said that if any
of them would go with him, he would cross the river and scalp some
of the Indians. They all refused to go with him. He said if one
man would go with him, he would undertake it ; but he could not
get one to consent. He then said he would go by himself, and take
one of their scalps, or leave his own with them.

The company now started for home, and Hughs went up the river
three or four miles, keeping out of sight of it, for he expected the
Indians were watching them to see if they would cross. He there
made a raft and crossed the river, and camped for the night. The
next day he found their trail, and pursued it very cautiously, and
about ten miles from the river he found their camp. There was but
one Indian ui it, the rest were all out hunting. The Indian was left
to keep camp : in order to pass away the time, got to playing the fid-
dle on some bones that they have for the purpose. He was seated in
his camp, singing and playing. Hughs crept up and shot him. He
then took his scalp, and made the best of his way home.

JONA. RENICK.

Mr. Renick has kindly promised us more anecdotes or tne exploits of Mr.
Hughs. As a man of sagacity and quick perception, by which he seemed to
anticipate all the artifices of the Indians, and to know the best mode of foiling
them in their attempts, he had few equals, and certainly very few superiors.
The following anecdote, which comes to us from a source which leaves no



62 Errors Corrected.

doubt of its correctness, will show his keen perception and instantaneous ar-
rangement of plans in a conspicuous light. There were many such heroic
minds whose deeds are yet unsung.

At a time of great danger from the incursions of the Indians, in Virginia,
when the citizens of the neighborhood were in a fort at Clarksburgh, Hughs,,
one morning, observed a lad very intently fixing his gun. "Jim," said he
" what are you doing that for?" " I am going to shoot a turkey that I hea?
gobbling on the hillside," said Jim. " I hear no turkey," said Hughs. " Lis
ten," says Jim: "there, didn't you hear it? hsten again." "Well," says
Hughs, after hearing it repeated, "I'll go and kill it." "No you won't,"
says Jim, " it is my turkey ; I heard it first." " Well," says Hughs, "but
you know I am the best marksman ; and besides, I don't want the turkey,
you may have it." The lad then agreed for Hughs to go and kill it for him.
Hughs went out of the fort on the side that was farthest from the supposed
turkey, and taking along the river, went up a ravine and came in on the rear;
and, as he expected, he espied an Indian sitting on a chestnut stump, sur-
rounded by sprouts, gobbling, and watching to see if any one would come
from the fort to kill the turkey. Hughs crept up behind him, and shot him,
before the Indian knew of his approach. He took off" the scalp and went
into the fort, where Jim was waiting for his prize. " There now," says
Jim, "you have let the turkey go. I would have killed it if I had gone."
" No, " says Hughs, "I didn't let it go ;" and, taking out the scalp, threw it
down. " There, take your turkey, Jim, I don't want it." The lad was over-
come, and nearly fainted, to think of the certain death he had escaped, pure-
ly by the keen perception and good management of Mr. Hughs.



ERRORS CORRECTED.

The following letter is just such in kind that we feei gratified with and
thankful for. It shows, in a clear light, the great utility of collecting the his-
tory of this great, this varied, and this important republic, into a magazine,
which, by its returns, presents frequent opportunities of correcting errors.
No matter by whom mistakes are made, or of what kind they be, or under
what authority, they should be corrected. We are all continually liable to
make mistakes, and that without intending it. We thank our friend. He
has modestly concealed his name under his family initial. We hope he
will often favor us with contributions, and under his proper name. He
has been long and favorably known to those who know any thing about the
history of Ohio, which cannot be well and minutely written, without its be-
ing in it.

The fact he narrates is important, and fixes the date of the landing of the
families at Marietta. The error he mentions was typographical ; it should
have been April 7th instead of August 7th, as printed in some copies ; and
also on the same page, in some copies, John instead of Benjamin Stites, ap-



First Setlletnent of Families at Marietta. 63

pears ; as also on page 38, Brickell was, by mistake, spelled Brittle. April
7th, 1788, was the day on which "general Rufus Putnam, and some others,
without their families, landed and commenced improvements." Our corres-
pondent has added an important date to our chronology, and we trust this
will not be the last. Can we not get a particular account of that early cele-
bration ?

FIRST LANDING OF FAMILIES AT MARIETTA
Mr. Jno. S. Williams, — Observing the intimation of your wish
for the correction of errors which may occur in articles published in
the Pioneer, — and having noticed a fact of the kind, though of no
great consequence, in page 24, of the first number, under the head of
"Territorial Chronology," to put the matters referred, in the order of
time in which they occurred, and to add some particulars which you
may deem worth preserving, this note is addressed. Under that head
is the following :

" 17SI — August 7. — Marietta settled by Rufus Putnam and associates.
July 9. — Governor St. Clair and judges arrived at Fort Har-

mer.
July 15. — The governor, by proclamation, organized the ter-
ritorial government.
July 26. — Washington county erected, &c."

These three occurrences, of July 9th, 15th and 26th, are, I believe,
correctly dated, — and they all occurred in the same year, but subse-
quently to the settlement of Marietta, stated as above to be in Au-
gust. On the 2d of July, 1788, there arrived at Marietta, general
Edward Tupper and family, consisting of four persons ; major Asa
Coborn and family, eight ; major Nathan Goodale and family, twelve ;
major Nathaniel Cuishen and family, eight ; Mr. Johabod Nie and
family, four ; in all forty-one persons.

They started together from Worcester county, in Massachusetts, in
wagons, and in eight weeks arrived at Wheeling, on the Ohio.
From thence they all came, with their teams, wagons and furniture,
in one Kentnck boat to the point of destination. They landed at the
mouth of Muskingum, on the Marietta side, on the second of July,
as above stated ; and, on the 4th, by invitation, went over to Fort
Harmer, to celebrate the anniversary of American Independence.

Two cabins, and one log house only, were then under roof, in
Marietta. More were preparing, and soon made tenantable.

General Rufus Putnam, and some others, without their fami-
lies, had come on, many months in advance of the families above
named, and commenced improvements.

General Harmer, who commanded the fort below the mouth of



64 Logan and Cresap.

Muskingum, had his family with him, as had some of the soldiers of
the garrison, before the families came to Marietta.

How welcome, how animating to the families, must have been the
transition from the fatigues and dangers of a journey of many hun-
dred miles, over continuous rough ways, through the rude, rocky
passages of the Alleghany mountains, and, at last, stowed away in a
crowded, rough boat, on the Ohio, when, on the second day after
their arrival, they were called to join in the heart-warming scenes,
awakened by the return of their nation's birthday, in the charming
country selected for their permanent residence, then in peace and
security ! K.

January 24th, 1842.



'*«sAAA/^##^'^N^*n'V—



LOGAN AND CRESAP.

As the intention is to advance the truth and justice of history, we should
not omit stating that no doubt exists but that Logan, in his speech to lord
Dunmore, either confounded the titles of colonel with that of captain, or he
was mistaken in the person who commenced the series of outrages in which
his relatives were killed. In the testimony of general Gibson, page 18, it is
distinctly stated, that, at the time Logan delivered the speech to Gibson, he
(Gibson) told Logan " that it was not colonel Cresap who had murdered his
relations, and that although his son, captain Michael Cresap, was with the
party who killed a Shawanese chief and other Indians, yet he was not pres-
ent when his relations were killed at Baker's bottom." Turn to the testimo-
ny of Ebenezer Zane, page 12, and there it will be seen that it was '^'^ captain
Michael Cresap who made the proposition to waylay and kill the Indians on
the river." Unless there were relatives of Logan killed above or below
Wheeling, the Cresap family were certainly clear of having any hand in it ;
and colonel Cresap, the father, was not implicated in any of the outrages.
Knowing as he did this fact, general Gibson should have corrected the
speech, unless Logan objected to it, which does not appear in the evidence.

That Logan's relations were killed at Baker's bottom, on Yellow creek,
and not at Wheeling, or Grave creek, we think clear, from the note tied to
the war-club ; see page 18. In that note it will also be seen that captain, and
not colonel Cresap, was the person implicated by Logan himself. If, in the
speech, the title of captain, and not colonel, had been used in connection with
the name of Cresap, nothing would have been materially wrong; for al-
though none of the Cresap family committed any outrage upon Logan, or his
family, yet as the son was accessary to the first outrage, upon which follow-
ed the murder of Logan's relations, that name was not improperly used to
represent the white men who committed the series of hostilities, in which
his relations were killed. But at this day nothing should lie against the
Cresap family, in particular, on account of it.



Evans' Experiments. 65



NAVIGATION BY STEAM.

In our first number, page thirty-one, we took up this subject, in an en-
deavor to do justice to departed worth, and to show the rapid improvement
of the country. We propose to continue it. We are sometimes lost in
amazement when we contemplate what has been effected by it, and the ex-
tent to which it is likely to contribute, not only to the growth and prosperity
of the West, to which it has been singularly beneficial, and to the whole
Union, but to the world at large. It is doing that which could not have been
done without it, or some equally etficient improvement, not only here but
elsewhere. The annihilation of distance, by water, is almost complete ; the
broad Atlantic is converted into a ferry, and the Indies are like to become our
near neighbors ! Such is the alteration along the once still and silent shores
of the Ohio, that we sometimes almost feel a rising doubt whether we are in
the same region in which we were in our youthful days ; and it is not here
alone, but every where, that the influence of the power of steam is felt.

It is too frequendy the case that cotemporaries rebuke, with cold neglect,
those who spend their all in bringing into use the greatest improvements:
and, it sometimes happens, that posterity is slow to award them their just
meed of praise.

In the subject of steam navigation, it was our intention next to have pre-
sented a view of the claims of James Rumsey; but, since the publication
of our last, we have had the high gratification to become personally ac-
quainted with the Hon. Edward Rumsey, of Kentucky. He has promised
us a letter, and other documents, on the subject, which we have not received.
Relying on him for information respecting his uncle, we will pass on to Oli-
ver Evans

Of this persevering and ill requited pioneer in the use of steam-power, we
cannot do better, at present, than to quote from the same writer as above,
who says :

" In the year 1801, Oliver Evans made, at Philadelphia, an experi-
ment of a most remarkable character. In the year 1772, Evans, be-
ing an apprentice to a wagon maker in Pennsylvania, endeavored to
discover some means of propelling land carriages without the use of
animals; but after considerai)le sttidy, he abandoned his attempt for
the want of a suitable original power. A short time after this at-
tempt, one of his brothers gave him an account of the effect of steam,
which he had seen performed by a blacksmith's boy, by putting a
little water into a tight gun-barrel with a wad over it. The gim-bar-
rel was then put into the forge fire, when, in a little while, it blew out
the wad, with as loud a crack as if fired with gunpowder. His mind
recurred, during the description, to his favorite subject, and he imme-
diately thought that here was the power for his carriages, if he could
only apply it. A work containing an account of an old atmospheric
engine falling into his hands also, about this time, caused him to re-
Vol.I.— I



66 Navigation by Steam.

new his studies with increased ardor, and he soon declared that he
could make steam-wagons, and had satisfied himself of their practi-
cability by experiment.

"In 1786, he petitioned the legislature of Pennsylvania for an ex-
clusive right to use his improvement in flour mills and steam-wagons
in that state. They granted his petition as far as it related to flour
mills, but took no notice of his steam- wagons, as on this point they
believed him to be insane. The act is dated March, 1787.

" His next application was to the legislature of Maryland, to whom
he explained his ideas in regard to steam-wagons, and by describing
the great elastic power of steam, endeavored to show them the ease
of reducing his principles to practice. The committee to whom it
was referred, would probably have refused his petition as visionary,
if Mr. Jesse Hojlingsworth, of Baltimore, had not prudently observed,
that as the grant could injure no one, he hoped the encouragement
would be afforded, and there was a possibility of producing some-
thing useful. A favorable report was accordingly made, May 21,
1787, granting to him, his heirs, or assigns, for fourteen years, the ex-
clusive right to use his improvement in flour mills and steam-wagons,
in that state.

"Being now secured in his right, in 1789, he endeavored to induce
Benjamin Chandlee and sons, clock makers, men celebrated for their
ingenuity, to join in the expense and profits of the project; but fear-
ful of the dilficulties attending it, they declined the concern. They,
however, certified that he had shown his drawings and explained his
ideas to them. In the same year he went to Ellicott's mills, near Bal-
timore, for the purpose of persuading Messrs. Jonathan EUicott and
brothers, to join him in the introduction of steam-wagons. They
readily comprehended his ideas and drawings, having tried some ex-
periments themselves on the power of steam, but fearing the diffi-
culty of the execution, they also declined the proposition. He also
communicated his proposition to Mr. Levi Hoi lings worth, merchant,
of Baltimore, but he declined a partnership for the same reasons as
the former. He afterwards endeavored to interest others in the mer-
its and practicability of his schemes, but could find no one willing to
risk the expense of the experiment.

"About the year 1800, not havhig found any one willing to con-
tribute to the expense, or even to encourage him to risk it himself, it
occurring to him also that he had not yet discharged his debt of honor
to Maryland by producing a steam-wagon, he determined to construct
one immediately. He first waited upon Robert Patterson, Esq., Prof,
of mathematics in the university of Pennsylvania, and explained to
him his views, as he also did to Mr. Charles Taylor, steam-engineer
from England; they both declared the principle new to them, and
highly worthy of a fair experiment, and advised him earnestly to
prove them. These were the only persons to whom he applied, who
had any confidence in his undertaking. In consequence of the above
determination, he commenced buildhig his steam-wagon, and had
made considerable progress, when the idea occurred to him, that as
his steam-engine was entirely different in form, as well as in principle,
from those in common use, he could procure a patent for it, and ^p-



Evans^ Experiment. 67

ply it to mills more profitably than to wagons. He accordingly dis-
charged his workmen, tried experiments, and procured a patent; he
then applied his engine to flour mills, grinding plaster of Paris, saw-
ing marble, and other purposes where such a power was required.



[Evans' Steam Engine.]

" In 1804, he constructed at his works, situated a mile and a half
from the water, by order of the board of health of the city of Phil-
adelphia, a machine for cleansing docks. He thus describes the ex-
periment : ' It consisted of a large flat, or scow, with a steam-engine
of the power of five horses on board, to work machinery to raise the
mud into flats. This was a fine opportunity to show the public that
my engme could propel both land and water carriages, and I resolved
to do it. When the work was finished, I put wheels under it, and
though it was equal to the weight of two hundred barrels of flour,
and the wheels fixed to wooden axletrees, for this temporary pur-
pose, in a very rough manner, and with great friction of course, yet
with this small engine I transported my great burthen to the Schuyl-
kill with ease ; and when it was launched in the water, 1 fixed a pad-
dle-wheel in the stern, and drove it down the Schuylkill to the Dela-
ware, and up the Delaware to the city, leaving all the vessels going
up, behind me, at least half way, the wind being ahead. Some wise
men undertook to ridicule my experiment of propelling this great
weight on land, because the motion was too slow to be useful. I si-
lenced them by observing, that I would make a carriage to be propel-
led by steam, for a bet of §3000, to run npon a level road against the
swiftest horse they could produce, I was so confident that such veloci-
ty could be given to carriages.'

" He labored to induce the proprietors of several of the turnpikes
to introduce steam-carriages upon their roads, but did not succeed.
In 1805, he published a work describing the principles of his steam-
engine, with directions for working it in boats against currents, and
carriages on common roads, and states his willingness to make a car-
riage to run upon a railway, or level road, fifteen miles in an hour, on
condition that he should have double price if it should come up to



68 Navigation by Steam.

that velocity, and nothing if it should fall short, and concludes by ask-
ing what more a man can do to test his invention than to ensure its
performance ?

" This was his last attempt to call the attention of the public to his
steam-carriages, yet notwithstanding his experiments, and his prom-
ises, the call was neglected, and unable to incur the expense himself,
the acts securing to him the right to use them were rendered of no
avail. The project was accordingly abandoned, and his talents were
afterwards employed in the improvement of machinery for flour mills,
and introducing his steam-engine to different purposes in the arts."

We may perceive that if the progress of this power be traced from its first
experiment, America will come in for a large share of the honor of this im-
provement ; and that the efforts of pioneers in this improvement, will make a
bright constellation in the glory of her history.

A letter which we received from captain R. De Hart, a veteran in steam-
boat navigation, and also a corrected list of steam-boats with which he favor-
ed us, plainly shows that our estimate of the amount of steam-boat transport-
ation was too low in our last, enormous as it might seem to many. We
give his letter below as entitled to the highest consideration connected with
Western navigation. He was captain of the ^Etna in 1815, as we believe,
and has been connected with steam-boat navigation ever since.

Louisville, Jan. 28, 1842.
John S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir, — The first successful operation by steam on the Western
waters, was in the years 1811-12, by the steam-boat « Orleans," of
about two hiuidred tons, low pressure engine, built by Fulton and
Livingston at Pittsburgh. She descended to New Orleans during the
earthquake, and ran between New Orleans and Natchez until the
14th of July, 1814. When on her trip to Natchez, while lying by
at night at John Clay's landing, above and opposite Baton Rouge, she
settled on a sharp stump by a great fall of the river in the night,
which went through her bottom and sunk her. She was abandoned,
and her engine, with a new copper boiler made in New York, was
put into a new boat, in 1818, called the "New Orleans," which only
ran until the spring of 1819, when she was sunk by a stump, on the
same side of the river, below Baton Rouge, but raised by two
schooners, brought to New Orleans between them, and there totally
lost near the Batture.

The next boat built was the " Vesuvius," about three hundred and
sixty tons, built by Fulton and Livingston, for a company in New
York, Philadelphia and New Orleans. She was launched at Pitts-
burgh in November 1813, for the Ohio and Mississippi trade. She
descended to New Orleans in the spring of 1814, and was the first to



First Steam-boats on the Western Waters. 69

attempt to ascend to the falls of the Ohio, and left New Orleans with
a load in the early part of July, 1814; but in attempting to go inside
of the island No. 61, below the river St. Francis, she grounded, about
the 14th of July, and the water falling fast the voyage was defeated.
She returned by a rise of water in December, 1814, and was put into
requisiton by general Jackson ; but in starting up the river for wood,
she grounded on the Batture, and she became of no use to the gov-
ernment. In the years 1815-16, she took the place of the "Orleans"
in the Natchez trade. In the summer of 1816, she was partially
burnt opposite to New Orleans, but was rebuilt, made several trips to
the falls, and finally ended her days in the Natchez trade in 1820.

The steam-boat " Enterprise," of about one hundred tons, (not of
Fulton's construction,) next made her appearance at New Orleans,
from Brownsville, in the winter of 1814-15. She returned to Pitts-
burgh in the spring of 1815, being the first steam-boat that ascended
the Mississippi and Ohio. The next was the "^tna," of three
hundred and sixty tons ; length one hundred and fifty-three feet three
inches, breadth twenty -eight feet, and nine feet depth of hold. She
was built by Fulton and Livingston, at Pittsburgh, and owned by the
heirs of Robert Fulton, and Robert M. Livingston.

There being some want of confidence in steam power to ascend the
Mississippi with a cargo above Natchez, she was employed, in the
summer of 1815, towing ships from the lower part of the river to
New Orleans; barges then getting freight in preference from New
Orleans to the falls of the Ohio, &c., at eight cents per pound. In the
fall of the year 1815, however, the river then being very low, some
of the owners of the ^tna and others made another attempt to as-
cend with a load, and put in her about two hundred tons — very few
passengers — freight at four and a half cents per pound for heavy and
six cents for light goods. Above Natchez she had to depend upon
drift wood, and occasionally lying by two and three days at civilized
settlements getting wood cut and hauled ; broke a wrought water-
wheel shaft near the mouth of the Ohio, and laid at Henderson near
fifteen days trying to weld it, and at last had to end the passage with
one wheel to Shippingsport in sixty days. At Louisville had two
shafts cast. Her trip down, with about three hundred tons, at one
cent per pound, and a few passengers, was made in seven days. Her
next trip up was made early in 1816, under many of the same difii-
culties, in about thirty days ; and broke the other wrought shaft by
drift wood in ascending the Ohio.

The next boats were the « Buffalo," " Franklin," « Washington,"
"Shelby" «« Monroe," &c. Steam-boats took the place of barges



70 Navigation by Steam.

and keel boats ; fuel and facilities increased, and the face of the coun-
try changed from savage to civilized. In the place of Indian camps,
we have now thriving villages, the depots for our immense internal
commerce. There are now between four and five hundred steam-
boats on the Western waters, measuring from seventy-five to six hun-
dred tons, all of which generally can carry much over their tonnage,
valued from eight thousand to forty thousand dollars each ; and they
ascend the rivers at from seven to fifteen miles per hour, and descend
from ten to eighteen miles, making trips from New Orleans to the
falls in five to eight days, and down in about four and five.

Passengers have lately been brought up in the cabin at ten and fif-
teen dollars, on the best boats, and freight up at fifteen cents per hun-
dred pounds. Freight and passage down is higher than up.
Very respectfully, your friend and obedient servant,

R. DE HART.

" Barges in 1815 getting freight in preference to steam-boats at eight cents
per pound !" Freight has lately been brought up at fifteen cents per hun-
dred pounds ! ! By a comparison of the above as the effect of navigation by
steam, we may see one reason why the empire of the West, and indeed the
whole Union, has gone on extending her influence over the wide domain.
Why we have so rapidly increased in wealth and in population. Why it is
that we increase from three to five hundred thousand annually.

Mr. De Hart remarks, " downwards freight is higher than up !" In this
is conspicuously exhibited the strength of steam by the great benefit of a
quick transportation to market. " Time is money," and especially in the
transit of produce from the producer to the consumer. The invested capital
has a quicker return, and less of it is required for business transactions, and
above this may be considered the freshness of our produce when it arrives in
market by a steam-boat, when compared with its condition after having floated
so far by the natural current of the stream.

The return loading, which brings us our supplies of heavy articles, is al-
most a clear gain upon the shipments downward, to which steam-boats owe
their livelihood, and most of them, their existence. In the first ideas of
steam navigation the upwards transportation seemed to be the great advan-
tage. Little did the first advocates of this system think, that within twenty
years of its introduction, it would exist and increase in a fair competition
with flat boats which descend without labor to the place of destination, and
that up river freight would be mere back loading ; yet such is the fact, as
seen above. Steam-boat navigation lives and thrives in competition with the
descending navigation, and is able to transport the upward freight, which was
the great difficulty, for a price merely nominal. Steam-boats seem almost to
say, we' will do your up-stream business for nothing, if you will give us your
down-stream business even on better terms than you can float it.



"" General Massie. 71

FIRST SETTLEMENT OF THE VIRGINIA MILITARY
DISTRICT.

When the state of Virginia, in 1784, ceded to the United States her terri-
tory northwest of the Ohio river, she reserved the land lying between the Sci-
oto and Little Miami rivers to satisfy her land warrants, provided the good
land reserved in Kentucky proved to be insufficient. Explorations of this
district were then made, which congress arrested, until it was satisfied that
Kentucky lands would prove deficient. In August 1790, congress took off
this restriction, and general Nathaniel Massie, then of Kentucky, determined
to make a settlement on the Ohio side. He selected the location of Man-
chester, twelve miles above Maysville. Of this settlement colonel John
M'Donald, now of Ross county, in page 31 of his Sketches, speaks thus :

"General Massie, in the winter of the year 1790, determined to
make a settlement in the Virginia military district. In order to effect
this, he gave general notice in Kentucky of his intention, and offered
each of the first twenty-five families, as a donation, one in-lot, one
out-lot, and one hundred acres of land, provided they would settle in
a town he intended to lay off at his settlement. His proffered terms
were soon closed in with, and upwards of thirty families, joined him.
After various consultations with his friends, the bottom on the Ohio
river, opposite the lower of the Three Islands, was selected as the
most eligible spot. Here he fixed his station, and laid off into lots a
town now called Manchester; at this time a small place, about
twelve miles above Maysville, (formerly Limestone) Kentucky.

" This little confederacy, with Massie at the helm (who was the
soul of it,) went to work with spirit. Cabins were raised, and by the
middle of March, 1791, the whole town was inclosed with strong
pickets, firmly fixed in the ground, with blockhouses at each angle
for defence.

" Thus was the first settlement in the Virginia military district, and
the fourth settlement m the bounds of the state of Ohio, effected.
Although this settlement was commenced in the hottest Indian war,
it suffered less from depredation, and even interruptions, from the In-
dians, than any settlement previously made on the Ohio river. This
was no doubt owing to the watchful band of brave spirits who guard-
ed the place — men who were reared in the midst of danger and in-
ured to perils, and as watchful as hawks."

To enable the youthful and securely bred reader to form some idea of the
caution necessary to effect a settlement in the earliest times of this country,
we will present him with a copy of general Massie's first contract, politely
furnished by a gentleman of Cliillicothe, the original of which we have seen
and examined. The reader will be amply paid for a perusal, on the score of
curiosity. He will be paid on the score of antiquity as well as a matter of
history. Of the twenty signers, seven made their marks ; some of which
are of curious shape and being the real signatures of unlearned business men,
using this precaution against imposition. We propose at some time to give
a drawing of these and other significative marks which we may collect, as



72 Settlement of the Virginia Military District.

being curious, and most likely of real utility in ascertaining the genuineness
of ancient records, &c.

CONTRACT.

Articles of agreement between Nathaniel Massie, of one part, and
the several persons that have hereunto subscribed of the other part,
witnesseth that the subscribers hereof doth oblige themselves to settle
in the town laid off, on the northwest side of the Ohio, opposite to
the lower part of the Two Islands; and make said town, or the
neighborhood, on the northwest side of the Ohio, their permanent seat
of residence for two years from the date hereof; no subscriber shall
absent himself more than two months at a time, and during such ab-
sence furnish a strong able-bodied man sufficient to bear arms at least
equal to himself; no subscriber shall absent himself the time above
mentioned in case of actual danger, nor shall such absence be but
once a year ; no subscriber shall absent himself in case of actual dan-
ger, or if absent, shall return immediately. Each of the subscribers
doth oblige themselves to comply with the rules and regulations
that shall be agreed on by a majority thereof for the support of the
settlement.

In consideration whereof, Nathaniel Massie doth bind and oblige
himself, his heirs, &c., to make over and convey to such of the sub-
scribers that comply with the above conditions, at the expiration of
two years, a good and sufficient title unto one in-lot in said town,
containing five poles in front and eleven back, one out-lot of four
acres convenient to said town, in the bottom, which the said Massie
is to put them in immediate possession, also one hundred acres of
land, which the said Massie has shown to a part of the subscribers ;
the conveyance to be made to each of the subscribers, their heirs or
assigns.

In witness whereof, each of the parties have hereunto set their
hands and seals, this 1st day of December, 1790.
Nathaniel Massie, John Ellison,

John Lindsey, Ellen Simmeral,

William Wade, John + M'Cutchen,

John Block, Andrew -|- Anderson,

Samuel 4- Smith, Matthew + Hart,

Jesse -{- Wethington, Henry -|- Nelson,

JosiAH Wade, John Peter Christopher Shanks,

John Clark, James Allison,

Robert Ellison, Thomas Stout,

Zephaniah Wade, George -}- Wade.

Done in presence of John Beasly,
James Tittle,



Ji Trip to the West. 73

A TRIP TO THE WEST.

The following account of a trip to the West, is from the venerable pioneer
who is president of the Logan Historical Society, and one of the first actors
in it. He has promised more. His name is conspicuous as being connected
with the improvement of stock cattle from its commencement in the West;
and he has encouraged us to liope that he will communicate a history of the
different breeds, from the first settlement of the country to its present im-
proved state, with the advantages and disadvantages of each. The tracing of
the successive improvement of the country, is one of the objects of the Pio-;
neer, and stock, being important, ought not to be overlooked.

CONTENTS.
Introduction — Entertainment at Clarksburgh — Tavern in the wilderness — Journey to Zanes-
ville — Entertainment there — Finds Mrs. Johnston — Attack on the See family — Women
and children taken prisoners — Their release from captivity — Journey to Whetstone
creek — Down the Scioto to the Ohio — Return home.

Jno. S. Williams, Esq., — I comply with yoitr request in giving
you a sketch of my early western adventures, though 1 assure you I
do it with reluctance, as my first adventures were in a time of peace
and attended with no Indian fighting, bloodshed or great hazard of
life. I fear a plain and simple narrative of early travels, although
they may have been, as ours were, attended with privations, hard-
ships and fatigue, will scarcely be thought to possess interest enough
to make them worth reading. This, however, I shall leave to your
judgment. Insert the whole, a part, or none, as you think proper.

Some of our neighbors who had served in Dunmore's campaign in
1774, gave accounts of the great beauty and fertility of the western
country, and particularly the Scioto valley, which inspired me with a
desire to explore it as early as I could make it convenient. I accord-
higly set out from the south branch of Potomac for that puKpose, I
think about the first of October, 1798, in company with two friends, Jo-
seph Harness and Leonard Stump, both of whom have long since gone
hence. We took with us what provisions we could conveniently car-
ry, and a good rifle to procure more when necessary, and further pre-
pared ourselves to camp wherever niglit overtook us. Having a long
journey before us, we traveled slow, and reached Clarksburgh the
third night, which was then near the verge of the western settlements
in Virginia, except along the Ohio river. Among our first inquiries
of our apparently good, honest, illiterate landlord, was whether he
could tell us how far it was to Marietta, and what kind of trace we
should have ? His reply was, " yes, 1 can do that very thing ex-
actly, as I have been recently appointed one of the viewers to lay out

VoT.. I.— K 7



74 Ji Trip to the West.

and mark a road from here to Marietta, and have just returned from
the performance of that duty. The distance on a straight line which
we first run was seventy-five miles, but on our return we found and
marked another hue that was much nearer.''^ This theory to Mr.
Harness and myself, each of us having spent several years in the
study and practice of surveying, was entirely new: we however let it
pass without comment, and our old host, to his great delight, enter-
tained us till late in the evening, with a detailed account of the fine
sport he and his associates had in their bear chases, deer chases, &c.,
while locating the road. We pursued our journey next morning,
taking what our host called the nearest, and which he also said was
much the best route. The marks on both routes being fresh and
plain, the crooked and nearest route, as our host called it, frequently
crossing the other, we took particular notice of the ground the straight
line had to pass over, and after getting through, we were disposed to
believe that our worthy host was not so far wrong as might be sup-
posed. The straight line crossing such high peaks of mountahis,
some of which were so much in the sugar-loaf form, that it would be
quite as near to go round as over them.

The first night after leaving the settlement at Clarksburgh, we
camped in the woods; and next morning while our horses were gra-
zing, we drew on our wallets and saddlebags for a snack, that we in-
tended should pass for our breakfast, and set out. We had not trav-
eled far before we unexpectedly canje to a new improvement. A
man had gone there in the spring, cleared a small field and raised a
patch of corn, &c., staying in a camp through the summer to watch it
to prevent its being destroyed by the wild animals. He had, a few
days before we came along, called on some of his near neighbors on
the Ohio, not much more perhaps than thirty miles otf, who had
kindly came forth and assisted him in putting up a cabin of pretty
ample size, into which he had moved bag and baggage. He had also
fixed up a rack and trough, and exposed a clapboard to view, with
some black marks on it made with a coal, indicating that he was
ready and willing to accommodate those who pleased to favor him
with a call. Seeing these things, and although we did not in reality
need any thing in his way, Mr. Harness insisted on our giving him a
call, observing that any u.an that would settle down in such a wilder-
ness to accommodate travelers ought to be encouraged. We accord-
ingly rode up and called for breakfast, horse feed, &c. Then let me
say that as our host had just "put the ball in motion," was destitute
of any helpmate whatever, ; except a dog or two,) he had of course to
officiate in all the various departments appertaining to a hotel, from



Tavern in the Wilderness. 75

the landlord down lo the shoeblack on the one side, and from the land-
lady down to the dishwash on the other. The first department in
which he had to ofliciate was that of the hostler, next that of the bar
keeper, as it was then customary, whether called for or not, to set out
a half pint of something to drink. The next, which he fell at with
much alacrity, was that of the cook, by commencing with rolled up
sleeves and unwashed hands and arms, that looked about as black and
dirty as the bears' paws which lay at the cabin door, part of whose
flesh was the most considerable item in our breakfast fare. The first
operation was the mixing up some pounded corn meal dough in a litile
black dirty trough, to which the cleaner, and perhaps as he appeared
to think him, the better half of himself, his dog, had free access before
he was fairly done with it, and that I presume was the only kind of
cleaning it ever got. While the dodgers were baking, the bear meat
was -frying, and what he called cofl'ee was also making, which was
composed of an article that grew some eight hundred or one thousand
miles north of where the coffee tree ever did grow. You now have
the bill of fare that we sat down to, and the manner in which it was
prepared ; but you must guess how mnch of it we ate, and how long
we were at it. As soon as we were done we called for our bill, and
here follows the items : breakfast fifty cents each, horses twenty-five
each, half pint of whisky fifty cents. Mr. Harness, who had prevailed
on us to stop, often heard of the wilderness hotel, and whenever men-
tioned, he always had some term of reproach ready to apply to the
host and the dirty breakfast, though we often afterwards met with
fare somewhat similar in all respects.

We camped two nights in the woods, and next day got to Marietta
where the land office was then kept by general Putnam, and from his
office we obtained maps of the ditferent sections of country we wish-
ed to explore. From thence we traveled up the Muskingum river,
on which there were some settlements up as high as a small village
called Waterford. From there to where Zanesville now stands we
passed no settlement. At that place there was one log cabin occupied
and passed as a kind of excuse for a tavern, situated on what was
then called Zane's trace ; there we found a goodly number of Indians
encamped for the purpose of hunting, fishing, &c., and trading the
fruits of the chase with the landlord for whisky.

Here we also met with a man who had formerly resided on the
south branchy with whom we had a partial acquaintance : he had left
the branch some years previously, still keeping in the front rank of
the white settlement, supplying himself and family with both food and
raiment prhicipally with his rifle. He then occupied a small cabin on



76 Ji Trip to the West.

the west side of the river, a small distance from the mouth of Licking,
and as it was on our intended route up the river, he insisted on our
coming and taking breakfast with him in the morning, observing
that he had made a good hunt that day and could give us plenty of
the best wild meat the country afforded, &c. We of course could not
well refuse his kind invitation, and accordingly repaired there by
times next morning. The breakfast, which on our arrival was stew-
ing over the log cabin fire, was soon dished up, and we fell to. The
meat looked very well, color fair, taste not bad, but rather oily, and
we thought not exactly like any flesh we had ever tasted before.
Our host had got into an earnest and detailed account of his previous
day's hunting exploits, to which we were all in duty bound to listen.
None of us had room to ask what it was, or slip in a word of inqui-
ry on any subject whatever, and had our friend had patience to post-
pone the relation of his narrative until we had finished our meal, all
would have went off, or rather down, well enough; but about the
height of our meal he came to the great and hazardous engagement
he and his faithful dog had with the largest, fattest and finest panther
he had ever seen, part of whose carcass we were then, as he informed
us, feasting on, pointing to a corner in the cabin where the bal-
ance was cut up and salted down on the green hide of the animal.
He observed that this he considered the best part of his hunt, and
the only part he had brought in, and that he must hurry off after the
balance. Onr meal was ended in pretty short order, and we being
as willing to hurry off from the best of his hunt as he was to go
after the worst, we soon parted, he after his game, and we on our
journey.

We traveled up the river, exploring each side up to a small cluster
of cabins, which I think was called Johnson's station, though I am
not certain as to the name; it was situated in the Wapatomaka bot-
tom, a small distance above the mouth of a creek of that name empty-
ing into the Muskingum on the west side. Here we unexpectedly
found an old widow lady by the name of Johnson, who, by intermar-
riage, was more or less connected with myself and both my traveling
companions. She was also a sister to the wife of Mr. William Robin-
son, who was taken prisoner by Logan, and whose declaration you
have given in the Pioneer, at page 15. As the suffering of this family
is connected with the early settlement of western Virginia, I presume
a short sketch of their history will not be altogether uninteresting to
yourself or readers. I was taken unwell the night we got to Mrs.
Johnson's, and was compelled to remain there, while my companions
went up as far as the mouth of Walhonding, a principal branch of



iJapture of the See Fainily. T7

Muskingum, where Roscoe now stands. While they were gone the
old lady gave me the history which I shall now relate.

The name of Mrs. Johnson's father was Frederick See, an uncle of
my wife. He, with a brother-in-law and a few other famihes, had
moved at an early day and settled on Greenbriar, a branch of the
Great Kanawha, in the interval of peace between the Indians and
whites. In those days, the Indians were at war witli eacli other.
The war trace at that time, between the northern and southern tribes,
was along tjie south branch of Potomac, and through the Greenbriar
settlement. In a time of peace between the wliites and Indians, one
of those large war parties, seventy or eighty in number, that had been
in the habit of traveling back and forth, came and encamped several
days on Mr. See's place, and appeared to be in a kind of frolic. Mr.
See, notwithstanding their pretended friendship, expressed over and
again to his family his fears of their evil design ; and to win their
favor as much as possible, he killed a fine hog for them, gave them
bread and other things they wanted. His kindness however availed
nothing. When the preconcerted time came for the blow to be struck,
it fell first on his own head ; and as the common mode of Indians is to
make the declaration of war, not with the pen, but with the hatchet,
so it was done in this case. Mr. See had a large family ; several
daughters grown, or nearly so, and one married, with a first child at
her breast. Several Indians one day entered the house in a friendly
manner as usual, and at a certain signal drove their tomahawks into
the heads of the old gentleman and his son-in-law, and made prison-
ers of all the balance of the family. The blood of the father fell on
the head and face of a little son, who was at the time fondling on him.
The Indians, not wishing to kill the boy, on seeing him so bloody,
were fearful he might be hurt, took him up, carried him to the creek,
and washed him, and found that he was safe. The Indians had di-
vided, and while this tragedy was going on many other families near
by were sharing the same fate.

After committing what other depredations their savage minds dic-
tated, they gathered their prisoners and booty together and set out for
their town. There were several women among the prisoners who
had young children at their breasts, all of which, contrary to their
common custom, the Indians had spared. Mrs. Johnson said that
her sister pressed her babe to her breast, and bore her long and spee-
dy march with great fortitude ; hoping, but as the sequel will show
hoping in vain, that fortune might yet favor her with a speedy ex-
change, or with relief in some other way, and that she would still be
blessed with adescendent of himmost near and dear to her: but of this



78 Ji Trip to the West.

great blessing, the hope of which she had so fondly cherished, she had
the excruciating mortification to be deprived. The day before they
reached the Indian town, the Indians took all the young children and
in the most barbarous manner killed them, leaving their bodies in the
woods to be devoured by the first carnivorous animal that might find
them. After this, Mrs. Johnson said, her sister's life appeared to be
a burthen to her, and she did every thing in her power to provoke the
Indians to kill her, making several attempts to kill some of them ; but
they kept so close a watch on her, that she never could effect it. She,
however, lived through all this, and afterwards became the wife of
William Robinson, before mentioned. Soon after getting to the
towns, the prisoners were divided and put into different families, the
women to hard drudging and the boys to run wild with the young In-
dians, to amuse themselves with bow and arrow, dabble in the water,
or obey any other notion their wild natures might dictate. Having
lost or misplaced a journal I kept at the time, I cannot now remem-
ber the length of time these unfortunate families were detained as
prisoners. It was, however, some years, when peace was again re-
stored, and an exchange of prisoners took place. These families were
collected by some of their friends, who were in attendance, and set
out with them to their native homes.

The female part of the families left the towns with great cheerful-
ness, but the boys, and especially the younger ones, had become so
completely Indian, that they had to be forced away from their Indian
playmates ; and a close watch had to be kept over them, and, not-
withstanding all the vigilance they could apply, John See, a small
boy, made his escape on the third night, evaded a vigilant pursuit,
and made his way back to the towns, and was two years longer there
before his friends succeeded in getting him away. Most of the See
family were brought to the south branch and taken into the families
of their friends; my father-in-law, Michael See, took charge of John
when he was obtained, in addition to one of the others that he had
previously taken. They were grown and gone to their father's place,
on Greenbriar, before I became acquainted with the family, but I
have often heard my mother-in-law say that she never undertook
such a task as it was to break in those wild Indian'boys, and especial-
ly John : it was utterly impossible, she said, to keep clothes on them ;
in the summer season she did not attempt it, as it was worse than
useless to do so, at least any more than shirts, and the strongest tow
or hemp linen shirt that could be put on them, with the strongest
kind of fastenings that could be applied at wristband and collar, would
perhaps in an hour's time be torn off them and thrown by, and they



Ji Hunter^s Camp. 79

would be found swimming like wild ducks in the river, or wallowing
naked in the sand beaches on the shores ; and in their melancholy
moments they would often be heard to exclaim, in all the apparent
agonies of distress, " ! my Innies, my Innies !" (meaning Indians.)
It took a number of years to root out this attachment, and indeed it
was thought by a part of their friends that some of the boys carried
remnants of it to their graves. And this among many thousands of
other similar occurrences, is a strong proof of the correctness of the old
adage, that " It is easy to make an Indian out of a white man, but
hard, if not impossible, to make a white man out of an Indian, or even
to reclaim a white man after being converted into an Indian."

When my friends returned from their tour up the river, I was suf-
ficiently recovered to proceed on our journey; we accordingly left
our old friend, Mrs. Johnson, took an Indian trace leading over to
Licking, thence up it to a beautiful prairie, called the Bowlinggreen.
Here we found an old hunter in a bark camp, " solitary and alone,"
with the exception of his dog, some twenty or thirty miles in advance
of his nearest neighbor. He had raised a small patch of corn, pota-
toes, &c. without any fence, there being no animals to trespass on his
premises but wild ones, and those that did so generally paid the penal-
ty with their lives, as the site on which his camp was located had
been judiciously chosen on an elevated spot, with his patch immedi-
ately under his eye, and prairie all round, so that nothing could ap-
proach his " castle" without being discovered by himself or his dog.
We put up for the night with the old hunter, and were entertained
much to our satisfaction ; the best fruits of his chase were at our ser-
vice. As is common with this class of people, it appeared to gratify
him very much to have an opportunity to tell over his hunting stories
and Indian scrapes, as he called them. Having once been a prisoner
with the Indians, he had some very interesting Indian anecdotes in
store. He went with us some distance the next day, and gave us all
the information that he supposed would be of any advantage to us.
Among other things, he informed us that there was a large camp of
Indians on one of the northern branches of Licking that we had bet-
ter avoid, as some of them might steal our horses and run off with
them, or hide them with a view of being rewarded for finding them ;
and we adhered to his counsel. We were much pleased with the
valley of Licking, but thought its commercial advantages would be
much inferior to those of larger rivers. And had I met in my path,
in traveling up that valley, one risen from the dead, and he had said
to me, that I would live to travel up and down that valley in a canal-
boat, I fear I should have been like some of old, and scarcely have



80 ^ ^ Trip to the West.

believed him ; but so it has turned out. After traveling up Licking
some distance above where the town of Newark now stands, we
steered a due west course, or as near so as we could with a pocket
compass, the sun being obscured for several days with clouds and
rain. After leaving the forks of Licking, our course took us through a
dense forest, mostly of heavy beech timber. Grass and under vegeta-
tion being scarce, we were compelled to travel slow to give our horses
time to sustain themselves on the scanty nourishment the country
afforded. Here we also found game scarce and hard to be procured.
Our own fare was occasionally quite as scanty as that of our horses,
being sometimes reduced to a bit of wild turkey broiled on the coals,
and glad to get that ; but as we had set out with a determination
to breast with fortitude the hardships we might have to encounter,
we were satisfied that it was no worse with us. We pursued our
westwardly course until we struck Whetstone, one of the principal
branches of the Scioto, some fifteen miles above its junction.

Supposing ourselves to be on the main branch of the Scioto, and
not wishing to go farther north, we turned south to Franklinton, on
the next morning, which was, I think, the 22d of October. This was
the first frosty morning we had seen during our travel. At FrankUn-
ton we found a considerable number of log cabins, most of which had
recently been put up, and were without chinking, daubing or doors.
Doorways were however cut out, and blankets hung up in them to
supply the place of doors. Here we refreshed ourselves and horses, be-
ing very kindly treated. We spent a day or two in looking round that
section of country, and then proceeded by slow marches, exploring
both sides of the river, down south to Chillicothe, finding a cabin
every six, eight or ten miles.

At Chillicothe we spent a few days, and then explored the valley
to the Ohio. No town — no commerce — no steam-boats — were then
to be seen. The sameness of the prospect was broken only by the
flight of a few wild-fowl, and once in two or three days a poor little
Kentuck family boat would float silently by. From thence by way
of the Scioto saltworks and Little Kanawha we went home ; having
every where, with but one exception, received that kind of hospitali-
ty known only among pioneers. At another time I will prepare a
narrative of a second trip, together with what I know about camp
Charlotte, colonel Lewis, and the place where Logan delivered his
celebrated speech. Very respectfully yours,



Indian Creek Farm, near Chillicothe,
February 5th, 1842.



AME RICAN PION EEE.

JBeDoteb to tl)c ®rutl} anir lust'uc of ^istor^.



VOL. I. MAR CH, 1842 . NO. III.

A DESCRIPTION OF CAMPUS MARTIUS,

OR THE STOCKADED FORT, BUILT AT MARIETTA, BY THE OHIO COMPANY,

IN THE YEARS 1788-9.

[See Frontispiece.]

This fort, or stockaded garrison, was erected by the Ohio company,
under the direction of general Rufus Putnam. At the landing of the
first detachment of settlers, on tiie 7th day of April, A. D. 1788, the
ground on which it was built, and the whole adjacent plain, was cov-
ered with a thick growth of forest trees. The plan, and preparation
of the materials, was commenced soon after ; but it was not finally
completed, with palisades and outworks or bastions, until the break-
ing out of the Indian war, in the winter of 1791.

The walls formed a regular parallelogram, the sides of which were
one hundred and eighty feet each. At each corner was erected a
strong blockhouse, surmounted by a tower or sentry box. These
houses were twenty feet square below and twenty-four feet above,
and projected six feet beyond the curtains, or main walls of the fort.
The intermediate curtains were built up with dwelling houses, made
of wood, whip-sawed into timbers four inches thick, and of the re-
quisite width and length. These were laid up similar to the struc-
ture of log houses, with the ends nicely dovetailed or fitted together
so as to make a neat finish. The whole were two stories high, and
covered with good shingle roofs. Convenient chimneys were erected
of bricks, for cooking and for warming the rooms. A number of the
dwelling houses were built and owned by private individuals, who
had families. In the west and south fronts were strong gateways ;
and over that, in the centre of the front looking to the Muskingum
river, was a belfry. The chamber underneath was occupied by the
honorable Winthrop Sargent as an office, he being secretary to the
governor of the Northwest Territory, general St. Clair, and perform-
ing the duties of governor in his absence. This room projected over
the gateway, like a blockhouse, and was intended for the protection
of the gate beneath in time of an assault. At the outer corner of
each blockhouse was erected a bastion, standing on four stout tim-

83



84 Campus Mariius.

bers. The floor of the bastion was a httle above the lower story of
the blockhouse. They were square, and built up with thick planks
to the height of a man's head, so that when he looked over he step-
ped on to a narrow platform, or "banquet," running round the sides
of the bulwark. Port-holes were made for musketry, as well as for
artillery, a single piece of which was mounted in the southwest and
northeast bastions. In these the sentries were regularly posted every
night, as more convenient of access than the towers ; a door leading
into them from the upper story of the blockhouses. The lower room
ol the southwest blockhouse was occupied for a guard-house. Run-
ning from corner to corner of the blockhouses was a row of palisades,
sloping outwards, and resting on stout rails. Twenty feet in advance
of these was a row of very strong and large pickets, set upright in
the earth. Gateways through these admitted the inmates of the gar-
rison. A few feet beyond the outer palisades was placed a row of
abattis, made from the tops and branches of trees, sharpened and point-
ing outwards, so that it would have been very difficult for an enemy
to have penetrated even within their outworks. The dwelling houses
occupied a space of from fifteen to thirty feet each, and were suffi-
cient for the accommodation of forty or fifty families, and did actually
contain from two to three hundred persons, men, women and chil-
dren, during the Indian war.

Before the Indians commenced hostilities, the blockhouses were oc-
cupied as follows : — the southwest one by the family of governor St.
Clair ; the northwest one for public worship and holding of courts.
The first civil court ever held in the territory northwest of the river
Ohio, was assembled in this building, the 2d day of September, 1788.
The court opened with prayer by the Rev. Manassah Cutler, who
was on a visit to Marietta at that time as a director of the company.
Public worship was also performed in the same place on Sunday, Au-
gust 24th, by Dr. Cutler, attended by the officers from Fort Harmer,
the settlers at Campus JNIartius, and several persons from Williams'
settlement, on the Virginia shore, opposite the mouth of Muskingum.
He continued to preach here during his visit until some time in Sep-
tember. The next spring it was regularly occupied by the Rev. Dan-
iel Story, as will be shown in the sequel of this article. The south-
east blockhouse was occupied by private families ; and the northeast
as an office for the accommodation of the directors of the company.
The area within the walls was one hundred and forty-four feet
square, and afforded a fine parade ground. In the centre was a well,
eighty feet in depth, for the supply of water to the inhabitants in case
of a siege. A large sun-dial stood for many years in the square,



Description of the Settlement. 85

placed on a handsome post, and gave note of the march of time. It
is still preserved as a relic of the old garrison.

After the war commenced, a regular military corps was organized,
and a guard constantly kept night and day. The whole establishment
formed a very strong work, and reflected great credit on the head that
planned it. It was in a manner impregnable to the attacks of In-
dians, and none but a regular army with cannon could have reduced
it. It is true, that the heights across the Muskingum commanded and
looked down upon the defences of the fort; but there was no enemy
in a condition to take possession of this advantage.

The garrison stood on the verge of that beautiful plain, overlooking
the JNIuskingam, on which are seated those celebrated remains of an-
tiquity ; and erected probably for a similar purpose, the defence of the
inhabitants. The ground descends into shallow ravines on the north
and south sides; on the west is an abrupt descent to the river bot-
toms, or alluvions; and the east passed out on to the level plain. On
this the ground was cleared of trees beyond the reach of rifle shots,
so as to aff'ord no shelter to a hidden foe. Extensive fields of corn
were growing in the midst of the standing girdled trees beyond. The
front wall of the garrison was about one hundred and fifty yards from
the Muskingum river. The appearance of the fort from without was
grand and imposing ; at a little distance resembling one of the milita-
ry palaces or castles of the feudal ages. Between the outer palisades
and the river were laid out neat gardens for the use of governor St.
Clair and his secretary, with the officers of the company.

Opposite the fort, on the shore of the river, was built a substantial
timber wharf, at which was moored a fine cedar barge for twelve
rowers, built by captain Jonathan DevoU, for general Putnam; a
number of pirogues, and the light canoes of the country ; and last,
not least, "the May-Flower," or "Adventure Galley," in which the
first detachment of colonists were transported fropi the shores of the
Yohiogany to the banks of the JNIuskingum. In these, especially the
canoes, during the war, most of the communications were carried on
between the settlements of the conjpany fwid the more remote towns
above on the Ohio river. Traveling by land was very hazardous to
any but the rangers, or spies. There were no roads nor bridges across
the creeks, and for many years after the war had ceased the travel-
ing was nearly all done by canoes on the rivers.

While many of the early settlements in the West were made up
from the ignorant, the vulgar, and the rude, the colony at Marietta,
like those of some of the ancient Greeks, carried with it the sciences
and the arts ; and although placed on the frontiers, amidst a howling

8



86 Campus Martins.

and savage wilderness, exposed to many dangers and privations, there
ran in the veins of its little community some of the best blood of the
country. It enrolled many men of highly cultivated minds and ex-
alted intellect : several of them claimed the halls of old Cambridge as
their Alma Mater. The army of the revolution furnished a number
of officers who had distinguished themselves for their good conduct
as well as for their bravery. To this latter circumstance is probably
to be attributed the fact of the settlement's passing through a four
years' war with the most cunning and bold enemy the world ever
produced with so few losses.

In connection with the description of Campus Martius, we add a
biographical sketch of the Rev. Daniel Story, who was the earliest
preacher of the gospel in the territory northwest of the river Ohio.

Soon after the organization of the Ohio company, at Boston, Mas-
sachusetts, in the year 17S7, it seems that the enlightened men who
directed its concerns began to think of making arrangements for the
support of the gospel and the instrnction of youth in their new colo-
ny about to be established in the western wilderness. Having been
born and brought up in a land where more attention was paid to the
religious, moral and literary culture of the people, than at any other
locality on the civilized portion of the globe, being the country of the
Puritans, and themselves the descendants of the Plymouth colonists,
they naturally turned their thoughts to its vast importance for the set-
tlement just budding into existence under their care. Accordingly a
resolution was passed at a meeting of the directors and agents, on the
7th of March, in the year 1788, at Providence, in Rhode Island, for
the support of the gospel and a teacher of youth : in consequence of
which the Rev. Manassah Cutler, one of the company directors, in
the course of that year engaged the Rev. Daniel Story, then preach-
mg at Worcester, Massachusetts, to go to the west as chaplain
to the new settlement commenced at Marietta. After a tedious and
laborious journey across the Alleghany mountains, Mr. Story arrived
at Marietta in the spring of the year 1789, and commenced his min-
isterial labors as an evangelist. ? The settlements were new and situ-
ated at various points, some of them a considerable distance from
Marietta; nevertheless he visited them in rotation, in conformity with
the arrangement of the directors, by which he was to preach about
one third of the time at the settlements of Wolf creek and Belprie.

During the Indian war, from 1791 to 1795, he preached the larger
portion of the time in the northwest blockhouse of Campus Martius,
(seen at the left side of the drawing.) The upper room in that house
was fitted up with benches and a rude simple desk, so as to accomo-



Biographical Sketch of Daniel Story. 87

date an audience of a hundred or more. This room was also used
for a school, which was first taught by major Ansehn Tupper, a son
of general Benjamin Tupper, a highly gifted and well educated man,
who had served with much credit in the army of the revolution. Dur-
ing this period, a connnittee appointed by the directors to report on the
religious and literary instruction of the youth, resolved that one hun-
dred and eighty dollars be paid from the funds of the company to aid
the new settlement in paying a teacher, with the condition that Mari-
etta support a teacher one year, Belprie seven months, and Waterford
three months. If they complied with that, this sum was to be divid-
ed amongst them in proportion to the time. Near the same period,
twenty dollars were appropriated to pay colonel E. Battelle for relig-
ious instruction at Belprie. Colonel Battelle was a graduate of Cam-
bridge university, and acted as chaplain to the settlement during the
Indian war, reading the church service regularly each Sabbath to the
inmates of Farmer's Castle. The meetings were held in the south-
east blockhouse, where he resided. These testimonials sufficiently
prove the interest the Ohio company felt for the spiritual welfare, as
well as the temporal comfort, of the colonists. Mr. Story also preach-
ed occasionally at a large room in the upper story of a frame house
in the stockade or garrison at "the Point," being at the junction of
the Muskingum with the Ohio, on the left bank; Fort Harmer being
on the opposite shore. At periods when the Indians were quiet, he
visited and preached at the settlements of Belprie and Wolf creek,
fifteen and twenty miles from JNIarietta. These pastoral visits were
made by water in a log canoe, propelled by the stout arms and will-
ing hearts of the early pioneers. There were no roads at that day
by which he could travel by land, and horses were scarce ; besides
there was less danger in this mode of conveyance than on horseback.
In t}ie year 1796. he united and established a congregational church,
composed of persons residing in Marietta, Belprie, Waterford and Vi-
enna in Virginia. In 1797 he visited his native state, and remained
there until he was called to the pastoral charge of the church he had
thus collected in the wilderness. He was ordained the 15th of Au-
gust, 1797, in Danvers, Massachusetts, there being no ministers to
perform that office west of the mountains, to the care of the church in
Marietta and vicinity. This relation continued between Mr. Story
and his church until the 15th of March, 1804, when he was dismissed
at his own request, his health having become too much impaired for
him to perform the labors of pastor any longer. After the Marietta
academy was built, in 1797, public worship was performed in that
.-edifice ; it being built in part for that object. Mr. Story was a native



88 Campus Martins.

of the town of Boston, state of Massachusetts, and graduated at Dart-
mouth college in 17S0. He was ui the ministry for some years before
he came to Marietta, and when he was selected by Dr. Cutler to come
to the West, the choice was much approved by those who knew him.
In coming to Marietta, however, Mr. Story certainly sacrificed his in-
terest and his comfort. What money lie possessed at that time was
invested in Ohio lands, previous to coming out, with the expecta-
tion of reasonable support from the Ohio company, until the rents of
the ministerial lands, set apart for the support of the gospel, should
come into use or be available ; but this was prevented by the Indian
war, and no funds were derived from this source till about the year
1800. The support from the funds of the Ohio company was contin-
ued for only two years, their affairs being somewhat deranged by the
Indian war, the expense of which to their treasury being upwards of
eleven thousand dollars. The inhabitants were generally much im-
poverished from the same cause, and probably his receipts for preach-
ing from the year 1789 to the time of his ordination in 1797 could
not have paid his expenses for board and clothing. He was obliged
to draw upon his former earnings by the sale of some of his lands.
However the hospitality of one or two kind Christian friends, who
gave him a welcome seat at their tables during a part of this period,
relieved him from some of his difficulties. At his death, the proceeds
from the sale of his remaining lands were insufficient to discharge all
the debts incurred while laboring in the new settlements. In person
Mr. Story was rather tall and slender, and quite brisk and active in
his movements; his manners easy, with a pleasant address; cheer-
ful and animated in conversation, and always a welcome guest in the
families he visited. After the war, he frequently went out to the new
settlers, who had established themselves on their farms, and some-
times spent a week with them in the most familiar and pleasant in-
tercourse. His sermons were practical; logically and methodically
written, after the manner of that day, and were said to be fully equal
in matter and manner to those of the first preachers in New England.
In prayer he greatly excelled both in propriety and diversity of sub-
ject, as well as in beauty of language. He was never married, but
lived a single hfe, after the manner and advice of St. Paul. Placed
in the midst of a people continually trembling for the safety of their
lives, filled with anxiety for the support of their families, and surround-
ed by the careless manners of the soldiery, it is not to be expected that
much could be done under such circumstances by a humble minister
of the gospel in advancing the spiritual condition of the people ; nev-
ertheless he did what he could for the support of the cause in which



*/in Early Voyage on the Ohio, fyc. 89

he was engaged, and his name is still held in respectful remembrance
by the few living remnants of the early settlers of Marietta. He
died the 30th day of December, 1804, aged forty-nine years.

For all the principal facts in the foregoing biography I am indebted
to W. R. Putnam, Esq., of Marietta.



^^i d» JvcZ^Otc^Cj



Marietta, Ohio, Jan. 19, 1842.



^s^V^s^ ^^VVsr'^i'^-



HISTORY OF A VOYAGE FROM MARIETTA TO NEW
ORLEANS, IN 1805.
The following history cannot be read except with intense interest by
every one who delights to look back through a vista of thirty-six years, in
this country that has risen with rapidity without a parallel. It was written
by a master hand, and communicated for the American Pioneer ; and we
have reason to indulge the hope that he will still do more to fill up and com-
plete the contrast. The reader, and especially the river traveler, will become
enchained to it, and will scarce leave it till he has read it through, and then
think it comparatively short.

HISTORY OF AN EARLY VOYAGE ON THE OHIO AND MISSIS-
SIPPI RIVERS, WITH HISTORICAL SKETCHES OF THE DIF-
FERENT POINTS ALONG THEM, &c. &c

BY S. P. HILDRETH, M, O,

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY

Eariy times iu the West — Ship-buildinar in Marietta— ^The Nonpariel and her cargo — Crew
and passeugers= — General Mansfield.

For several years previous to this voyage, ship,building had been
carried on by the eaterpritsiiig merchants and citizens of Marietta.
This town was pleasantly seated on the right bank of the majestic
Ohio, at the junction of the clear waters of the Muskingum, in the
midst of a thickly wooded country; whose hills furnished in unlimited
abundance the oak, the pine, and the locust; woods so essential in
naval architecture. Having as yet but few returns from the rich soil
of their valleys, they directed their attention to the means of wealth so
bountifully furnished by Him, who has in various ways provided for
the wants of all his creatures. With the productions of the forest
wrought into ships and brigs, they could readily exchange them with
the rich importers of the Atlantic cities for merchandise, so much
needed by the new settlements in the West. Although the colonists
of the Ohio company had been favored with only seven years of
peace out of the twelve that had elapsed since they first landed at the
mouth of the Muskingum, yet they had so far cleared the soil of th,^

Vol. I.— M 8 *



90 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, <5'C.

immense trees which had shaded it for ages from the blessed rays of
the sun, as to be able to raise sufficient food for their own support,
with a prospect of soon having a surplus to send abroad. Kentucky
and the regions on the Monongahela, lying along the western slopes
of the Alleghany mountains, having been much longer settled, had
already began, as early as the year 1795, to send considerable quanti-
ties of flour, whisky, and tobacco, to the towns on the Mississippi, at
that time in the possession of the Spaniards. As this was the natur-
al outlet of the western country through its mighty rivers, it was
thought to be the only one by which they could ever send their pro-
duce to market, no man at that day dreaming of the canals, rail-roads
and steam-boats, that have since opened a hundred avenues through
which the products of the rich valleys of the West may be conveyed
to the Atlantic. As soon as sliip-building commenced at Marietta, in
the year 1800, the farmers along the borders of the Ohio and Muskin-
g;um rivers turned their attention to the cultivation of hemp in addi-
tion to their other crops. In a few years sufficient was raised not
only to furnish cordage to the ships of the West, but large quantities
were worked up in the various ropewalks, and sent as freight in the
vessels to the Atlantic cities. Iron, so important an article in all the
mechanical arts of civilization, and without which it is said by phil-
osophers we should still have remained in the savage state, was made
in abundance at the forges on the Juniata, and furnished an article,
which to this day is justly celebrated in the West foi its strength and
tenacity.

By the year 1805, no less than two ships, seven brigs and three
schooners, had been built and rigged by the citizens of Marietta.
Captain Jonathan Devoll ranked amongst the earliest of Ohio ship-
wrights. He was a native of Rhode Island, and at Rowland's ferry,
had wrought at the art of ship and boat building for several years
during and after the war of independence. He was one of the ad-
vance party sent on in the fall of the year 1787, by the Ohio company,
under general Rufus Putnam. They spent the winter at " Simrel's
ferry," on the Youghiogeny, and constructed a large boat, which they
named the " May-flower ;" and from which, in April following, they
landed at the mouth of the Muskingum, and commenced laying the
corner stone of the great state of Ohio. After the Indian war he set-
tled on a farm five miles above Marietta, on the fertile bottoms of the
Muskingum. Here he built "a floating mill" for making flour; and
in 1801 a ship of two hundred and thirty tons, called the Muskin-
gum; and the brig Eliza Greene, of one hundred and fifty tons.

In 1804, he built a schooner on his own account ; and in the spring
of the year 1805, she was finished and loaded for a voyage on the
Mississippi, aided by his sons, Charles and Barker Devoll, young men
in the heyday of life, and Richard Greene, who was a partner and
owned a share in the vessel and cargo. She was small, being only
of seventy tons burthen; of a light draft, intended to run on the lakes
east of New Orleans. In shape and model she fully sustained her
name, the Nonpariel. She was completely rigged except in sails, of
which she had only one large square-sail, this being thought sufficient
to navigate her to New Orleans, where a full suit was to be pur-



Commencement of the Voyage. 91

chased. She had a large cabin to accommodate passengers, was
beautifully painted, and sat on the water like a duck in its native ele-
ment. Her load was made up of assorted articles ; amongst which
were two hundred barrels of flour, fifty barrels of kiln-dried corn
meal ; four thousand pounds of cheese, six thousand of bacon, one
hundred sets of rum puncheon shooks, and a few grindstones. The
flour and meal were marmfactured at captain Devoll's floating mill,
and the cheese made in Belprie, at that time one of the most flour-
ishing agricultural districts in the state of Ohio.

The crew consisted of Barker Devoll, commander; Charles Devoll
and Richard Greene, supercargoes; "old Thorn," a French Canadian,
long accustomed to inland navigation on the great northern lakes,
having been "a voyageur" in the fur trade, and now acting in the
capacity of sailor and cook. He was a most inveterate smoker and
dear lover of whisky. An Irishman, called " old Bill," as strongly
attached to usquehaugh as '< old Thom" to his pipe, was shipped as a
conmion hand, and completed the crew. All things being ready, and
having taken out the regular shipping papers, Marietta being at that
time, and for several years after, a port of clearance, they unmoored
from the landing and floated merrily along to the mouth of the Mus-
kingum. Here, after a short delay in getting a few necessary stores
for the table, they took on board as passengers, Mr. Mansfield, the
then U. S. surveyor general, with his family, consisting of his wife,
his son, nephew and servant girl. General Mansfield had lived in
Marietta since the year 1803; having been appointed to this impor-
tant trust to succeed general Kufus Putnam, who had been removed,
pot for incompetency or unfaithfulness, bat by one of those political
tornadoes which sometimes sweep across our American republic. He
was now about to make Cincinnati his headquarters, as more central
and nearer to the new tracts of government lands ordered to be sur-
veyed in Ohio and the adjacent western territory. General Mans-
field ])ossessed a high order of talents, especially as a mathematician,
with every qualification necessary to conduct the department under
his control with honor to himself and advantage to his country. To
a handsome personal appearance was added the most bland and
pleasant address, rendering him a very desirable companion.

CHAPTER 11.

COMMENCEMENT OF THE VOYAGE.

The Nonpariel sets out — The season and its beauties — Parkersburgh and Belprie — Blanner-
hasset's island and its delights — Ulannerhasset's downfall, arrest, &c. — Farmers' Castle
and Belprie — Belville — Letarts' Falls — Gallipolis land clearinef, and French grant — Point
PleasEint, and the battle of.

The Nonpareil left Marietta on the twenty-first day of April, and
shoving otF into the stream, with the aid of her broad sail and the
current, careered gaily along on the smooth bosom of the Ohio.

The season of the year abounded in life and beauty. The deep
forests that covered the hillsides, and laved their branches in the
Avaters of the "belle riviere," were now arousing themselves from the
slumbers of winter; many of the trees were in full foliage, while
others were just unfoldhig their buds to the mild rays of the sun, and



92 ^n Early Voyage on the Ohio, Sj'C.

the soft breezes of the spring. Along the southern slopes the full
blown dogwoods displayed their snowy petals, standing in clustered
groups like the trees in some fair orchard. In rich contrast, the pink
colored blossoms of the redbud shed a joyous beauty over the scene,
unequalled by the most skilful gardener's art. The woodlands were
at that day like a well pruned park, open and free from the incum-
brance of underbrush, kept down by the autumnal fires of the hunter.
The water and the air were both teeming with life. The Ohio
abounded in fish. The agile pike, the fat groveling cat-fish, and the
silver scaled perch, full of spirit and action, felt the waters to be too
heavy an element, and with sportive leaps bounded into the lighter
air. Flocks of birds, dressed in the gayest plumage, were traversing
the windings of the river, on their annual migration from, the warm
regions of the south, to incubate and spend the summer in the cooler
districts of the north ; while the indigenous and more constant resi-
dents of the country, had already chosen their mates and commenced
their architectural labors preparatory to rearing their young. The
bald eagle and the turkey-buzzard, were then amongst our commonest
birds, while now they are rarely seen in the vicinity of Marietta.

Twelve miles below the mouth of the Muskingum, at the junction
of the Little Kanawha with the Ohio, they passed without landing,
the little town of Newport, since changed to that of Parkersburg.
Although it was at that time the seat of justice for Wood county, it
consisted of only a kw log houses. It has since grown into a town
of considerable importance, with many large brick buildings. The
settlement commenced about the same time with that at Marietta.
On the opposite shore lay the township of Belprie, composed of New
England farmers, a large proportion of whom had been officers and
soldiers during the stormy period of the revolutionary war, and had
emigrated to this distant region to spend the remnant of their days on
the borders of the placid Ohio. Ten years of peace had enabled them
to clear and cultivate their farms, plant orchards and erect comfort-
able frame dwelling houses ; so that the state of improvement was in
advance of any other place between Pittsburgh and Cincinnati. In
the cultivation of fruit they greatly excelled, and to this day the ap-
ples of Washington county are justly celebrated in all the river towns.
They are now one of the staple exports of Belprie.

One mile below the mouth of the Little Kanawha, they passed the
seat of Herman Blannerhasset, erected near the head of a large island,
then known by the name of Backus' island. The original owner of
this island was colonel P. DevoU, of Virginia, who located it, with
that just above the mouth of the Muskingum, in his own name as
early as the year 1774, Having soid it to Elijah Backus, about the
period of the settlement of the Ohio company, Mr, Backus in the year
1798 disposed of the upper half, containing about one hundred and
fifty acres, to Mr. Blannerhasset, who shortly after commenced im-
proving it. At this time it was in its zenith of beauty, and fully an-
swered the glowing description of Wirt in the trial of Burr at Rich-
mond in 1807. In addition to large and splendid buildings, garden,
orchard, &c., he possessed a voluminous library of choice and valu-
able books 5 a full set of chemical apparatus and philosophical instru-



Commencement of the Voyage. 93

ments, to the accommodation of which one wing of the dwelUng
house was appropriated. He was a fine scholar, well versed in the
languages, and refined in taste and manners. So tenacious was his
memory that he could repeat the whole of Homer's Iliad in the
original Greek. With an ample fortune to supply every want, a
beautiful and highly accomplished wife, and children just budding
into life, he seemed surrounded with every thing which can make ex-
istence desirable and happy. The adjacent settlements of Belprie and
Marietta, although secluded in the wilderness, contained many men
of cultivated minds and refined manners, with whom he held con-
stant and familiar intercourse ; so that he lacked none of the benefits
of society which his remote and insular situation would seem to indi-
cate. Many were the cheerful and merry gatherings of the young
people of these two towns beneath his hospitable roof, while the
song and the dance echoed through the halls.

In one year after this date, or in 1806, Aaron Burr entered this fair
and blooming paradise, and after the manner of the tempter of old, by
his smooth and fascinating manners beguiled the woman, who had
great influence over the mind of her husband, and induced him to
engage in the wild and extravagant project of erecting a new repub-
lic in the eastern provinces of Mexico. The military preparations of
Burr in the western states and territories drew upon him the suspi-
cions of the government, and in December, 1806, an order was re-
ceived by colonel Phelps, the commandant of the militia of Wood
county, Virginia, for his arrest, with his associates. Blannerhasset re-
ceived a hasty notice of what was doing ; and a few hours before the
arrival of the colonel on the island took his departure in the night by
water, leaving his wife to meet his accusers and to follow after with
his children and household goods. And well did she defend her ab-
sent husband's rights ; facing the militia with unblanched cheeks, and
forbidding their touching any thing not expressly mentioned in the
warrant. By the aid of some of her kind neighbors in Belprie, who
were friendly to her husband and greatly pitied her unpleasant condi-
tion, she was enabled to embark a few days after, with her two little
sons, the most valuable of her effects and black servants in a boat,
but did not rejoin Mr. Blannerhasset until he reached Louisville.
Well might they look back in after years, with fond regret to the fair
Eden from which they had been expelled by their own indiscretion,
and the deceptive blandishments of Aaron Burr. In the year 1812,
the dwelling house and offices were destroyed by an accidental fire.
The garden with all its beautiful shrubbery, was converted into a
corn field, the ornamental gateway which graced the graveled ave-
nue from the river to the house was thrown down ; and for many
years not a vestige has been left of the splendid and happy home of
Herman Blannerhasset but the name. Nearly forty years have
elapsed since some of these events were transacted, and the thousands
of passengers who annually travel up and down the Ohio in steam-
boats still eagerly inquire after, and gaze upon the " island of Blan-
nerhasset" with wonder and delight.

As the Nonpariel glided smoothly along by the island, near its low-
er end she passed the site of Farmer's Castle," a strong stockaded



94 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, SfC.

garrison, where the first settlers of Belprie had passed five long and
weary years durmg the Indian war. It had been the scene of much
suffering from pinching famine, wasting disease, and the cruel savage.
Charles and Barker DevoU, as well as R. Greene, had been sheltered
by its walls, and witnessed all the stirring events that had befallen it
during that trying period. Several of the blockhouses were yet
standing, and recalled many of the feats of their boyhood to mind.

After passing the settlements of Belprie, no improvements but scat-
tering clearings, with here and there a solitary cabin, were seen until
they reached Belville, four miles below the mouth of the great Hock-
hocking river, on the Virginia shore. This settlement was com-
menced in the year 1786, by a mercantile house in Philadelphia, un-
der the agency of Joseph Wood, Esq., who is still living in Marietta,
aged eighty-two years. It was now a thriving settlement, with well
cultivated farms stretched across the broad alluvions of nearly a mile
in width. This spot was the site of a strong garrison during the In-
dian war, and many tragic events had transpired around it. It now
exhibited the busy hum of industry and peace. G. Avery, an enter-
prising merchant from the East, had purchased a large tract of land
and made Belville his home for several years past. The locality
being favorable for ship-building, he had commenced that business,
and had already launched two large vessels. An extensive ropewalk
was also built and in full operation. The rich bottoms about Belville
producing large crops of hemp, afforded the means of manufacturing
all kinds of cordage, not only for rigging his ships, but also for trans-
portation.

A few miles below this place the Ohio commences a series of bends
and curves, varying its direction to every point of the compass. In
passing Buffington's island and " Letart falls," as they were called,
although only a strong ripple made by the rocky bottom of the river,
the schooner was kept in the channel by the aid of long ash oars, as
the wind was so baffling, and blowing as often up stream as down
with the varying course of the river, that the sail was of little or no
use. With care however they threaded all these passes without
accident, and sailing gaily along by the mouth of the Great Ka-
nawha, brought their little vessel to for a short time at the town of
Gallipolis.

This place was settled by a colony of four hundred Frenchmen in
the year 1790. They had purchased a large tract of land from Joel
Barlow, the agent of the Scioto land company in Paris. But this
company having failed to complete its contract with the government
of the United States, could not make legal conveyances to the pur-
chasers; while they, poor fellows, havmg expended all their money
in the purchase, voyage and journey to Ohio, now found themselves
in a strange country, without a home and in poverty. The tract for
which the Scioto company were bargaining embraced the region
lying between the western boundary of the Ohio company's lands
and the Scioto river ; resting on the Ohio river and extending back to
the northern line of said company. The French emigrants located
their town on a high bank of the river, two miles below the mouth of
the Kanawha, which spot proved to be within the territory of th«



Commencement of the Voyage. 95

Ohio company. They however immediately fell to work clearing
away the huge trees which encumbered the soil with all the life and
activity of Frenchmen, cheering the solitary hours of night with the
merry dance and the melody of the fiddle. From their total ignor-
ance of woodcraft and the manner of felling trees, several of their
mimber were crushed to death beneath them. Their manner was to
place as many men around a huge poplar or sycamore as could con-
veniently wield their axes, while one man watched the progress of
the work, and gave notice of the first indication of its falling by a
loud yell. Every one then took to his heels and fled with all speed
from beneath the descending giant. In this attempt they sometimes
ran in the direction of the falling tree and were killed under its
branches. When fairly down they went to work in dismembering it.
In the mean time another party with spades dug a deep pit alcmg
side the trunk, into which it was rolled and covered with earth, while
the top and branches were thrown into heaps and burnt. Dr. J. B.
Reigner, then a young man, delicately brought up and educated in
Paris, with whom I became acquainted in after life, was one of the
company, and toiled a whole season in this manner, receiving one
third of an acre as ins share of the cleared land. The Indian war
commencing in 1791, he left the country and settled in the state of
New York, until peace was restored. Disheartened by sickness, war,
famine and disappointment, many of the colony dispersed to the
French settlements on the Wabash and Mississippi. Congress com-
miserating their misfortunes, made them a donation of twenty -four
thousand acres of land on the Ohio river a few miles above the mouth
of the Scioto, known to this day by the name of the " French grant."
At this period the town had began to increase, and now and then a
frame house was seen taking the place of the diminutive log cabins in
which they had heretofore dwelt.

At the mouth of the Great Kanawha, which is in sight of Gallipolis,
there was a small town called Point Pleasant. During the Indian
war a garrison was kept here with a guard of soldiers at the charge
of the state of Virginia. It is memorable as the spot where, in the
year 1774, was fought one of the most bloody and well contested bat-
tles which has, at any time, been enacted on the waters of the Oliio.
It took place on the tenth of September, and continued through the
whole day. The forces engaged were thought to have been about
equal in numbers. The Virginia troops were commanded by general
Andrew Lewis, and amounted to eleven hundred men. The leader
of the Indians was the celebrated chief Cornstalk. About sunset the
savages withdrew their warriors, leaving a number of their dead in
the hands of the whites. The loss of the Virginians was seventy-five
killed and one hundred and forty wounded. Isaac Shelby, after-
wards governor of Kentucky, commanded a company in this battle.
This war was known in the West by the name of '• Dunmore's war,"
after lord Dunmore, then governor of Virginia. In the spring of the
year 1777, Cornstalk and his son, EUinipsico, were basely murdered
at this garrison while on a friendly visit to the whites. He was the
great chief of the Shawanees, and possessed of courage and talents
equal to those of any Indian who ever lived.



96 An Early Voyage on the Ohio, fyc.

CHAPTER III.

FROM GALLIPOLIS TO NORTH BEND.

Guyandotte and the Iroquois Indians — Big Sandy, cane, bears — Ginseng, timber trees and
iron — Alexandria, Portsmouth Saltworks — Limestone, Manchester — Cincinnati, improve-
ments — Barge navigation — North Bend, Miami purchase.

From Gallipolis the Nonpariel sailed pleasantly along past the out-
lets of the Little and Big Guyandotte rivers, the latter of which is
thirty-five miles below. The names of these streams are now all that
remain as memorials of a tribe of Indians who once lived on the
banks of the Ohio. The whole tribe was destroyed before the coun-
try was known to the whites, by the warriors of the merciless Iro-
quois, or " Six Nations" — the Romans of the savage tribes, who
spread their conquests from the lakes to the Ohio river. Between the
mouths of these two streams, are seen uncommonly extensive ranges
of mounds, with the remains of embankments and relics of those
ancient towns and forts, so peculiar to the western country.

At the mouth of the Big Sandy, the dividing line between Virginia
and Kentucky, the Ohio makes its extreme southern bend, and ap-
proaches nearer to the climate of the cane ( arundinaria macrosper-
ma,) than at any other point between PittsJjurgh and Cincinnati. At
this period it grew in considerable quantities near the falls, thirty
miles from the mouth, and had been visited in 1804 by Thomas
Alcock, of Marietta, for the purpose of collecting its stems to manu-
facture weavers' reeds. It was the highest point, near the Ohio,
where this valuable plant was known to grow, and has long since
been destroyed by the domestic cattle of the inhabitants. In Tennes-
see and Kentucky it furnished the winter food for their cattle and
horses many years after their settlement. The head waters of the
Sandy and Guyandotte interlock with those of the Clinch and the
Holstein, amidst the spurs of the Cumberland mountains. In their
passage to the Ohio, they traverse the most wild and picturesque re-
gion to be found in western Virginia ; abounding in immense hills of
sand rocks, cut into deep ravines by the water courses, containing
caverns of various sizes and extent. At this period it was the most
famous hunting ground for bears in all the country. In the years
1805, 6 and 7, eight thousand skins were collected by the hunters
from the district traversed by these rivers and a few adjacent streams.
It was the paradise of bears ; affording their most favorite food in ex-
haustless abundance. The bear is not strictly a carnivorous animal,
but like the hog, feeds chiefly on vegetable food. On the ridges were
whole forests of chesnuts, and the hillsides were covered with oaks,
on whose fruits they luxuriated and fattened until their glossy hides
afforded the finest peltry imaginable. The war in Europe created a
great demand for their skins to decorate the soldiers of the hostile
armies ; and good ones yielded to the hunters four and five dollars
each.

Since that day the attention of the sojourners of this wild region
has been turned to the collection of the roots of the ginseng. This
beautiful plant grows with great luxuriance and in the most wonder-
ful abundance in the rich virgin soil of the hill and mountain sides.



From Gallipolis to North Bend. 97

For more than thirty years the tbrests have afforded a constant sup-
ply of many thousand pounds annually, to the traders stationed at re-
mote points along the water courses. No part of America furnishes a
more stately growth of forest trees, embracing all the species of the
climate. The lofty Liriodendron, attains the height of eighty and a
hundred feet without a hnib, having a shaft of from four to six feet in
diameter. The white and yellow oak are its rivals in size. The
magnolia acuminata towers aloft to an altitude uncommon in any
other region ; while its more humble relatives, the tripetala and my-
crophiila flourish in great beauty by its side. It may be considered
the store house for building future cities, when the prolific pines of
the Alleghany river are exhausted. In addition to all these vegetable
riches, the hills are full of fine beds of bituminous coal, and argilla-
ceous iron ores. From the mouth of the Sandy to the Scioto, a dis-
tance of nearly forty miles, the country abounds in iron ores of vari-
ous qualities ; no less than six workable beds being found at different
elevations from the bottom of the river to the tops of the hills. They
are portions of those iimnense deposits which are known to accompa-
ny the coal measures of the Ohio valley, from the Cumberland range
to the foot of tlie Alleghany mountains. At the period when the
Nonpariel floated along this division of the river, they were not
known to exist at all ; and the iron castings used by the inhabitants
were brought from "head waters." Now thousands of tons are an-
nually melted at the numerous furnaces on both sides of the river ;
and several towns and villages have sprung up by its means.

At the mouth of the Scioto, they made a brief stop at the little village
of Alexandria, containing a few log houses. Since then the town of
Portsmouth has been built about a mile above, and has become an
active manufacturing town, with a population equal in numbers to
that of the whole country in 1805. In the northeast portion of tlie
county of Scioto, on the waters of Salt creek, was seated the first,
and for several years the only manufactory of salt in this part of
Ohio. It was known by the name of the " Scioto saltworks," and
supplied a large portion of the inhabitants with salt. It required no
less than six hundred gallons of the water to make fifty pounds of
salt; and yet many thousand bushels were made in a year, and sold
at the Avorks for two and three dollars a bushel. From thence it was
carried on packhorses into all the remote settlements. At this day,
water is procured of such strength on the Muskingum, Hockhocking
and Kanawha, that from fifty to seventy gallons afford the same
amount. ^

At the distance of fifty miles below Alexandria the schooner reach-
ed the town of Limestone, one of the oldest settlements and earliest
landing places for emigrants in Kentucky. It is seated on a high bank
of the river, and was at that day a town of considerable conmiercial
importance ; being the depot for merchandise intended for the interior
of the state, and nearly as much business as Cincinnati. Here they
had a very fair offer for the schooner and load, by one of the leading
merchants of the place, who had just returned from New Orleans
with a loaded barge.~" The captain gave his opinion in favor of a sale,
but the two supercargoes thought they had better continue the voy-

VoL. I.— N 9



98 *fin Early Voyage on the Ohio, 4*c.

age themselves, and if any profit could be realized on the cargo at
New Orleans they should retain it in their own hands. From Ports-
mouth to Limestone they passed but one town, the little village of
Manchester, on the right bank ; laid off and settled under the auspi-
ces of general Massie, in the year 1791. In the year 1796, the same
enterprising pioneer laid the foundation for the town of Chillicothe.

The Nonpariel now unmoored and put out into the stream, propo-
sing to stop at Cincinnati to land general Mansfield and family. The
distance between the two towns was sixty miles. New settlements
and improvements were springing up along the banks of the river
every few miles ; and the busy hum of civilization was heard where
silence had reigned for ages, except when broken by the scream of
the panther, the howl of the wolf, or the yell of the savage. In this
distance there are now no less than twelve towns, some of which are
of considerable importance. They reached Cincinnati after a voyage
of seventeen days ; being protracted to this unusual length by adverse
winds, a low stage of water, and the frequent stops of general Mans-
field on business relating to his department, especially that of deter-
mining the meridian and latitude of certain points on the Ohio river.
It was now the eighth of May ; the peach and the apple had shed
their blossoms, and the trees of the forest were clad in their summer
dress. Cincinnati, in 1805, contained a population of nine hundred
and fifty souls. The enlivening notes of the fife and drum at reveille
were no longer heard, and the loud booming of the morning gun as it
rolled its echoes along the hills and the winding shores of the river,
had ceased to awaken the inhabitants from their slumbers. Cincin-
nati had been from its first foundation until within a short period the
headquarters of the different armies engaged in the Indian wars ; and
the continual arrival and departure of the troops, the landing of boats
and detachments of packhorses with provisions, had given to this lit-
tle village all the life and activity of a large city. Peace was now
restored ; and the enlivening hum of commerce was beginmng to be
heard on the landings, while the bustle and hurry of hundreds of im-
migrants thronged the streets as they took their departure for the rich
valleys of the Miamies, the intended home of many a weary pilgrim
from the Atlantic states. The log houses were beginning to disap-
pear — brick and frame buildings were supplying their places. Large
warehouses had arisen near the water for the storing of groceries and
merchandise, brought up in barges and keel boats from the far distant
city of New Orleans.

The upward voyage was performed in favorable seasons, in one
hundred and twenty days. Barges at this time were large open boats
of eighty or one hundred tons burthen, but were subsequently in-
creased to one hundred and fifty tons. A small quarter deck covered
a little cabin for the accommodation of the captain, and afforded a
stand for the pilot or steersman. In the bow, a small forecastle pro-
tected the sleeping berths of the crew. The waist was occupied with
the freight, secured from the weather by a tarpaulin or painted sail
cloth stretched on stanchions. Twenty or more oarsmen were seat-
ed along the sides, according to the size of the barge ; the largest class
requiring forty or fifty men at the oars. In addition to the oars they



From Gallipolis to North Bend. 99

all had masts and sails, rigged schooner fashion with topmasts ; and
in the long reaches with a favorable wind made considerable head-
way against the current of the Mississippi. Their usual progress was
from ten to fifteen miles a day. In passing round headlands with a
rapid current to stem, a long line was attached to the foremast, and
carried up stream by some of the men m a skiff and fastened to a
tree ; with this line they prevented the boat from swinging out into
the stream and losing her headway, while a part of the crew swayed
away on the cord, forcing her against the current up to where it was
made fast. While this was hauling in, the men in the skiff carried
forward another cord and fastened it in the same manner ; keeping
up the process of "cordelling," as it was called by the boatmen, till
they had passed by the rapid water. Tiie common price for freight
from New Orleans to Cincinnati, was from six to eight dollars per
hundred. The Nonpariel lay at Cincinnati two days, and was great-
ly admired by the barge and keel boatmen lor the beauty of her
model, and trim appearance on the water. While lying here a con-
siderable rise in the Ohio took place, which, with the aid of the wind
that now proved favorable, greatly accelerated their downward pro-
gress. On the Kentucky shore cabins and improvements were much
more numerous than on the Ohio side, as this state had been settled a
number of years before the latter.

Sixteen miles below Cincinnati, on the right bank of the Ohio, they
passed North Bend, the seat of the Hon. John Cleves Symmes. After
the close of the war for independence, Mr. Symmes, then chief jus-
tice of the state of New Jersey, had early entered into the spirit of
purchasing and settling the new territory northwest of the river Ohio,
which had lately been placed in the hands of the American congress,
by its former claimants, the stat6s of Virginia and Connecticut. It
constituted a vast domain equal in extent to many of the kingdoms of
Europe. As early as the year 1787, and at the same time with Dr.
Cutler, Winthrop Sargent and others, agents of the Ohio land compa-
ny, J. C, Symmes made application to congress, in the name of him-
self and associates, for the purchase of a large tract of land lying be-
tween the Big and Little Miami rivers. The price was sixty-six cents
per acre, to be paid in United States military land warrants and cer-
tificates of debt due from the United States to individuals. The pay-
ments were divided into six aniuial instalments. His associates were
principally composed of the officers of the New Jersey line, who had
served in the war of the revolution. Amongst them were general
Dayton and Dr. Boudinot. His first contract was for one million of
acres, made in October, 1788, but owing to the difficulty of making
the payments, and the embarrassments growing out of the Indian
war, the first contract was not fulfilled, and a new one was made for
two hundred and forty-eight thousand acres in May, 1794, and a pat-
ent issued to him and his associates in September following. Mean-
while, in the spring of 1789, Judge Symmes had located himself at
North Bend. At this point the Ohio river makes a northerly sweep,
approachmg to within a short distance of the Miami. Here he laid
out and surveyed the plan of a city, extending across this peninsula
similar to that of Philadelphia between the Schuylkill and Delaware



100 ^n Early Voyage on the Ohio, <§*c.

rivers, and named it after himself. Many of the first settlers estab-
lished themselves at this place. A settlement was also commenced
where Cincinnati now stands at the same time. It was no doubt ex-
pected that " Symmes city," would be a great town in a few years, as
its location was favorable for commerce, and in the midst of a rich
region of lands. But the most trifling events sometimes bring our
wisest calculations to naught. Like the unfortunate city of Troy of
old, it is said that the smiling prospects of the new city were destroy-
ed by the bright eyes and fair features of a woman. Females, ever
since the days of Adam, have had a greater influence over the affairs
of man than he is wiUing to acknowledge. There being a prospect
of danger from the Indians, the government ordered colonel Harmer
to establish a fort between the two Miamies, for the protection of the
new settlements. (Vide Letters of judge Burnet to the Ohio Histori-
cal society, part 2, vol. 1.) Judge Symmes persuaded the officer to
land at North Bend, and while examining the ground for a suitable
site for the fort, he became enamored with a beautiful female, the
young wife of an immigrant. So long as she remained there, he was
satisfied that this was a suitable location for the fort. In the mean-
time the husband of the woman, becoming jealous of the officious at-
tentions of the officer, removed to Cincinnati. No sooner had she left
the settlement, than all the arguments of the judge in favor of the spot
were without weight. He marched the detachment to Cincinnati,
and immediately laid the foundation of Fort Washington. This seal-
ed the fate of " Symmes city." The Indians soon became hostile, and
the new immigrants preferred locating near the fort as a place of
greater safety. But for this circumstance, apparently so trivial, North
Bend might now have been the site of a city, and Cincinnati that of a
small village or even covered with farms. Judge Symmes was a
man of sterling integrity and unbounded activity and enterprise.
After the war the new settlement grew rapidly into cultivation, being
amongst the most fertile lands in the state. The selection was a very
judicious one; but many of the first occupants suffered considerably
from inaccurate surveys, and loose titles, ending in law suits. This
beautiful spot, in years after the voyage of the Nonpariel, became the
home of general Harrison, and the resting place of his mortal remains.
His wife was the daughter of judge Synnnes. He was amongst the
early adventurers to the new purchase, and served in the army of
general Wayne. In 1791 he was at Fort Washington; and in 1798
was elected the first delegate to congress from the Northwest territory.
From the blaze of glory acquired at Tippecanoe, he went on increas-
ing in intellectual lustre and in moral worth, until he was placed by
the almost unanimous vote of the people at the highest station in their
power to give. His unexpected and universally regretted demise was
a powerful illustration of the uncertain termination of all the plans of
man. He is interred on the summit of a knoll, which is beautifully
conspicuous to miles of the river and country around. Long may his
memory be blessed by the thousands who annually pass up and down
the Ohio in sight of his tomb, and his name preserved as a watchword
by all true lovers of their country.



From North Bend to the Mississippi. 101



CHAPTER IV.

FROM NORTH BEND TO THE MISSISSIPPI.

Bigbone and its curiosities — Kentucky river, Beargrass and Corn island — Louisville and the
falls — John Graham, Esq. — Salt river and Hendersonville, Water-fowl and birds of prey —
Shawneetown — Scenery to the Grand Chain described — Anecdote of Cave-in-rock — Fort
Wilkinson, Massac — Grand Chain, pecan, mouth of the Ohio.

Fifty miles below Cincinnati they passed the mouth of Bigbone
creek, so named from its running through the Bigbone hck. This
celebrated spot is in Kentucky, two miles from the Ohio river, and
covers a space of about ten acres. When first visited by the hunters
and early settlers of the country, the surface was strewed with the
tusks, grinders, ribs, and other bones of the huge mastodon ; inter-
mingled with those of several other extinct animals. The collectors
of specimens for cabinets of natural history and for museums, have
since removed all t\iat were on or near the surface; and they now
can only be obtained by digging to a considerable depth. It is esti-
mated by Mr. Cooper, of New York, that the bones of one hundred
mastodons, and twenty of the elephant, besides those of several other
animals, have been collected at this place. These were probably en-
gulfed in the mud and slime as they contended with each other for
the salt water, which is found on the margin of the creek, and deeply
impregnates the earth of the lick. It was first made known to hunt-
ers by the buffalo paths which led to it from all directions, and were
worn deep and wide into the soil for miles in extent as if traveled for
ages.

Fifty-two miles above the falls of the Ohio, and ninety below Cin-
cimiati, they passed the mouth of Kentucky river, where there was a
small town, and had for several years during the Indian wars been a
stockaded garrison. From thence to the falls on either bank of the
river there was no town of any note, and but thinly scattered settle-
ments. In two days after leaving Cincinnati, the schooner reached
the falls without accident. The first permanent settlement was made
here in the year 1778 ; although land surveyors and hunters had vis-
ited the region on Beargrass creek as early as 1773. In the former
year thirteen families came down the Ohio from head waters, under
the direction of colonel George Rogers Clark, so famous in early west-
ern adventure, and who at that time had under his command a de-
tachment of soldiers. Near the Kentucky shore is a large island on
which they first located and erected cabins; and from the circum-
stance of the first crop of corn being raised there, it took the name of
" Corn island," and retains it to this day.

In 1780, colonel Clark erected a fort on the main land, and the set-
tlers began to build their log dwellings close under its protection.
From this beginning has sprung the present large and commercial city
of Louisville. The first store of dry goods opened there was in the
year 1783 by Daniel Broadhead. The second in the state was at
"Lexington, in the spring of tlie year 1784, by general James Wilker-
son. At that period of the visit of the Nonpariel, quite a brisk little
town had sprung up and had grown more rapidly since the upward
navigation of the Mississippi and Ohio rivers had commenced ; this

9 *



102 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, 4'C.

spot being the carrying place for the merchandise intended foi the
country above, as the obstruction to navigation by the falls made it
necessary for the barges to land a part if not all their freight before
attempting the ascent of so rapid a current. At low stages of the
river it was very dangerous descending the rapids with boats, and
few attempted it when below a certain mark well known to the
pilots. From the rocks and islands scattered through this pass the
river is divided into three channels or "chutes;" viz. the Kentucky,
the middle, and the Indian chute. The latter name was derived from
its lying on the north or Indian side of the Ohio ; and from the fact of
the savages keeping possession of that shore for many years after the
whites had occupied the south side. In making this descent, boats
were often wrecked and sunk on the rocks which filled and lined the
tortuous channels. Aided by the rise in the river and the help of a
skilful pilot, the little schooner passed down the middle chute with the
rapidity of an arrow, and was safely moored in the harbor at the foot
of the falls, now called Shippingsport. At that day not one of the
towns which cluster about the falls was in existence; and what is
now Louisville sat solitary and alone on the rocky shore of the rapids,
with the exception of a few log cabins and one or two store houses at
the foot of the falls. At the head, on the Indian shore, were a few
cabins, called " Clark's grant."

While lying here they took on board as a passenger John Graham,
Esq., who was on his way to New Orleans. This gentleman had re-
cently returned from France, where he had acted as secretary to Mr.
Monroe, our minister at Paris. He now was appointed secretary to
C. C. Claiborne, governor of the territory of Louisiana, ceded in De-
cember, 1803, to the United States. Mr. Graham was in the prime
of life ; of a noble and commanding person, prepossessing counte-
nance, and agreeable manners. He was a great acquisition to the
owners of the Nonpariel, and beguiled the wearysome length of the
voyage by his instructive conversation and anecdotes of foreign trav-
els. His father was one of the earliest land adventurers on the Ohio
river amidst the vast territory of Virginia, and a tract below Letart's
falls is still known by the name of " Graham's station."

Having taken on board a few stores for the larder, the crew un
moored the little schooner and put off in fine spirits for the mouth of
the Ohio. With a few exceptions, the whole distance on both shores
was a wilderness. Here and there appeared the hut of a new settler,
and at remote points a few small towns. At the mouth of Salt river
there had once been a frontier garrison of Kentucky, and now stood a
iev\f log houses. One hundred and eighty miles below this was the
Redbanks, or Hendersonville, quite a small village. Here they came
to for a short time to purchase eggs, chickens and milk, which were
both cheap and plentiful. A few weeks earlier in the spring, the
Ohio, from the mouth of Salt river to tlie Mississippi, was aimually
visited by immense flocks of water-fowl ; consisting of the various
species of ducks common to the western streams, and wild geese.
Some of the ducks were of the most rich aiid beautiful plumage, while
others were celebrated for their fine flavored meat and excellencies
for the table. They abounded to an extent and multiplicity of num-



From North Bend to the Mississippi. 103

bers that no one at this day would believe, unless he had been an eye
witness. They had now mostly taken their flight to the great north-
ern lakes ; though a few still Ihigered behind as if unwilling to leave
so favorite a feeding ground ; sufficient however were left to afford
Graham and Charles DevoU, who were both keen sportsmen, ample
employment with their rifles, as they floated calmly along, and many
a fine roast for their dinners. Eagles and vultures were seen in great
numbers in a region that so much abounded with their favorite food.
The former bird, it is said, never feeds on tainted or putrid meat, but
seeks a fresh supply for every meal. From this circumstance, well
known to western hunters, the flesh of the bald eagle was considered
by many of them fully equal, if not sui)erior to that of the wild tur-
key, and always eaten when fat. By one who has often partaken of
their meat, I am told that he considered it a richer and nicer food than
that of the turkey. Another peculiarity of this noble bird is, that he
never makes two meals from the same carcass, but leaves it to be
devoured by the less fastidious vulture and turkey-buzzard.

Fifty-four miles below the Redbanks, and ten miles below the mouth
of the Wabash, they passed Shawneetown, at that time consisting of
only a few log houses, and formerly belonging to the Shawnee Indi-
ans. In a few years after this period it became a noted landing place
for immigrants removing to Illinois and Missouri ; but in 1805 the
whole of that country, excepting a few French settlements, was in the
possession of the savages.

From Shawneetown to the " Grand Chain," just below old Fort
Wilkerson, the Ohio is bordered with the richest and most romantic
scenery to be seen between Pittsburgh and its mouth. As the Non-
pariel floated quietly along past " Battery Rock," " Cave-m-rock" and
" Tower Rock," noted promontories on the right bank of the river,
some of which have their bases in the stream as they rise in perpen-
dicular clifls from the shore; Graham could not withhold his exclam-
ations of delight at the various beauties which were unfolded at every
turn of the river. The rich green of the forests, the graceful curves of
the hillsides, reflected in the placid bosom of the Ohio, to be seen and
enjoyed, should be viewed from the deck of some quiet boat as she
floats calmly along with the current, and not from the hurried and rap-
id moving steam-boat. The entrance of the Cumberland and Tennes-
see rivers, with Hurricane and Diamond islands, are all interesting
and prominent points of the scenery of this region. Had those streams
pursued their course a few miles farther, before joining the Ohio, they
would have united their waters like the Alleghany and jNIonongahela.
On the summit of " Tower Rock" there is said to be a mound con-
structed of large blocks of stone, erected by those ancient people who
once inhabited this country as an observatory or watchtower. In
the face of the " Cave-in-rock" there is a notable cavern, often visited
by travelers and persons descending the river in flatboats — steam-boats
being always in too great a hurry to bestow any time on the pictu-
resque or beautiful. This cavern or grotto has been chiseled by the
tooth of time in a compact lime rock ; and is one hundred and sixty
feet in length, eighty-eight feet in width, and forty feet in height at
the entrance ; tapering away gradually to its extremity, like the ex-



104 *S.n Early Voyage on the Ohio, 8fC.

panded mouth of some huge animal. A few years before this voyage
the cave had been the den of a gang of river highwaymen, composed
of renegade white men and Indians : the captain was by the name of
Wilson. Some boats were enticed ashore by a sign board on which
was written in large letters, " Boat stores and tavern." From this
it took the name of Cave-inn-rock. Others, which could not be en-
ticed to land, were boarded from canoes and taken by force. The
crews were murdered and boats plundered. If loaded with provis-
ions for the Orleans market, a crew of their own men was put on
board and the load sold at some town on the Mississippi, the hands
returning by land with the money. They were finally routed by an
armed boat sent on purpose from head waters, as most of the plun-
dered boats were from that quarter.

As the Nonpariel approached near the mouth of this dreaded cave,
a little after twilight, they were startled at seeing the bright blaze of
a fire at its entrance. Knowing of its former fame as the den of a
band of robbers, they could not entirely suppress the suspicions it
awoke in their mhids of its being again occupied for the same pur-
pose. Nevertheless as they had previously determined not to pass
this noted spot without making it a visit, they anchored the schooner
a little distance from the shore and landed in the skitf. Being well
armed with pistols they marched boldly up to the cavern; when, in-
stead of being greeted with the rough language and scowling visages
of a band of robbers, they found the cave occupied with smiling fe-
males and sportive children. A part of the women were busily oc-
cupied with their spinning wheels, while others prepared the evening
meal. Their suspicions however were not fully removed by all these
appearances of domestic peace ; still thinking that the men must be
secreted in some hidden corner of the cave ready to fall on them una-
wares. On a little further conversation they found the present occu-
pants of the dreaded cave consisted of four young immigrant families
from Kentucky, going to settle in Illinois. The females were yet in
the bloom of life. Their husbands had bought or taken up lands a
few miles back from the river, and after moving their families and
household goods to this spot had returned to their former residences
to bring out their cattle ; in the mean time leaving their wives and
children in the occupancy of the cave till their return. At that early
day nearly all the wearing apparel of the inhabitants, and quite all
their bedding, was manufactured within their own dwellings; and
these hardy occupiers of the frontiers, having been brought up like the
virtuous woman, " whose price is above rubies," to turn their hands
to the distaff, and having brought with their spinning wheels and
looms an abundance of flax, spent the weary days of their husbands'
absence in the useful employment of spinning. A large fire in the
mouth of the cave gave cheerfulness to the gloomy spot, and enabled
them at night to proceed with their labors, while its bright rays were
reflected from the looms, beds and household utensils, which lay piled
up along the side of the cave. By day the sun aflbrded them light,
the mouth being spacious and elevated, while the roof sheltered them
from the rain. They were in daily expectation of the arrival of their
nusbands, when they would move out on to their farms in company.



From North Bend to the Mississippi. 105

A little conversation soon dissipated all suspicions of harm from the
minds of their visitors, for when was woman ever known to act the
part of a betrayer ? and borrowing from them a torch, they explored
the hidden recesses of the cave. At this time no vestiges of its former
occupants remained but a few scattered barrel staves and the traces
of their fires against the blackened sides of the rock. The walls, even
at that early day, were thickly scored with the names of former visit-
ors, to which they hastily added their own, and thousands have no
doubt been added since. Bidding a warm farewell to this singular
and solitary community, they entered their boat, greatly wondering
at the courage and confidence of these lonely females. Their surprise
however hi a manner subsided, when they reflected that they were
the daughters of Kentucky, and from the land of Daniel Boon.

At the head of the Grand Chain on the right bank stood Fort Wil-
kerson, being one of the cordon of defences built by the United States
during the Indian war to keep the savages in check. The town of
Wilkersonville stands on its site. It was erected under the superin-
tendence of colonel Strong, an officer with general St. Clair, and an
inmate of thj3 garrison at Marietta, at the breaking out of the war in
1790. Old Fort Massac was built by the French, and had long since
gone to decay ; it was fifteen miles above Fort Wilkerson. Some
years after the building of this fort, colonel Strong, whose employ-
ment confined him to the malarious shores of the Mississippi, sicken-
ed with a fever and visited the cedar blufls and high banks of Fort
Wilkerson for the recovery of his health. He however died here;
shortly after which his son died also in the prime of life ; and both
lie buried near its walls. Charles and Barker both landed and visited
their graves, as they had formerly been intimately acquainted with
them while living in the garrison at Marietta.

The " Grand Chain," quite an imposing name, is a large ledge of
rocks which crossed the Ohio in a very oblique direction from the
Kentucky to the Illinois shore, and would seem to have been the base
of a range of hills called by Schoolcraft the " Shawnee mountains,"
cut across by the river in its youthful days. It however occasions but
little obstruction to navigation except in very low stages of water.
From the head of the Grand Chain to the mouth of the Ohio is twenty
miles. At that day the whole distance was a wilderness and the
shores covered with a dense forest. From the mouth of the Ohio to
the Wabash are found several species of trees not common to the
country above the falls : amongst them is the pecan, which is so
abundant in some districts on the lower portion of the river as to form
groves or natural orchards of this species of tree. " Pekaun," is a
Shawnee word, and means " the nut." The catalpa is also found
growing here as indigenous to the climate, perfuming the air with its
immense clusters of rich blossoms. The land at the mouth of the
Ohio is level and low, subject to frequent inundations by floods in
the Ohio and Mississippi. Were it not for this circumstance, and
were the site otherwise favorable, under a wise policy we might ex-
pect in this neighborhood would rise one of the largest commercial
cities in the Union. Several eflforts have been made to build towns
in that vicinity without success. ( To be continued. J

Vol.. I.— O



/

106 Post Office Facilities. ^

POST OFFICE FA.CILITIES.

Auditor's Office, Post Office JJep't., Feb. 14, 1842.

Sir, — I approve of the plan of the American Pioneer, and of the
style of the first number. I have long desired that efforts be used to
preserve the history of our western early settlements. The charac-
ters of so many are concerned, that many incidents and facts cannot
be published now without wounding the feelings of near or remote
relatives ; and in such cases such incidents and facts should be put
upon record in a manner suited to their importance, for the use of
some future historian, and for the benefit of posterity.

Much, however, may be published now with perfect propriety.

In the West we have almost verified the prediction that " a nation
shall be born in a day ;" and having it in our power to perpetuate a
full and perfect history of our unparalleled increase and extension of
population, it seems to me we shall be faithless to our trust, if we per-
mit those " who have converted the wilderness into the fruitful field,"
to descend to their graves without obtaining from them the valuable
knowledge they possess.

I am heart and hand with you in your undertaking ; but when I
say this, you will permit me to express my regret, that your associa
tion was not incorporated with the Historical Society of Ohio, or that
you are not auxiliary to it. County associations are necessary to
glean the field well, while a central association is essential to embody
the information that may be obtained, and to unite the talent and in-
telligence of the whole state.

You ask whether you can prevail on me to send to you some in-
formation relative to the first establishment and successive increase of
the post office facilities in the United States. You also express a de-
sire to know when the first stage crossed the mountains. The first
establishment of the post office system is nearly coeval with the first
settlement of the country. Information can only be obtained from
annals, and the histories of the colonies, of what was done to establish
the post office system, and to extend its usefulnes before the confeder-
ation of the colonies in 1775. After that event the journals of con-
gress, and the statutes, contain a full history of what has been done
by the national legislature. The post master general during most, if
not all the time that has intervened since the adoption of the constitu-
tion, has directed the mode and manner of transporting the mail. The
contracts anterior to 1815 were destroyed by the fire that consumed
the post office building in December, 1836.



Hon. E. Whittlesey's Letter. 107

Since you wrote to me on the 2d instant, a manuscript compilation
of the annals of the post office department, by E. F. Brown, formerly
a clerk, was put into my hands by Mr. Marron, its chief clerk.

That part of it which is from history before the confederation I
shall send to you, not doubting its accuracy. As you want facts and
not essays, I may hereafter continue the history, by extracts from the
journals of the old congress and acts of congress, and from reports of
post masters general, and from reports of committees.

I have written to several gentlemen, from whom I hope to obtain
information to answer your inquiry as to the time when the first stage
passed the mountahis, and also as to other matters that may interest
you and your readers. I am very respectfully yours,




John S. Williams, Esqr.

Without knowing that the writer intended it for the public eye, we pub-
Hsh the above letter, which contains suggestions too valuable to be lost or con-
fined to our individual observance. Its source is entitled to the highest con-
sideration, and for the following very valuable annals which it enclosed, the
readers and editor of the Pioneer lie under a debt of gratitude to him, and
through him to those from whose industry and care he obtained them. We
are permitted to hope for further contributions on this interesting subject.

Who can sufficiently admire the great machinery of the post office depart-
ment, or be sufficiently thankful to the Giver of all good for the blessings dis-
pensed through it. What an organ of communication ! What an aid to the
march of mind, the growth of intellect, the exchange of ideas ! Where each
gives what he has and nothing loses.

This is but a part of the whole system of government and laws under
which we are rising to greatness. Reader, contemplate the inceptive state of
post office facilities as exhibited below, and then think what it is now ; think
that now the post offices amount to full fourteen thousand, and that the length
of all the mail routes in the United States extended would reach six times
round the earth ! Think also that the transportation of the mail would reach
one thousand four hundred times round the earth every year ! And this but
a part of the benefits of that government under which we live. Are you not
mute in astonishment? And do you not almost tremble lest some mighty jar
with one tremendous crash will tumble all to ruin ? But when we consider
that our lives depend upon the strength of threads too minute for ocular in-
spection, and that the existence of the world depends upon the most nicely
adjusted balances, and that all are under the supervision of that Eye which
never sleeps, we may rest assured that all are safe, if from our own wayward-
ness we do not bring ruin upon ourselves.



108 Post Office Facilities.

ANNALS.

Doctor Snow, in his History of Boston, says, " Something Hke the
rudiments of a post office is discoverable in the colony records in May,
1677 ; when, upon petition of several merchants of Boston, Massachu-
setts, the court appointed Mr. John Hay ward, scrivener, ' to take in
and convey letters according to their directions.' "

This, it is believed, was the first post office in America. If there
were any before it they must have been very unimportant, or some of
the many histories which have been examined would certainly make
mention of them.

Mr. Watson, in his Annals of Philadelphia, says, " that in the
month of July, 1683, William Penn issued an order for the establish-
ment of a post office at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and granted to
Henry Waldy, of Tekonay, authority to hold one, and to supply trav-
elers with horses from Philadelphia to Newcastle, Delaware, or to the
Falls." The rates of postage were as follows, viz. letters from the
Falls to Philadelphia, three pence ; to Chester, five pence ; to New-
castle, seven pence ; to Maryland, nine pence; and from Philadelphia
to Chester, two pence ; to Newcastle, four pence ; to Maryland, six
pence. This post went once a week, and it was to be carefully jt?w6-
lished on the meeting-house door and other public places.

The Rev. Dr. Holmes, in his American Annals, says, " In 1692 a
patent was laid before the Virginia assembly for making Mr. Neal
post master general of Virginia and other parts of America ; but,
though the assembly passed an act in favor of this patent, it had no
effect. The reason assigned was, that it was impossible to carry it
into execution on account of the dispersed situations of the inhabit-
ants."

The first legislative interference with the post office appears to have
been in the year 1700, when the colonial government passed an act
for the establishment of a post office at Philadelphia.

Col. John Hamilton, of New Jersey, son of Gov. Andrew Hamilton,
first devised the post office scheme for British America, for which he
obtained a patent and the profit which accrued.

After Col. Hamilton had enjoyed his patent a short time, he sold it
to the British government, and in 1710 parliament passed an act en-
titled " An act for establishing a general post office for all her majes-
ty's dominions, and for setting a weekly sum out of the revenues
thereof for the service of the war, and other her majesty's occasions."
It required that one general letter office and post office should be erect-
ed in London, and other chief letter offices in Scotland, Ireland, North
America, and the West Indies. The post master general, who was a



Colonial Post Offices. 109

member of parliament, was authorized by that act to keep one chief
letter office in New York, and other chief letter offices in some conve-
nient place or places in each of her majesty's provinces or colonies in
America. The rates of postage for all letters and packets, from New
York to any place within sixty miles thereof, and thence back to New
York, were fixed as follows, viz. single, four pence ; double, eight
pence ; treble, one shilling ; an ounce, one shilling and four pence.

In 1704, the first newspaper published in the English colonies ap-
peared in Boston. It was published by John Campbell, a Scotchman,
who was established there as a bookseller. The first number of that
paper contained the following notice : —

" All persons in town and country may have said Newsletter week-
ly upon reasonable terms, agreeing with John Campbell, post master,
for the same."

This John Campbell was reappointed post master at Boston under
the new act of 1710.

In 1711, a mail from Boston to Plymouth and Maine went once a
week, and a mail from Boston to Connecticut and New York went
once a fortnight.

In December, 1717, advice from Boston, Massachusetts, to Williams-
burg, Virginia, could be completed in four weeks during those months
between March and December, and in double that time during the
other months in the year.

In 1727, the mail from Philadelphia to Annapolis, Maryland, by
way of Newcastle, Delaware, to the western shore, and back by the
eastern shore, was to run once a fortnight in summer, and once a
month in winter, and was managed by William Bradford in Philadel-
phia, and by William Parks in Annapolis.

Dr. Franklin, in his Life, says, in 1737, " Col. Spotswood, late -gov-
ernor of Virginia, and then post master general, being dissatisfied with
the conduct of his deputy at Philadelphia, respecting some negligence
in rendering and want of exactness in framing his accounts, took from
him the commission and offered it to me. I accepted it readily, and
found it of great advantage ; for, though the salary was small, it fa-
cilitated the correspondence that improved my newspaper, increased
the number demanded, as well as the advertisements to be inserted,
so that it came to afford me a considerable income."

In 1738, Henry Pratt was appointed riding post master for all the
routes between Philadelphia and Newport, in Virginia ; to set out in
the beginning of each month, and to return in twenty-four days.
Notice was given that " to him merchants, &c. might confide letters
and other business, he having given security to the post master general."

10



110 Post Office Facilities.

In 1745, John Dalley, a surveyor, informed the public that he had
just made a survey of the road from Trenton to Amboy, in New Jer-
sey, and had set up marks at every two miles to guide travelers. It
was paid for by private subscriptions, and he proposed to survey the
whole road from Philadelphia to New York in the same way if a suffi-
cient sum could be made up.

Although there was at that time no surveyed road, and of course
no road opened between the two largest cities in the colonies, the
population had increased to a very considerable extent. The Family
Encyclopedia states that the population of the whole thirteen Ameri-
can colonies, in 1749, amounted to one million and forty-six thousand.

It was not until 1753 that the practice of delivering letters by the
penny post or letter carrier, and of advertising letters on hand, com-
menced. So few and scattering were the post offices, that letters and
packets for all persons residing in Newtown, Bristol, Chester, Pennsyl-
vania, and even in Newcastle, Delaware, were sent to the post office
in Philadelphia, where they remained until called for. Bristol is
twenty miles from Philadelphia, and Newcastle is forty miles from
Philadelphia, in an opposite direction, making a distance of sixty
miles with but one post office.

The mail from Philadelphia to the north, m that year, went and
returned but once a week in summer, and once a fortnight in winter,
just as it did twenty-five years before.

On the death of the deputy post master general of America, in 1753,
Dr. Benjamin Franklin, who had been for some time previously em-
ployed by him as his comptroller, in regulating the several offices and
bringing post masters to account, was appointed jointly with Mr.
William Hu to succeed him, by a commission from the post mas-
ter general in England. Dr. Franklin, in his Life, says, " The Ameri-
can office had never hitherto paid any thing to that of Britain : we
were to have six hundred pounds a year 'between us, if we could
make that sum out of the profits of the office." To do this many
improvements were necessary.

In October, 1754, a new impulse was given to the establishment, so
that the mail was to leave Philadelphia for New York every Monday,
Wednesday and Friday, in the fall, spring and summer, and once a
week in winter. That was considered a great improvement, and was
the result of Dr. Franklin's good management.

In 1755, notice was given that, to aid trade, &c. arrangements had
been made by which the winter mail from Philadelphia to New Eng-
land, which used to set out but once a fortnight, should thereafter set
out once a week as in summer, so that answers to letters from Phiia-



Colonial Post Offices. Ill

delphia to Boston might be obtained in three weeks, which used to
require six weeks.

Dr. William Douglass, in his Historical and Political Summary of
the British Settlements in North America, printed in 1755, while on
the subject of mails, routes, &c., says, " From Piscataqua or Portsmouth
to Philadelphia is a regular postage, from thence to Williamsburgh is
uncertain, because the post does not proceed until letters are lodged
sufficient to pay the charge of the post riders. From Williamsburgh,
in Virginia, to Charlestown, in South Carolina, the post carriage is
still more uncertain. There is a deputy post master general for Amer-
ica, appointed by the post master general in London : New York is
appointed for his official residence ; but by connivance he resides any
where ; at present in Virginia, Elliot Bengor, Esq. ; formerly Mr.
Loyd, in South Carolina."

The foregoing is supposed to refer to the year 1748 or 1749. It
could not have referred to 1755, as Dr. Franklin was deputy post
master general at that time. Dr. Douglass also states that there were
then but fifteen hundred and thirty-two miles of post roads, viz : —
eastern parts of Massachusetts Bay, 143 ; New Hampshire, 20 ; west-
ern division of jNIassachusetts Bay, 89 ; Rhode Island, 58 ; Connecti-
cut, 126 ; New York, 57 ; New Jersey, 54 ; Pennsylvania, 78 ; Mary-
land 144; Virginia, 215; North Carolina, 247 ; South Carolina and
Georgia, 301; total, 1532 miles.

For a transcript of the following law, we are indebted to the kindness of
major Daniel Gaxo, of Cincinnati. It is most likely the basis of the first
staging done in the United States. There are thousands who can remember
farther back. Contrast it with the present. Then government had to en-
courage staging ; now there is opposition upon opposition. How long before
the culture of silk will follow ? It is impossible even to estimate the present
amount of staging. We can give no more than the extent to which the mail
is carried in stages. We find that it would reach eight hundred times around
this globe of earth and water every year ! We can well remember when the
first stages crossed the Alleghanies on the Cumberland route. More than
that, we can remember the time when packhorses were the principal mode of
conveyance across them. Yes, and when there were but two post offices in
the Northwest territory — now, four states and a territory ; and when the
present mail routes, if extended, would much more than encircle this globe,
and over which the mail is transported in stages to a distance that would in
every year out-stretch one hundred and fifty equators which encircle the
earth. We treat of facts, and will, in another place, give the data upon which
to calculate. We positively do not know the country in which we live.
Many of us know other countries better than our own.



112 Post Office Facilities.

LAWy OF NEW YORK, EIGHTH SESSION, 1785.— [Chap. 52, page 45.]

An act to grant to Isaac Van Wyck and others, an exclusive right ot
keeping stage wagons on the east side of Hudson's river, between
the cities of New York and Albany, for the term of ten years.
Passed the fourth of April, seventeen hundred and eighty-five.

Whereas Isaac Van Wyck, Talmadge Hall and John Kinney have,
by their petition, prayed that on account of the great expense and
labor attending the undertaking, an exclusive right of carrying on a
stage from the cities of New York and Albany might be granted them
for the term of ten years; and whereas the erecting a stage as
aforesaid, will tend to promote the ease and benefit of the people;

I. Be it enacted by the people of the state of New York, represent-
ed in senate and assembly, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
of the same, That the said Isaac Van Wyck, Talmadge Hall and
John Kinney, and their respective executors, administrators and as-
signs, shall have, hold, possess and enjoy, and are hereby given,
granted and allowed the sole and exclusive right, liberty and permis-
sion for the term of ten years, the same to commence on the first day
of June next, to erect, set up, carry on and drive, at all time and times
hereafter, during the term aforesaid, all and every such stage wagon
or wagons from the said cities of New York and Albany respective-
ly to the other, on the east side of Hudson's river, as they may judge
sufficient for the purpose of accommodating such a number of passen-
gers as may from time to time apply. And that it shall not be law-
ful for, nor shall any other person or persons upon any pretence what-
ever presume, during the term aforesaid, to erect, set up, carry on or
drive any stage wagon or wagons, or any other carriage or carriages
for the like purpose, from the said cities respectively, under the pen-
alty of two hundred pounds, to be recovered by any person or persons
who shall prosecute for the same, together with costs, in any court of
record having cognizance of the same.

II. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That the
said Isaac Van Wyck, Talmadge Hall and John Kinney, their execu-
tors, administrators and assigns shall furnish and provide at least two
good and sufficient covered stage wagons, to be drawn each by four
able horses for the purposes aforesaid ; and that the price for each and
every passenger therein, shall not exceed four pence per mile, inclu-
ding the liberty of carrying fourteen pounds weight of baggage. That
for every hundred and fifty pounds weight of baggage, a like sum of
four pence per mile shall be paid for the same ; and so in like propor-
tion for every greater or less quantity. And that such stage wagon
or wagons shall proceed at least once in every week, during the said
term of ten years, on the passage or journey aforesaid from the re-
spective cities aforesaid, unless the same are prevented by the bad-
ness of the roads or some uncommon accident.

Provided always. That in case the said Isaac Van Wyck, Talmadge
Hall and John Kinney, their executors, administrators or assigns,
shall neglect or refuse to do and perform the duties aforesaid accord-
ing to the true intent and meaning of this act, that in such case this
act shall cease, and be null and void.



Statistics. 113

STATISTICS.

The following valuable information was mostly extracted from the Ameri-
can Almanac, a deservedly popular work published in Boston, Massachusetts.

POPULATION OF THE COLONIES.
Colonies. Settled. 1701. 1749.

Massachusetts 1620-- 70,000- 220,000

Connecticut 163.5- 30,000-- 100,000

Rhode Island 1636--- 10,000 35,000

New Hampshire 1623 10,000 30,000

New York 1614 30,000 100,000

New Jersey ---1624- - 15,000 60,000

Pennsylvania 1682^ 2 -SO 000

Delaware ---1627 3 ' " ^50,000

Maryland - --1633 25,000 85,000

Virginia-- - 1607 40,000 85,000

North Carolina 1650 5,000 45,000

South Carolina 1670 --- 7,000 ---30,000

Georgia - 1633- 6,000



Total, 262,000 1,046,000

POPULATION OF COLONIES AND CITIES AT IRREGULAR PERIODS.

New Hampshire— 1730, 12,000; 1767, 5,270; 1775, 80,038.

Maine— 1795, 20,778.

Massachusetts— 1742, 164,000; 1763,21,024; 1765,227,926; 1776,348,094.

Boston— 1700, 7,000; 1722, 10,567; 1743, 16,382; 1752, 17,574; 1765, 15,520.

Salem— 1754, 3,462; 1765,4,427.

Rhode Island— 1730, 17.935; 1748,34,128; 1755,46,636; 1774,59,678.

Connecticut— 1756. 130,611; 1774, 197,856.

New York— 1731, 50,395; 1771, 163,338.

New York city— 1696, 4,302; 1731,8,628; 1756,10,381; 1773,21,876.

Pennsylvania- 1763, 280,000.

Philacielphia— 1731, 12,000; 1753, 18,000.

Mar) land— 1660, 12,000; 1676, 16,000; 1701,25,000; 1733,36,000; 1755,108,000;

1763, 70,000 whites.
Virginia— 1642, 20,000; 1660,30.000; 1663,60.606; 1763,170,000.
North Carolina— 1763, 95.000 whites.
South Carolina— 1701, 7,000; 1750,64,000; 1765,13,000.

POPULATION OF THE UNITED STATES.

Six enumerations. In 1790, 3,929,827; 1800, 5,305,925; 1810, 7,239,814; 1820, 9,638,131;
1830, 12,866.920: 1840. 17.062,566.

NEWSPAPERS AND PERIODICALS AT DIFFERENT PERIODS.



States. 1775. 1810. 1828.

Maine, 29

Massachusetts, 7 32 78

New Hampshire, 1 12 17

Vermont. 14 21

Rhode Island, 2 7 14

Connecticut, 4 11 33

New York, 4 66 161

New Jersey, 8 22

Pennsylvania, 9 71 185

Delaware, 2 4

Maryland, 2 21 37

District of Columbia, 6 9

Virginia. 2 23 34

North Carolina, 2 10 20

South Carolina. 3 10 16

Georgia, 1 13 18

MAIL TRANSPORTATION.

In 1749 — Whole length of mail routes, 1532 miles. Ditto in 1840, 155,739 miles An-
nual transportation, 36,370,776 miles. Ditto in stages, 20,299,278 miles.

In 1840 — In Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Wisconsin — Length of routes, 34,548
miles. Annual transportation, 6,711,622 miles. Ditto in stages, 3,730,942 miles.

Vol. I.— P 10 *



States. 1775.

Florida,
Alabama,
Mississippi,
Louisiana,
Tennessee,
Kentucky,
Ohio,
Indiana,
Michigan,
Illinois,
Missouri,
Arkansas,
Cherokee nation,

Total, 37 358 802



1810.


1828.


1


2




10


4


6


10


9


6


8


17


23


14


66




17




2




4




5




1




1



114 Logan'' s Spring.

"LOGAN'S SPRING."

[Communicated for the Pioneer by Dr. S. P. Hildheth.]

The following anecdote of Logan, the celebrated Mingo chief, is
so characteristic of his magnanimity and genuine love of the whites,
that it is well worth preserving. When not goaded to madness by
the injustice and cruelties of the Americans, and under the influence
of that all-absorbing passion, revenge, he was one of the most mild
and kind hearted of men. That particular injury being canceled, be-
nevolence and kindly feelings often predominate even in the savage
heart, returning in full force, and all former injuries are forgotten-
Could a disciple of Spurzhiem get possession of this Mingo hero's
skull, the organ of benevolence, as well as that of combativeness,
would be found largely developed. In a valley, in Mifflin county,
Pennsylvania, on the Kishaquoqullus creek, a branch of the Juniata,
about the year 1767, lived Mr, Samuel Maclay, a noted hunter and
surveyor of wild lands. He was a man of uncommon activity and
courage ; standing high in the estimation of the early settlers of that
remote part of Pennsylvania. After the war of the revolution, he
was for several years speaker of the senate of that state. A few years
after the capture of Fort Duquesne, and before peace was finally con-
cluded with the Indian tribes engaged on the side of the French, Mr.
Maclav was out on a surveying excursion. One evening, after a
fatiguing day's march, examining the country and fixing the bounda-
ries of lots, he encamped in a fine open wood, near a large spring, the
water of which gushed pure and limpid from the earth, in a hollow
way between two low hills. After eating his meal of broiled veni-
son, and drinking heartily from the spring, he stretched himself on a
fine bed of leaves, with his feet to the fire, and slept very quietly
through the night.

Early in the morning he was suddenly awakened from his quiet
slumbers by the low growl of his faithful dog, who lay crouched by
his side. As he opened his eyes in the direction of the first rays of
the morning light, the figure of a large Indian was seen in bold relief
against the clear sky, only a few yards from him, on the top of the
low hill opposite. He was in the act of cocking his gun, with the
barrel resting on his left arm, and at the same time looking intently
on Mr. Maclay. Surprised, but not dismayed, he seized the rifle that
lay by his side, and sprang to his feet. The Indian remained in the
same attitude without any attempt to tree, or further motion of firing.
They both remained in the same posture a few seconds, closely eye-
ing each other. At length the Indian slowly opened the pan of his



jinecdotes of Logan. 115

rifle and threw out the powder. Maclay did the same ; and laying
down his weapon, approached the Indian with outstretched hand in
token of peace. The warrior did the same, and all enmity disappear-
ed immediately. This Indian was the celebrated Logan, afterwards
so cruelly treated by white men. The spring near which this incident
occurred is still called " Logan's spring." They remained for many
years after, and until the encroachments of the borderers drove the
Indians west of the Ohio, warm and devoted friends ; and the descen-
dants of Mr. Maclay, from one of whom this incident was received,
still venerate the name of Logan.

Who but Logan could throw the priming out of his gun when facing an
armed enemy of another nation and color? Very few indeed. The above
incident Dr. H. says he received from W. Maclay Awl, M. D., of Colum-
bus, from whom we received another anecdote which shows the spirit of
the Mingo chief. Dr. Awl says his uncle had a very finely mounted gun,
much admired by Logan, who wished to try Mr. Maclay's expertness with
it, as well as the goodness of the rifle. He proposed to shoot against it for a
dollar per shot. Mr. Maclay and Logan joined in competition, and contin-
ued it nearly the whole of one afternoon, near Logan's cabin. Mr. Maclay
beat Logan four shots, and was about to depart, when Logan said, " Will you
not come in and get your four dollars ?" Mr. Maclay said, " O never mind,
John, that is nothing between us, you know." Logan immediately exclaim-
ed, at the same time violently striking his breast, " Captain John Logan is a
man." Mr. Maclay saw it would not do to refuse the money, and took it.
Dr. Awl also told us that there is scarce any thing more certain than that
Logan spoke English well, and it would much surprise him for any one to
insinuate that he could not. We think that, hopeless as the task might seem at
first, the readers of the Pioneer will soon be made intimately acquainted with
the whole of Logan's life and character, as well as those of thousands of
Others, and of circumstances which now seem shrouded in impenetrable dark-
ness. Such is the power of the periodical press, which in its evolutions turns
up matter unknown before, and which otherwise would be inevitably lost.



'^^i^S^^^'^^VVS^



Although poetry, in general, is not concordant with the spirit and inten-
tion of the Pioneer, yet the occasional introduction of descriptive poetry may
be a benefit, in taking off the rough edge which bold pioneer adventure has a
tendency to induce. It is undoubtedly right to cultivate the better affections;
and under this consideration we think every reader will be pleased with the
insertion of the following lines, written for the Pioneer, and communicated
by their author, Joseph D. Canning, Esq., of Gill, Massachusetts. They
speak for themselves.



116 The Shade of Logan.



THE SHADE OF LOGAN.

Through the wilds of the West, in the fall of the year,
A wanderer strayed in pursuit of the deer ;
And clad in the garb of the hunter was he —
The moccasined foot, and the bead-gartered knee.

Though far towards the sunrise the wanderer's home,
He loved in the gardens of nature to roam ;
By her melodies charmed, by her varying tale, .
He followed through forest and prairie her trail.

By the shore of a river at sunset he strayed,
And lingered to rest 'neath a sycamore shade ;
For soft was the breath of the summer-like air.
And the sweetest of scenes for a painter was there.

He mused : and in slumber the past was restored.
When thy waters, Scioto, a wilderness shored !
And the Shade of a Mingo before him uprose —
The friend of the white man, the fear of his foes.

Erect and majestic his form as of yore ;

The mists of the stream as a mantle he wore ;

And o'er his dark bosom the bright wampum showed,

Like the hues of the bow on the folds of a cloud.

The tones of his voice were the accents of grief.
For gloomy and sad was the Shade of the Chief;
And low as the strain of the whispering shell
His words on the ear of the slumberer fell : —

*' I appeal to the white man ungrateful, to say
If he e'er from my cabin went hungry away 1
If naked and cold unto Logan he came.
And he gave him no blanket, and kindled no flame 1

" When war, long and bloody, last deluged the land,

Not Logan was seen at the head of his band ;

From his cabin he looked for the fighting to cease,

And, scorned by his brethren, wrought the wampum of peace.

" My love to the white man was steadfast and true,
Unlike the deep hatred my red brothers knew ;
With him I had thought to have builded my home,
No more o'er the forest and prairie to roam.

" When the leaf which pale Autumn is withering now
Was fresh from its budding, and green on the bough.
Unprovoked, by the white man my kindred were slain,
And Logan became the wild Indian again !



Preservation of Manuscripts. 117

" There runs not a drop of my blood in the veins
Of any who lives — not a mortal remains !
Not even my wife or my children were spared —
All alike at the hand of the murderer shared !

" This called for revenge, and to seek it I rose ;
My hatchet is red with the blood of my foes,
The ghosts of the dead are appeased by their sire —
I have glutted my vengeance, and scorn to retire !

" I joy for my country that peace should appear,
But think not that mine is the gladness of fear.
Logan never felt fear. In the deadliest strife
He '11 not turn on his heel for the saving of life.

" Who is there to sorrow for Logan ] Not one !"
Thus spoke, and the Shade of the Mingo was gone !
But, Logan, thy words in his mem'ry are borne,
Who waking did mourn thee, and ever will mourn.



■*****^^f^^^^^**'



PRESERVATION OF MANUSCRIPTS.

It is a disideratum with the Logan Historical Society, to preserve the
manuscripts of the present day to the remotest ages of posterity, or at least, to
use other words, as near forever as the power and sagacity of man will ef-
fect. It is well known that the action of the atmosphere will destroy the col-
or of the inks in common use. In one hundred years, at farthest, the iron
seems to leave the tanin of the gall nut a dirty brown ; and, it is said, three
hundred years totally efface all the lineaments of our common inks. We
have manuscripts now lying before us, no more than fifty years old, which,
instead of black, are reduced to brown. It is true, ink might be prepared to
last better, and oil ink forever. But the object is to preserve such manu-
scripts as are already written, or will unquestionably be written with just such
ink as is commonly used.

It is not only inks that give way, but the texture of paper seems to be cor-
roded by long exposure to the atmosphere. This would take place let the
inks be what they might, and seems to show the necessity of pursuing some
method of keeping paper from the inroads of earth, air, fire, water and insects.
These all seem to war against the preservation of them. To preserve them

from dust, moisture, atmosphere and insects, it
has been proposed to encase files of papers,
printed and written, in air-tight metalic cases,
regularly numbered and indexed, so that it may
be known what is contained in each case with-
. out opening it. One of these cases now lies
before us, filled with manuscripts. It is three




118 j2merican Chronology.

and a half inches square by eight in length, and contains the original pro-
ceedings of the Logan Historical Society, all the manuscript copy of the first
number of the American Pioneer, (except editorials,) and many other papers,
which it is desirable to keep. Those cases for keeping newspapers, one of
which also lies before us, are in every way similar, except that they are nine
and a half instead of eight inches long. Having a press for the purpose, all
the papers are pressed before they are put in, and admit of very little air to
remain with them. Lest there should be enough to sustain animal life, a small
amount of aromatics are cased up with them.

We think when the society is fairly organized agreeably to its wishes,
and has an office built, in which there shall be nothing combustible but the
papers themselves, and shall have that office protected from electric shocks,
they will have done all they can do to put posterity in possession of as com-
plete a knowledge of our days as it is in the power of man to do. We have
but little doubt, however, but that other and better methods may, and we
hope will be suggested : this being the case, the society will be disposed to
adopt them.

Who does not see the great utility such an arrangement would be to pos-
terity ? What would our historians now give for a mine such as that woidd
be three hundred years hence, containing the most minute account of things
done two or three hundred years back ? Family records, copied from old
Bibles and transferred to the cases of this society, in many instances would
be of great benefit in the settlement of family lineage, in fixing titles to es-
tates, &;c. &c., long, long after the Bibles themselves, with the utmost care of
their owners, will have been destroyed.



«^>^^4?^>^^\^i^^^^^>^^^^«»*<



AMERICAN CHRONOLOGY.

It is the intention of the editor to extract from history thp leading events of
the discovery, settlement and improvement of North America, and place them
in chronological order. This is calculated to give a comprehensive view of
these subjects in a small compass. It will also give the youthful and reten-
tive mind a good opportunity of remembering many of the great events, and
connect them with their true dates in his mind. It is hoped also, by this
method, to inspire readers with the desire of searching and reading history.
Another motive for presenting the leading events of history in a condensed
form is, that without a knowledge of prior events, subsequent events cannot
be so well understood in many cases, and in scarce any cases can they pos-
sess so much interest. As it is the function of the Pioneer more particular-
ly to collect and present unpublished historical sketches, it seems necessary
for the better understanding of them, and to make the work more completely
useful, that we condense published history into a small compass, and present
it in as regular order as the state of our researches will admit. In a field so
wide and so varied, and with a mind much employed in editing the Pioneer,



American Chronology. 119

the editor does not flatter himself that he can give a complete view of histori-
cal events at first, in his chronological tables, but he hopes with a good de-
gree of care, and by the assistance, advice and corrections of his friends, to
present a view of history that will be found useful. The Pioneer being a
periodical, opportunity is thus oflered to correct these tables, and even to go
back and retrace, by bringing in more events, either of equal or of less im-
portance, and thus by a long continued research and frequent additions, he
hopes they will become useful depositories of much interesting information in
a very narrow compass.

AMERICAN CHRONOLOGY.

1447. Christopher Columbus born.

1461. Columbus commenced a seafaring life.

1467. Columbus made a voyage to Iceland.

1471. European navigators first crossed the equator.

1474. Columbus first entertained an idea of western discoveries.

1487. Bartholomew Diaz discovered the cape of Good Hope, in

Africa.
1492. August 3d. — Columbus commenced his first voyage of western

discovery.
Oct. 21. — Discovered the island of San Salvador, in America.

1497. John Cabot discovered North America, and called it Nova

Vista, or New Found Land.
Vasco de Gama doubled the cape of Good Hope.

1498. Columbus discovered the continent, at the mouth of the Oro-

noco, in South America.
Land of the United States discovered by Sebastian, son of
John Cabot.

1499. May. — Objeda and Amerigo Vespucci re-discovered the conti-

nent of South America, also at the mouth of the Oronoco ;
and by management, unjustly deprived Columbus of the
name of the new world.

1500. Columbus arrested by Bovadilla, in Hispaniola, and sent to

Europe in chains, where he was liberated.

1501. Plans laid in England for colonizing America.
Gaspar Cortreal, a Portuguese, visits North America.

1502. Bovadilla disgraced.

Columbus prosecutes his discoveries.
1508. The French discover the river St. Lawrence.
1512. Juan Ponce de Leon, of Spain, discovered Florida, on Easter

Sunday, and on account of the abundance of flowers gave

the country its present name.

1524. John Verazzani sailed to the shores of North Carolina, and

along the coast northward to the fiftieth degree of latitude.

1525. Stephen Gomez entered the bays of New York and New Eng-

land, and laid the country down on Spanish maps under the
title of the land of Gomez.
1534. James Chartier, under the authority of France, discovers the
river of Canada.



120 Funeral of the Hon. John Cleves Symmes.

1535. Canada was known by the name of New France. Chartier, in

a second voyage, entered the bay of St. Lawrence on the
day of that saint, which circumstance gave it and the river
their present names.

1536. A cross erected in Canada wearing the arms of France.

1539. Ferdinand de Soto, with six hundred companions, landed in

Florida, and explored the country as far as Flint river in
search of gold, a thirst for which animated many of the first
discoverers.

1540. Soto explored Georgia and Alabama, and destroyed Mobile,

then an Indian town, and wintered there.

1541. Chartier erected a fort at Quebec, which was abandoned.
Soto pushed his enterprise into Mississippi and Arkansas.

1542. Soto descended to the mouth of Red river, and was invited to

Natchez by the Natchez Indians.
May 21st. — Soto died, and his body was sunk in the Mississippi

river.
Francis de la Roque entered the bay of Massachusetts.

1543 Soto's companions, headed by Moscoso, push their journey to
Natchitoches ; get discouraged ; return to the mouth of Red
river ; build boats ; descend the river Mississippi with great
difficulty; and now reduced to three hundred and eleven,
reach Hispaniola in poverty. Thus ended this project under-
taken in search of gold.

1549. De la Roque and a numerous train of adventurers were sup-
posed to have perished at sea ; this seemed to check for some
years the spirit of new discoverers.
Louis Chancello attempted to settle Florida, and was killed by
the natives ; and his comrades attempted to settle Carolina,
which attempt failed also.

1564. The Huguenots of France again settled on the river St. John's.



■■V^«i^#4^^^^^^^4f^S^^<«S^M



FUNERAL OF THE HON. JOHN CLEVES SYMMES.
History demands that the following be preserved and published. Will not
the friends of the enterprising pioneers, who settled the Miami purchase, give
us brief biographies of their lives? Can they do justice to posterity without
it? and when so favorable an opportunity presents itself, can they be justified
if they neglect it ?

<< The citizens of Cincinnati are invited to attend the funeral of the
Hon. John Cleves Symmes, at the dwelling of Gen. Harrison in Front
street; to morrow at 10 o'clock, A. M. from whence a procession will
be formed to the landing of Mr. Joel Williams, where the body will
be embarked for North Bend, selected by the Judge as the place of
his interment. Such of his friends as can make it convenient to at-
tend his remains to that place can be accommodated on board the boat
which conveys them.

" Cincinnati, February 26, 1814."



AMEEI CAN PION EER.

JDraotci) to tl)c 3Irntlj a\\b Justice of i^istorjj.

VOL. I. _^ APRIL^842^ NO. IV .

REV. JOHN WILLIAMS.

[Communicated for the American Pioneer.]

Biographical Memoir of the Rev. John Williams, first Minister in
Deerfield, Massachusetts ; with an Account of the sacking of
that town by the French and Indians in 1703-4. By Stephen
W. Williams, A. M., M. D., late Professor of Materia Medica
and Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Lake Erie, ^'C.

CHAPTER I.

Notice of John WilHams the father — Birth and education of Rev. John WilHams, and his
settlement at Deerfield — The sacking of that town — Defence of the old house — The town
burnt — Prisoners started to Canada — Last interview between Mr. Williams and his wrife.

The lives of eminent men are identified with the history of the
section of the country in which they have resided. This is pecuUar-
ly the case with the subject of this memoir. Having spent the great-
er part of his days in the town of Deerfield, on the banks of Connec-
ticut river, at a period when the country was wild and waste, and ex-
posed to all the horrors of savage warfare, and having sustained so
great a share of the privations and sufferings of our fathers in plant-
ing and establishing the pleasant country in which we now reside,
under the banners of peace, of comfort, and security, his biography
must be interesting to his friends and the public.

Mr. John Williams was born at Roxbury, Massachusetts, Decem-
ber 16, 1664. He was son of deacon Samuel Williams, of the same
place, and grandson of Mr. Robert Williams, who, according to the
best information I can obtain, came from Norwich, England, and set-
tled at Roxbury in the year 1638, eighteen years from the time of the
landing of the pilgrims at Plymouth, and eight years from the settle-
ment of Trimontain, Shawmut, or Boston, It appears that at the
time of the first settlement of Boston there was but one English in-
habitant in Roxbury. Eight years after this, Mr. Williams arrived
and settled there. We have no correct accoiuit of the cause of his
leaving his native land, but it was, probably on account of the relig-
ious persecutions of the puritans, which at that time was carried on
with fiery and unrelenting zeal ; so much so, that our ancestors pre-
ferred risking their lives and property in a savage wilderness, far dis-
tant from their native home, to the more savage persecutions of fanat-
ical bigots. The faithful page of history has intbrmed us of the suf-
ferings of our fathers in establishing themselves in this howling wil-
derness, and how much they had to contend with from the warfare of
the savages, from famine, and disease. It is probable that Mr. Wil-

123



124 Rev. John Williams.

liams endured his portion of these trials and hardships. Soon after
his arrival at Roxbury he married and had four children, and from
him have descended all the families of Williams in this section of the
country.

John, the subject of this notice, early devoted his attention to study.
Through the munificence of his honored and pious grandfather, on
the maternal side, deacon William Park, he was educated at Harvard
College, and graduated there in the year 1683, at the age of nineteen
years. He soon after connnenced the study of divinity. I do not
know the period of clerical pupilage in those days, but it appears that
he became the first minister of Deerfield in the spring of 1686. The
peril of such an undertaking in those days, when the country had
been laid in ruins, but a short time before, by the bold incursions of
King Philip of Mount Hope, one of the most enterprising chieftains,
according to his means, of ancient or modern times, was great.

In March, 1686, Mr. Williams was ordained the first minister of the
gospel in Deerfield, when he was but little more than twenty-one
years of age. He must have been shielded by the whole armor of
the Christian warfare to have risked his life in so hazardous an un-
dertaking. The following is the agreement between him and his
people, copied from the early records of the town :

" The inhabitants of Deerfield, to encourage Mr. John Williams to
settle amongst them, to dispense the blessed word of truth unto them,
have made propositions to him as folio weth : —

" That they will give him sixteen cow commons of meadow land,
with a home-lot that lyeth on the meeting house hill — that they will
build him a house forty-two feet long, twenty feet wide, with a lento
on the back side of the house, to fence his home-lot, and within two
years after this agreement, to build him a barn, and break up his
ploughing land. For yearly salary, to give him sixty pounds a year
for the present, and four or five years after this agreement to add to
his salary, and make it eighty pounds. The committee ap])roved and
ratified the above propositions on the condition Mr. Williams settle
among them.

" Attest, Medad Pumry, by order of the committee."

"At a meeting of the inhabitants of Deerfield, December 17, 1686,
there was granted to Mr. John Williams a certain piece of land lying
within the meadow fence, beginning at Joseph Sheldon's north line,
and so runs to Deerfield river, north, or northeast, the ov/ners of the
common fence maintaining it as it now is at the time of the grant."

There was a further agreement between Mr. Williams and the
town in relation to his salary, in 1696-7. "The town to pay their
salary to me in wheat, pease, Indian-corn, and pork, at the prices
stated, viz. — wheat at 3s. '3d. per bushel, Indian corn at 2s. per bushel,
fatted pork at 2d. 1-2 per lb., these being the terms of the bargain
made with me at the first.

(Signed) JOHN WILLIAMS."

About seven years after his settlement, on the sixth of June, 1693,
Indian depredations again commenced at Deerfield, and the widow
Hepzibah Wells, of his society, and three of her daughters were
knocked down, and scalped, one of whom recovered from the terrific



Sacking of Deer field. 125

maiming. Thomas Broughton and his wife and three children were
also killed at the same time. A few months afterwards a man by the
name of Martin Smith was taken prisoner, and carried to Canada,
but he returned in a few years. From this time, for the space of
nine years, the town and neighborhood of Deerfield were subject to
frequent incursions. Several persons were killed and some taken
prisoners. That occasioned the old fort of Deerfield to be repaired.
About twenty acres were picketed in, and the old house stood near
the northeast corner of the pickets. Many dwelling houses were
also to some extent fortified.

Just before break of day, on the morning of the 29th of February,
1704, the town was attacked by surprise, by two hundred French,
and one hundred and forty-two Indians from Canada, under the com-
mand of major Hertel de Rouville, aided by two brothers. At the
time the attack was made, the snow was four feet deep on the ground.
The crust was sufficiently hard to bear the weight of men. At this
time there was not a single settlement on the west side of the river
between Deerfield and St. Johns in Canada. The attack was entirely
unlooked for, and not guarded against. The sentinel was unfaithful,
and had retired to rest. But few troops were stationed here at the
time. Some parts of the town were defended by high pickets, which
extended round several acres, including many parts of the street.
These were called the forts, but some of the dwelling houses were
calculated for defense, and were built in the form of blockhouses,
with the walls filled with bricks, and considered proof against musket
balls. The snow was drifted against the pickets, and the enemy en-
tered in a body without difficulty. In detached parties they broke
open houses, and murdered the unsuspecting inhabitants in their
sleep. Fortunate indeed were those who escaped. The tomahawk
and war-whoop were the precursors of death. A large party of In-
dians, as described by Mr. Williams, broke open his house, which
stood within the walls of the fort. He was in a profound sleep. The
yells of ihe savages awakened him. He sprang from his bed, and
running towards the door he perceived the enemy entering into his
house. He called to awaken two soldiers who slept in the chamber
above. Returning he snatched a pistol from his bed-tester, presented
it towards the foremost Indian and snapped it. It fortunately missed
fire, or he probably would have been murdered. He now expected
to be immediately butchered, but his fortitude did not forsake him.
The words of Isaiah xxx. 38 ; viii. 10, 11, occurred to him : — " I said
in the cutting oft' of my days, I shall go to the gates of the grave: I
am deprived of the residue of my years. I said I shall not see the
Lord, even the Lord in the land of the living : I shall behold man no
more, with the inhabitants of the world." The leader of the Indians
who took him was a captain, who was killed shortly after by a shot
from a neighboring house. His house was now rifled of every valua-
ble article, and two infant children and a black domestic were inhu-
manly murdered. His wife, who was just recovering from the bed
of confinement, and five children were taken prisoners. They then
gave him liberty to put on his clothes, keeping one arm bound till he
put them on the other, and then changed the cord till he had dressed

11 *



126 Rev. John Williams.

himself, and then pinioned him again. They also gave the same lib-
erty to his wife and children. At this time a captain Stoddard, who
slept in the house that night, jumped from the chamber windows,
while the Indians were rifling the house and securing their prisoners,
and escaped across Deerfield river, where tearing his cloak which he
had taken with him in pieces, he bound the shreds round his feet and
reached Hatfield greatly exhausted. Upon Mr. Williams' leaving the
town, they burnt his house and barn. The old house, which is still
standing, was attacked with fury. This was the largest, strongest,
and best in the village. The door was filled with nails and firmly
bolted, and it resisted their eff'orts. They then cut the hole in it
which is still to be seen. Through this hole they pointed their guns,
and killed the wife of captain John Sheldon, the owner of the house,
who was dressing herself in her bed, in the corner of an adjoining
room. This house is the pride of our village, as it recalls recollections
pleasing though mournful to the soul. It annually attracts the atten-
tion of many strangers of distinction. Many bullet holes have been
found in various parts of it, and in many of these holes the balls still
remain and are to be seen. The Indians finally gained possession of
the house, and kept it, together with the old meeting house, as a de
pot for their prisoners, till they left the town. [See frontispiece.]

This attack was sudden and furious, and much bravery was dis-
played in the defence ; but the means were inadequate. Seven men,
and a few women, defended a house a few rods from the old one,
against the combined force, during the whole time of the engagement,
and killed several of the enemy. Great efforts were made by them
to carry the house, but they were all resolutely defeated. The women,
with the intrepidity of Amazons were busily engaged in casting bul-
lets for the supply of the defendants. The house unfortunately took
fire after the Indians left the town with the prisoners, and was con-
sumed. All resistance, all human efforts were unavailing.

Major De Rouville collected the prisoners and plundered and burnt
the principal part of the houses, and commenced his march with them
to Canada, about an hour after sunrise. I shall not attempt to por-
tray the horrors of that dreadful scene. Language is inadequate to
convey the realities of that heart-rending transaction, although they
have been described in letters of blood.

On the retreat with the prisoners, the enemy were attacked in the
meadows by a party of men from Hatfield, and some others who had
received information from some of our men who had escaped from
the massacre at the onset, and a sharp contest ensued, which com-
pelled them to retire with the loss of nine of their party. This en-
gagement was near causing the death of all the captives. The bloody
word was given by Rouville to tomahawk all the prisoners, but the
messenger was killed before he conveyed his orders, and the French
commander soon countermanded them.

The number of prisoners taken in this memorable and bloody ac-
tion, was one hundred and twelve, including three Frenclmien who
resided here. The luimber of killed was forty-seven, whose bodies
were deposited at the south side of our old burying-yard. The ene-
my lost about the same number. In April, 1703-4, after this action,



Prisoners taken to Canada. 127

the town of Deerfield contained about two hundred and eighty souls.
It has been said that if the Indians had failed in their first attempt to
carry the fort, they would have been compelled to have surrendered
their whole army at discretion, for their stock of provisions was en-
tirely exhausted, and to return would have been certain destruction,
as there was no settlement until they reached Canada.

Gen. Hoyt observes : — Soon after the action in the meadows, Rou-
ville commenced his march to Canada. Most gloomy was the pros-
pect of the captives ; many were women ; these under circumstances
requiring the most tender treatment ; some, young children, whose
tender frames could not sustain the fatigues of a day ; others, infants,
who were to be carried in the arms of their parents, left on the snow,
or knocked on the head with the tomahawk ; and several of the adult
males were badly wounded. Under these melancholy forbodings,
others no less appalling presented. The distance to Canada was not
much less than three hundred miles through a country wild and
waste; the ground deeply covered with snow, the weather cold and
inclement, and what appeared impossible to surmount, provisions
were to be procured on the route. At the commencement of the
march the murder of an infant was a prelude to the barbarities that
were to be expected from the blood-thirsty Indians.

The prisoners, with Mr. Williams, were taken over the river to the
west mountain, where they were all assembled to the number of one
hundred, nineteen of whom were afterwards murdered on the jour-
ney, and two starved to death in a time of scarcity of provisions
among the savages, at a place called Coos, near Newbury, in Ver-
mont. Their own shoes were now taken away, and Indian ones
given them instead, they being considered easier to travel in.

After this they went up the mountain west of the river, where they
could behold the smouldering ruins of Deerfield, and before they pro-
ceeded any farther they killed an infant of one of the captives.

The first day's travel was tedious and slow. The savages had so
much compassion upon the children of the prisoners as well as upon
their own wounded as to carry them upon their shoulders thirty miles
to Connecticut river, probably above Brattleborough, in Vermont.
They also carried the children, that were incapable of traveling, in
their arms and upon their shoulders. On the first night they dug
away the snow, and made wigwams, and formed their beds of the
small branches of the spruce tree. They here fed the prisoners, who
had but little appetite after the appalling scenes they had just passed
through. Mr. Williams was pinioned and bound down that night,
and every succeeding one that he remained in the army. Some of
the Indians who brought ardent spirits with them from the town, be-
came intoxicated, and in their fury they killed his negro man, which
was the only dead person he saw, either in Deerfield or on the jour-
ney. On this night one of the prisoners escaped. Mr. Williams was
sent for in the morning, and commanded by the general to tell the
prisoners that if any more of them escaped they would burn the rest
to death. In our next chapter it will be our painful duty to relate
the inhuman murder of Mr. William's wife and his great sufferings
through the wilderness, &c.



128 An Early Voyage on the Ohio, SfC.

HISTORY OF A VOYAGE FROM MARIETTA TO NEW
ORLEANS, IN 1805.

CHAPTER V.

FROM THE MOUTH OF THE OHIO TO FORT PICKERING.

The Mississippi, New Madrid, Jefferson — The great earthquake of 1811 — Graphic account
of it by an eye-witness — Rapid movement — Southern birds — Fort PickeHng.

As the Nonpariel passed from the smooth waters of the Ohio into
the turbulent current of the " father of rivers," the wind freshened, and
spreading their broad sail to the breeze, the little vessel glided swiftly
along over the boiling eddies of the Mississippi. The transit from
the quiet Ohio to the hurried motion of the former river is always an
interesting period in a voyage to New Orleans, and especially so to
those who witness it for the first time. Such was now the situation
of Charles DevoU and Graham, (the captain had navigated it two or
three times before,) who viewed the contrast with wonder and admi-
ration. Eight or ten hours' sail served to transport them to the cheer-
ful looking little tov/n of New Madrid, a distance of sixty miles. It
stood on a high bank, in a broad bend of the river. Many of the
houses were painted white, with wide verandas or piazzas; and
coming as they did from a wilderness region, v/here no town had
greeted their eyes since leaving the falls, the first view of this smiling
village was animating and delightful. The inhabitants were a mixed
people of French, Spanish and American. Under the Spanish gov-
ernment it had been a town of considerable importance, and the resi-
dence of a military commandant. It was the site of a small fort, and
required all boats descending the river to stop and pay a duty on their
load ; but now being in the hands of the Americans, this custom, so
annoying to the republicans of the valley of the Ohio, had ceased.
When the duty was paid the boat or vessel received a clearance or li-
cense, by which they might sell their load at any of the ports or
towns on the Mississippi. Of these exactions loud complaints were
made by the western boatmen, and no doubt were greatly influential
in hastening the purchase of Louisiana by the United States. At one
time the people had serious thoughts of taking the country by force
of arms and driving out these hard hearted exacters. A much wiser
course was however taken by the cautious Jefferson ; by which he
not only secured the quiet possession of the country, but also the pay-
ment of several millions of dollars of debts due to his countrymen.
The practice of collecting custom from the boats and vessels of stran-
gers, who sail on the waters within the territory of another tribe or
nation, is of ancient usage, and still in fashion amongst the petty sov-
ereigns along the borders of the Rhine, and other large rivers of Eu-
rope. New Madrid was founded by colonel George Morgan, of Penn-
sylvania, with the permission of the Spanish government, soon after
the war of independence. The site was considered to be a very ju-
dicious one for a town, and at the "time of this voyage contained a
population of three or four hundred inhabitants, amongst which were
a number of genteel families, noted for their hospitality.

A few years after this, New Madrid was overwhelmed by the most



From the Mouth of Ohio to Fort Pickering. 129

violent earthquake that ever was known in the United States, and the
town in a manner depopulated. The reason why so few of the in-
habitants were destroyed, was owing to the materials of their dwell-
ings being of wood, instead of brick or stone. At Caraccas, where
an earthquake took place near the same time, thousands of the peo-
ple were crushed beneath the ruins of their stone houses ; although it
is not probable the concussions were more violent than they were on
the Mississippi. A brief description of that event may not be unin-
teresting to readers of the present day. Tlie centre of its violence
was thought to be near the Little Prairie, twenty-five or thirty miles
below New Madrid ; the vibrations from which were felt all over the
valley of the Ohio, as high up as Pittsburgh. The first shock was
felt in the night of the 16th of December, 1811, and was repeated at
intervals, with decreasing violence, into February following. New
Madrid, having suffered more than any other town on the Mississippi
from its effects, was considered as situated near the focus from whence
the undulations proceeded.

From an eye-witness, who was then about fort}'- miles below that
town, in a flat boat, on his way to New Orleans with a load of pro-
duce, and who narrated the scene to me, the agitation wliich convulsed
the earth and the waters of the mighty INIississippi filled every living
creature with horror. The first shock took place in the night, while
the boat was Ijang at the shore in company with several others. At
this period there was danger apprehended from the southern Indians,
it being soon after the battle of Tippecanoe, and for safety several
boats kept in company, for mutual defense in case of an attack. In
the middle of the night there was a terrible shock and jarring of the
boats, so that the crews were all awakened and hurried on deck with
their weapons of defense in their hands, thinking the Indians were
rushing on board. The ducks, geese, swans, and various other aqua-
tic birds, whose numberless flocks were quietly resting in the eddies
of the river, were thrown into the greatest tumult, and with loud
screams expressed their alarm in accents of terror. The noise and
commotion soon became hushed, and nothing could be discovered to
excite apprehension, so that the boatmen concluded that the shock
was occasioned by the falling in of a large mass of the bank of the
river near them. As soon as it was light enough to distinguish ob-
jects, the crews were all up making ready to depart. Directly a loud
roaring and hissing was heard, like the escape of steam from a boiler,
accompanied by the most violent agitation of the shores and tremen-
dous boiling up of the waters of the Mississippi in huge swells, rolling
the waters below back on the descending stream, and tossing the
boats about so violently that the men with difficulty could keep on
their feet. The sandbars and points of the islands gave way, swal-
lowed up in the tumultuous bosom of the river; carrying down with
them the cottonwood trees, cracking and crashing, tossing their arms
to and fro, as if sensible of their danger, while they disappeared be-
neath the flood. The water of the river, which the day before was
tolerably clear, being rather low, changed to a reddish hue, and be-
came thick with mud thrown up from its bottom; while the surface,
lashed violently by the agitation of the earth beneath, was covered

Vol. L— R



130 t/ln Early Voyage on the Ohio, 4'C.

with foam, which, gathering into masses the size of a barrel, floated
along on the trembling surface. The earth on the shores opened in
wide fissures, and closing again, threw the water, sand and mud, in
huge jets, higher than the tops of the trees. The atmosphere was
filled with a thick vapor or gas, to which the light imparted a pur-
ple tinge, altogether different in appearance from the autumnal haze
of Indian summer, or that of smoke. From the temporary check to
the current, by the heaving up of the bottom, the sinking of the banks
and sandbars into the bed of the stream, the river rose in a few minutes
five or six feet ; and, impatient of the restraint, again rushed forward
with redoubled impetuosity, hurrying along the boats, now set loose
by the horror-struck boatnien, as in less danger on the water than at
the shore, where the banks threatened every moment to destroy them
by the falling earth, or carry them down in the vortices of the sinking
masses. Many boats were overwhelmed in this manner, and their
crews perished with them. It required the utmost exertions of the
men to keep the boat, of which my informant was the owner, in the
middle of the river, as far from the shores, sandbars and islands, as
they could. Numerous boats were wrecked on the snags and old
trees thrown up from the bottom of the Mississippi, where they had
quietly rested for ages, while others were sunk or stranded on the
sandbars and islands. At New Madrid several boats were carried
by the reflux of the current into a small stream that puts into the
river just above the town, and left on the ground by the returning
water a considerable distance from the Mississippi. A man who be-
longed to one of the company boats was left for several hours on the
upright trunk of an old snag in the middle of the river, against which
his boat was wrecked and sunk. It stood with the roots a few feet
above the water, and to these he contrived to attach himself, while
every fresh shock threw the agitated waves against him, and kept
gradually settling the tree deeper into the mud at the bottom, bringing
him nearer and nearer to the deep muddy waters, which, to his terri-
fied imagination, seemed desirous of swallowing him up. While
hanging here, calling with piteous shouts for aid, several boats passed
by without being able to relieve him, until finally a skiff was well
manned, rowed a short distance above him, and dropped down stream
close to the snag, from which he tumbled into the boat as she floated
by. The scenes which occurred for several days, during the repeated
shocks, were horrible. The most destructive took place in the begin-
ning, although they were repeated for many weeks, becoming lighter
and lighter until they died away in slight vibrations, like the jarring
of steam in an immense boiler. The sulphurated gases that were dis-
charged during the shocks tainted the air with their noxious effluvia,
and so strongly impregnated the water of the river, to the distance of
one hundred and fifty miles below, that it could hardly be used for
any purpose for a number of days. New Madrid, which stood on a
bluff bank, fifteen or twenty feet above the summer floods, sunk so
low that the next rise covered it to the depth of five feet. The bot-
toms of several fine lakes in the vicinity were elevated so as to be-
come dry land, and have since been planted with corn !

Returning from this digression, we will resume the narrative of the



From the Mouth of Ohio to Fort Pickering. 131

voyage of the Nonpariel. After lying by a few hours, selling some
articles of the load, and taking a view of the town, they put off into
the current, making a much more rapid progress than while on the
Ohio. The whole way from this place to the lower Chickasaw
bluffs, or Fort Pickering, a distance of one hundred and forty miles,
was a wilderness, occupied by the tribe of Indians whose name is
given to the bluffs. These bluffs are ridges of higli land, which
rising in the interior of the country on the left bank, terminate ab
ruptly on the river. At some remote period, there was probably a
time when these ridges were continued across the space now occu-
pied by the alluvions of the Mississippi. They are seated in the east-
erly bends of the river, with widely extended bottoms on the westerly
shore, and are four in number. The state of Tennessee includes
them within her boundaries.

As they sailed gaily along, the attention of Charles and Graham
was constantly arrested by the noisy chattering of the paroquets.
Their gay plumage and lively motions, as they hopped from branch
to branch amongst the dee|) green foliage of the trees, several of
whicii were in flower, aflbrded a constant theme for remark ; while
the more staid habits and quiet movements of the pelicans, swans and
sand hill cranes added another charm to the picturesque scenery.
The latter bird, so named from their attachment to sandbars and
heads of islands, where they wade in the water .and search for
Avorms, snails and small shells, their favorite food, existed in thou-
sands, and covered the heads of the islands with their numbers. At
these they could not refrnin from firing an occasional shot ; although
they appeared to be but little disturbed by the report of the rifle,
merely raising their heads for a moment and returning again to dab-
bling in the sand. Tiie swan is a majestic, beautiful bird, and cele-
brated from the earliest antiquity for its graceful form and move-
ments on the water. The pelican is more plebeian in his manners
and shape. Furnished with a long broad bill, the upper mandible of
which terminates in a hook, lie is enabled to carry on his occu[>ation
of fishing with success. Beneath the lower mandible, and extending
to the breast, there is a membraneous sack, or bag, that will hold
from a quart to half a gallon, in which he deposits the proceeds of his
labor, after satisfying his own appetite, for the use of his family.

Occupied with such a variety of objects the time passed rapidly
away, and the vessel reached Fort Pickf ring in forty-eight hours.

Fort Pickering was built by colonel Strong a few years before. It
stood on elevated and conmiaiiding ground, and was quite an import-
ant station. The garrison consisted of one himdied men. 'i'he cap-
tain was acquainted with several of the otficers, and tliey spent a few
hours very .sociably at the garrison. They did not sell many articles
of their load, as they thought a better price might be obtained below.
The spot where Fort Pickering was erected is now occupied by the
town of Girard ; while JNIenjphis stands three miles above on the ele-
vation of the lower Chickasaw bluff, and is quite a brisk town that
has sprung up \vithin a few years. In 1S05 very few whites had
ventured to settle along the shores of the INIississippi from New Mad-
rid to the '• Walnut hills," a distance of nearly five hundred miles,



132 %B.n Early Voyage on the, Ohio, fyc.

but the whole region was in the possession of the Indians, A con-
siderable portion of this space, bordering the left bank of the river,
remains to this day unsettled, being covered with water at every
flood to the depth of ten or fifteen feet, and flowing back from twenty
to thirty miles from the river.



CHAPTER vr.

FROM FORT PICKERING TO BATON ROUGE.

Spanish moss — Alligator anecdote — Walnut hills — Natchez — Anecdote of Philip Dodridge
Mr. Graham, old Thom and Bill leave the Nonpariel — Baton Rouge.

Shortly after leaving Fort Pickering a striking change was noticed
in the vegetable productions of the country. The dark brown foliage
of the cypress, with its thickly clustering branches, had been seen for
the last few days along the swampy borders of the river, but now the
" Spanish moss,^' {tiUandsia usneoides,) appeared hanging in fes-
toons from its trunk and limbs. This parasitic plant is peculiar to
the lower Mississippi and the country bordering the gulf of Mexico ;
imparting a funereal and melancholy expression to the forests, re-
minding one of mourning weeds and sepulchral drapery, as the
wind sighs and moans through its thread-like texture. It however
has its uses ; affording food to the wild deer and cattle, when they
can find no better, and a valuable article for stuffing beds and mat-
resses. The palmetto, [chemcrops latanier,) with its evergreen
foliage, also reminds the voyager from the upper waters that he is
approaching the warmer regions of the South.

In addition to these new tenants of the land, the ill favored and un-
sightly form of the alligator is seen; lying on a stationary pile of drift
wood, or stretched on a sandbar, enjoying his "siesta" in the warm
rays of the sun. Barker, who had navigated this river before, was
familiar with their appearance, but to Charles and Graham the sight
was novel and exciting. They soon made up their minds to pick a
quarrel with them the first good opportunity, and requested the cap-
tain, who was always at the helm and keeping a look out, to give
them notice of the next one he saw asleep. It was not long before
one was seen lying on a drift just above the mouth of the Arkansas
river. They immediately sprang into the little skiff that was towing
along at the stern of the schooner, armed with their pistols, intending
to give him a shot or two before he awakened. With great caution
they dropped the skiff' slowly along to within a few feet of the sleep-
ing monster, and Graham was just raising his pistol for a shot, when,
with a sudden flirt, he rolled into the water so near them as nearly to
upset their little boat. Their first thought was that he would attack
them in the river, being his favorite residence, when Charles, putting
all his strength to the oars, pulled directly for the schooner, pleased to
escape from the contest with no further harm than a good fright.

In three days after leaving Fort Pickering they reached the "Wal-
nut hills," where was a small village of log huts inhabited chiefly by
hunters. It is now the site of Vicksburgh, a large flourishing town
and a port from which is shipped a great portion of the cotton grown
in the state of Mississippi. Since leavmg the mouth of the Ohio they



From Fort Pickering to Baton Rouge. 133

had passed but few flat boats, it being rather late in the season ; and
besides only a small number descended at this early day, the pro-
duce of the country on that river being mostly wanted for the sup-
port of the new settlers which were daily pouring in like a flood.
Tennessee and Kentucky having been longer settled, had commenced
sending considerable quantities of tobacco and flour to New Orleans,
even while it was under the Spanish regime. Robert Williamson, a
native of Tennessee, informed me that he had sent flour down the
Cumberland river as early as the year 1787, which sold at New Or-
leans for twenty-two dollars a barrel; and again in 1793, when it
brought only twelve dollars. There was then a duty on it of two
dollars per barrel. A considerable number of barges had began to
ascend the Mississippi, with groceries, and every few days they were
greeted with the sight of one of these boats toiling upward with oar
and line against the powerful current of the "father of rivers." On
these occasions tiie lively songs and rude jokes of the boatmen served
to enliven the way, and aflbrd a theme for remark for several hours
after. The amount of merchandise sent up the river in barges in
1805 could not have been great, as in 1810 it amounted only to three
hundred tons. In 1813, the business had increased to three thousand
tons, and more and larger boats were employed ; while the price of
freight had fallen to ninety dollars a ton to the falls of the Ohio. In
the year 1812, the first steam-boat run on the river between New
Orleans and Natchez, performing the upward voyage in seven days,
and the downward in tivo days. The price of a cabin passage up
was twenty-five dollars, and down it was eighteen dollars. In the
year 1815, the first steam-boat voyage was accomplished between
New Orleans and Pittsburgh, by captain Shreve, in the Enterprise.
The trip upward was performed in fifty-four days, twenty of which
it was said were spent in stoppages at intermediate ports. Such im-
provements have since taken place as to shorten the period to about
one fourth of that time.

From the "Walnut hills" to Natchez, a distance of one hundred
and twenty miles, nothing worthy of notice occurred. The country
was more settled than above, and' the openings and log cabins of the
cotton planters were occasionally seen. The cultivation of this plant,
now so important an article in the exports of the country, was begun
by the Spaniards as early as the year 1772, in the vicinity of Nat-
chez; but was greatly lessened in value from the difficulty of clear-
ing it from the seeds, which tedious operation was i)erformed by
hand until the invention of the "cotton gin" by the ingenious Whit-
ney. Natchez was at this time a town of considerable size, and next
in importance to New Orleans. The Nonpariel had been twenty-one
days in performing the voyage from Cincinnati. While lying here
they sold a lew articles of tlieir load. Cheese readily brought thirty-
seven and a half cents a pound; grindstones, being a new and rare
article in this market, sold quickly to the mechanics at fifty cents an
inch, measuring the diameter of the stone. Natchez had been in the
occupancy of the United States since the year 1798, when it was
given up by the Spaniards, who had held it since 1781. The first
governor of the Mississippi territory was Winthrop Sargent, who had

12



134 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, Sf'C.

lived in Marietta during the Indian war. He was succeeded in 1802
by William C. C. Claiborne, who in 1804 was appointed governor of
the newly acquired territory of Louisiana.

While speaking of Natchez, it will be interesting to notice a curi-
ous incident in the life of Philip Dodridge, Esq., which took place in
this town about the year 1796. Mr. Dodridge, as is well known to
the early inhabitants of western Pennsylvania and Virginia, was for
many years one of the most noted men in that region for his splendid
talents at the bar ; and has probably never been excelled, if he has
been equalled, for his discrimination in fathoming the depths of an
intricate case, or his powerful and logical reasoning in unfolding it.
His father was amongst the earliest settlers of northwestern Virginia,
in the vicinity of what was then called Charleston, but now Wells-
burgh. His constitution being not very robust, at the age of sixteen
or eighteen years he was taken from the plough, put to school, and
commenced the study of Latin. His vigorous mind drank in know-
ledge with the rapidity of thought, or as a dry sponge absorbs water.
It soon became a habit with him to exercise his memory in changing
the common conversation around him into the idiom of his studies ;
and following his father in his evening and morning devotions, he
soon learned to render his prayers into very good Latin, and to con-
verse with his teacher quite fluently. This close application to his
books, although it invigorated his mental powers, yet enfeebled his
body, and it became necessary for a while to suspend his studies. At
this period, the region in which he lived had become so much im-
proved as to afford considerable surplus produce beyond the wants
of the inhabitants, the only market for which was to be found on the
Mississippi river or at New Orleans. Some of his cousins, young
men of his own age, having loaded a boat with flour, invited him to
go with them, and recruit his enfeebled frame by a voyage to the
South. Nothing very interesting occurred until they reached Nat-
chez, at that time in the possession of the Spaniards. They were
very strict in their police, forbidding any strangers or boatmen to go
up into the town, seated on a high bluff, without a written permis-
sion from the commandant or governor of the place. Young Dod-
ridge feeling the ill effects of confinement to the narrow limits of the
boat, and that he needed exercise, determined to take a walk and
visit the town on the hill. He had ascended about half way, when
he was met by a well dressed man, who accosted him in the Spanish
language. Dodridge did not fully understand him, but thought it
similar to the Latin, and answered him in that tongue. It so happen-
ed that the individual who addressed him was no less a personage
than the governor of Natchez, and was well versed in the Latin, hav-
ing been liberally educated in Spain. They soon fell into a very
familiar and animated discourse, without Philip's once suspecting the
station of his new acquaintance. Learning that he had visited the
Mississippi country on account of his delicate health, and that he was
now walking for exercise after long confinement to the boat, and
withal astonished and delighted to have discovered so learned a man
in an up-country boatman, he invited him to his house. The spright-
ly wit and uncommon intellect of the young stranger soon won his



From Fort Pickering to Baton Rouge. 135

whole heart, and mterested the Spanish commandant deeply in his
welfare. His admiration was not the less excited from having point-
ed out to him on a large map of the western country, which hung
against the wall, the spot near the head of the Ohio river, where he
was born, and from whence he departed on the present voyage.
While thus agreeably engaged, a black servant drove up to the door
with a neat Spanish carriage and pair of horses, accompanied with
an invitation from the governor to step in and ride as far as he pleas-
ed. With many thanks, not the less acceptable to his benefactor
from their being clothed in the Latin tongue, Philip accepted the
ottered kindness, and extended his ride to some distance around the
suburbs of Natchez. When about to depart, he was invited to call
every day as long as he remained, and the carriage and servant
should be ready for his service. This pleasing intercourse was con-
tinued for about a week ; and when he finally took his leave, the
governor gave him letters of introduction to several of the first men in
New Orleans, accompanied with many flattering expressions of his
admiration for his uncommon acquirements and the pleasure his ac-
quaintance had aff'orded him ; thus demonstrating the homage that is
ever paid by the wise and good to learning and worth, even when
accompanied with poverty and amongst strangers. His companions
looked with wonder and astonishment at the gracious reception
and attention paid to their cousin by the governor, while they were
barely allowed to step on shore, and not suff'ered to leave the vicin-
ity of the landing. Philip laughingly told them it was all owing to
his good looks, which they could hardly believe, as in this particu-
lar they were decidedl^r superior to their cousin. On reaching New
Orleans, his letters procured him ready admission to the tables and
the society of the most prominent men in the city, and the few
weeks he staid there were passed in a round of amusements, freely
bestowed by the hospitable Spaniards. At his departure they loaded
him with their good wishes and assurances that they should never
forget his name, or the pleasure they had received from the brilliant
sallies of his humor and wit. Philip Dodridge was not less celebra-
ted on the west side of the Alleghany mountains for his eloquence
and splendid talents, than Patrick Henry was by the men of his day
in the eastern portions of Virginia.

Mr. Graham left the Nonpariel at Natchez, with many ardent good
wishes for the welfare and safe return of her crew to their home in
Ohio. Their two hands, "old Thom" and " old Bill," also left them,
and in their place the captain took on board Mr. P. H. Hubbard, a
house joiner, on his way from Pennsylvania to Mobile, with three
hired hands, where he intended to carry on the business of house
building. It was the last of May when the schooner unmoored from
Natchez and took her departure for Baton Rouge, one hundred and
seventy miles below. It is pleasantly situated on a commanding
bank, forty or fifty feet above the highest floods. There was a gar-
rison of fifty men in the fort, with four pieces of artillery. From its
elevation their guns had complete command of the river, and all boats
passing this fortress were obliged to land and pay a duty to the com-
mandant. On flat boats the duty was tiuree dollars. From the Non-



136 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, ^^c. '

pariel a demand was made of ten dollars, but was finally commuted
to six; partly, however, on account of the Spanish commandant's
anxiety for the schooner to go to Pensacola, where they were greatly
in want of flour, and would pay from fifteen to twenty dollars a bar
rel. The vessel was also constructed for running on the lakes, being
of light draft, and they were assured of a good price for her also.
The commandant, whose name was Grandfra, treated them very
kindly, giving them a pass to free the schooner from any farther ex<
actions, and letters of recommendation to the commandant at Pensa-
cola and several of the merchants. Baton Rouge, being within the
limits of West Florida, did not come into the possession of the United
States until the year 1810, five years after this time. It is now a
military station, and quite an important town. The interval between
this place and New Orleans embraces what is called "the coast," and
in fertility of soil, value of productions, and beautiful villas, is not sur-
passed by any other on the face of the earth. It is the great sugar
region of Louisiana. The sugar cane was first introduced by the
Spaniards, about the year 1772, and has been gradually progressing
northerly, as new and more hardy varieties were introduced, sixty
or eighty miles above Baton Rouge, and will finally become acch-
mated in the vicinity of Natchez. Fourteen miles below Baton
Rouge, on the left shore, was the inlet to bayou Marshae. Through
this pass, by the way of the lakes, lies the route by water to Pensaco-
la. At that day it was passed but seldom by boats, and always with
great difficulty, being constantly more or less obstructed with rafts, or
drift wood from the Mississippi, especially at high stages of water.
The bayou, at all times narrow, was thickly lined with cypress trees,
which the impetuous current occasionally undermining, sometimes
fell entirely across the pass, not only obstructhig the channel, but fill-
ing it for some rods above with drift wood lodged against them.
They were, however, assured by those who pretended to know, that
there was but one obstruction, about a mile from the entrance, and
when this was passed they would find no other all the way through,
a distance of eighteen miles, to Galveston, on the river Amite, into
which the bayou discharges its waters. The bayou Marshae has
been impassable for many years, and now, in 1841, its bed is filled
from thirteen to fifteen feet in depth above low water mark, and its
entrance closed with a levee or dike.



CHAPTER VII.

FROM BATON ROUGE TO NEW ORLEANS.

Baton Rouge, sugar, bayou Marshae — Great difficulties in getting through that bayou to Gal-
veston — Indian mode of catching alligators — Lake Ponchartrain — Nearly shipwrecked in
a gale — Saved by a new kind of anchor, and arrive at St. John's — Sell their damaged vessel
and load — view of New Orleans.

The third day of June, the Nonpariel entered the pass of Maushae
or Iberville, and her ill fated crew commenced their Herculean labors
of opening a passage through the multiplied obstructions which had
closed the way. Drift after drift appeared, and day after day was



From Baton Rouge to New Orleans. 137

consumed in constant labor with axes and saws. No less than ten
or twelve of these obstructions, some of which were many rods in ex-
tent, were encountered and overcome. Had it not so happened that
they took on board Mr. Hubbard at Natchez, with his tenant and
crosscut saws, it is very doubtful whether they ever would have ex-
tricated the vessel from this ditlicult pass. The current was so strong
that they could not retrace their way and return against it, the sum-
mer rise having commenced, so that their only hope, as it is in many
other events of life, was in progressing onward. With the aid of as
many hired men as they could get, with their axes, in addition to
their own exertions, they were twenty days in squeezing their way
between the drift wood to the port of Galveston.

This bayou being but little frequented by man, the alligators lived
here in peace and quietness, and for size and numbers would astonish
the boatmen of the present day. They were often killed by the In-
dians and hardy hunters of that time for tlieir skins, teeth and oil.
The commandant at Galveston, Shepherd Brown, Esq., a Baltimo-
rean by birth, who had been a commission merchant in New Orleans,
and so far gained the confidence of the Spaniards as to be appointed
to this post, told the captain of the schooner that he was acquainted
with two Indians who hunted them in the same manner they do in
some of the rivers of Africa. One of them went into the water, hold-
ing upright in his hand a stick of very hard wood, sharpened at each
end, to the centre of which was attached a stout rope. As the alliga-
tor approached with open mouth to devour him, he thrust his hand
with the stick between the jaws, which closing were transfixed upon
it. Returning to the land, the astonished animal was dragged to the
shore, and killed by repeated blows on the head with an axe.

When they reached Galveston, on the 23d of June, they could
have received a fair price for their load, but concluded to go to Pen-
sacola, where, they were assured by the captain of a schooner from
that place, now lying at Galveston, they could readily get two thou-
sand dollars for the Nonpariel. They, however, sold all their meal
at three dollars a barrel, and the remainder of the cheese at fifty cents
a pound, with a few barrels of flour at fourteen dollars ; thinking,
however, to get fifteen or twenty dollars at Pensacola, they avoided
selling only a few barrels. Before the vessel could be taken to that
post, through the inland seas of the coast, it was necessary to go to
the bayou St. John, on lake Pontchartrain, to procure and set up
more rigging, she needing several additional sails to make the voyage
with safety. The captain of the Spanish schooner kindly lent them
an anchor, to be returned at Pensacola, without M'liich it would be
hazardous to cross the lake. At Galveston tliey took on. board as
pilot a man who professed to be well acquainted with its navigation;
and putting out, sailed pleasantly down the river Amite to the little
lake Maurepas, from which the outlet led them into Pontchartrain,
distant forty miles from Galveston. This lake is about forty miles
long by twenty-four broad, and is a beautiful sheet of water, with a
fine sandy bottom. Its only fault for navigation is a deficiency of
water near the mouths of its harbors, afibrding only from six to
eight feet, so that in heavy gales the ground almost appears in the

Vol. I.— S 12 *



138 An Early Voyage on the Ohio, 4*c.

trough of the waves. In the centre of the lake the water is much
deeper.

By two o'clock of the second day they had crossed the lake to
within two miles of the bayou St. John, and with a fair wind for the
intended port could have easily entered it had the pilot not been igno-
rant of the mouth. At this juncture, seeing a schooner lying at an-
chor to leeward, he told the captain she was near the mouth of the
bayou and steered directly for her. When within speaking distance,
her captain hailed the JNTonpariel and asked where bound? They
answered, " For bayou St. John." To their dismay he told them
they were now to leeward of the port and would be aground directly.
Having only a single square-sail, they could not beat up again to
windward, but were forced to cast anchor and wait the shifting of the
wind. To their vexation and sorrow it continued to blow from the
northeast for four days, and for the last twenty-four hours of that pe-
riod rose to a complete gale. Their anchor being a light one, would,
under the heavy surges, occasionally drag a little, and let the schooner
into water so shoal that her keel repeatedly struck against the bottom
in the troughs of the waves. The heavier seas made complete
breaches across her low decks, compelling the captain to keep the
hatches closed down. To lessen the strain on the cable, and to check
her rolling, the masts v/ere cut away. In this dilemma all the crew
but the captain were assailed with sea-sickness so violently as to con-
fine them to their berths, and deprive them of all power to aid in the
management of the vessel or even to assist themselves. The schoon-
er now sprung a leak, and pumphig was added to the other labors of
the commander. While engaged at this toilsome task, he was obliged
to lash himself to the pump to prevent being washed overboard du-
ring the most violent period of the storm. During a slight lull in the
gale, with the help of the pilot, he got up from the hold and threw
overboard all the puncheon shocks and about fifty barrels of flour, to
hghten her and prevent the thumping of the keel on the bottom,
which threatened to make a wreck of her.

While watching with intense anxiety and the most alarming ap-
prehensions the gradual dragging of the anchor, at each repetition
of the gusts of wind, which blew in squalls attended with heavy
showers of rain, and would in a few hours more force the Nonpariel
on to the shoals, against which the waves beat with an alarming
surf. Barker bethought himself of a large grindstone lying in the hold,
for which he could find no purchaser at Natchez. Providentially
this stone was the means of saving all their lives, and rescuing the
vessel from destruction. It was one of the largest size, not less than
four and a half feet in diameter, and weighing nearly eight hundred
pounds. Having rigged a proper tackle with some of the loose spars,
they opened the hatch, and with all the dispatch in their power hoist-
ed it on to the deck. While at this work, several seas were shipped,
which poured a large quantity of water into the hold, threatening the
ruin of the remainder of the cargo. This, however, they did not
much regard, as it could soon be pumped out again. When fairly
on deck. Barker, who had been bred a carpenter, fitted into the eye
or hole in the centre of the grindstone a stout timber, four feet in



From Baton Rouge to New Orleans. 139

length, securing it firmly with wedges. A spare cable which they
had on board was tlien fitted to this newly invented anchor, and it
was swung over the bow and dropped into the water. The strain on
the cable soon buried the timber in the sandy bottom, and the Non-
pariel rode out the remainder of the storm without any further drag-
ging. During the whole of this period the captain, who was the only
eflicient man on board, was constantly wet, and kept the deck nearly
all the time, except occasionally going below to inquire after the wel-
fare of the sea-sick crew. His only food was hard biscuit soaked in
the water of the lake, and eaten as he busied himself on the deck ;
while his companions in trouble were unable to eat any thing. From
his being constantly soaked in the saline water of the lake, his feet
and hands swelled and became so sore that the use of them was quite
painful. For this climate the rain was unusually cold, and aided by
the constant current of wind to which he was exposed, chilled him to
the heart. The fourth day at night the wind shifted to a favorable
quarter. All this time they had been unable to cook any victuals, as
the waves had unshipped the caboose which stood on the deck ; and
their only drink was the water of the lake, now become quite brack-
ish from the long continuance of the easterly wind. After adminis-
tering to the crew a drink of strong toddy, the captain was enabled
to muster force enough to raise the anchors, and fitting up a jury-mast
from one of the long oars, make sail for the bayou and fort of St.
John, whose walls could be seen at some distance, and seemed as a
beacon to mariners on the lake ; which they reached the last of June,
and gladly moored the Nonpariel at the little town which stood near
its head. Here they found wharves and store houses, with accom-
modations for the vessels which traded to New Orleans by way of
the lakes. This little port was two miles from the city, and the pro-
duce and goods were hauled across in carts or drays. In the year
1813, a canal was dug from the city to the bayou St. John, with a
commodious basin, so that the vessels from the lake can discharge
their cargoes without the cost of drayage, and now there is a rail-road
leading to the same point.

Heartily sick of the lake navigation, and wearied with the length
of the voyage, the supercargoes gave up all farther thought of fully
rigging the schooner and taking her to Pensacola; but concluded to
dispose of the remainder of the damaged cargo in the best way they
could, and seUing the unlucky vessel at the wharf where siie was
lying. It was now the first of July, when the heat of summer is
most oppressive, and to strangers from the northern region the cli-
mate most dangerous. At this period however the yellow fever,
since so fatal to persons not acclimated, was of rare occurrence, and
the attacks more like the bilious remittents of the western states at
the present day ; so that our voyagers felt none of that dread and
trepidation which falls upon us moderns when obliged from necessity
or duty to spend a few weeks of the summer in New Orleans. The
remaining portion of the cargo, amounting to about one hundred bar-
rels, was hauled across from the bayou to the city and put into a
warehouse. Being in a damaged condition, it would not sell to the
merchants for shipping, but was retailed to the bakers at various



140 *^n Early Voyage on the Ohio. S^-c.

prices from eight to twelve dollars per barrel, while undamaged flour
sold for fifteen dollars. Charles, being young and of a lively wild
temperament, entered freely into all the amusements of the place.
The fourth of July was celebrated with great glee by what few
Americans there were in the city, especially by the Kentuckians, with
whom Charles directly became immediately associated, and was re-
ceived amongst them as one who " hailed from Kentuck." He soon
became a great favorite with them, they always taking his part and
flying to his rescue if involved in any trouble with the wild fellows
of the city. The captain and Mr. Greene taking upon themselves
the charge of making sales, Charles for six weeks had little else to do
but look about and enjoy himself By the middle of August they
were nearly ready to depart, having been detained until this time
from the difficulty of finding a purchaser for the Nonpariel, which
having been left in the care of an agent at the bayou St. John, had
been suffered to get aground ; and the water falling damaged her so
much that they realized only five hundred dollars from her sale, in-
stead of the two thousand which they had every reason to expect be-
fore the disastrous gale. With this money a draft was purchased on
a merchant in Marietta, as much better and easier of conveyance
than specie, with which all payments were made in New Orleans.

This city, in 1805, contained a population of about twelve thousand
souls, nearly the whole of which was made up of Frenchmen and
Spaniards. The streets were narrow, and the houses all built in the
style peculiar to these people, as may be seen now by visiting the old
portion of the city. It was founded by the French about the year
1720. In 1769 it fell into the hands of the Spaniards, who kept pos-
session till December, 1803, when it came into the care of the United
States. Louisiana was divided by the French into two provinces,
the upper and the lower. The lower was made into a state in 1812 ;
the upper composes all that territory now owned by the United
States west of the Mississippi, including Missouri and Iowa. New
Orleans is probably destined to become one of the largest cities in
America. When the low lands around it are drained and put under
cultivation, the levees or dikes raised so high as entirely to prevent
the overflowing of the river, it will become as free from pestilential
diseases as any other city on low ground in a similar latitude.

CHAPTER VIII.

JOURNEY HOMEWARD.

Travel to Natchez, Mr. Greene and Charles sick — Concluded to leave Mr. Greene near Nat-
chez — Start through the wilderness, rainy season, manner of traveUng in the wilderness —
Freedom of the woodman's life, Colbert's ferry — Duck river, they stop to rest, Indian fish-
ing — They reach Nashville — Charles gave out in the Barrens — Green river, kindness
received there — Lexington, Maysville, Scioto saltworks, they reach home, Charles restored
to health — Voyage summed up — Richard Greene's distressing journey home, his sickness
and death. — Conclusion.

It was near the last of August before all the preparations for the
homeward journey were completed. The distance of about twelve
hundred miles was to be traveled by land and on horseback. No
steam-boat ascended the Mississippi and Ohio rivers till ten years after



Journey Homeward. 141

this time. Boatmen from the head waters generally took passage by
sea to Baltimore or Alexandria, and thence over the mountains ;
while from Kentucky and that part of Ohio below the Muskingum
river they returned by land, some on foot and some on horseback,
through the wilderness ; a considerable portion of which, from Nat-
chez to Nashville, was occupied by the Indians. The journey was
made in companies of fifteen or twenty men, carrying their pro-
visions, tents, &.C. along with them. The horses selected for this ser-
vice were generally a small breed of mixed Spanish and Indian,
called " Opelousas horses," very hardy and accustomed to subsist on
grass and the bark of trees. To every three or four persons there
was one or more spare horses to carry the baggage. With heavy
hearts they bid adieu to the Nonpariel, and shipping on board a
packet at the little town of St. John, crossed once more the lake
Pontchartrain to the mouth of the Tangipahoa or " Tuckepaw," and
up that stream to " Bookter's landing," a noted starting point for Ken-
tucky boatmen on their way home. As horses were cheaper at Nat-
chez than at New Orleans, they only bought two, concluding to ride
by turns, and purchase more after they reached there. For some
days before leaving the city, Mr. Greene and Charles had complained
of indisposition, and by the time they arrived at Bookter's landing
they were both too sick to walk. Barker, being in good health,
cheerfully gave up all claim on the horses and traveled on foot the
whole distance to Natchez, one hundred and twenty miles. The
country was thinly settled with cotton planters, who had recently
emigrated from Carolina and Georgia. The soil is of a sandy quality
and the forest growth chietiy pine. It is a healthy region, and much
frequented of late years by the inhabitants of New Orleans during
the sickly months of summer.

When they reached Natchez, Mr. Greene, who had been suffering
from a liver disease for several years, and had made the voyage with
the hope of improving his health, was too sick to travel, and was left
at a plantation five miles from the town. Charles' disease increased
slowly from bad to worse, having a chill by day and a hot fever at
night, attended with a diarrhoea and great debility. Under such cir-
cumstances few men would have attempted this long and dangerous
journey through a wilderness. But being anxious to get home, and
encouraged by a company of fifteen Kentuckians who promised him
every aid in their power to bestow, he concluded to make the trial.
These men were all planters or farmers who had been down to New
Orleans with boats loaded with produce, in company for mutual de-
fense and aid in case of difficulty. They were now on their return,
traveling together through the wilderness, that they might assist each
other if attacked by robbers or by sickness. One or two years before
this period robberies had been very frequent, by Mason and his gang.
Claiborne, governor of the JMississippi territory, offered a large re-
ward for his head. He was killed by one of his own men and the
band dispersed. The Kentuckians had with them several fine mares
from the Opelousas region, where the Spaniards raised large numbers
of the Andalusian horses, originally from old Spain. This breed,
crossed with the fine English hunter, produced a variety of horses



142 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, fyc.

combining both beauty and strength, and in high repute with the
planters of Kentucky. These men, amongst whom was major Deck-
er, afterwards killed at the battle of Tippecanoe, colonel Blainton and
captain Crosby, were all armed with rifles or pistols, and several of
them had been repeatedly engaged in the border wars of Kentucky
along with Boon and Kenton. h\ company with these hardy fellows,
who not only offered their aid to assist them on the way, but also the
use of one of their horses to carry their tent and baggage, Charles felt
a buoyancy and flow of spirits at the prospect of again seeing home,
that had been strangers to his heart ever since leaving New Orleans.

The Kentuckians leading the van, and Charles and Barker follow-
ing in their train, they commenced the journey in high glee. The
road at that time across the prairies or rolling country over which
their course lay for five or six hundred miles was a narrow path on
which they traveled in a single file. This trail traversed a region
covered with grass four or five feet high, destitute of thick forests, but
garnished with clumps of trees, sometimes in groups and sometimes
single. It so happened that the month of September was excessively
wet, and scarcely a day passed without a heavy shower in the after-
noon, with a repetition of the same phenomenon at night. In conse-
quence of which they were wet to the skin every day, and seldom a
night passed without their being driven from their blankets on the
ground by the water which found its way in little rills beneath the
tent. Along the borders of the creeks and runs the path was very
muddy, but the general surface being of a loamy and sandy quality,
absorbed the larger portion of the rain and made the traveling pretty
good. Their average progress was a hundred miles in three days.
They arose by daylight, and while a part prepared their breakfast,
the others collected the horses, which although hoppled, generally
strayed to a considerable distance during the night in search of the
more succulent and tender grass. When all were ready they mounted
their horses, and did not stop again until near night, and sometimes
after dark ; the older guides, who had often been through before,
pointing out the best ground for camping, always near to some water
course or noted spring. Here they prepared their camp fires, set up
the tents and cooked their suppers ; which operation was always pre-
ceded by a hearty libation of the best brandy toddy or old whisky,
mixed and drank from their tin cups. The horses were fed with corn
if they had any, being scarce through the Indian country, hoppled
and turned loose ; when after a full discussion of the events of the
day and the prospect of what might be expected to-morrow, every
man spread his blanket on the ground, and with his baggage or sad-
dle for a pillow commended himself to sleep.

This manner of traveling to persons in good health, with pleasant
weather, is exciting and full of novelty, and on the whole very de-
lightful. Relieved from all care but that of himself and his horse, the
traveler in the western wilds finds a freedom in his thoughts and
movements unknown to cultivated districts. The fatigues of the day
create a fine appetite for his simple supper, and give a high rehsh
to his sleep ; which being enjoyed in the open air and on the hard
ground, has with it a degree of refreshment and restoration of the



Journey Homeward. 143

wasted powers iinfelt by the sleepers in close houses and downy beds
To be fully appreciated it must be actually experienced. To sensa-
tions of this kind must be attributed that strong attachment to a forest
hfe exhibited by Daniel Boon and so many others of the early pio-
neers of the West. Fifteen days passed away in this mode of travel-
ing, when the party reached " Colbert's ferry," a noted crossing place
on the Tennessee- river, five miles below the Muscle shoals. This
man was a "half-breed," and owned a large plantation with a num-
ber of slaves. Of him they purchased corn at three dollars per bushel,
that being the price all the way through the Indian nation. The
river is here about a mile wide, and the ferriage charged for a man
and horse was one dollar.

In three days more they reached Duck river, a large tributary of
the Tennessee. The bottoms on this stream have been highly cele-
brated for their fertility. Charles, who had been losing strength
daily, and had only been enabled to keep up by taxing his resolution
to the utmost, now thought he could go no farther, but must stop and
rest. He was the more induced to this result from there being a kind
of physician here who thought he could cure him of the fever that
constantly preyed on his life. His Kentucky friends left him with
great reluctance, ofl'ering many hearty and kind wishes for his better
health and safe return to his home. While resting at this place, Bar-
ker amused himself with hunting and with watching the Chickasaw
Indians as they pursued in their canoes the large fish which swarmed
in the river, taking great numbers of them with spears made of the
long canes which grow in the river bottoms. These were sixteen or
eighteen feet in length, sharpened with a knife into a lancet shape at
one end, and thrown with great dexterity twenty or thirty feet ; sel-
dom failing to pierce a fish through the body at every throw. This
was doubtless an invention of great antiquity, and practiced by their
fathers ages before the use of iron was known amongst them.

At the end of a week another party of Kentuckians came up on
their way home. Some of these men had seen Charles in New Or-
leans, and directly recognizing him, insisted that he should get up and
go along with them to Nashville, where he could find able physi-
cians ; telling him that if he remained here, the ignorant doctor with
whom he now was would be certain to kill him. By this time he
was reduced to a mere skeleton, with hollow eyes and copper colored
skin. Encouraged by the assurances of these warm hearted men,
hope, which had nearly forsaken him, again visited his bosom; and
being helped on to his horse, he with great pain and distress was en-
abled to reach Nashville, a distance of one hundred miles. Here he
rested another week, and so far recruited by the first of October as to
be in a condition to make one more eftbrt to complete the journey of
four hundred miles still before him.

As they traveled slowly along through the beautiful valleys of Ken-
tucky, his disease increased again so much that one day, in the " Bar-
rens," he laid down by the side of the road in despair, telling his broth-
er Barker he could go no farther, and was determined to make no
more eflbrts, as he was certain he should die in that place. Gloomy
and sad as was his condition, all alone in the wilds with his sick



144 Jin Early Voyage on the Ohio, S,^c.

brother, who was so weak and exhausted that apparently he might
die at any hour, yet the patience of Barker never forsook him. Blest
with a vigorous frame and the most perfect health, although he had
been exposed to many more hardships than Charles, hope and confi-
dence always predominated in the most trying emergencies. His
temperament was of that cool and calculating quality just fitted to
contend with sudden and unexpected dangers and to overcome them.
Nothing dismayed therefore by the despair of his brother, he sat pa-
tiently down on the ground beside him. After conversing with him
a few minutes, he brought some water in their tin cup from an adja-
cent run, and getting him to drink a little, bathed his face and bosom.
This revived his strength, and with it his courage, so that by a httle
persuasion he allowed his brother to assist him on to the horse again.

In a little time they reached Green river, where a kind hearted,
hospitable Kentuckian, as they passed by his house, took notice of the
wan and feeble looks of Charles, and insisted on their stopping with
him till he was more able to travel. He treated him with the utmost
kindness, tendering every thing in the house that would in any way
promote his comfort or restore his health. Under this hospitable root
they remained nearly a week, at the end of which period he had so
far recruited his strength as to be able to ride with much more ease
than at any time before.

With many thanks, they bid adieu to their kind host, who refused
all compensation for his trouble, and they reached Lexington without
further incident. Here they stayed three days with an old acquaint-
ance who had formerly lived in Marietta. From there their road led
them through Maysville, where they once more -saw the waters of
the beautiful Ohio. Ten miles above the latter town they crossed
the river and were again in their own state. The route to Marietta
led through by the Scioto saltworks, where they also found several
friends and spent a day or two. From here they rode to Athens in
one day, distant about forty miles ; the near approach to home add-
ing fuel to the flame of life, which had been burning so feebly within
the invalid. The pure air of the frosty mornings, which now began
to appear, cooled and braced his relaxed muscles; while the brown
deer as they bounded across the path, and the wild turkeys gobbling
on the hillsides, served to attract his attention and enliven the way,
which led through a region that was but just beginning to be occu-
pied with here and there a solitary settler. Their journey was now
nearly ended ; and passing along the ridges of Federal creek, and the
broad slopes of Wolf creek, they emerged from the forest on to the
Muskingum river, opposite their father's house, which stream they
forded the last day of October. So emaciated and changed in looks
and complexion was Charles, that his own mother did not know him.
When assured it was her son, more by seeing Barker with him in full
health and flesh than from any other evidence, she burst into tears,
clasping him to her breast in an agony of tears. Poor Charles was
very thankful for being permitted once more to see his mother, whom
he had thought he should never again behold, and whose former tone
of kindness he had learned to appreciate while lying sick and dis-
tressed on the ground in the wflderness, with no mother's gentle hand



Journey Homeward. 145

to bathe his fevered brow or hold the coohng cup to his lips. During
the whole of the following winter he remained weak and feeble, re-
quiring the constant advice of one of the most skilful physicians the
country afforded to restore him to his wonted health, which however
returned in the spring, and with it his usual flow of fine spirits. As
to the proceeds of the voyage, nothing was Jeft remaining of ihe Non-
pariel cargo but the two Opelousas horses and the draft for five hun-
dred dollars. What with their losses on the lake in the storm, all the
rest had been swallowed up in paying tlieir expenses through the
bayou Marshae, at New Orleans, and in their tedious journey home.
This, however, was but an epitome of many of the voyages on the
western rivers before the era of steam-boais and underwriters.

Richard Greene, the other partner in the voyage, who was left sick
at Natchez, was in a still more distressing condition. He not only
had a wife and four children to care for, but he had invested the
avails of a small farm, his only estate, iti his share of the schooner
and cargo. He had undertaken the trip with the hope of benefiting
his health, which had been poor, laboring under a liver disease for
some years. In about four weeks after the departure of Charles and
Barker, the fever had so far left him that he concluded to commence
his journey homeward. While yet so weak as to be barely able to
sit on liis horse, he set out in company with only one man, who was
also an invalid. When he got fairly into the Indian country he was
attacked with a relapse of chill and fever. Providentially a physician
stopped at the Indian house over night, and administered such medi-
cines as put a stop to the disease and enabled him to resume his jour-
ney. The rains of September were continued into October: he was
often wet to tlie skin, and was obliged to travel on very muddy roads.
His horse became tired and exhausted, and for many days he had to
walk for miles together to relieve the poor beast. His money was
nearly all spent, having barely enough to pay traveling expenses af-
ter discharging the bills for his sickness near Natchez, and none to
give in exchange for a fresh animal. His dress, calculated only for
summer weather, was too thin to protect him from the cold and wet
of October; and when he reached liome the last of that month, his
strength was all gone, and the disease transferred from the liver to the
lungs. It was, however, a great blessing to him once more to see his
wife and children. He lingered along, growing daily weaker and
weaker, till early in December, about six weeks after his return, when
death put an end to his anxiety and his sufferings.

Thus terminated the voyage of the beautiful but unfortunate Non-
pariel. In this voyage may be seen a picture of many circumstances
of life. ]\lan in his yoiUhful prime sets out amid the joys and flow
ers of spring, careering along gaily, cheered by the lively songs of
birds. Anon the flowers fade, fruits ripen, and the scene assumes a
more grave aspect. \Miile in the onward path of duty, scarce any
thing mars the placid cheerfulness of his voyage, now pursued to the
midsummer of life. But alas ! he sometimes lends his ear to the
whisperings of a tempter, turns aside, and suffers in bayous and
storms, and terminates his voyage even more disastrously than that
of the Nonpariel.

Vol. I.— T 13



146 Silk Culture in America.



SILK CULTURE IN AMERICA.

Our readers are here presented with a concise account of the manufacture of
silk, found in the Newark (Ohio) Gazette. They will doubtless be pleased
with a view of this subject, as connected with our prosperity. We lately vis-
ited Mr. Harrison's silk reeling establishment in Cincinnati. He is manufac-
turing choice sewing silk, and intends enlarging his establishment, not only to
manufacture in larger quantities, but in greater variety. He informed us that
he has, adjoining and around his cocoonery, forty thousand trees, which he in-
tends immediately on the opening of the season to increase to eighty thousand.
We understand that there is nothing like the mystery, art and risk in this most
lucrative business, as the interested and selfish are wont to wrap around it.
Can that not be removed ? It is not the province of the American Pioneer to
do that farther than what is historical may contribute to it. We hope how-
ever, for the good of the country, if the subject is shrouded in unnecessary
mystery, that those who know it will exert themselves to disperse it. In
our last, when speaking of the legislative aid given to staging at its commence-
ment, we hinted that the culture of silk might soon flourish so as to produce
like competition. We see no good reason why silk culture cannot become
lucrative. What is there in our soil, climate, enterprise, habits, or the fair
hands of our damsels, to prevent it ?

SILK CULTURE IN AMERICA.

We have lately met with a few facts relating to this subject, which
we lay before our readers, hoping that even such a very incomplete
view may not be without its vakie.

In 1663, silk culture was started in Virginia; it was a penal of-
fence, if mulberry trees were not planted at the rate of ten for every
hundred acres. In 1760, the London society for the encouragement
of arts, manufactures and commerce, gave premiums for silk raised in
Georgia, Pennsylvania and Connecticut. In 1747, Mr. Law, the gov-
ernor of Connecticut, wore the first coat and stockings made of New
England silk.

Some extracts taken from the very rare and interesting " Silk Jour-
nal," of president Stiles, of New Haven, show that silk was raised
in Newport, Rhode Island, as early as 175S. In 1771, Mrs. Stiles,
wife of the president, had a gown which was manufactured in Lon-
don, from silk raised by herself; and in 1788, at the commencement
at Yale College, the president wore a gown woven from American
silk. In 1790, twenty-nine families in Northfork, Connecticut, raised
and spun twelve hundred runs of silk; and, in the same year, fifty
families in New Haven were engaged in silk raising.

It is said that the weaving of silk in this country, was first tried in
the year 1838, at Marshfield, Connecticut. But the first regularly or-
ganized silk factory in America, according to Mr. Gill, is that located
at Mount Pleasant, Ohio. In the dressing room of this factory there
are eleven distinct machines, while the weaving room contains six



Silk Growinsr in the West. 147



'6



looms for the production of the following fabrics: — lustring, plush for
hats, brocaded silk singe for vesting, blanch, Genoa velvet, black cra-
vat handkerchiefs, and rich tissue fiow^ered silk. There are twenty
hands employed in the factory, and the average value of silk manu-
factured per day is ^30. During the two past years, Mr. Gill has
made thirty-five pieces of velvet, worth from four to six dollars per
yard ; ten pieces of plush, from which were made twenty-four dozen
silk hats, worth $AS per dozen; one luuidred pieces dress silks, flow-
ered vestings, &c., varying in length from ten to thirty yards, worth
from $\ to $3 per yard; also, sixty dozen cravats and handkerchiefs,
worth from ^l to ^1 75 each. Connected with the factory are thirty
acres covered with the mulberry tree, and three cocooneries, the latter
having cost the proprietor §1,200. The factory itself is a three story
building, which cost §1,100. During the past year, several thousand
pounds of cocoons have been raised in Cmcinnati : Mr. T. Yarwood
having raised himself four hundred pounds ; from which he has reeled
some truly beautiful silk, and looms ibr spinning are soon to be es-
tablished.

There is a good deal of silk raised in the town of Somerset, Ken-
tucky, and in Madison, Indiana. Mr. Ira Wells, of the last mention-
ed place, raised seven hundred dollars worth during the past year.
Nashville, Tennessee, deserves to be mentioned in this connection ;
Dr. Thomas White, of that city, having invented a machine which
performs the five distinct processes of reeling, winding, throsting, tram-
ming and skeining the silk, in but little more time than is required for
reeling it alone.

In Williamson, Tennessee, there were lately manufactured some
excellent silk handkerchiefs. Considerable silk is raised in Michigan;
Mr. Kinney, of Detroit, reded over two hundred skeins last season.

In Pennsylvania, Beaver county probably takes the lead in silk
raising. Miss Rapp, of economy, in that county, received last year
as much as §1,473, as a premium for cocoons raised. The next
highest premium was awarded to Mr. Sellers, of Delaware county,
and amounted to §173 55. In Lancaster county, Pennsylvania, there
were raised, during the past season, about three thousand pounds of
cocoons, and the whole number of persons who received premiums in
Pennsylvania, in 1841, was two hundred and twenty-three, living in
twenty-eight diflerent counties; and the whole amount of premiums
awarded was §4,418 55.

In Monroe county. New York, there was a bounty paid on 1,533
pounds of cocoons, and 29 pounds of reeled silk during the past year,
and there is considerable raised in the neighboring counties. The
sewing silk made by Hart, of Le Roy, New York, is considered supe-
rior to the imported. The establishment of Messrs. Whitmarsh, of
Northampton, Massachusetts, is a very large and flourishing concern,
of which we regret we have not the details. Another point famed
for the silk business is Elizabethtown, New Jersey. We lately gave
a notice of state prison silk, at Auburn, New York.

In 1839, the entire silk product of the Union was 328,981 pounds
of cocoons. Pennsylvania coming first, Connecticut second, and Ohio
third, in the list of sillv growing states.



148 Navigation by Steam.



NAVIGATION BY STEAM.

At the close of our last article on this subject, we advertised our readers
that the history of that art, when well developed, would be a bright star in
the constellation of American glory. This in the progress of these pieces we
shall endeavor to show, in order to fix the mind more attentively upon, and
inspire a love for, American character and American institutions, under which
a young people, such as we were and such as we are, could be able to cope
with and even surpass the oldest and most wealthy nations on earth. These
are proper subjects to contemplate in juxtaposition with the first settlement of
the country. Without a close comparison both would seem to lose at least
half their lustre.

It is not here, nor will it be elsewhere contended, that our institutions are
faultless, or that we are guiltless ; but we do, and shall strongly contend, that
we have the best institutions, and that our character amongst nations is
neither mean nor reproachful. Foreign scribblers have so bespattered us by
their criticisms upon our manners and customs, that we often seem to be al-
most persuaded that the nation is far in the background of civilization. The
truth is, that these foreign catchpenny book makers come among us with at
least a pretended stock of refinement, and a real stock of egotism ; and mis-
take the great variety of American character, all united by common ties, for
a blemish, and our want of social distinctions for a fault. They forget that
as a people we overlook the fulsome etiquette of courts, and have our minds
more intendy fixed upon clearing our lands, planting our corn, digging our
lands, laying our rail-roads, building our cities, and improving our arts,
manufactures and agriculture. Among these, is that of navigation by steam ;
and hence it is that their best men acknowledge us before them, and brighten
the escutcheon of our nation's character.

Among foreign writers, there are characters that would do honor to any
nation, with minds too large to be employed in caressing ladies' lapdogs, or
captivated by mere external show of any kind. David Stevenson, Esq. is
one of them, celebrated for both depth of research and practical experience.
He visited this country in 1837, and saw for himself. In his " Civil Engi-
neering of North America," of navigation by steam he thus speaks :

" Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the actual inven-
tion of steam-boats, there is no doubt that steam navigation was first
fully and successfully introduced into real use in the United States of
America, and that Fulton, a native of North America, launched a
steam-vessel at New York, in the year 1807; while the first success-
ful experiment in Europe was made on the Clyde, in the year 1812,
before which period steam had been, during four years, generally
used as a propelling power in the vessels navigating the Hudson.

" The steam navigation of the United States is one of the most in-
teresting subjects connected with the history of North America, and
it is strange that hitherto we should have received so little informa-



American and European Steamers. 149

tion regarding it, especially as there is no class of works, in that com-
paratively new and still rising country, which bear stronger marks
of long continued exertion, successfully directed to the perfection of
its object, than are presented by many of the steam-boats which no^w
navigate its rivers, bays and lakes.

'• It would be improper to compare the present state of steam navi-
gation in America with that of tins country, for the nature of things
has established a very important distinction between them. By far
the greater number of the American steam-boats ply on the smooth
surfaces of rivers, sheltered bays, or arms of the sea, exposed neither
to waves nor to wind ; whereas most of the steam-boats in this coun-
try go out to sea, where they encounter as bad weather and as heavy
waves as ordinary sailing vessels. The consequence is, that in
America a much more slender built, and a more delicate mould, give
the requisite strength to their vessels, and thus a much greater speed,
which essentially depends upon these two qualities, is generally ob-
tained. In America the position of the machinery and of the cabins,
which are raised above the deck of the vessels, admits of powerful
engines, with an enormous length of stroke, being employed to pro-
pel them; but this arrangement would be wholly inapplicable to the
vessels navigating our coasts, at least to the extent to which it has
been carried in America.

" But perhaps the strongest proof that American vessels are very
differently circumstanced from those of Europe, and therefore admit
of a construction more favorable for the attainment of great speed, is
the fact that they are not generally, as in Europe, navigated by per-
sons possessed of a knowledge of seamanship. In this country steam
navigation produces hardy seamen, and British steamers, being ex-
posed to the open sea in all weathers, are furnished with masts and
sails, and must be worked by persons who, in the event of any acci-
dent happening the machinery, are capable of sailing the vessel, and
who must therefore be experienced seamen. The case is very differ-
ent in America, where, with the exception of the vessels navigating
the lakes, and one or two of those which ply on the eastern coast,
there is not a steamer in the country which has either masts or sails,
or is commanded by a professional seaman. These facts forcibly
show the different state of steam navigation in America, a state very
favorable for the attainment of great speed and a high degree of per-
fection in the locomotive art.

" The early introduction of steam navigation into the country, and
the rapid increase which has since taken place in the number of
steam-boats, have afforded an extensive field for the prosecution of
valuable inquiries on this interesting subject; and the builders of
steam-boats, by availing themselves of the opportunities held out to
them, have been enabled to make constant accessions to their practi-
cal knowledge, which have gradually produced important improve-
ments in the construction and action of their vessels. But on min-
utely examining the most approved American steamers, I found it
impossible to trace any geiieral principles which seem to have served
as guides for their construction. Every American steam-boat builder
holds opinions of his own, which are generally founded, not on theo-

13*



150 Navigation by Steam.

retical principles, but on deductions drawn from a close examination
of the practical effects of the different arrangements and proportions
adopted in the construction of different steam-boats, and these opin-
ions never fail to influence, to a greater or less degree, the built of his
vessel, and the proportions which her several parts are made to bear
to each other.

" So lately as twelve years ago, about thirty hours were occupied
by the steam-boats navigating the Hudson in making their passages
from New York to Albany, a distance of about one hundred and fifty
miles, which is at the rate of only five miles per hour. Passengers
were then conveyed in barges towed by steam-boats, to avoid the
danger which, according to the following extract from an advertise-
ment of the sailing of the vessels, seems at that time to have attended
the steam navigation of the country : ' Passengers on board the safety
barges will not be in the least exposed to any accident which may
happen by reason of the fire or steam on board of the steam-boats.
The noise of the machinery, the trembling of the boat, the heat from
the furnace, boilers and kitchen, and every thing which may be con-
sidered as unpleasant or dangerous on board of a steam-boat, are en-
tirely avoided.' These < safety barges' however have been entirely
laid aside, and the voyage between Albany and New York is now
generally performed in ten hours, exclusive of the time lost in making
stoppages, being at the astonishing rate of fifteen miles per hour.
They have effected this great increase of speed by constantly making
experiments on the form and proportions of their engines and vessels,
in short, by a persevering system of trial and error, which is still
going forward ; and the natural consequence is, that, even at this day,
no two steam-boats are alike, and few of them have attained the age
of six months without undergoing some material alterations.

" These observations apply more particularly to the eastern waters
of the United States, where the great number of steam-boat builders,
and the rapid increase of trade, have produced a competition which
has led to the construction of a class of vessels unequaled in point of
speed by those of any other quarter of the globe. The original con-
struction of most of these vessels has, as already stated, been materi-
ally changed. The breadth of beam and the length of keel have in
some vessels been increased, and in others they have been diminished.
This mode of procedure may seem rather paradoxical ; but in Ameri-
ca it is no uncommon thing to alter steam-boats by cutting them
through the middle, and either increasing or diminishing their dimen-
sions as the occasion may require. It is only a short time since many
of the steam-boats were furnished with false bows, by which the
length of the deck and the rake of the cutwaters were greatly increas-
ed. On some vessels these bows still remain; from others they have
been removed, subsequent experiments having led to the conclusion,
that a perpendicular bow, without any rake, is best adapted for a
fast sailing boat. When I visited the United States in 1837, the
< Swallow' held the reputation of being one of the two swiftest steam-
ers which have ever navigated the American waters, and this vessel
had received an addition of twenty-four feet to her original length,
besides having been otherwise considerably changed. Before these



Robert Fulton. 151

alterations were made on her, she was considered, as regards speedj
to be an inferior vessel.

" Local circumstances, connected with the nature of the trade in
which the steam-boats are engaged, have given rise to the employ-
ment of three distinct classes of vessels in American steam naviga-
tion. The general characteristics by which the eastern water boats are
distinguished, are, a small draught of water, great speed and the use
of condensing engines of large dimensions, having a great length of
stroke. On the western waters, on the other hand, the vessels have a
greater draught of water and less speed, and are propelled by high-
pressure engines of small size, working by steam of great elasticity.
The steamers on the lakes, again, have a very strong built and a large
draught of water, possessing in a greater degree the character of sea-
boats than any of those belonging to the other two classes. They
also differ in having masts and sails, with which the others are not
provided.

" The inferences to be drawn from these facts are, that the great
experiment for the improvement of steam navigation, in which ttje
Americans may be said to have been engaged for the last thirty years,
is not completed, and the speed at which they have succeeded in pro-
pelling their steam-vessels may yet be increased ; and also that, in the
construction of their vessels, they have been governed by experience
and practice alone without attempting to introduce theoretical princi-
ples, in the application of which to the purpose of propelling vessels,
by the action of paddle-wheels on the water, numerous difficulties
have hitherto been experienced."

ROBERT FULTON.

Although we are more than willing to do justice to all the pioneers in the
art of navigation by steam, many of which aided in bringing it to a successful
experiment; yet the claims of Robert Fulton must not be overlooked, nor so
long delayed as to hazard the suspicion of neglect. It has been said, and
doubtless in truth too, that he had the advantage of all that was done before
him. That the experiments of others were so much done towards perfecting
what we are apt to ascribe all the credit of to him. We do not ascribe all
the credit of invention to him. Perhaps on the score of simple invention he
has little due to him ; not half so much as some others. But that he at least
made such improvements as were susceptible of success, without which the
most laborious and expensive experiments are mere abortions, no one without
great hazard of character will deny. A very essential trait in the character
of a pioneer w^as in a pre-eminent degree possessed by him, and also by Ste-
vens ; and that is, untiring and unconquerable perseverance. Without this^
great and useful inventions avail little: and it might be made a question,
whether Fulton was most benefited by what had been done before his time
by way of theoretic invention, or injured by unsuccessful attempts inducing
doubts and discouragements in his own mind, and also increasing public preju
dice against the improvement. The question is not, whether any thing
is due to those who preceded him in experiments or not. They deserve all



152 Navigation by Steam.

honor and respect as the real benefactors, something, perhaps uncontrolable,
prevented them from perfecting it. But the question is, whether Fulton
was most benefited by their inventions or injured by their failures. We,
at another time, shall examine more minutely their respective claims. Mean-
while we present such a view of the unsuccessful attempts with which he
was more immediately connected, as well to do justice to other worthies as
we pass along, as to show the steps by which that system was brought to a
successful adoption. This we cannot do better than to quote more from, and
follow pretty closely, the researches of the excellent writer we first quoted on
this subject.

" Next in order of time to Fitch and Rumsey, we find Miller, of
Dalswinton, in Scotland. This ingenious gentleman had, as early
as 1787, turned his attention to substitutes for the common oar and
had planned a triple vessel propelled by wheels. Finding that
wheels could not be made to revolve with sufficient rapidity by men
working upon a crank, the idea of applying a steam engine was sug-
gested by one of his friends, and an engineer of the name of Syming-
ton employed by him to put the idea into practice. The vessel was
double, being an experimental pleasure boat on the lake in his
grounds at Dalswinton. The trial was so satisfactory, that Miller
was induced to build a vessel sixty feet in length. This was also
double, and it is asserted that it was moved by its engines along the
Forth and Clyde canal at the rate of seven miles per hour. The boat,
the wheels, and the engine, were, however, so badly proportioned to
each other, that the paddles were continually breaking, and the vessel
suffered so much by the strain of the machinery as to be in danger
of sinking, and Miller found it unsafe to venture into any navigation
of greater depth than the canal. The apparatus was therefore re-
moved and laid up, and here the experiments of Miller ceased. He
himself appears evidently to have considered this experiment an ab-
solute failure, and ascribed the blame to the engineer. We have to
remark that the double boat used by Miller, was a form ill suited to
the purpose ; in the ferry boats of that structure, introduced by Ful-
ton into this country, the resistance growing out of the dead water
included between the two hulls, has been found such, that they have
been gradually abandoned, and single vessels substituted,

" John Stevens, of Hoboken, commenced his experiments on steam
navigation in 1791. Possessed of a patrimonial fortune, and well
versed in science, he was at the time wanting in the practical mechan-
ical skill that was necessary to success ; he was hence compelled, at
first, to employ men of far less talent than himself, but who had been
educated as practical machinists. His first engineer turned out an in-
corrigible sot ; his second became consumptive, and died before the
experiment was completed. Stevens then resolved to depend upon
his own resources, and built a workshop on his own estate, where he
employed workmen under his own superintendence. In this shop he
brought up his son, Robert L, Stevens, as a practical engineer, to
whom many important improvements in steam navigation, and the
most perfect boats that have hitherto been constructed, are due.



Robert Fulton. 153

" During these experiments, Stevens invented the first tubular boil-
er; and his first attempts were made with a rotary engine, for which,
however, he speedily substituted one of Watt's. With various forms
of vessels, and different modifications of propelling apparatus, he im-
pelled boats at the rate of five or six miles per hour. They were, in
truth, more perfect than any of his predecessor's, but did not satisfy
his own high-raised hopes and sanguine expectations. These exper-
iments were conducted at intervals up to the year 1807, and much di-
minished his fortune. We must, however, pass from the detail of
them, and the notice of the parties who became concerned with him,
in order to speak of what was doing in Europe in the meantime.

"The earl of Stanhope, in 1793, revived the project of Genevois,
for an apparatus similar to the feet of a duck. It was placed, in
1795, in a boat furnished with a powerful engine. He was, however,
unable to obtain a velocity greater than three miles per hour. While
engaged in these experiments, on the 13th September, 1793, he re-
ceived a letter from Fulton, who proposed the use of paddle-wheels ;
and it is probable that his neglect to listen to this suggestion caused a
delay in the introduction of the steam-boat of at least twelve years ;
for we cannot doubt that the ingenuity of Fulton, backed by the cap-
ital and influence of lord Stanhope, would have been as successful
then as it was on a subsequent occasion.

"In the year 1797, chancellor Livingston, of the state of New
York, built a steam-boat on the Hudson river. He was associated in
this enterprise with a person of the name of Nisbett, a native of
England. Brunei, since distinguished for the block machinery, and
as engineer of the London tunnel, acted as their engineer. In the
full confidence of success, Livingston applied to the legislature of the
state of New York for an exclusive privilege, which was granted, on
condition that he should, within a year, produce a vessel impelled by
steam at the rate of three miles per hour. This they were unable to
effect, and the project was dropped for the moment.

" In the year ISOO, Livingston and Stevens united their efforts and
were aided by Mr. Nicholas Roosevelt. Their apparatus was a sys-
tem of paddles, resembling a horizontal chain pump, and set in mo-
tion by an engine of Watt's construction. We now know that such
a plan, if inferior to the paddle-wheel, might answer the purpose ; it,
however, failed in consequence of the weakness of the vessel, which,
changing its figure, dislocated the parts of the engine. One of the
workmen in their employ suggested the use of the paddle-wheel in
preference ; but, Stevens candidly states, their minds were not pre-
pared to expect success from so simple a method.

" Their joint proceedings were interrupted by the appointment of
chancellor Livingston to represent the American government in
France, but neither he nor Stevens were yet discouraged*; the latter
continued to pursue his experiments at Hoboken, while the former
carried to Europe high-raised expectations of success.

" It has been stated that Symington was employed by Miller of

Dalswinton as his engineer ; we have now to record an attempt made

by him under the patronage of lord Dundas of Kerse. Miller's views

appear to have been directed to the navigation of estuaries and rivers,

Vol. I.— U



151 Navigation by Steam.

if not to that of the sea itself. Symington, on the present occasion,
hmited himself to the drawing of boats upon a canal. The experi-
ment was made upon the Forth and Clyde canal, but the boats were
drawn at the rate of no more than three and a half miles per hour,
which did not answer the expectations of his patron, and the attempt
was abandoned. During this attempt, Symirjgton asserts that he was
visited by Fulton, who stated to him the great value such an inven-
tion would have in America, and by his account, took full and ample
notes. In the attempt he thus makes to claim for himself the merit
of Fulton's subsequent success, he is defeated by the clear and con-
clusive evidence that Fulton exhibited in a court of law of his hav-
ing submitted a plan analogous to that afterwards carried into effect,
to lord Stanhope, in 1795, six years prior to the experiment of Sym-
ington. That Fulton, whose thoughts had continued to dwell upon
steam navigation, and who saw with prophetic eye, the vast space for
this development afforded by the Mississippi and its branches, should
have visited all the places where steam-boats were to be seen, was nat-
ural ; but a comparison of the draught of Symington's boat, which is
still extant, with the boats constructed by Fulton, furnishes conclusive
evidence that the latter borrowed no valuable ideas from the former."
" We here remark an anachronism in the work of Stuart. Sym-
ington's own narrative, as given by that author, seems to place the
interview with Fulton in 1801. Stuart, in a subsequent place, refers
it to the date of this visit of Fulton's to England. We have previous-
ly stated it as happening at the former date upon Symington's au-
thority, as this is alone consistent with the expression of astonishment
that he records. For this could hardly have been uttered subsequent
to the trial made upon the Seine. Each of the dates, however,
causes a dilemma. If he saw Symington's boat in 1801, he returned
to France with liis previous impression in favor of paddle-wheels
very much weakened; if not until 1804, he had already performed
more than Symington. In like manner the claim of Henry Bell, so
pertinaciously maintained by British authors, falls to the ground.
Bell claims the merit of having furnished Fulton with the plan of his
successful steam-boat on the ground of his having furnished plans
and drawmgs, which he heard, two years afterwards from Fulton,
were likely to answer this end. On receiving this letter, he states
that ' he was led to consider the folly of sending his opinions on these
matters to other countries, and not putting them into practice in his
own.' Now, as Bell did not build his first boat until 1812, we can-
not place the date of Fulton's second letter earlier than his return to
America in 1806, and that it was written from America, Bell's ex-
pressions render evident. Fulton, therefore, could have derived no
benefit from his advice, for his experiment in France was in 1803,
and the engine of Watt and Bolton, which was first used on the Hud-
son, must have been ordered at least a year before the alleged date
of Bell's communications. Neither can we reconcile his claims with
the statement made by his friends, that he was several years in bring-
ing his plans to perfection ; and his boat was, after all, very inferior
to those constructed by Fulton several years earlier. The anxiety
of the British public to transfer the honors of Fulton to Bell, is mani-



Robert Fulton. 155

lest from a report of a committee of parliament, where it is stated
that Bell came to this country to construct boats for Fulton, while it
is now admitted that he was never on this side of the Atlantic. We
apprehend, however, that the correspondence with Bell took place
on a different occasion. When Fulton planned his ferry-boats for
the East river (New York,) he proposed to make them double ; he
therefore naturally desired to know something of Miller's vessel,
which he had never seen, and, by Bell's own statement, the request
of Fulton was limited to that single object. Bell asserts that he fur-
nished, in addition, views and plans of his own ; but long before this
time Fulton's boats were in successful operation, and many competi-
tors had already appeared, not only in those places where an exclusive
grant existed, but even within the waters of the state of New York.

" The engine ordered from Watt and Bolton, reached New York
towards the close of the year 1806, and the vessel built to receive it
was set in motion in the summer of 1807. The engine from England
was put on board of her, and in August, she was completed, and was
moved by her machinery from her birthplace to the Jersey shore.
Mr. Livingston and Mr. Fulton had invited many of their friends to
witness the first trial, among whom were those learned men. Dr.
Mitchell and Dr. M'Neven, to whom we are indebted for some ac-
count of what passed on this occasion. Nothing could exceed the
surprise and admiration of all who witnessed the experiment. The
minds of the most incredulous were changed in a few minutes. Be-
fore the boat had made the progress of a quarter of a mile, the great-
est unbeliever must have been converted. The man who, while he
looked on the expensive machine, thanked his stars that he had more
wisdom than to waste his money on such idle schemes, changed the
expression of his features as the boat moved from the wharf and
gained her speed, and his complacent expression gradually stiffened
into one of wonder. The jeers of the ignorant who had neither sense
nor feeling enough to suppress their contemptuous ridicule and rude
jokes, were silenced for a moment by a vulgar astonishment, which
deprived them of the power of utterance, till the triumph of genius
extorted from the incredulous multitude which crowded the shores,
acclamations of congratulation and applause.

"The boat had not been long under way, when Fulton ordered her
engine to be stopped. Though her performance so far exceeded the
expectations of every other person, and no one but himself thought
she could be improved, he immediately perceived that there was an
error in the construction of her water-wheels. He had their diame-
ters lessened, so that the buckets took less hold of the water, and
when they were again put in motion, it was manifest that the altera-
tion had increased the speed of the boat. It may well be said, that
the man of genius and knowledge has a sense beyond those which
are common to others, or that he sees with ditl'erent eyes. How
many would have gazed upon these ill-proportioned wheels, without
perceiving that they were imperfect.

« This boat, which was called the Clermont, soon after made a trip
to Albany. Mr. Fulton gives the following account of this voyage in
a letter to his friend, Mr.Barlow. < My steam-boat voyage to Alba-



156



Navigation by Steam.



ny and back, has turned out rather more favorable than I had calcu-
lated. The distance from New York to Albany is one hundred and
fifty miles : I ran it up in thirty-two hours, and down in thirty. I
had a light breeze against me the whole way, both going and com-
ing, and the voyage has been performed wholly by the power of the
steam engine. I overtook many sloops and schooners beating to
windward, and parted with them as if they had been at anchor. The
power of propelling boats by steam is now fully proved. The morn-
ing I left New York, there were not, perhaps, thirty persons in the
city, who believed that the boat would ever move one mile an hour,
or be of the least utility ; and while we were putting off from the
wharf, which was crowded with spectators, I heard a number of sar-
castic remarks. This is the way in which ignorant men compliment
what they call philosophers and projectors. Having employed much
time, money, and zeal, in accomplishing this work, it gives me, as it
will you, great pleasure to see it fully answer my expectations. It
will give a cheap and quick conveyance to the merchandise on the
Mississippi, Missouri, and other great rivers, which are now laying
open their treasures to the enterprise of our countrymen; and al-
though the prospect of personal emolument has been some induce-
ment to me, yet I feel infinitely more pleasure in reflecting on the im-
mense advantage that my country will derive from the invention,' &c.




[First Fulton boat built in America.]

•' Soon after this successful voyage, the Hudson boat was adver-
tised and established as a regular passage boat between New York
and Albany. She, however, in the course of the season, met with
several accidents from the hostility of those engaged in the ordinary
navigation of the river, and from defects in her machinery ; the great-
est of which was, having her water-wheel shafts of cast iron, which
was insufficient to sustain the great power applied to them. The
wheels also were hung without any support for the outward end of the
shaft, which is now supphed by what are called the wheel-guards."



Sketch of Western Settlements. 157

SKETCH OF WESTERN SETTLEMENTS.

Introductory — Trip to Pittsburgh, and thence down the river to Manchester — Tavern at
Manchester — Trip to Cincinnati — Through Kentuclty, and back to Brush creek on
horseback — From Brush creek liome — Removes to Brush creek — Indian customs —
Brush creek navigation in 1806 — Trip to New Orleans — Remains there till June —
Sells out and comes home, making a good trip.

Mr. Williams, — At your request, I send you a brief outline of my
first settlement in this country. It can be of little interest except in
relation to the state of improvement at the time I first traveled through
this state.

My birthplace was called the Trap, in Pennsylvania. On the 11th
of last November I was seventy-one years of age. I came to the
Glades, in Pennsylvania, to a town then called Brumer, now Somer-
set, in the year 1791. Married Ann Jones in 1794, and determined
to come to the West. I left Somerset in 1797, to visit the western
country, and came to Pittsburgh, which was then a smart village. I
then entered a Kentuck boat and descended the river. Steubenville
was then just commenced. At Wheeling there were a few houses—
a smart little town for the backwoods. We floated day and night,
and thus I had but little chance of observation. At Marietta there
were considerable improvements; and this is the only improvement I
recollect between Wheeling and the mouth of the Scioto. We most
likely passed settlements in the night. Below the mouth of the Sci-
oto, at the town of Alexandria, there was a small beginning. The
next settlement I saw was Massie's settlement, called Manchester.

Here I left the boat, ni tending to visit the country on horseback.
There were fifteen to twenty cabins at Manchester, one of which was
called a tavern. It was at least a grog shop. There were about a
dozen visiters at the tavern, and as the landlord was a heyday, well-
met tippler with the rest, they appointed me to assist the landlady in
making eggnog. I was inexperienced in the art, but I made out to
suit them very well. I put about a dozen eggs in a large bowl, and
after beating or rather stirring the eggs up a little, I added about a
pound of sugar and a little milk to this mass; then I filled the bowl
up with whisky, and set it on the table ; and they sat round the ta-
ble and supped it with spoons ! Tumblers or glasses of any sort had
not then come in fashion. They all began to cut up, and especially a
professor of religion. I thought he ought to haves et a better exam-
ple. When I found how the game was going, I resigned my commis-
sion and went to bed.

Next morning another person and myself, who came with me from
Pennsylvania, bought horses and started to the Miami country by
land. There was but one cabin on the trace from Manchester to the

14



158 Sketch of Western Settlements.

Little Miami : that was built by a Mr. Van Metre, about seven miles
from where Newmarket, in Highland county, now is. On the Little
Miami a man by the name of Wood had built a mill, and there were
several cabins in that vicinity.

Cincinnati was then a smart place. Fort Washington was still
standing. We staid there but one night ; crossed into Kentucky, went
to the Big Bone lick, and round through the country, which was very
thinly settled. We came back by Cincinnati, and from there went to
the mouth of Soldier's run, on Brush creek, seven miles from its
mouth. There I purchased a farm with a cabin on it ; and finding
an immigrant without a place to put his family in, I put him in my
cabin, and we started back to Pennsylvania on horseback, as there
was no getting up the river at that day.

In our homeward trip we had very rough fare when we had any
at all; but having calculated on hardships, we were not disappointed.
There was one house (Treiber's) on Lick branch, five miles from
where West Union now is. The next house was where Sinking
spring or Middletown is now. The next was at Chillicothe, which
was just then commenced. We encamped one night on Massie's run,
say two or three miles from the falls of Paint creek, where the trace
crossed that stream. From Chillicothe to Lancaster the trace then
went through the Pickaway plains. There was a cabin some three
or four miles below the plains, and another at their eastern edge, and
one or two more between that and Lancaster. Here we staid the
third night. From Lancaster we went next day to Zanesviile, pass-
ing several small beginnings. I recollect no improvement between
Zanesviile and Wheeling, except a small one at the mouth of Indian
Wheeling creek, opposite to Wheeling. In this space we camped an-
other night. From Wheeling home we went pretty well.

The next spring I removed my family to Brush creek. The Indi-
ans had not left the country, but they were very peaceable. They
were not thievish that I know of, but were great beggars, especially
for victuals. They were very open hearted and friendly, and seemed
to live very peaceably among each other. I never heard of any
quarrel or row among them, or between them and their neighbors.
They are great riders, using skins in place of saddles: male and fe-
male ride alike. Whether riding or walking, the squaws carry their
infants at their backs, tied on boards. These infants or pappooses
are so remarkably quiet that I do not recollect ever to have heard one
cry. Nothing looks much more cunning than a little Indian lashed
on a board and sitting against a stump or tree.

I will now give you a little account of my first trip to New Orleans



A Trading Voyage. 159

It was in 1806. In the early part of t[ie year the winter was re-
markably dry and open, and although there was plenty of water in
the Ohio, there were five miles from my boats to the Ohio. Brush /
creek was two low to float loaded boats over the bars. I was loaded
with flour and bacon. I became very impatient to get out, and I told
my neighbors I was going out next day. They laughed at me, but
I was determined to do it. I sent a little of my loading by land to
the water of the Ohio, and then bored stout holes in the fore part of
each gunwale outside and sloping backward. In these holes I put
stout pins or treenails. Throwing the ring of a log-chain over each
pin, I hitched two horses to each, and I thus dragged both boats over
all the ripples to the backwater of the Ohio in less than a day. This
put a stop to the merriment of my neighbors. When the foremost
boat would strike a bar we would drag it over, and as soon as the
horses would get into deep water below the bar we would turn each
pair outward, when the chains would slip off the pins and let the boat
go on, while the horses would go and pull the other boat over in the
same manner. This was repeated at every shoal place. We moved
both boats to deep water before night, and I then prepared for start-
ing next morning. In my trip I fell in with Samuel M'Clure, of
W^heeling. He had been down before. We kept together to New
Orleans ; and as this was my first trip he was of great use to me.
His loading was chiefly flour. Nothing happened that I count worth
relating until we got to New Orleans. Here we found the market
overstocked with flour, and more landing every day. Shippers and
owners both held off", the former in hopes of a fall and the latter in
hopes of a rise. Five to six dollars was all we could get. We had
five hundred barrels, and a dollar per barrel was a matter of import-
ance. Many were anxious to return home and began to sell at the
low prices. Mr. M'Clure and I concluded to store ours and wait a
change in the market after flour ceased to flow in. Wharfage was
also becoming onerous. We stored, sold our boats for what we
could get, and took boarding with a French innkeeper.

I staid much about the house and the barkeeper being very petu-
lant, would have quarrels on his hands, which 1 would take some
trouble to adjust. The innkeeper asked me what I would take to
tend bar for him ? I told him I would do it for my boarding. He
said, " You make peace in my house — you tend bar, I give you your
boarding and fifty dollars a month — you make peace." It is very
natural to suppose I accepted the terms. This gave me some advan-
tage. Appearing in this character I had frequent opportunities of
hearing shippers talking about the state of the market.



160 Kenton's Resignation.

After staying about three months, about the last of June, when
both owners and traders wish to depart, I heard the supercargo of
one vessel tell another that he would buy a load that day. It was
getting sickly, and he swore he would stay no longer. The other
asked him what he would give ? He said, " Eight dollars." That
brightened my countenance, and I hunted M'Clure up. He was
heart-sick of staying there in that hot season. I asked him what he
would sell at? He said he would take seven dollars rather than stay
any longer, I told him what I had heard. He told me to claim all
the flour and do the best I could with it. I went back and told the
shipper to come and take a drink at the bar, for I had a small lot of
flour and I thought- we would deal. We went and examined the
flour, with which he was much pleased, and at once drew a check for
four thousand dollars; and it was but little time before M'Clure and
I were on our way home, which we reached safe and well.
Yours respectfully,



Jackson, Feb. 4th, 1842.



•^-eg^"^^_ tyCty^i



^-A^s^-^^W^^*^



SIMON KENTON'S RESIGNATION.

The following resignation is worthy a place in the Pioneer, as an item
of history. From the wording of it some have thought it to be Kenton's
handwriting. We have authority for saying Kenton could not write. That
the document is genuine admits of not a shadow of doubt. It was found
among general Gano's papers, and is endorsed in his own handwriting.
The resignation is in the same hand as the signature.

April ISM, 1805.
Genl. Gano :

Sir, — Having taken a Resolution of making a tour
through the late acquired lands of the United States, in consequence
of which think proper to resign up my commission of Brigadier of the
militia, and you hereby requested to regard this as full notice of the
same, given under my hand.



^-^^^cr^ ^^C/^^^



To John S. Gano, Major Genl. ^
of the 1st Division of Militia v
in the state of Ohio. )

[Endorsed, " General Kenton's resignation, April, 1805."]



AME RICAN PION EER.

?Dn)ot£Li to tl)c ^rutl) axitf lustu£ of ^istonj.
VOL. I. MAY, 1842. NO. V.



THE OLD COURT HOUSE AND JAIL OF WASHINGTON
COUNTY, OHIO.

[See Frontispiece.]

This court house was built in the year 1798, but was not com-
pleted until the following year. Griffen Green, Esq. was the archi-
tect; Dudley Woodbridge, Esq. and himself being the building
committee. It is remarkable only from the fact of its being the old-
est structure of the kind in the state of Ohio. The jail portion of this
edifice, is seen in the print to occupy the back part of the building,
and has no windows in sight. It is constructed of hewed yellow
poplar logs, eighteen inches square, laid double, so that the walls are
three feet thick. They are placed so as to break joints, like stone
work or masonry, and fastened together with iron bolts. The floors,
sides, and ceiling over head, in the jail rooms, are all built in this sub-
stantial manner, with doors and iron gratings of proportionate thick-
ness. As a proof of its strength, no prisoner has ever escaped from
its cells, except from the carelessness of the jailor. It was, and is to
this day, one of the strongest prisons in the state. The main building
is a frame, of two stories ; being forty-five feet in length, and thirty-
nine feet in breadth. The lower story, in front, is divided into two
rooms, with a passage between them, leading to the jail in the
back of the building. These rooms are occupied by the jailor and
his family. The upper story, in front, was the court room, and is
forty feet long by twenty broad, and thirteen feet in height. It
is lighted by seven windows, and warmed by two fire-places. A
flight of steps leads from the court room to two jury rooms, over the
jail, raised about four feet above the main hall.

The roof is very steep, and surmounted by a neat cupola, in which
is suspended, probably, the oldest hell in the state, being cast in Nor-
wich, Connecticut, in the year 1S02, by Barzalia Davidson. It is re-
markable for being one of the finest toned bells, and is used, not only
for the county courts, but also as the town bell ; for many years be-
ing regularly rung at 9 A. M., 12 JNI. and 9 P. M, by the jailor, who
is paid for this service by the corporation. For many years, in the

163



164 First Court in Ohio.

early part of this century, it was the custom to toll the bell, for a few
minutes, on the death of any of the inhabitants, as well as at funerals ;
but the pious habit of our ancestors is now fallen into disuse.

In this old room, now for many years deserted by the bench and
the bar, for a more elegant one of brick, erected in 1822, some of the
ablest voices in the state have been heard. Here Paul Fearing, R.
J. Meigs, and Jacob Burnet, the earliest attorneys northwest of the
river Ohio, displayed their youthful powers, and unfolded talents that
few at this day can excel. Here Charles Hammond and Philemon
Beecher, for many years, attended as barristers, especially the latter.
Here, also, Thomas Ewing, Esq. first essayed his mighty powers,
and began that bright career of popular fame which elevated him to
some of the first stations in the government. A host of others here
also commenced their career in the labyrinths of the law.

The first court ever held in the Northwest territory, was opened in
the northwest blockhouse of Campus Martins, the second day of Au-
gust, A. D. 1788. Here they continued to be held during the Indian
war. At the close of the war, and until this court house was built,
the courts were held in the upper story of a blockhouse in the garri-
son at the junction of the Muskingum river with the Ohio. The
lower story was used for a jail, but was so open that the prisoners
often escaped by forcing out the puncheons between the logs. The
old court house of Washington county, it is certain, cannot boast
much of its architectural beauty, but it remains a fine model of the
early days of Ohio, when strength and utility were not sacrificed to
good looks.




Marietta, Feb. 16, 1842.



From the Marietta Intelligencer, of March 10.

THE FIRST COURT IN OHIO.

>

"The first comt held northwest of the river Ohio, under the forms
of civil jurisprudence, was opened at Campus Martius, (Marietta,)
September 2d, 1788.

" It will be remembered, that on the preceding 7th of April, general
Rufus Putnam, with forty-seven men, had landed and commenced
the first permanent settlement in what is now the state of Ohio.
General Harmar, with his regulars, occupied Fort Harmar. Governor
St. Clair, and also general Samuel Holden Parsons and general James
Mitchell Varnum, judges of the supreme court, arrived in July. The
governor and judges had been employed from their arrival in exam-



Anecdote. 165

ining and adopting such of the statutes of the states, as, in their opin-
ion would be appropriate to the situation of this new colony. The
governor had made appointments of civil officers for the administra-
tion of justice, and to carry into effect the laws adopted. Some idea
may be obtained of the character of the early settlers of Ohio, by de-
scribing the order with which this important event, the establishment
of civil authority and the laws, was conducted. From a manuscript
written by an eye-witness, now in my possession, I have obtained the
substance of the following. The procession was formed at the Point,
(where most of the settlers resided,) in the following order: — 1st,
The high sheriif, with his drawn sword; 2d, the citizens; 3d, the
officers of the garrison at Fort Harmar; 4th, the members of the
bar; 5th, the supreme judges; 6th, the governor and clergyman;
7th, the newly appointed judges of the court of common pleas, gen-
erals Rufiis Putnam and Benjamin Tupper.

" They marched up a path that had been cut and cleared through
the forest to Campus Martins Hall, (stockade,) where the whole coun-
termarched, and the judges (Putnam and Tupper) took their seats.
The clergyman, Rev. Dr. Cutler, then invoked the divine blessing.
The sheriff, colonel Ebenezer Sproat, (one of nature's nobles) pro-
claimed with his solemn « Yes,' that ' a court is opened for the ad-
ministration of even-handed justice, to the poor and the rich, to the
guilty and the innocent, without respect of persons ; none to be pun-
ished without a trial by their peers, and then in pursuance of the
laws and evidence in the case.' Although this scene was exhibited
thus early in the settlement of the state, few ever equalled it in the
dignity and exalted character of its principal participators. Many of
them belong to the history of our country, in the darkest as well as
the most splendid periods of the revolutionary war. To witness this
spectacle, a large body of Indians was collected, from the most pow-
erful tribes then occupying the almost entire West. They had assem-
bled for the purpose of making a treaty. Whether any of them en-
tered the hall of justice, or what were their impressions, we are not
told."



•«^*^»S^^> /^ W^*^



ANECDOTE.
A Swedish minister, says Franklin, having assembled the chiefs of the
Susquehanna Indians, preached a sermon to them, acquainting them with the
principal historical facts on which our religion is founded ; such as the fall
of our first parents by eating of an apple, the coming of Christ to repair the
mischief, his miracles, sufferings, &c. When he had finished, an Indian
orator stood up to thank him, and said, " What you have told us is all very
good. It is indeed bad to eat apples. Better make them all into cider. We
are much obliged by your kindness in coming so far to tell us those things
which you have heard from your mothers."



166 Sunday Schools in the United States.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS IN THE UNITED STATES. »

The following addition to the description of Campus Martins, was fur-
nished too late for insertion in its proper place, but is too valuable to be lost.
We therefore insert it here. It is from the pen of the same indefatigable au-
thor. Such a pioneer, as Mrs. Lake, deserves an honorable memento.

" Probably one of the first Sunday schools in America, was taught
in this garrison. Mrs. Andrew Lake, a kind hearted, pious old lady,
from New York, who had brought up a family of children herself,
and therefore felt the more for others, took compassion on the chil-
dren of the garrison, who were spending the Sabbath afternoons in
frivolous amusements, and established a school in her own dwelling.
After parson Story's services were finished, she regularly assembled
as many of the younger children as she could pursuade to attend, and
taught them the Westminster catechism, and lessons from the Bible,
for about an hour. Her scholars amounted to about twenty in num-
ber. She was very kind and affectionate towards them, so that they
were fond of assembling to listen to her instructions. Her explana-
tions of Scripture were so simple and childlike, that the smallest of
the little ones could understand them, and rendered very pleasant by
her mild manner of speaking. The accommodations for the children
were very rude and simple, consisting only of a few low stools and
benches, such a thing as a chair being unknown in the garrison. One
of her scholars, then a little boy of four years old, who gave me a
sketch of the school, says for lack of a seat he was one day placed
by the kind old lady on the top of a bag of meal, that stood leaning
against the side of the room. The seed thus charitably sown in faith
and hope, was not scattered in vain; as several of her scholars are
now prominent members of the church."

We copy from the "Sunday School Journal," published in Philadelphia,
of February 2d, 1842, the following:

" The fifty-first anniversary of the First Day, or Sunday School Society,
was held at 146 Chesnut street, on Wednesday evening, Jan. 12, 1842, when
the following officers were appointed for the ensuing year."

Again, from the same journal of Feb. 16, 1842, we copy the following:

" Peter Thompson, a venerable member of the society of Friends, and
one of the benevolent individuals who opened a Sunday school, in Philadel-
phia, fifty-one years ago, this month, died on the 5th instant, aged 77."

We have no good data by which to arrive at even a tolerable estimate of
the number of teachers and pupils in the thousands of Sabbath schools, now
in the United States. If any friend of this great medium of good to man
will prepare such an account of the Sabbath schools, it would be thankfully
received.



Rev. John Williams. 167



REV. JOHN WILLIAMS.

Biographical Memoir of the Rev. John Williams, first Minister in
Deerfield, Massachusetts ; tvith an *^ccotint of the sacking of
that town by the French and Indians in 1703-4. By Stephen
W. Williams, A. M., M. D., late Professor of Materia Medica
and Medical Jurisprudence in the University of ' Lake Erie, ^-c.

[Communicated for the American Pioneer.]

CHAPTER II.

Murder of his wife — Her burial — Names of his children — More of the prisoners killed and
himself near it — He preaches to the prisoners — Alarm in camp — Moose killing — Great
suflering in forced marches — Arrival at Shaniblee.

General Hoyt continues to observe that Mr. Williams' first master
was unwilling to have him speak to any of the prisoners on their
march On the second clay, however, he was put into the hands of
another master, who allowed him to speak to his wife when he over-
took her, and to walk with her and assist her in the journey. He com-
forted her with the assurance that they had a right to "an house not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens, and God for their father
and friend," and also told her that it was their duty to submit to
the will of God with resignation. His wife now told him that her
strength began to fail, and that he must soon expect to part with her,
but she hoped that God would preserve his life, and the life of his
children, whom, under God, she commended to his care. In suitable
language she justified God in what had happened, and spoke not a
murmuring word as to what had befallen them. The enemy soon
made a halt, and his principal surviving master placed him in the
foremost ranks of the prisoners, and recommenced their march. Here
he bade adieu forever to the dear wife of his bosom, the " desire of
his eyes," and the companion of his many joys and sorrows. Upon
their separation they commended themselves to their JMaker, and be-
sought that grace of him which would be sufficient to sustain them
under the allotments of his providence. After their separation, she
spent the few remaining moments of her pilgrimage, as she had
always been wont daily to do, in reading the holy Scriptures, which
it seems the savages had allowed her to take with her. She had
always been in the habit of reading her Bible, of ])rayer and medita-
tion in her closet every day, in addition to the services of family
worship.

Mr. Williams and the rest of the prisoners were made to wade
over a small river, in which the water was above knee deep and very
swift. This was Green river, about five miles northwest of the pres-
ent village of Greenfield, at a place called Country Farms, near the
dividing line between Greenfield and Leyden. After that he had to
travel up a small mountain, and his strength was nearly exhausted
before he came to the top of it. He was now permitted to sit down,
and to have his pack taken from his back. While he sat here pitying
those who were behind, he entreated his master to let him go and help
his wife. He inhumanly refused him, and would not let him move a



168 Hev. John Williams.

foot from him. He inquired of the prisoners, as they passed, concern-
ing her, and they informed him that in passing the river she was over-
powered by the stream, and plunged headlong into the water. She
■was not able to travel far after this. She had just arisen from a bed
of sickness. At the foot of the mountain which Mr. Williams had
just ascended, the inhuman and blood-thirsty Indian, who had the
care of her, slew her with his tomahawk at a blow. This news was
truly heart-rending to him, and yet the savages reproached him for a
want of manhood in shedding tears on account of her cruel murder.
Nothing but the belief that she was taken away in mercy from the
evil to come, and "joined to the assembly of the spirits of just men
made perfect, to rest in peace and joy unspeakable and full of glory,"
would have kept him and his children from sinking in despair at that
time. That passage of Scripture, and some others, came forcibly to
his mind at that time, and afforded him much consolation — " Naked
came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall 1 return thither.
The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the name
of the Lord."

Shortly after this, her body was found by a party of men from
Deerfield, brought back and buried in the town burying ground, and
the grave-stone containing the following inscription is still to be seen
there. " Here lyeth the body of Mrs. Eunice Williams, the virtuous
and desirable consort of the Rev. John Williams, and daughter of
Rev. Eleazer and Mrs. Esther Mather of Northampton. She was
born Aug. 2, 1664, and fell by the rage of the barbarous enemy,
March 1, 1703-4. — Pro v. xxxi. 28. Her children rise up and call
her blessed."

It may be proper in this place to mention the names of the children
of Mr. and Mrs. Williams who were taken prisoners and carried to
Canada at the time of the sacking of the town. They had in all elev-
en children. Three died in infancy. His eldest son, Eleazer was
absent at the time of the destruction of the town, and consequently
escaped the horrors of that dreadful scene. Two of their infant chil-
dren were murdered before the commencement of their journey. Ste-
phen, Samuel, and Warham were the sons, and Esther and Eunice
the daughters who were carried captives to Canada.

When they were called upon to resume their march, it may well
be supposed that a heavier load pressed upon Mr. Williams' spirits
than upon his back. He prayed that the dear wife of his bosom
might be found by his friends and receive Christian burial, which pray-
er, it seems was granted. On this day's march the Indians killed a
sucking child and a girl about eleven years of age. It was a night of
deep affliction to him, that so many of his flock should be thus inhu-
manly murdered, even at this short period since the destruction of the
town, and at the prospect of so many more becoming the victims of
unrelenting savage barbarity.

When they came to their place of rest for the night, one Indian sa-
chem, or captain, from the eastward, consulted with his master about
killing and scalping him. He raised his prayers to God and implored
his protection in this time of tribulation, and afterwards told his mas-
ter that if he intended to kill him, he requested that he w^ould inform



Massacre of Prisoners. 169

him of it, assuring him at the same time, after he had solemnly pro-
mised to protect him, that his death would bring upon him the guilt
of innocent blood. This address had the desired effect, and he prom-
ised not to kill him. They then lay down and slept quietly under the
protecting hand of God.

On the morning of the 2d of March, they were all called before
the sachems or leaders of the Macquas and Indians, and more equal-
ly distributed among them for the greater convenience of traveling.
His best clothing was here taken from him. Here some of the prison-
ers informed him that they thought their enemies were going to burn
him at the stake, as they had been observed to pull otf the bark from
several trees, and to conduct themselves in a very singular manner.
He replied to them that they could do nothing without the permission
of the Almighty, and that it was his opinion that he would prevent
the enaction of such enormities. Several of the captives were here
taken from their former masters, and exchanged into the hands of
others. He was returned to the two masters who captivated him at
his house.

On the third of March, being the fourth day of their journey, they
had proceeded no farther than the upper part of Brattleborough,
about thirty miles from Deerfield. Here the enemy killed another of
his neighbors, a woman v/ho was near the period of travail, much fa-
tigued with her journey. Here they constructed hand sleighs for the
accommodation of the wounded, the children and baggage, and they
were thus enabled to travel at a greater rale than they had heretofore
done. There must have been something of a thaw at this time, for
he travelled several hours in water up to his ankles, and towards
night he became as lame as if his ankles had been sprained, and he
did not expect that he and several others would be able to hold out
much longer. He, however, commended himself to God, beseeching
him to remove his lameness, and assist him with his children and
neighbors in bearing the fatigue of the journey, if he thought it best;
if not, he desired him to be with him in the hour of death, and that
he would provide for, and sustain his children and friends, and bless
them. In a short time he was relieved of his lameness, to his great
joy, and that of his friends. On the 4th of March, Saturday, their
journey was severe and tedious, and four of the women became so
tired that they were murdered by the savage Indians.

On the Sabbath, March 6th, they rested from their journey at the
mouth of a river, which is named Williams from him, and he was
permitted to preach to the prisoners. The Indians requested them to
"sing them one of Zion's songs," and some of them were about re-
viling them because they did not sing as loud as they did on similar
occasions. So long as the Indians and Macquas remamed together,
they were allowed to preach and pray with one another, and animate
and encourage each other in their bondage; but when they arrived at
New France, (Canada.) they were forbidden to associate with each
other, and to preach or pray together.

The next day in the morning they were alarmed by the report of
firearms and many of the prisoners were bound. This was occasion-
*ui by some of the Indians shooting at some wild geese which were
Vol. I.— W 51



170 Rev. John Williams.

then migrating to the northern lakes. This must have been early in

the season for their migrations, as they rarely if ever leave the south-
ern climes until there have been several warm days in the spring. By
almost unerring instinct they seem to know the period when the north-
ern lakes are unlocked, and they then resort to them in thousands.
After the Indians understood that they were not pursued by the Eng-
hsh, they boasted that they would not come out after them as they
had predicted in the morning. Two women, who were faint and
exhausted, were this day murdered.

The next day a Mrs. Mary Brooks, a pious and godly woman, came
to Mr. Williams' wigwam and informed him that she wished to bless
God for inclining her masters to let her come and bid him adieu for-
ever. She had fallen on the ice the day before, by which she injured
herself so much as to produce a miscarriage, so that she was not able
to travel far. She observed, " I know they will kill me to-day ;"
but also remarked that God had strengthened her for her last encoun-
ter with death, and mentioned several passages of Scripture which
presented themselves to her mind for her support. She said she was
not afraid of death, as she could, through the grace of God cheerfully
submit to his will. She requested him to pray to God that he would
take her to himself She was killed that day, according to her pre-
diction.

The next day, March 8th, the parties were divided into small com-
panies at the mouth of White river. Some of them with Mr. Wil-
liams followed up this river over the Green mouutain. Another party
with one of his children took a northeastern direction and followed
up the Connecticut. This latter party stopped some time at Coos
meadows, which is now in the town of Newbury, in Vermont. They
tarried here some time for the purpose of procuring game, as they
were entirely out of provisions. Not succeeding to their minds, two
of the prisoners, David Hoit and Jacob Dix, actually died from starv-
ation.

On the evening of this day, Mr. Williams' master came to him
with the pistol in his hand which he snapped at him on the morning
he was taken prisoner. He presented it to his breast, and told him
he would kill him with it, inasmuch as he had attempted to do the
same to him. He was not much alarmed, and the good providence
of God protected him.

The next day, March 9th, he was allowed to pray with that portion
of the prisoners who remained with them, and they sang a psalm to-
gether. After which he was taken from the rest of the prisoners, ex-
cept two children, one of whom, a little girl of four years of age, was
murdered by a Macqua the next morning, on account of the depth of
snow being so great, after they left the river, that he could not carry
her and his knapsack.

The next Sabbath, March 12th, all the Indians went out hunting,
except one and a boy, who remained to guard him. While here, left
to his reflections, his soul was exceedingly sorrowful to think that he
was separated from the congregation of his people who were now
worshiping in the sanctuary he had just been forced to leave, and
he was almost ready to sink under the burthen of his afiliction. But

\



Sufferings from Hunger. 171

he found support in the foUownig passages of Scripture which present-
ed themselves to his consideration. Psahiis cxviii. 17. "I shall not
die, but live, and declare the works of the l.ord." Psal. xlii. 11.
"Why art thou cast down, my soul, and why art thou disquieted
within me } Hope thou in God, for I yet shall praise him, who is the
health of my countenance and my God," and Nehemiah i. 8, 9. These
passages animated him to perseverance and hope; and though his
children were left without the guidance and direction of their parents,
yet he was led to the belief that he should see them again from the
following passage. Jer. xlix. 11. "Leave thy fatherless children,
I will preserve them alive, and let thy widows trust in me." Nor
were his hopes without some foundation in reality. His youngest
daughter, of the age of seven years, was carried, probably on the
backs of the Indians, all the way to the end of their journey, and
watched over with great care and tenderness. His youngest son, but
four years old, was several times wonderfully preserved from death.
Although they were many times exceedingly fatigued with carrying
him on their backs or drawing him on their sledges, they still spared
him, although tempted to kill him four several times. He finally
reached Montreal, where a French lady, taking compassion on him,
purchased him of the savages. His son Samuel and his oldest daugh-
ter were drawn on sleighs, or sledges, when they were unable to
travel. They suffered very much for want of provisions, probably
near Coos, where Hoit and Dix perished from hunger, and soon after
another prisoner in that neighborhood. Stephen was brought into
Shamblee about eight months afterwards.

Mr. Williams' master returned on the evening of the Sabbath, and
informed him that he had killed five moose. The next day, March
13th, they were taken to the spot where he slew them. They tarried
there three days, and roasted and dried the meat for their use on the
journey. His master here made him a pair of snow-shoes. As the
snow was very deep and rendered soft by thaws it would have been
very difficult for him to travel without them. His pack being proba-
bly filled with the meat of the moose which had just been cured was
very heavy, notwithstanding, by the aid of his snow-shoes, he was
enabled to travel twenty-five miles the first day of wearing them ;
and as much farther by the afternoon of the next day, when they
came to the French, or Onion river. He was here so tired that it
seemed as if his bones were dislocated, and he was not able to travel
with much speed. His master took his pack from him and drew his
load upon the ice upon a sledge. His feet were so very sore every
night that he wrung blood out of his stockings when he pulled them
off. And before he wore his snow-shoes his shins were very sore,
being cut by the crust upon the snow. He procured some oak leaves
upon the river bank, and applied them to the sores, which very soon
healed them. His master, it seems, was very kind to him, and always
gave him the best he had to eat, and through the goodness of God tie
never suffered for the want of a meal of meat during his captivity,
while many of his children and neighbours were nearly perishing
with hunger, having for many days nothing but roots to eat, and these
in stinted measure. His master also gave him part of a Bible, and



172 Rev. John Williams.

never disturbed him in reading it, or in praying to his God. The In-
dians were also very good to the other captives in this respect, allow-
ing them Bibles, Psalm Books, &c. to use them as they pleased. After
their arrival in Canada, every art was used to deprive them of them.
Their Bibles were taken from them by the French priests and never
afterwards given up to them.

Their march on the French or Onion river was very tedious, for
fearing a thaw they traveled at a great rate. His feet and limbs were
so bruised by walking on snow-shoes that he thought it would be im-
possible for him to continue his journey. One morning before day-
light his master came to him, and awakened him out of sleep, and
told him he must arise, pray to God and eat his breakfast, for they
had a great journey to perform that day. After prayer he arose from
his knees, but his feet were so swollen and painful that he could
scarcely stand without holding by the side of his wigwam. The In-
dians told him he must run to day, but he told them he could not.
His master, pointing to his tomahawk, told him he would then plunge
it into his brain and scalp him. He replied that he supposed he would
do it, but he could not travel fast on account of his bruises. He sent
him away alone on the ice. His master soon overtook him and order-
ed him to run. He told him he could not, and he passed without
farther notice, and for some time he scarcely saw him for the space of
an hour. He traveled from before daybreak till after dark, without
ever stopping at noon to eat warm victuals, only eating on the way
some frozen meat which he had in his pocket. He conjectured that
he traveled that day two of their day's journey, that is, as many as
forty or forty-five miles. He found his strength renovated the farther
he traveled, and he was more able to proceed in the afternoon than
in the fore part of the day.

When they entered on the lake the ice was very rough, and it hurt
his sore feet very much to travel upon it. He prayed to God that he
would provide for him some method of relief. He had not traveled
more than half a mile before there fell upon the ice a moist snow,
about an inch an a half deep, which rendered the walking much more
tolerable, and he was enabled soon to overtake his master. They
then traveled about a day's journey from the lake to a small party
of Indians who were there hunting. In their peculiar way they were
kind to him, and gave him the best which their establishment afford-
ed, such as moose meat, ground nuts, and cranberries, but no bread.
He had not tasted of that luxury for three weeks. After tarrying
there awhile, and being obliged to cut wood, and suffering from ver-
min, being compelled to wear the lousy old clothes of soldiers, which
they placed upon him, after having deprived him of his own to sell
to the French soldiers, they again commenced their march for Sham-
blee. They tarried two or three days at a branch of the lake, and
feasted on wild geese, which they killed there. After one more day's
travel they came to a river where the ice was thawed out, and in one
day made a canoe of elm bark. They arrived on Saturday about
noon, probably March 25th, at Shamblee, a small village, where there
was a garrison and fort manned with French soldiers.



Departure from Shamblee. 173



CHAPTER III.

From Shamblee to Quebec — Arts of the Jesuits — Mr. Williams redeemed by governor De
Vaudreuil — Finds some of his children and has an interview with them.

Shamblee is about fifteen miles from Montreal. Here he received
kind treatment from the French, and a gentleman invited him to his
house, and the hospitalities of his tahle, and at night furnished him
with lodgings upon a good feather bed, a luxury of wliicji he had
been deprived for a great length of time, even in a climate which was
then almost Siberian. During the time he tarried there all the officers
and inhabitants treated him very politely, and promised to write to
the governor of Canada, and inform him of his passage down the
river. Here he saw a young man and a girl from Deerfield, who told
him that the greatest part of the captives had arrived, and that two
of his children were at Montreal. As they were journeying along
the river towards Sorel, they went into a house where they found a
woman from Deerfield, who had been left there to be conveyed to the
Indian fort. The French treated her kindly, as well as Mr. Williams,
and gave them the best provisions which the house afforded. She
went on board the boat with them to go down to the fort at St. Fran-
cois. At the first inhabited house they came to at Sorel, a French
woman came to them, and requested them to go to her house. Upon
entering it, she took compassion upon them, and informed them that
during the last war she had been a prisoner among the Indians, and
that she knew how to feel for them in their distressed situation. She
gave the Indians some food in the chimney corner, but spread a cloth
upon a table for Mr. Williams and his party, with clean napkins. This
gave the Indians great otl'ence. It certainly was an unwise step on
the part of the lady. The Indians hastened away and would not call
at the fort. Whenever they entered into the French houses, they uni-
formly treated them courteously. On their arrival at the river St.
Francois, they found it obstructed by ice. Upon entering the house
of a Frenchman, he gave them a loaf of bread, and some fish to car-
ry away with them. They passed down the river till night, where
seven of them feasted upon a fish called a bulUhead or pout, (Silurus
felis?) and did not eat the whole of it.

The next morning, owing to the quantities of floating ice in the
river, they were obliged to leave their canoe, and travel by land. They
called at the house of a French officer, who took them into a private
room, away from the Indians, and treated them very courteously.
They arrived that evening at fort St. Francois. There they found
several children who, the summer before, had been captured at the
eastward. In their habits they had become like the Indians, and they
were very much aflected at their appearance. Two Jesuits lived at
this fort, one of whom was afterwards made a superior of the Jesuits
at Quebec. One of them met Mr. Williams at the gate and asked
him to go into the church and render thanks unto God for preserving
his life. He told him he could do that in some other place. When
the bell rang for evening prayers he ordered him to go, but he still
refused. Tlie Jesuit went to their wigwam and made a short prayer.

15*



174 Rev. John WUlimns.

and invited him to sup with him. He justified the Indians in their
proceedings against the EngUsh, relating some things said to have
been done by major Walden (Waldron ?) more than thirty years ago.
He stated that this was a just retaUation, and blamed the English for
commencing the war against the Indians, and further stated that they
had barbarously and inhumanly burnt and killed many Indians both
before and during the last winter. Mr. Williams replied to him that
the Indians had in a most perfidious manner murdered many of our
inhabitants after having signed a treaty of peace, and as to English
cruelties, he knew they were false, as they never approved of such
acts of inhumanity. The Jesuit stated that the cause of the war was
an Englishman's killing one of Casteen's relations, for in a general
council of the nation it had been determined not to engage in war on
either side until they themselves were first encroached upon, when
they would all engage against those who first molested them. And
after Casteen's kinsman was slain, a messenger was despatched to
Canada to inform the Macquas and Indians that the English had com-
menced liostilities. They immediately rallied their forces, and joined
with the French, and proceeded to New-England. On their march
thither, they were informed by some eastern Indians that satisfaction
had been made for that murder, by tiie English, and that peace had
been concluded with them. The Macquas told them that this event
had come too late, that they had now come down as they were sent
to attack the English, and that they would also attack them, if they
dared, without their consent, to make peace with the English. He
also said that a letter was shewn them from the governor of Port
Royal, which was taken on board of an English ship, from the queen
of England to the English governor, stating that she approved of the
design to ensnare and captivate the Indians m a deceitful manner.
Being enraged at that letter, they were forced, as it were, to com-
mence the present war. Mr. Williams told him that " the letter was
a lie, forged by the French."

At the ringing of the bell, next morning, his master ordered him to
go to church, and he refused. He threatened him and went away in
a great passion. At noon the Jesuit sent lor him to dine with hini,
for he always ate whh them while he remained at the fort. After
dinner they told him that the Indians would not allow any of the
prisoners to remain in their wigwams while they were at church; and
they informed him that even force and violence would be resorted to,
to compel them to attend their meetings, if they would not go with-
out. Mr. Williams, in a truly liberal spirit, replied that it would be
unjust and unreasonable in the extreme to force them to be present at
a service which they abhorred, and which in his opinion, was alto-
gether unbecoming the letter and spirit of Christianity. They observ-
ed that they were savages and would not be crossed in their determi-
nations, nor would they listen to reason, and stated that if they were
in New-England, they would attend our churches and witness our
modes of worship. They also observed that the Indians were deter-
mined to have him attend their church, and would not be pacified
without he complied.

At the next mass his master ordered him to go to church, and upon



Controversy with the Jesuits. 175

his objecting, he seized liim by his head and shoulders, and forced him
from the wigwam to the church, which was close by. He went in
and sat down behind the door, and instead of gospel order, he beheld
much discord and confusion. One of the Jesuits was at the altar say-
ing mass in language unknown to the savages; another between the
altar and the door, singing and praying among the Indians at the
same time, and otliers were repeating their paternosters and Ave
Maria's from their beads. When they left the church he smiled at
their ceremonies, which displeased them, for they thought he derided
their worship. Soon after the Jesuits asked him how he liked their
mode of worship. He told them, as in the language of Christ, Mark
viii. 7, 8, 9 — " Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doc-
trines the commandments of men. For laying aside the command-
ment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the washing of pots
and cups, and many such like things ye do. And he said unto them,
full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your
own tradition." They observed tliey were not the commandments
of men, but traditions of the apostles, equal in authority with the Bi-
ble, and stated that he would repent his not praying to the Virgin
Mary for her intercession with her Son for him, and condemned him
to hell for asserting that the Scriptures were a perfect rule of faith.
He told them that it was his comfort that Christ was to be his judge,
and not they, at the great day.

One day a squaw named Ruth, who had been taken prisoner in
Philip's war, who had lived at Weathersfield, and who could speak
the English language tolerably well, and who had formerly been at
Mr. Williams' house, being now a convert to the Romish faith, came
to his wigwam with her English maid, dressed in the Indian manner.
This maid was taken in the last war, but was unable to speak a word
of the English language, nor could she tell her own name, nor the
name of the place where she was captivated. These women had a
long conversation with his master in the Indian language. He soon
after ordered him to cross himself. He told him he would not, and
persisted in it, though conmianded several times. Ruth was quite
indignant to think he would not obey his master, referring to that text
of Scripture, who says, " Servants, obe)'' your masters." He replied
that he should not disobey God for the sake of obeying any earthly
master. This was interpreted by her to his master, who took hold
of Mr. Williams' hand and forced him to cross himself, but he strug-
gled, and would not sutler him to guide his hand. He then ordered
him to kiss a crucifix which he pulled olf from his neck, but he re-
peatedly refused to do it. His master then told him that he would
knock his brains out with his tomahawk if he refused. He told him
that he should prefer death to sinning against God. The Indian then
seized his tomahawk and made a violent shew of attacking him with
it. Mr. Williams remained undaunted, when he threw down the
hatchet, at the same time threatening to bite off all his nails if he still
refused. He gave him his hand and told him he might proceed. Ha
grasped his thumb with violence between his teeth and said, "No
good minister, no love God, as bad as the devil," and he let him go,
nor did he ever afterwards attempt to molest him in his religious



176 Rev. John Williams.

opinions. He asked permission of the Jesuit to pray with the prison-
ers from Deerfield, that were Avith him, but they absolutely refused
him, and tried every means in their power to prevent their coming
together.

A few days after this, governor De Vaudreuil dispatched two men
with letters to the Jesuits, requesting them to order Mr. Williams'
being sent to him at Montreal. Upon receiving this request, one of
the Jesuits, with his two masters, took him, with two others from
Deerfield, a man and his daughter, seven years of age, along with
them. Upon their arrival at the lake, the wind was very boisterous,
and they were afraid to go over, and said they would wait and see
whether it would lull, or change, Mr. Williams went into the woods,
and otiered up a petition to God, that the winds might be propitious,
and that he might be enabled soon to see his children and neighbors,
and learn something concerning their situation. On his return the
winds were more boisterous, and so a second and third time. The
Jesuit and his master advised them to return to the fort, for such winds
frequently continued three days, and sometimes six. After it had
continued as nuich as six hours, he said to them, " The will of the
Lord be done," and they launched the canoe into the river. This
was no sooner done than the wind calmed, and by the time they got
into the middle of the river, the gale had so far subsided that they
were enabled afterwards to pass the lake in safety. After they had
got over the lake, wherever they went, the French always treated
them with respect and compassion.

Wlien he arrived at Montreal, which was on Tuesday, April
25th, eight weeks after he was captivated, governor De Vaudreuil
redeemed him from the Indians, gave him good articles of clothing,
of which he was very much in need, fed him at his own table, and
furnished him with a good chamber. In short, he was generous,
courteous, and polite to him. He sent for two of his children who
were there in the city, and promised to do all that lay in his power
towards redeeming his other children and neighbors from the hands
of the savages. His change of diet was such at this time as to cause
considerable alteration in his bodily appearance, and brought on a
slight sickness for which he was bled and physiced and treated with
great tenderness. The governor also purchased his eldest daughter
of the Indians. She was conveyed to the hospital and carefully treat-
ed until she recovered from a lameness which she contracted on the
journey. His youngest daughter was also redeemed by a lady in the
city who purchased her of the Indians as they passed by. The In-
dians after conversing with the priests as they passed the fort, tried
to re-purchase her of the lady, and ofiered her a man for the child,
stating that the man was a weaver and might be of service to her in
the undertaking of the making of cloth, in which she was then about
engaging, while the child would be unprofitable to her. She would
not accede to their terms, which was very fortunate for Mr. Williams,
for had they obtained her, she would have remained among them at
the fort, as the other children did. The governor instructed certain
of his officers to obtain the rest of his children of the Indians, and as
many of his neighbors as they could, A merchant living in the city



Meeting with his Daughter. 177

procured his eldest son after about six weeks, and took him home to
live with him. He had difficulty in persuading the savages to part
with him. An Indian, by the name of Sagamore George, of Pena-
cook, called upon him from Coos, and informed him that his son Ste-
phen was near that place. Some money was put into his hands to
redeem him, and a promise of more if he was successful. He proved
treacherous and unfaithful, and he did not see his son for more than
a year. The governor commanded a priest to accompany him to the
Macquas to see his youngest daughter Eunice, and endeavor to pro-
cure her release. He went with him and was very courteous to him,
and from his parish near the fort of the Macquas, he wrote a letter
to the Jesuit, and requested him to send his child to him, and also to
request his master to accompany her. The Jesuit returned an answer
that he should not be permitted to see or speak with his child, and
« that the Macquas would as soon part with their hearts as with his
child." The governor was enraged when Mr. Williams shewed him
this letter, and he assured him that he should both see and speak with
his child, and that he would use all his endeavors to redeem her. He
accordingly instructed the Jesuits to use their influence with the In-
dians for procuring the child, and in a few days accompanied Mr.
Williams in person to the fort. When his child was brought into the
room where he was, he had liberty granted him to speak to her, but
to no other English person there. She was about seven years of age.
They conversed together about an hour. She remembered her cate-
chism, and had not forgotten how to read. She was very anxious to
be redeemed from the Macquas, and was unhappy in her captivity.
She moaned over the profanation of the Sabbath, stating that she
thought a few days before they were mocking the devil, and one of
the Jesuits stood watching them. Her father told her that she must
pray to God to direct her. She said that she did as far as she knew
how, and that God assisted her, but she observed they forced her to
pray in Latin, which she did not understand, and which she hoped
would do her no harm. He told her that she must not forget her
catechism, and those portions of Scripture which she had leamt.
Some of the prisoners afterwards informed him that she told them
that she remembered almost every word he said to her, and that she
was very fearful that she should forget her catechism, having no one
to instruct her. A few days after this he saw her for a few moments
in the city, and gave her the best advice he could. The governor
used every efibrt to redeem her for him, and at one time he had the
promise of her if he would procure for them an Indian girl in her
stead. He sent several hundred miles and procured one, but the In-
dians would not adhere to their bargain. He also offered them one
hundred pieces of eight for her release. Still they refused to give her
up. The governor's lady also visited them, and used all the arts she
was mistress of to induce them to part with her, but all in vain. At
the time Mr. Williams was redeemed, she was left among the Indians,
and no money could procure her redemption. She soon forgot the
English language, became an Indian in her habits, married an Indian,
who assumed the name of Williams, and had several children by him.
Some years after this she visited Deerfield in her Indian dress. She
Vol. 1.— X



178 Rev. John Williams.

attended meeting in her father's church while here, and her friends
dressed her in the English fashion. She indignantly threw off her
clothes in the afternoon and resumed the Indian blanket. Every ef-
fort was used to persuade her to leave the Indians, and remain among
her relations, but in vain. Slie preferred the mode of life, and the
haunts of the Indians, to the unutterable grief of Mr. Williams and
her friends.

Her descendants have frequently visited Deerfield since, and claim-
ed a relationship with the family and descendants of Mr. Williams,
and been kindly treated by them. Mr, Eleazer Williams, one of her
grandsons, was educated at Dartmouth college, by the munificence of
his friends, in New-England, studied divinity, and was a short time
since, preaching at Green Bay on lake Michigan.

As Mr. Williams was passing from the fort where he had just had
a conversation with his daughter, he saw some of his Deerfield
friends, who were very anxious to speak to him, and the Indians
granted their request, but the Jesuits forced him along, and only al-
lowed him to tell them in a low voice, that some of their relations,
concerning whom they inquired, were in the city, and well.

On his return to the city he was dispirited, for he was not allowed
to pray, even with the captives who resided in the same house, and
the prisoners who came to visit him, were thrust back by the guard
at the door, and not allowed to speak to him. The guard were so
strict that he was hardly allowed to go out on necessary occasions.
Whenever he went to the city, a privilege which the governor always
allowed him, when he requested it, he was watched by spies to see
whether he spoke to the English. Pie told some of them that they
must recollect former instructions, and for a while keep at a greater
distance, believing that he should have more hberty in a short time,
for conversing with them. On a Sabbath day some spies, observing
more than three of them together, which number they v/ere not to
exceed, immediately informed the priest of it. The next day the
priest reminded him that he had transgressed their orders, and told
him that he had spoken disrespectfully concerning their religion. He
requested of the governor that no forcible means might be used with
the prisoners respecting their religion, which he by no means allowed
of.

When he first arrived at Montreal, the governor told him that he
should be sent home as soon as a man by the name of captain Battis
was returned, and not before, and that he was captivated to procure
his release. The governor seemed always to sympathize in his sor-
rows, and appeared to be willing to have him see his children. Mr.
Williams one day informed him of his desire of walking in the city.
He cheerfully consented, and his eldest son accompanied him to the
door, when he saw the guard stop him. He informed his father, who
came to the door, and inquired why they prevented the gentleman
from passing out ? They informed him that they were ordered to do
so. The governor, in an angry voice assured them that his orders
were not to be disobeyed. Shortly after, Mr. Williams was ordered
to Quebec. Among other things, to shew that the governor's orders
were not always regarded, when he had been at Montreal two days.



Revolutionary Anecdotes. 179

he requested leave of the priest to visit his youngest child, who re-
plied that when he wished it he would bring it to him, but that the
governor was not willing that he should go to see it. Not many days
after, while at dinner, the governor's lady, seeing him depressed in
spirits, spoke to an officer in Latin, that he should go with them and
see his two children. After dinner he was carried to see them. At
the house he found three or four English prisoners, who resided there,
and he was permitted to converse with them. Not long after this, she
invited him to visit the hospital with her to see some of his neighbors
who were sick there.

One of the Jesuits called upon the governor, and informed him in
presence of the rest of the company, " that he never saw such per-
sons as were taken from Deerfield :" that the Macquas would not
allow the prisoners to remain in their wigwams while they were at-
tending mass ; they always took them to church, but they could not
prevail upon them to kneel in prayer, but they did this immediately
upon their return to their wigwams. He also stated that they could
do nothing with the adults, and that they often prevented children
from complying with their modes of worship.

At this place Mr. Williams noticed that they were very much elated
at the return of captain Montining from Northampton with informa-
tion of the success of the French and Indians against New England.
As they had sent out an army of seven hundred men, two hundred of
whom were French, accompanied by several Jesuits, they threatened
that they would destroy all the settlements on Connecticut river. As
their general was a man of undaunted bravery, the superior of the
priests told Mr. Williams that he had no doubt that their efforts would
be successful, and they must not flatter themselves with a very short
captivity. Their designs were frustrated, and the expedition proved
abortive.

Mr. Williams was sent to Quebec with governor De Ramsey, of
Montreal, and the superior of the Jesuits, and directed to live with one
of the council, from whom, during seven weeks, he received many
favors. He informed him that it was the act of the priest in sending
him here before the arrival of the governor, and that if he called fre-
quently upon the prisoners, or they upon him, he would certainly be
sent to some place where he could not hold converse with them.



■*#^#^4^^^^«^^^4^<^^#^^^



REVOLUTIONARY ANECDOTES.

BY JAMES BERRY.

The following recital is in accordance with the idea that living witnesses
may yet be found to testify of things as far back as our revolutionary strug-
gle. A delay of only a few years, and such opportunities will become very
rare. Mr. Berry is still vigorous in mind and body, for a man of his age,
and as an illustration of it, we give a fac-simile of his signature, written with-
out glasses, which he seldom uses. Those who know him are by no means
disposed to doubt the active courage of the youthful soldier, which he was



180 Revolutionary Anecdotes.

during the revolution. That he speaks mostly of acts and deeds in which he
took a conspicuous part, is both natural and proper. Who knows so well,
and if knowing, who remembers so well the acts of others as those in which
they themselves were conspicuous ? These enter deepest into the mind, and
are longest and best remembered, and Mr. Berry has wisely hazarded very
little by straying out into the recital of the acts of others, or those less im-
portant of his own, around which the length of years may have thrown the

mists of uncertainty.

CONTENTS.
Introduction — Mr. BeiTy enters the army and goes to Perth Amboy — Position of the Brit-
ish and American forces — Arrangement to take the fort on Staten island — Failed, but sur-
prised the guard at Cuckoldtown — Chased the guard off, killing some and taking sixteen
prisoners — Got back just in time to escape being taken — Flag of truce — General Mercer's
compliment for bravery — Hessian desertion — Chase across the Jerseys and battle of Tren-
ton — Of Princeton — Attempt to steal a sloop, failed — Arnold rescued from the pursuit of a
British barge — Arnold's plot to take Washington prisoner — Andre captured — His person-
al appearance and execution — Arnold's personal appearance — Cherry Chew taken and sen-
tenced to be hung — His execution.

Mr. Williams, — Your request to receive from me what I know about
che revolutionary war shall be answered, but I cannot promise to give
all at once. I shall simply relate such things as I well remember and
in which I was engaged, and leave others to tell of their own deeds.
I was a volunteer during the whole revolutionary war, remaining in
the army only during the summer season, except one winter cam
paign. I was born in the state of Delaware, about three miles from
a place called Smyrna, on the 14th day of October, 1759. I entered
first into captain Thomas Skillington's company, which belonged to
the flying-camp regiment, in August, in the year 1776. We went from
Smyrna to Philadelphia, and from thence to Perth Amboy, where we
laid without doing any thing material till November. I acted aS
fugleman. We were under general Mercer. He had taken our regi-
ment to strengthen his. They were doing nothing. The British and
Hessians were on Staten island, the Hessians right opposite, and we
used occasionally to fire across. The British always kept the Hes-
sians between them and danger, in battle and out. Of these on Staten
island there were six or seven thousand. There was also on the
island some six or eight miles of a fort in possession of the British,
and a guard of three hundred men at Cuckoldtown, eighteen miles
distant.

There were two thousand one hundred men at the old Blazing Star,
on the Hudson, who agreed to meet us on Staten island, on a certain
night, for the purpose of surprising the British fort. Our officers beat
for volunteers to go over and help take the British fort : at the first
trial only one private volunteered. The general said : " Gentlemen,



Ji Gallant Action. 181

from your loolcs I thought you would all have stepped out in a body ;
instead of which, there is but one, and I believe he is the youngest
man in the regiment." We, however, made up eighty-two volun-
teers, including officers.

We got over just at dark, but the night proved to be so bad the
men from the Blazing Star did not meet us. Having got the spirit
up we were determined not to go back without some game, and as
we could not carry the fort, we determined to attack the guard at
Cuckoldtown. We did not think there were as many as three hun-
dred at it, or perhaps we should not have ventured it. We, however,
put off and arrived at the guard just at daybreak, and surprised the
guard while they were cooking their breakfasts. Their numbers
a little surprised us, but we were determined to make the best of
it. We made as great a show as we could. The surprise was
complete. They had six sentries, and the first thing we did was to
shoot every one down at once.

The guard then took to the meeting house, and we pursued them
and were within fifty yards of them. They made fight at the door,
but we were so close and siiot them down so fast that they turned
back and ran out at the back door in order to escape to the fort. We
killed thirty-nine at the door. I observed that they were escaping
out at the back door, and having no thought of death or danger I
called to some of the boys to run round with me and stop them ; but
I suppose none heard me, and perfectly regardless about help, I ran
round, and as I turned the corner I shot a Hessian at the back door,
and unarmed as I was I rushed to the door and stood on the step and
ordered them to surrender. I suppose they thought from my bold
manner that I was an officer, for I wore a buck's tail in my hat. The
British said : '< We will surrender, but we do not know that the Hes-
sians will." There were then only eighteen in the house, nine of each.
I rushed right in and took hold of one of the Hessians' guns which
he gave up without resistance, and 1 sat it down in one corner of tlie
meeting house, and by signs, which they could not mistake, ordered
the rest to do the same, which they all did. I then formed them two
and two and marched them out round the house. This was all done
by the force of thoughtless determination on my part and of panic
on theirs ; for I have no doubt they thought I was backed at the door
by the whole company.

By this time, for all was done in less than one minute, an adjutant,
whose name was Lucas, not knowing what was going on, and think-
ing that the whole squad had ran off, and perhaps glad to get rid of
them so easily, had formed the men, and was marching off. When

16



182 Revolutionary Anecdotes. ''

I came round the meeting house I called to him to stop, which he did
till I marched the prisoners up. After taking our breakfast we
marched back and arrived at the river, in sight of Amboy, in the
afternoon. The boat was so much overloaded that myself and two
more agreed to remain on the island till they could send for us, which
they did immediately. We got in the boat and shoved otf, and at
that moment six or eight hundred British, who pursued us from the
fort, arrived, but not quite in time to take us prisoners. We had got
off too far to be in much danger. They hallooed for us to come back.
We told them we would by and by. We talked a spell and went
over. General Mercer asked me what they said. I told him that
the major who came from the fort wanted me to say that he wished
to exchange for his brother, who was sergeant of the guard, and who
was among the prisoners. General Mercer said that could not be
done without the consent of general Washington, who was eight or
ten miles off.

They hoisted a flag, and the general asked me if I would go over to
them. I said I would if he wished it. I had learned the most im-
plicit obedience to the wishes of superiors from an Irish schoolmaster
who taught me. The general told me to hoist a flag too. I tied my
handkerchief to my sword and went over holding it up. I met the
major at the shore and shook hands with him. He asked me how
many men we had at the surprise at Cuckoldtown. I told him, a
plenty. He said, I noticed your outward tracks, and I don't think
there could have been over a hundred — I thought to have waylaid
you and took you. I told him, there was where he missed it. He
asked me to tell him truly how many we had. I knew we had not
disgraced ourselves, and told him eighty-two, including officers. He
turned to his men and said ; " Don't that beat old Harry ; eighty-two
rebels to chase three hundred soldiers, killing about half their own
number, and taking eighteen prisoners ?" He then said to me, " I think
you were a pretty bold set of youngsters to go so far to attack so
many, when we have such forces all around your path." I said, "We
are just beginning to fight, and that was not a breakfast spell for us."
" It seems not," said he, " to be a breakfast spell for you indeed."
There was then great grumbling and swearing among them about it.
I walked up very carelessly among the soldiers, eyeing them very
closely to see what kind of stuff they were made of, and concluded
they could never fight with us. They appeared to nie to be too pus-
sy. When about to start the major told me to give his compliments
to his brother, and tell him he would effect his release as soon as pos-
sible, and that he would send him some money if he had a chance.



Hessian Deserters. 183

I told him I would take it, and lie sent five guineas by me, for which
his brother was very thankful, and particularly to me for its safe de-
hvery ; for, he said, I might have kept it without his ever knowing it.

When I returned, the general asked me what I went among them
for? I said I wanted to see what kind of cattle they were, and I
found them a little set of fellows not fit to fight with us. The gen-
eral then told colonel Neil to give me a lieutenant's commission, and
eighteen days of grace ; " for," says he, " he was the first private to vol-
unteer, and the main one at taking prisoners. Let him have no duty
to perform, except just what he chooses, and as a mark of distinction,
let him wear a cedar twig in his hat during that time." The next
parade day great numbers had cedar twigs in their hats, which the
general noticed, and ordered that the next time any who were caught
with that badge, except he had ordered it, should have fifteen lashes.
That put cedar twigs out of fashion, except with myself.

These nine Hessians, which we took, were the first that were
taken prisoners. They were much alarmed at the thought of being
prisoners among the Americans, for they had been taught to think
that we killed and scalped our prisoners, and made drum heads of
their hides. Their fears immediately subsided, for they got among
the Dutch at Amboy, who spoke their own language, and used them
as well as their own folks. When they found this, they wrote letters
to their friends on the opposite side of the river, and put them in a
little keg headed up tight, and at full tide and fair wind set it afloat.
It floated right across to the Hessian encampment, and we got three
hundred deserters in about a week. They raised all the boats that they
could, and the British had to remove them to prevent total desertion.

In December, the British chased us across the Jerseys. After we
crossed the Raritan at New Brunswick, we halted and made battle,
but they were too strong for us, and we had to retreat quite across
the Delaware at Trenton. During the Christmas holydays, Washing-
ton thought the Hessians would be drinking, and it would be a good
time to give them a brushing. He divided his forces, and sent gen-
eral Cadwalader and another general to Burlington and Bordentown,
to give the English battle at those places, where they had gone into
winter quarters. But they could not get across for the ice. We had
hard work to cross nine miles above Trenton. After we had crossed,
we marched down to where the Hessians were quartered. We killed
on December 26th, one hundred and forty-four, I think. They soon
threw down their arms and cried for quarter. We took about one
thousand prisoners, about equal to one third of the army, which was
not sent to Burlington and Bordentown. James Monroe was in that



1-84 Revolutionary Anecdotes.

battle, and received a small wound on the shoulder. I saw him, and
talked these things all over with him, at Louisville, Kentucky, when
he was through this country, while he was president.

We brought the Hessians down to Philadelphia and put our troops
together, and then went back to Trenton to light the English. They
thought they would have fine work taking us. We retreated over
the Sant Pink, but they did not follow us. We fought across the run
till evening. We kindled fires to deceive them, and left a few to keep
the fires burning, while the army went to Princeton. We got there
just after daylight. They were just starting to help take us. We
gave them a salute. We killed about one hundred and sixty of them,
and they killed sixty-three of the Virginians. Among them was gen-
eral Mercer himself. They fled, and we ran them two miles and took
about four hundred prisoners.

I staid with the army that winter, and we had hard skirmishing in
the Jerseys through the whole of it. After that my usual practice
was to go home when the army went into winter quarters, as I was
only a volunteer. I went out everj^ summer during the war. After
the army went south, I went with colonel Pope to keep the tories off
Bomb Hook. Pie had a vessel that he used to send to Philadelphia,
&:c. for supplies, and a tory sailor by the name of Jack, who was a
purchased servant. He went on Pope's vessel so much as to know
the channels and was a good pilot. Some of the tories got in with
him to help them to steal Pope's sloop, and take her to the British at
New York. The time arrived that they agreed to take her on full
tide from Pope's landing on Duck creek, and thus get her out into
the Delaware. Pope got wind of it, and he sent me and another
down the creek to fall a certain tree across, before they could get
down, and by the time we had it down, he came himself with four-
teen others, making now seventeen in all. The night was verj?- dark,
and we all stood at the stump ready for them, knowing that when
the sloop would run against the tree, they would all run forward to
see what was the matter. In a little while they approached in high
glee, laughing at the anger Pope would show off in the morning.
They had a row boat in front, helping to tow her out. It first came
against the fallen tree, and then the next moment the sloop ran jamb
against it. We were ready for them. It turned out as we expected,
they all ran forward without observing us. Pope gave the order, and
we fired on them and killed five that were left on the sloop. The
rest made their escape or got drowned. Jack cried out "that is col-
onel Pope," as he jumped with several others into the water, and it
was the last we ever heard of him. Thus ended that stealing match.



t^rnold^s Treason. 185

I will now pass over many things which I know concerning the
war, and which I may give at another time, and relate something
about the traitor Arnold, and the execution of Andre. Just after
Arnold and Andre had completed their traitorous plot, to decoy-
Washington to West Point and deliver liim up prisoner of war, and
just after Andre had left West Point for New York, I happened to
be on the Hudson, at the mouth of Sloaten creek, about two miles
from Washington's head-quarters. I saw an American boat rowed
by four soldiers, with a gentleman in it, making all speed for the
mouth of the creek, chased by a British barge, which had a mounted
swivel, but no small arms. I ran to the guard house to tell them of
it. The sergeant of the guard was away, but his four men were on
duty. I told them of the situation of the Americans, and they agreed
to go with me to try and rescue them. I put on the sergeant's ac-
coutrements, and we ran down to the river. I told them we would
keep apart, and as they had nothing but a swivel, they would kill
but one of us at one shot. We got to the river just as the boat enter-
ed the creek, with the barge close after her. We fired on the barge
very briskly, and they on us with their swivel, which made the mud
fly all over us, but did no further damage. They soon retreated, and
the gentleman in the American boat had been landed on our side of
the creek, and ordered the men to row her over to the otlier side. It
was no other than Arnold, the traitor, himself. We insisted on his
letting us have his boat and men to go and take the barge, but he re-
fused. " None of you are hurt, and you had better let them alone," said
he, and would not let them come across the creek to us, as we would
have been likely to have taken her at any rate. We felt hungry for
the barge. They rowed across the Hudson and landed at the White-
house tavern, from whence we afterwards learned, that we had killed
five, and wounded eight of their men.

He then made himself known to me, and said he wanted to go to
head-quarters, as he had pnrticular business with general Washing-
ton. Had I known what the fellow was at, I should have been ready
to shoot him down on the spot. I told him it was about two miles
to head-quarters. He lifted up his foot and took hold of his heel,
which, he said, was wounded in the battle at Ticonderoga, and that
he could not walk. Being well known there, I had no difficulty in
procuring a horse for him. Washington, by the good providence of
God, was absent from head-quarters, and so that part of the plot fail-
ed, for Arnold's errand was to invUe him to dine at West Point, next
day, to make a prisoner of him.

The second morning after that, they brought major Andre in as a
Vol. L— Y 16*



186 li evolutionary Jinecdotes.

prisoner to Dobbs' ferry, where we were building a blockhouse, two
miles below Sloaten creek. He had been taken on his way to New
York. He was taken to one Jemison's, and went by the name of
John Anderson. Jemison allowed him to write a letter to Arnold,
while he was a prisoner. I always blamed Jemison for Arnold's
escape, and thought he had a little of the tory in him, for all he had
a company to watch the tories to keep them from trading with the
British at New York. He had no business to let Andre write to any
body, while he was a prisoner under such charges, and especially to
Arnold, as there were good reasons to believe he (Arnold) had a
hand in the plot.

Andre looked to be about twenty -five to twenty-eight years old,
very good looking, about five feet nine or ten inches high, well set,
with fine features — I think light hair. He was not dressed in uni-
form when I saw him. I went to see him hung, but the execution
was put off, as was understood, because Washington was trying to
exchange him for Arnold with the British. He was hung on the
next day, but I was not present.

Arnold was a low set man, round face, say fifty years of age.
When we rescued him, he was in citizen's dress. His hair was dark.

Sometime after Andre was hung, I went home, and joined a com-
pany to go against Cherry Chew, a tory who had fortified himself in
Queen Anne's forest, and had got about five hundred tories about him,
who subsisted by depredations on the country. He was a great pest.
We raised a company and attacked his fort. His men were great
cowards, and stood almost no siege at all. They broke from the fort,
and left old Cherry to his fate. We chased him to his house, which,
was a kind of blockhouse, and a little distance from the fort. He
had five muskets which his wife loaded, and by this means they were
able to keep up a pretty regular fire. They made a stout resistance.
They killed one Joseph Moore. Another person was knocked down
by a bullet striking his stock buckle, which in all probability saved
his life. We rushed to the door, broke it down, and took old Cherry
prisoner to Dover, where he was tried and sentenced to be hung.

There was much fear that the tories would raise a force, and en-
deavor to rescue him, as they threatened to do it. The people at Do-
ver, knowing that fighting was sport to me, sent for me to command
the guard on the day of execution. There was no attempt of the
kind made. After he was hung, his wife came and begged for his
body, which request was granted to her. Thus ended Cherry Chew,
a brave and honorable man, but on the wrong side in that contest.
We should probably have made much shorter work with him, had



Revolutionary Soldiers. 187

we not hoped that we could have got information from him, that
would help to detect others; but he died without dropping the least
hint to any one, by which any other person could be implicated.

Given under my hand, at the city of Cincinnati, for the American
Pioneer, this 9th day of March, 1842.



e/t-^rw^^ S-i^



Wk copy the following beautiful verses from the " American Mechanic,"
a paper published in New York, edited by Rufus Porter, Esq. It is worthy
of the patronage of every friend of his country.

REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIERS.

A glorious race they were — the tried,

The true of ancient time —
Our glorious sires, who bled and died

For this our own free clime ;

Oh ! hallowed be each sacred name.
That fearless to the conflict came,
And freely on the battle plain
Poured out their blood like drops of rain.

Few are the sculptured gifts of art,

A Nation's love to tell ;
And many a brave and gallant heart

Hath mouldered where it fell.

The spiry maize luxuriant waves
Its long green leaves o'er heroes' graves ;
And thoughtless swains the harvest reap,
Where our stern Fathers' ashes sleep.

But after years the tale shall tell,

In words of light revealed,
Who bravely fought — who nobly fell ;

And many a well earned field,

Outspread beneath the western sun,
Shall live with ancient Marathon, —
And Trenton's fight, and Princeton's name.
Be linked with old Platea's fame.

But the surviving few who stand

A remnant weak and old —
Sole relics of that glorious band,

Whose hearts were hearts of gold—

Oh ! honored be each silvery hair !
Each furrow trenched by toil and care !
And sacred each old bending form.
That braved oppression's battle storm !



188 Logan, the Mingo Chief,



LOGAN, THE MINGO CHIEF.

The following is taken from the Pittsburgh Daily American, of March 24th.
The account given in that paper, to which Mr. Darsie alludes, we presume
was extracted from the American Pioneer. We give the correspondence part-
ly to confirm and partly to correct what we before published, and partly for
the sake of having the opportunity to say, that whatever of mistake there
may be in the anecdote as published in the Pioneer, that mistake did not ori-
ginate with Dr. Hildreth, as the line of Mr. Darsie might allow the reader to
suppose.

We received the following letter from Mr. Darsie, with the enclos-
ed, by this morning's mail, for which we are indebted to him many
thanks.

Harrisburgh, March 21, 1842.
J. W. BiDDLE, Esq:

Dear Sir, — I enclose you a correction of the Logan anecdote as
told by Dr. S. P. Hildreth, and published in your paper of the 17th
inst. R. P. Maclay, Esq. is a member of the senate from Union
county, and a son of the Samuel Maclay named in the anecdote.
You may therefore depend upon his version being correct. You are
at liberty to make any use of it you may see proper.

Yours, &c. GEO. DARSIE.



Senate Chamber,
March 21, 1842.

To George Darsie, Esq.,

Of the Senate of Pennsylvania.

Dear Sir, — Allow me to correct a few inaccuracies as to place and
names, in the anecdote of Logan, the celebrated Mingo chief, as pub-
lished in the Pittsburgh Daily American, of March 17th, 1842, to
which you called my attention. The person sttrprised at the Spring
now called the Big Spring, and about six miles west of Logan's
Spring, was William Brown, the first actual settler in Kisacoquillas
valley, and one of the associate judges of Mifflin county from its
organization till his death, at the age of ninety-one or two, and not
Samuel Maclay, as stated by Dr. Hildreth. I will give you the anec-
dote as I heard it related by judge Brown himself, while on a visit
to my brother, who then owned and occupied the Big Spring farm.

" The first time I ever saw that spring," said the old gentleman,
" my brother, James Reed, and myself, had wandered out of the val-
ley, in search of land, and finding it very good, we were looking
about for springs. About a mile from this, we started a bear, and
separated to get a shot at him. I was traveling along, looking about
on the rising groimd for the bear, when I came suddenly upon the
Spring, and being dry, and more rejoiced to find so fine a spring than
to have killed a dozen bears, I set my rifle against a bush and rushed
down the bank, and laid down to drink. Upon putting my head
down, I saw reflected in the water, on the opposite side, the shadow



Post Office Facilities. 189

of a tall Indian ; I sprang to my rifle, when the Indian gave a yell,
whether for peace or war I was not just then suliiciently master of
my faculties to determine ; but upon my seizing my ritie, and facing
him, he knocked up the pan of his gun, threw out the priming, and
extended his open palm toward me in token of friendship. After
putting down our guns, we again met at the spring, and shook hands.
This was Logan, the best specimen of humanity I ever met with,
either white or red. He could speak a little English, and told me
there was another white hunter a little way down the stream, and
oflered to guide me to his camp. There I first met your father. We
remained together in the valley a week looking for springs, and select-
ing lands ; and laid the foundation of a friendship which never has
had the slightest interruption,

" We visited Logan at his camp, at Logan's Spring, and your father
and he shot at a mark for a dollar a shot ; Logan lost four or five
rounds, and acknowledged himself beaten. When we were about to
leave him, he went into his hut, and brought out as many deer skins
as he had lost dollars, and handed them to Mr. Maclay, who refused
to take them, alledging that we had been his guests, and did not come
to rob him ; that the shooting had been only a trial of skill, and the
bet merely nominal. Logan drew himself up with great dignity and
said, "Me bet to make you shoot your best — me gentleman, and me
take your dollar if me beat." So he was obliged to take the skins or
affront our friend, whose nice sense of honor would not permit him
to receive even a horn of powder in return.

" The next year," said the old gentleman, " I brought my wife up
and camped under a big walnut tree, on the bank of Tea creek, until
I had built a cabin near where the mill now stands, and have lived in
the valley ever since. Poor Logan, (and the big tears coursed each
other down his cheeks,) soon after went into the Alleghany, and I
never saw him again." Yours,

R. P. MACLAY.



POST OFFICE FACILITIES.
Auditor's Office, Post Office Dep't., March IS, 1842.

Dear Sir, — In the third number of the American Pioneer, in
referring to the " Act passed by the legislature of New York, in the
year 17S5, to grant to Isaac Van Wyck and others, an exclusive
right of keeping stage wagons, on the east side of Hudson's river,
between the cities of New York and Albany, for the term of two
years," you say, "It is most likely the basis of the first staging done
in the United States." In this belief you are incorrect.

The intercourse by stages, between those cities, was as much
behind the times, then, as it now is by rail-roads. The country bor-
dering on the Hudson is too rugged for early improvement.

You will see, by the continuation of the " Annals," that the stage
between New York and Philadelphia was first run in 1756.



190 Post Office Facilities.

I will furnish you, at an early day, with a settlement of the first
post office account, commencing in 1775 and ending in 1776.
Very respectfully yours.



Jno. S. Williams, Esqr.




ANNALS.— Continued.

The first stage between New York and Philadelphia, commenced
running in 1756, and occupied three days.

Newspapers were carried by mail, free of charge, until the year
1758 ; when, by reason of their great increase, they were charged
with postage at the rate of nine pence each year for fifty miles, and
one shilling and six pence for one hundred miles.

In 1766 the whole population of the British colonies, including the
Bermuda and Bahama islands, was estimated at one million seven
hundred and forty thousand.

February 3rd, 1766, Dr. Benjamin Franklin was examined before
the committee of the whole, in the British house of commons, in
London, relative to the repeal of the American stamp act.

The following questions and answers, touching the post office
establishment, may not be uninteresting.

" Question. — Are not you connected in the management of the
post office in America ?

Answer. — Yes : I am deputy postmaster general of North America.

Q. — Don't you think the distribution of stamp hy post, to all the
mhabitants, very practicable if there was no opposition ?

A. — The posts go along the sea-coast ; they do not, except in a few
instances, go back into the country ; and, if they did, sending for
stamps by post would occasion an expense of postage amounting, in
many cases, to much more than that of the stamps themselves.

Q. — Are you acquainted with Newfoundland ?

Ji. — I never was there.

Q. — Do you know whether there are any post roads on that island ?

»/l. — I have heard that there are no roads at all, but that the com-
munication between one settlement and another is by sea only.

Q. — Can you disperse the stamps by post in Canada ?

^. — There is only a post between Montreal and Quebec. The
inhabitants live so scattered and remote from each other in that vast
country, that posts cannot be supported among them, and therefore



Colonial Post Offices. 191

they cannot get stamps per post. The English colonies, along the
frontiers, are very thinly settled.

Q. — What number of white inhabitants do you think there are in
Pennsylvania?

*d. — I suppose there may be about one hundred and sixty thou-
sand.

Q. — How many white men do you suppose there are in North
America ?

./?. — About three hundred thousand, from sixteen to sixty years of
age.

Q. — Do not letters often come into the post office, in America,
directed to some inland town where no post goes ?
* .^.— Yes.

Q. — Can any private person take up those letters and carry them
as directed ?

A. Yes: any friend of the person may do it, paying the postage
that has accrued.

Q. — But must he not pay an additional postage for the distance to
such inland town ?

A.—^o.

Q. — Can the postmaster answer delivering the letter, without being
paid such additional postage ?

A, — Certainly he can demand nothing where he does no service.

Q. — Suppose a person, being far from home, finds a letter in a
post office directed to him, and he lives in a place to which the post
generally goes, and the letter is directed to that place, will the post-
master deliver him the letter without his paying the postage receiva-
ble at the place to which the letter is directed ?

A. — Yes: the office cannot demand postage for a letter that it
does not carry, or farther than it does carry it.

Q. — Are not the ferrymen in America obliged, by act of parlia-
ment, to carry over the post without pay ?

.^.— Yes.

Q. — Is not this a tax on the ferryman ?

A. — They do not consider it as such, as they have an advantage
from persons traveling with the post.

Q. — Do they (the people of America) consider the post office as a
tax, or as a regulator ?

A. — Not as a tax, but as a regulator and conveniency ; everi/
assembly encouraged it and supported it in its infancy, by grants of
money, which they would not otherwise have done ; and the people
have always paid the postage."

The first stage between Boston and New York commenced the
24th of June, 1772, to run once a fortnight, as a useful, new, and
expensive undertaking; to start on the 13th and to arrive either to or
from either of those places on the 25th of each month, making thir-
teen days of travel.

Doctor Franklin states, that during the first four years that the
business was managed by hini and his partner, the office became



192 Post Office Facilities.

upwards of nine hundred pounds in debt to them in consequence
of the great improvements they had made ; but it soon began to re-
pay them ; and before he " was displaced by a freak of ministers,"
which was on the 29th of January, 1774, they had brought it to yield,
three times as much clear revenue to the British crown as the post
office of Ireland. He adds, " Since that impudent transaction, they
have received from it not one farthing."



From the London Chronicle, for 1785.

GENERAL POST OFFICE, October 10, 1785.

Mr. Palmer having engaged to accomplish liis plan for the con-
veyance of his Majesty's Mails to all parts of the kingdom as soon as
possible, the letters for every part of Great Britain and Ireland, must,
in future, be put into the Receiving Houses before FIVE o'clock in
the evening, and into this office before SEVEN, in order to prevent
the inconveniencies which have arisen to the Public from two deliv-
eries in London on the same day, and sending out the mails at differ-
ent hours on the same evening.

The letters are intended to be sent regularly from hence between
the hours of Nine and Ten in the morning, so as to reach the most dis-
tant parts of the town by Twelve at noon.

It is necessary that all Newspapers should be put into this Office
before Six o'Clock, otherwise they cannot be certain of an immediate
conveyance. By command of the Postmaster-General.

ANTHONY TODD, Secretary.
The following are the Mail Coaches already established.
To Bath and Bristol, from the Swan with Two Necks, Lad-lane, and

the Gloucester Coflee-house, Piccadilly.
To Norwich and Yarmouth, through Newmarket and Thetford, from

the White-horse, Fetter-Lane.
To Norwich, through Colchester and Ipswich, from the same place.
To Nottingham and Leeds, from the Bull and Mouth, in Bull and

Mouth street.
To Manchester, through Derby, from the Swan with Two Necks,

Lad-lane.
To Liverpool, through Coventry and Litchfield, from the same place.
To Portsmouth, from the Angel, behind St. Clement's Church.
To Poole, from the Bell and Cro\vn, Holborn ; the Swan with Two

Necks, Lad-lane ; and the Gloucester Cofl'ee-house, Piccadilly.
To Gloucester, from the Angel behind St. Clement's Church.
To Birmingham, from the Swan with two Necks, Lad-lane.
To Worcester and Ludlow, from the George and Blue Boar, Holr

born, and the Gloucester Cofiee-house, Piccadilly.
To Bath and Bristol, through Andover, Devizes, and Bradford, from

the Swan with Two Necks, Lad-lane ; and the Gloucester Coffee-
house, Piccadilly.



EnsUsh Mail Coaches in 1785.



193



To Shrewsbury, from tlie Bull and Moutli, Bull and Mouth-street.
To Cirencester, Tudbury, and Stroud, from tlie Bell Savage, Ludgate-

hill ; and Gloucester-Coffee house, Piccadilly.
To Windsor, from the Three Cups, Bread-street, and the Gloucester

Coffee-house, Piccadilly.
To Caermarthen, through Gloucester, and by way of Swansea, from

the Angel behind St. Clement's church, and the Gloucester Coffee-
house, Piccadilly.
To Milford Haven, by way of Hereford, Brecknock, Caermarthen,

and Haverfordwest, from the Angel behind St. Clement's church,

and the Gloucester Coffee-house, Piccadilly.

As the plan is extended on to new roads, they will be advertised
for one week as under :

This Day.

To CARLISLE, through



To HOLYHEAD,

through
Coventry,
Litchfield,
Stafford,
Stone,
Ouse,

Namptwich,
Torporlv,
CHESTER,
Northop,
St. Asaph,
Conway,
Bangor,
Gwynd, to
Holyhead.

To PRESTON,

by way of
Liverpool and
Ormskirk.



Manchester,
Belton,
Charley,
Preston,
Garstang,
Lancaster,
Kendal,
Penrith, to
Carlisle.
And to CARLISLE
also through
Leeds,

High Harrowgate,
Rippon,
Leming-lane,
Caterick-bridge,
Greata-bridge,
Brough,
Appleby,
Penrith, to
Carlisle,



The Mail Coach to Chester and Holyhead, and the Mail Coach to
Carlisle, by way of Manchester, from the Swan with Two Necks,
Lad-lane.

The Mail Coach to Carlisle, by way of Leeds, from the Bull and
Mouth, in Bull and JNIouth street.

The above, although not exactly such matter as is intended for the
Pioneer, is copied into it from the "London Chronicle for 1785." It is
worth a place in the Pioneer as a piece of antiquity, and it is doubly worth
it as tending to show the state of the mails in England, at that time, for the
Bake of contrast with our own, then and now. Did we not see it with our
own eyes, we could scarcely credit the fact that the post office facilities in
England, at that late day, were, perhaps, behind what they were then in
America, and behind what they are now in Iowa or Wisconsin.
Vol. I.— Z 17



194 Our Revolutionary Fathers.



OUR REVOLUTIONARY FATHERS.

Who can look upon, or even think of this ever to be remembered race of
men, now nearly extinct, without feeling veneration approaching to reverence ?
It requires nothing further than a proper knowledge of what they did for us,
the length, breadth and height of the benefits which their blood, their nerves
and their treasure purchased for us, and a little reflection on the subject, to
inspire these feelings. Alas ! they are nearly removed from among us !
Death, that great leveler of all conditions and all distinctions, will soon have
done for them all, as he has again and again done for kings, princes, pontiffs,
prelates and beggars. It will soon be said, not that "My father saw genera]
Washington, Benjamin Franklin or John Hancock," but " My father or grand-
father actually saw and conversed with one who fought in the war of the
revolution!" or, "My father or grandfather saw one who was acquainted
with general Washington," &c. Thus, as distance of time increases, will
those reminiscences become more valuable ; and it is our duty to treat like
fathers, and more than fathers, every remnant of that band of worthies to
whom we owe so much.

It is an every day's remark, that most of the old revolutionary soldiers
that are left, are more or less of immoral and unsocial habits. So much the
greater debt we owe them. It will be remembered that the cotemporaries
of Washington, Franklin, (fee. have all passed away. Not one remains. We
mean those who had arrived at middle age, at the time of the revolutionary
war. All who were then of fixed habits are gone, and scarce one, if one,
remains who went into that war over thirty years of age ! The remnant we
have, were young men and boys in that struggle — their habits yet to fix, and
their very manhood to make. A boy of twenty then, exposed to all the evil
influences of a soldier's life, would now be a father of eighty-six, and it is
almost a miracle that they are as respectable as they are. In that struggle
they not only bared their breasts to the piercing bullets and the keen bayo-
nets, but robbed themselves of all opportunity of acquiring that education
and those habits which alone would make the unreflecting reverence them
while alive, and revere them when dead. Is not, then, our debt of gratitude
the greater, if they sacrificed not only safety and ease, but morals too?

If we cannot approve of all the habits of some of those fathers, can we
not pity them, yea, love them, in pity for their fathers and mothers, who from
love of their country sat up night after night, and toiled day after day, to fit
out their perhaps only son,- not to a boarding scliool, not to take a course of
study with a professional man, not to take a tour to store his mind with intel-
lectual lore, not even to serve an apprenticeship for his future advantage, but
lo the war, there to win, perhaps with his life, but surely with the loss of all
the benefits of education — what? win what? Freedom for us, that we might
do for our sons what they could not do for theirs. See the pious mother
parting with her son ! see her tears ! hear her wailings I appreciate her fore-



TJic Tyriiniiij iJicy resisted. 195

bodings of a death in battle, and if not that, a probability of what might be
even worse, a return with habits of idleness and its accompaniment, vice,
worse than death itself! ! Under these reflections, if for no other reason, we
cannot but make as respectable and beloved as j)ossible, every remnant of
that band of invincibles; and if tbey do not square with our ideas of aged
gentlemen, let us iliink tbat for our sakes they were deprived of almost every
possible chance of becoming siu-h.

Perlui[)s we have never yet taken time to think how much thev won for us.
Peradvcnture we have been so nuicii engaged about our present welfare, so
enamored of show and the polish of society, as not once to have stopped to
inquire into the amount of the debt we owe to them. We perliaps have
heard of the destruction of tea at Boston, in 1774, as the first act of the revo-
hition, and that that was a mere difference of three pence per pound, a mere
trifle; and viewing all the subsequent events as springing from that, we may
be inclined to set a small value on the whole course of consequent events.

Let us however reflect for a moment. The three pence imposition which
led to that measure was but the entering wedge, a mere beginning of a series
of tyrannical measures which would have been augmented and increased, and
always kept as oppressive as the people would bear; and they would at last
have borne any amount of degradation, according as their rulers would have
been able to scathe the spirits of the oppressed, and rendered them less and
less capable of seeing or asserting their own rights.

The crown of England by right of discovery claimed the land, but set no
definite value upon it. After she failed to find virgin gold as she once expect-
ed and sought, she was ready to patent it to those who would reclaim it. It
was inhabited by savages, covered with forests of wood, of briars and thorns,
in which dwelt fierce animals and reptiles of every kind. To tlie success
of clearing this ground, and planting civilization, many lives and much
treasure had been devoted. Many attempts had failed. The country was con-
sidered in itself worthless. It became an asylum to those who preferred
death to religious intolerance, and it became also the alternative of those who
preferred death in a foreign land by starvation, by the savages or wild beasts,
to the action of the laws of their native land, to the degradation of the
mind and of the soul to which the tender mercies of their own government
subjected them, as shown in the following advertisement. How cruel, how
unjust, how tyrannical then that government, just so soon as the country had
been so opened as to afford a few, and but very few of the benefits of civili-
zation, for their rulers thus to exact a support from these pioneers, to that
very tyranny they had so lately suffered all but martyrdom to get rid of!

The following advertisement is taken by us from the [English] Jinnual
Begisterfor 1750, page 169. It will give a little, and but little insight into that
system of surveillance,- to get clear of which our great grandfathers left their
native land, and dared the dangers of the deep, underwent all the hardships
of remote colonists, and by labor, sweat and blood reclaimed the soil, and to



196 Our Revolutionary Fathers.

prevent which from following them, our fathers bared their bosoms, and
drank deep of the cup of affliction. Who is there, that has in liis soul one
spark of manly republican fire, in whose heart the love of freedom is not
quite extinct and killed by tyranny, but would prefer banishment to an island
of the sea, yea, death itself in savage warfare, to the soul killing ignominy
to which William Margets submitted in exciting " the lenity of the pro-
secutor" by " earnest solicitation of himself and his friends." Here is an-
other affair of three pence, to which we would do well to look in estimating
the worth of our revolutionary fathers^ struggles for us.
"ADVERTISEMENT.

"Whereas I, William Margets, the younger, was, at the last as-
sizes for the county of Cambridge, convicted upon an indictment for
an attempt to raise the price of corn in Ely market, upon the 24th
day of September, 1757, by offering the sum of six shillings a bushel
for wheat, for which no more than five shillings and nine pence was
demanded : and whereas, on the earnest solicitation and request of
myself and friends, the prosecutor has been prevailed upon to forbear
any further prosecution against me on my submitting to make the
following satisfaction, viz. upon my ])aying the sum of fifty pounds
to the poor inhabitants of the town of Ely, to be distributed by the
ministers and churchwardens of the several parishes in the said town
of Ely ; and the further sum of fifty pounds to the poor inhabitants
of the town of Cambridge, to be distributed by the ministers and
churchwardens of the several parishes in the said town ; and the full
costs of the prosecution ; and upon my reading this acknowledg-
ment of my offence publicly, and with a loud voice, in the presence
of a magistrate, constable, or other peace officer of the said town of
Ely, at the market place there, between the hours of twelve and one
o'clock, on a public market day, and likewise subscribing and publish-
ing the same in three of the evening papers printed at London, and
in the Cambridge journal, on four different days, and I have accord-
ingly paid the said two sums of fifty pounds and costs. And do
hereby confess myself to have been guilty of the said offence, and
testify my sincere and heartj^ sorrow in having committed a crime,
which, in its consequences, tended so much to increase the distress of
the poor in the late calamitous scarcity. And I do hereby most
liumbly acknowledge the lenity of the prosecutor, and beg pardon of
the public in general, and of the town of Ely in particular.

This paper was read by me at the public market-place at Ely, in
the presence of Thomas Aungier, gentleman, chief constable, on the
2d day of June, 1759, being a public market day there, and is now,
as a further proof of the just sense I have of the heinousness of my
crime, subscribed and published by me, WM. MARGETS.

Witness, James Day,
Under Sheriff of Cambridgeshire."

Our blood almost boils when we contemplate the hollow hearted policy of
that government, which could thus gull their poor into a confidence in their
mock humanity, while by her corn laws she enables her nobility to keep the



The Jlevolutionaries. 197

price of corn so liigli, Uiat the incessant labor of the poor, will just keep
them from starvation ; whose system takes the young men to war and com-
merce, and leaves the old men, women and children to plant and reap the corn,
which a privileged nobility may with horn and hovmds ride over, tread down,
and with impunity destroy ; one tenth of which goes to support a tyrannical
church, and all the rest, save a threadbare subsistence, to feed and pamper
men too high for those laws to reach which chastised and degraded William
Margets ! It was to prevent this kind of three, pence exactions from enter-
ing this blessed land, that our fathers fought, bled and died. Let us revere
their memories, venerate the remnant, and love better the institutions they
left us. But turning from the harsh feelings which the contemplation of such
abuses engender, we will select for our readers some verses from a news-
paper, credited to J. E. Dow.

THE REVOLUTIONARIES.

Oh, where are they — those iron men,

Wlio braved tlie battle-storm of fire,
When war's wild halo filled the glen,

And lit each village humble spire;
While cannon shouts the country fill,

When hill sent back the sound to hill !

Oh, where are they, whose manly breasts

Beat back the pride of Eng-land's might,
Whose stalwart arms laid low the crests

Of many an old and valiant knigbt ;
When evening came with murderous flame,

And liberty was but a name !

I see them, in the distance, form

Like spectres on the misty shore!
Before them rolls the distant storm,

And hills send forth their rills of gore;
Around tliem Death, with lightning breath,

Is twining an immortal wreath.

They conquer ! — God of glory thanks ! —

They conquer! Freedom's banner waves
Above Oppression's broken ranks,

And witiiers o'er her children's graves;
And loud and lonir the pealing song

Of jubilee is borne along.

'Tis evening, and December's sun,

Goes swiftly down behind the wave:
And there I see a gvay-haircd one,

A special courier to the grave ;
He looks around on vale and mound.

Then falls upon his battle-ground.

Beneath him rests the hallowed earth.

Now changed like him, and still and cold;
. The blood that gave young freedom birth,

No longer warms the warrior old ;
He waves his hand with stern command,
Then dies, the last of glory's band.
17*



198 Marietta Historical Association.

THE MARIETTA HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

We have this moment, (April 29th, 1842,) received the following circular
which is the first intimation we received of the existence of the Marietta His-
torical Society. We cordially reciprocate their wishes of success. We
speak for the Logan Historical Society, and the citizens of this valley gen-
erally, when we say that the sons and descendants of old Virginia can never
act a mean or niggardly part towards their more northerly brethren, but will
extend to them a hand of fraternal assistance. They ask a like favor of
them, with the fullest confidence that the sons of the pilgrims will acquit
themselves to the credit of their parentage.

MARIETTA HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

Ephraim Cutler, President.

Arius Nye, Vice President.

Caleb Emerson, Corresponding Secretary.

Arius S. Nye, Recording Secretary.

William R. Putnam, John Mills, A. T. Nye, Curators.
It is not a little singular that the known and acknowledged impor-
tance of history has heretofore induced so little effort for its accura-
cy. The classification of history as a branch of fictitious literature,
would, alas for it ! be not altogether false. We have recent indica-
tions of better things to come. The formation of historical societies,
local as well as general, is very encouraging. The Marietta Histori-
cal Association aims to establish a library, cabinet, and repository
•worthy of the oldest settlement of Ohio. The members hope their
zeal may prove not incommensurate with their aims. But the effi-
ciency of the institution must depend much on the aid of others.

That aid is invoked, in the furnishing of books, pamphlets, news-
papers, memoirs, and manuscripts, illustrative of western history,
particularly of Ohio, and specially of earlier settlements. The dona-
tion of books is asked as a contribution for public utility. Any book,
publication, record or manuscript will be acceptable. The association
hopes to do its share in the preparation for western history ; and re-
spectfully suggests the formation, every where, of like associations,
holding friendly correspondence and rendering mtitual aid.
Ephraim Cutler, President,
Caleb Emerson, Corresponding Secretary.
Marietta, Nov. 24, 184 L

Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir, — Although your projects, from their scope, interfere
somewhat with ours, we wish you good success. Our scheme of a
historical association had been in agitation nearly three years before
we heard of yours. It was intended to have been carried into eifect
in the beginning of last year, but was delayed by circumstances not
important to be named at this time. Meanwhile you had the good
fortune to enlist Dr. Hildreth, who is himself a host, and who, though



Sandusky. 199

as we trust not unfriendly, has preferred to embark with you. But
there is no need of any marring of harmony. Dr. Ilildreth, indeed,
has been very friendly to the researches of C. Emerson. We have
contemplated a publication, but do not expect to compete much with
yours. Should it be your pleasure to insert our circular in the Pio-
neer, we shall take it as a particular favor.

We are, sir, very respectfully,

EPHRAIM CUTLER,
Marietta, April 16, 1842. CALEB EMERSON.



•****^^^^f^ff^^^h^^^s*^*



[Communicated for the American Pioneer.]

SANDUSKY.

The name, Sandusky, is in such general use in our section of the
state, that it has become more extensively known, perhaps, than
any other one in the Union. The associations connected with it, ever
since our state has been known to the whites, with its conquest and
settlement, are such as to make any thing concernhig it interesting.
Thinking that the origin of the name is not known to you, I send it
for the Pioneer, if this sketch should fall in with the design of your
paper. At the time the French were establishing their line of trad-
ing posts on the Wabash and Maumee rivers, nearly one hundred
years since, connecting their operations on the Ohio with their settle-
ments at Detroit, a Polish trader, by the name of Sandusky, or more
properly spelt, Sanduski, established himself near the present site of
Lower Sandusky, at the foot of the rapids of the river. His opera-
tions in trading for furs, &c. with Indians, being entirely confined
to the river and bay, they soon became known to Europeans, and
afterwards to the Indians, as Sanduski's river and bay. Sanduski,
quarreling with the Indians, was forced to quit the country for the
settlements beyond the Ohio for safety. The Indians, some time after,
followed and killed him in Virginia. So far as I can learn, there are
but two of the name in this country, his grandsons. One lives in
Kentucky, the other a few miles from Danville, Vermilion county,
Illinois. The latter, from whom the above particulars was obtained,
might give much hiteresting and useful matter respecting the first
acquaintance with this region and the settlement of the West in gen-
eral.



^^^J^' ^'



Tiffin, Ohio, February 28, 1842.



200 *S.'merican Chronology.



We copy the following from the "London Chronicle for October, 1785,"
first, to show the time then required by the packets to cross the Atlantic, and
chiefly to show the forebodings that then prevailed, that the experiment of a
republican government would fail. Thanks to the Giver of all good, it has
not yet quite failed, and we trust never will ; but that the best governments,
like other things, will be subject to mutations and changes that will, at
times, seem near destruction, we have good reason to expect.

"Yesterday arrived a mail from New York, brought to Falmouth
by the Prince William Henry packet in twenty-eight days.

"The Americans are now making heavy complaints to Congress,
that their carrying trade is annihilated by the British navigation act;
and that the encouragement given by the British Parliament to the
fisheries has proved greatly prejudicial to that of the States. In short,
they declare, if means of retaliation are not adopted, the commerce,
wealth, and power of America, and even the union itself, is likely
to fall."



AMERICAN CHRONOLOGY.

1565. Ribauit, with fresh supplies and men arrived at the Huguenots'
colony, in Florida.
Pedro Melendez de Aviles sailed from Spain to destroy the
colony, and arrived on St. Augustine's day at the bay to
which he gave that name.

1567. Dominie de Gourgues raises means and men to avenge the

destruction of the Huguenots' colony, in Florida, and repairs
thither.

1568. He took one fort, hanged the prisoners, and returned to Eu-

rope; leaving the Spaniards in full possession of Florida.

1576. Martin Forbsher makes a voyage from England to the coast

of Labrador. Carried a stone back to England which was
said to contain gold.

1577. Fired with the thirst for gold, a fleet is fitted out from Eng-

land in search for it. Carried nothing back but loads of use-
less earth thought to contain it.

1578. Another fleet fitted out in the same fruitless search, and much

loss and difficulty attended it.
Fisheries of Newfoundland become prosperous, and regular
voyages for trading with the natives commence about this
time, and with them a spirit of enterprise for settling the
new country.

1579. Francis Drake commenced his voyages of discovery. He

sailed norhtwardly along the western coast of America to
the forty-third degree.
Humphrey Gilbert made an unsuccessful attempt at a voyage
of discovery.



AME RICAN PION EEE.

JOnJoteb to tl)e Crntl) anir loaticc of ijistorji.



VOL. I. JUNE, 1842. NO. VI.



CHILLICOTHE COURT-HOUSE, BARRACKS, ETC.

[ See Frontispiece.]

Before giving a description of the subjects of the drawing, it will be pro-
per to give a brief outline view of the most prominent objects connected with
them.

The Scioto river rises in the northern part of the state by interlocking with
the Sandusky and Great Miami, and after pursuing very nearly a south
course, for about two hundred miles, debouches into the Ohio at Portsmouth.
It traverses three characters of country, — first, the prairie district; secondly,
the level woodland district, of extraordinary fertility ; and lastly, the min-
eral or mountainous district. The last may be said to commence in the
vicinity of Chillicothe and reach to the Ohio, producing scenery which for
beauty is seldom equaled. This mountainous land is for the most part con-
sidered sterile, which character it acquires only in contrast with lands of ex-
traordinary fertility with which the water-courses are skirted, and of which
the level parts of Ohio are composed.

The Scioto, particularly the lower part, seems not to be a branch of the
Ohio, but one of the branches of the Mississippi or Missouri, transplanted
here in direct contrast with their iron-bound shores and the sandy bed of the
beautiful Ohio. The lower district of the Scioto occupies a level plain of
bottom land from one and a half to three miles in width, which has an extra-
ordinary depth and fertility of soil. In this the river, Mississippi like, makes
constant ravages, tearing down the soil, trees, &c. on one side, and forming
bars of sand and gravel on the other, which becomes soil, and fully compen-
sates for the destruction on the opposite side, except that the river seems
to pay little respect as to tlie owners of the property it diminishes or whose
it increases. Being the boundary between the congress and Virginia military
districts of Ohio, different owners occupy the opposite sides of this uncom-
monly rich bottom land. The current of the Scioto is extremely rapid and
its waters clear; its bed composed of good limestone, gravel and sand. Its
course abounds in numerous islands of different sizes and of great value. At
the city of Chillicothe it takes one of those sweeps, which is not uncommon
in its course, in which it crosses nearly the whole width of the bottom land
from west to east. Chillicothe is, or rather was, situated at the apex of the
bend, and on the south or right shore below the bend. The river, in one of
those freaks natural to itself, the Mississippi, &;c., cut across the bend, near

203



204 Chillicothe Court-house, Barracks, etc.

the lower end of the city, leaving an island of forty acres, and of great beauty,
opposite to the city. The old bed is fast filling, so that the island, in low
and ordinary stages of water, is joined to the main land. This river was
navigated by flat boats, at certain times, with great hazard before the con-
struction of the Ohio canal, which occupies its margin from Columbus to
Portsmouth, a distance, by the canal, of about one hundred miles, but by the
road, eighty-nine — forty-four to Chillicothe, and thence forty-five to Ports-
mouth. From Columbus to Portsmouth, along the Scioto, the cast of socie-
ty is Virginian.

Olomon Sepung, or Paint creek, on the west, interlocks with the Little
Miami, and after traversing districts of country of great extremes of charac-
ter, debouches into the Scioto about three miles, on a straight line, below
Chillicothe. In its course among the hills of the rough district, it furnishes
bottom land which cannot be exceeded in fertility or beauty, but like the Sci-
oto, of which it is a very correct likeness, its bed is gravelly and its banks
subject to ravages from its great current.

Where Paint creek emerges from the hills, it approaches within a mile of
the Scioto, and upon this isthmus, not unlike that between the Delaware
and Schuylkill, at Philadelphia, is situated the city of Chillicothe, which
was laid out by general Nathaniel Massie, in 1796. The beauty of site and
scenery around this city can scarce be excelled. The extended level, the fer-
tile plains, the elevated but distant mountain-peaks, together with the river,
Paint creek, and Ohio canal, passing through the heart of the town, with
various turnpikes to different parts, render Chillicothe as desirable a place of
residence as any city of equal facilities (which, by the by, are neither mean
nor scarce) in the Union. The streets are beautifully level, but well drained ;
they are comfortably spacious, and at right angles, corresponding very near-
ly with the cardinal points of the compass. The squares are about eight
hundred by four hundred feet, crossed in both directions by convenient
alleys. The plain is elevated say twenty-five to thirty feet higher than the
low bottoms, which are subject to inundation. At about this depth excellent
water is every where found.

The Ohio canal, in the immediate vicinity of the city, affords an immense
water power not yet occupied. The Hydraulic Canal Company, at an expense
of seventy thousand dollars, have constructed four and a half miles of canal
on Paint creek, which is capable of supplying from two to four thousand
cubic feet of water per minute, through a fall of thirty-seven feet, for hydrau-
lic purposes at the Paint side of the city. One thousand feet of this water
only is at present occupied, through about half the fall. From the company's
basin there is a branch into the Ohio canal. In the city are two locks on the
Ohio canal, and in its vicinity many more ; the power at four of which is
occupied. In the city and its vicinity are twenty-five pairs of flouring mill-
stones, which constitutes by far the largest amount of manufactures here.
No steam-engine puffs ils music here.



Chillicothe Forty Years ago. 205

The valleys of the Scioto and of Paint creek were great favorites in an-
cient times, if we may judge by the numerous works with which they
abound, of the origin, uses, and builders of which, no account seems to be had.
Those valleys were favorites of the aborigines also, in each of which they
built their Che-le-co-the, which is understood to be an Indian name, signify-
ing town or city, and from which the name of our city is derived, although
no Indian town of its name stood on the same ground. In the plat of Chil-
licothe stood a very conspicuous mound, represented in the drawing, and the
thousands of travelers who remember the delicious viands of which they
have partaken at the" table of colonel John Madeira, whose hotel has long
been hard to equal, and still harder to beat, will not forget that they then
occupied the precise place of one of those works of great labor and antiquity.
Four or five of these still stand, monuments of the industry of some extinct
race of men, within view of this city. Their size is about three hundred and
seventy-five feet around the base, one hundred and fifty feet from base to base
over the apex, and twenty-five feet in height. No one who stands at a little
distance from them, would have any conception of the great size of these
piles of earth, which rise out of the plain, without any perceivable indenta-
tion in the surface, to indicate from whence the materials were taken. It is
also unsettled as to the purposes for which they were erected, and all the the-
ories we have heard respecting their origin and use, seem to lack that proof
which is necessary to raise them much above conjecture.

In the foreground of the drawing is represented the mound, which is said
to have been much like those now standing; but in respect to the height of
the court-house, represented on the left, the mound is drawn much lower than
its true proportion. It is represented more as it would appear in its native
solitude, but measure the height and that of a large building, and the decep-
tion which attends our ocular comparisons between the height of these
mounds and our large buildings will evidently appear.

The drawing purports to give a view of things as they were forty years
ago, as, upon looking westwardly, instead of houses and gardens, there were
stumps and trees to be seen. It is but right to advertise the reader, that the
fore ground represents the mound and the court-house ; in the middle ground
is seen the barracks ; and in the back ground the stone residence of the late
governor Tiffin, built in 1800, and probably the first dwelling not built of
wood in the territory. In the rear of this is seen the beautiful eminence
which overlooks our city, rising more than one hundred and fifty feet perpen-
dicularly above the plain we inhabit. It is of slaty formation to the height
of about one hundred and twenty-five feet, above are fine quarries of free-
stone. Taking the hill and the court-house as they are represented, the
mound, the barracks, and governor Tiffin's house are all represented four hun-
dred feet too far south. In their proper position, in respect to the court-
house and hill, they would be beyond the bounds of the drawing to the right.

To the Hon. William Creighton, who was one of the first setders of
Chillicothe, and has held some of the most important offices in the state, and

18



206 Chillicothe Court-house, Barracks, etc.

who, as attorney, brought the first suit in Ross county, the editor is indebted
for the following description of the court-house and barracks.

In 1800, the seat of government of the territory of the United
States northwest of the river Ohio, was established at Chillicothe,
Ross county, and the sessions of the territorial legislature, in that and
the year 1801, were holden in the small house designated on the plate
as standing nearly a west course from the larger house. The house
was situated on the corner of Second and Walnut streets ; extended
along the former of those streets thirty-six, and the latter twenty-
four feet; was two stories high; built of hewed logs; covered with
shingles, and was erected by Mr. Bazil Abrams in 1798. To the
main building, extending along Walnut street towards the Scioto
river, was attached a hewed log building about twenty-four feet long
and eighteen feet wide, of the same height, and covered in like man-
ner with the main building; the wing was weatherboarded ; board
partitions were put up in the first and second stories of the wing so
as to form two rooms of about sixteen feet square, one above and
one below, leaving passages between them and the main building
about eight feet wide. The door from without leading into the pass-
age opened on Walnut street ; at the west end of the passage a nar-
row flight of winding steps led to the upper story, and on each side
of the passages above and below were doors by which an entrance
might be had to the wing and main building. To the main building
there were two doors exclusive of those named, one of which opened
on Second, and the other on Walnut street. In the main buiI4ing
there were ten, and in the wing five windows of twelve lights in
each, eight by ten. In the main building the windows were arranged
in the lower story, one on the north, one on the east, and two on the
south ; and in the second story, one on the north, three on the south,
and two on the east; and in the wing in the lower story, one on the
west, and one on the east ; and in the upper story, one on the west,
and two on the east.

In the lower room of the wing, colonel Thomas Gibson, then audi-
tor of public accounts for the territory, kept his office, and the upper
room was tenanted by a small family. The upper story of the main
building was a place of resort for gamblers, and more especially those
who were fond of playing billiards. A billiard table was kept in that
room by the owner of the house; and so passionately fond was Mr.
Abrams of play, that in the summer of 1801, in a siege of twenty-
four hours continuous play, he lost all his money, and bet his house,
which he also lost. He executed a deed to the winner, and then
cleared out to the south, from whence he never returned.



The Old Slate House. 207

The lower room of the main building was occupied in a manner
altogether different from the upper. In it the sages of the territorial
legislature assembled for the purpose of enacting such laws as in
their judgment were best calculated to promote the interest of the infant
republic. In it, the sages of the law met to administer jnsiice to the
various classes of suitors, witiiout denial or delay. In it, the heralds
of the cross of difterent denomhiatioiis, more especially the Presby-
terians and Methodists, from time to time proclaimed the glad tidings
of salvation through a crucified Redeemer, to those who assembled
there in order to worship and adore a triune God. And m it many
of the old and young of both sexes often assembled to tune their
voices to melody and harmony, to prepare themselves more appro-
priately to join either in the solenin services of the sanctuary, or in
the innocent social circles of the town. During the last war, that
house was used as a recruiting rendezvous and barracks for the
United States' troops, since which period it has been called the " Old
Barracks," and in 1840, it was pulled down, the logs were then sound,
and the roof on the south side, which was made of blue ash shingles,
and had been on forty-two years, was sound and without a leak.
Our apology for being so tediously minute in our description of this
remarkable old house, identified with the early history of the town,
is, that it has been appropriated to more and various uses perhaps
than any house in the state.

The large building designated on the plate is a pretty correct re-
presentation of the east and north sides of the "old state house" situ-
ated on a square at the junction of Paint and Main streets ; the build-
ing is of stone, two stories high, with a cupola and bell. This build-
ing was commenced in 1800, and completed in 1801 for the accom-
modation of the legislature and courts, at the expense of the county.
It is believed that it was the first public edifice of stone built in the
northwestern territory. The stone work and plastery was done by
major William Rutledge, a soldier of the revolutionary war; and the
carpenter and house joiner work by William Guthrie. The territo-
rial legislature held their session in this house for the first time in
1801. The convention that formed the constitution of Ohio, was
held in this house ; the session commenced on the first Monday of
November, 1802. In the month of April, 1803, the first state legisJa
ture under the constitution met in the same house, and organized the
government ; it continued to be occupied as a legislative hall during
the continuance of the seat of government at Chillicothe ; the courts
have been held in it since its erection. Although something the
worse of wear, the edifice still stands firm.



208 Corrections.

The mound represented in the plate stood principally on the east
side of Paint street, between Second and Water streets ; the base of
the mound extended into Paint street. It was removed many years
since, and the ground is now occupied in part by the dining room of
colonel Madeira's hotel, and the residue by buildings. North of the
hotel, when the town was first laid out, and for a considerable time
thereafter, the mound was covered with large forest trees ; the remov-
al of the mound, and the space it occupied being now covered with
buildings, it cannot be described with mathematical precision.



•#^^^.^^^^^^^^4N^^s/'^v^«



The editor has the high satisfaction of stating that he has been a regular
correspondent of Mr. Sharp's for several years, and knows him to be an able
writer, a valuable citizen, a good contributor, and one whose manuscripts
will scarce need a mark to fit it for the hands of a compositor. We are al-
lowed to hope for much valuable matter from him.

Warren County, Mo., Jipril 23d. 1842.

As your wish seems to be to correct history, 1 will here mention
two small mistakes which I find in the Pioneer, although they are
not of much consequence. The one is in No. 1, page 14, Innes'
letter — " The express brought with him a war club, and note which
was left tied to it, at the house of one JRobertson, whose family were
cut off," &c. It was at the house of one Roberts. This happened
within about twelve miles of my father's house, which in the fron-
tier settlements, in that early day, was considered as in the neighbor-
hood. I was then twelve years of age, and have a perfect recollec-
tion of the whole transaction. The other is in No. 3, page 95 — " Isaac
Shelby, afterwards governor of Kentucky, commanded a company in
this battle." The captain Shelby who fought so bravely in that bat-
tle, was Ivan Shelby, the governor's father. The governor gathered
his laurels principally in the south, in the war of the revolution, par-
ticularly in the celebrated battle of King's Mountain ; my two elder
brothers and myself fought with him in that memorable battle, in
which the whole British army were killed and taken. At the time
of lord Dunmore's campaign, the Shelby family lived near neighbors
to my father's, and for many years after ; indeed as long as the an-
cient colonel Shelby lived. I will continue my endeavors to get sub-
scribers to the Pioneer. Yours truly.

Jno. S. Williams, Esq.




Early Incidents of Buffalo. 209



EARLY INCIDENTS OF BUFFALO.
The following letter from our esteemed correspondent, is inserted without
apology, being introductory of an ably written series of eiglit numbers or
essays, just of the character desirable for the American Pioneer. They
were written for the Buffalo Commercial Advertiser, but now communicated
for the Pioneer. Our friend's letter is published also as a just tribute to the
worth of the able and industrious writer of the numbers, which tell how
cities are built, and the industry and enterprise necessary to give one the
start. How different this scene from the glance of the beautiful eyes, which
gave the preference and start to Cincinnati, and which was the star of her
destiny. (See American Pioneer, page 100.) We anxiously hope for the
kind attentions of judge Wilkeson to the pages of the Pioneer.

Auditor's Office, Post Office DepH., ^pril 5, 1842.

Dear Sir, — I send to you, eight numbers of the " Early Incidents
of Buftalo — Buffalo harbor ;" for the American Pioneer, if their pub*
lication is within the range prescribed for your action.

They were written by Samuel Wilkeson, for many years, first
judge of Erie county, New York, — senator in the legislature, and
more recently, general agent of the American Colonization Society.

He was born in the western parts of Pennsylvania ; knows much
of its history ; and I fondly hope, he will enrich the American Pio
neer with many a backwoods incident.

Few men possess the like strength of intellect, and discrimination
of mind ; and if the numbers shall interest you, as they have me,
you will most cheerfully perpetuate the " early incidents," so graphi-
cally described in your valuable work.

Judge Wilkeson is the person who called on Mr. Brown, as refer-
red to in the sixth number: and if he had been less prompt and
decided, in contracting with Mr. Brown for building the steam-boat
at Buffalo, thereby defeating the contemplated contract at Black Rock,
it is doubtful whether Buffalo would now be more than a common
village. Without some extraordinary stimulating motive, the work
of the preceding year would not have been resumed as early in the
spring, as it was, under the guaranty to have a free passage for the
new boat; the ice and the disasters that befel the pier, would
have removed every vestige of the harbor, if the workmen had not
been in place at the time. In fact, it required the indomitable perse-
verance, the unyielding and untiring energy of judge Wilkeson, to
save the work from total destruction.

Buffalo owes much to him, and the country at large is his debtor.
Vol. 1—2 B 18*




210 Early Incide7its of Buffalo.

If you are supplied with other matter, permit me to suggest to you,
to pubUsh these numbers, in as many consecutive numbers of the
Pioneer. He will extend the number hereafter, and you may expect
to hear from him, on border incidents.

Most sincerely yours,



Jno. S. WilUams, Esq.



EARLY INCIDENTS OF BUFFALO— BUFFALO HARBOR.

NUMBER I.

The war which had swept over our frontier, had impoverished
the inhabitants of the httle place that has since grown into the City
of the Lakes. Their property had been destroyed — they Avere
embarrassed by debts contracted in rebuilding their houses which
had been burned by the enemy — they were without capital to prose-
cute to advantage mechanical or mercantile employments — without
a harbor, or any means of participating in the lake trade, and were
suffering, with the country at large, all the evils of a deranged curren-
cy. In the midst of these accumulated embarrassments, the construc-
tion of the Erie canal was begun, and promised help. However
distant might be the time of its completion, Buffalo was to be its ter-
minating point; and when the canal was completed, our village
would become a city. But no craft larger than a canoe could enter
Buffalo creek. All forwarding business was done at Black Rock, and
the three or four small vessels that were owned in Buffalo, received
and discharged their cargoes at that place. A harbor was then indis-
pensably necessary at the terminus of the canal ; and unless one could
be constructed at Buffalo before the western section of the canal was
located, it might terminate at Black Rock. This was the more to
be apprehended, as an opinion prevailed, that harbors could not be
made on the lakes, at the mouths of the rivers. But a harbor we
were resolved to have. Application was accordingly made to the
legislature for a survey of the creek, and an act was passed on the
10th of April, ISIS, authorizing the survey, and directing the super-
visors of the county of Niagara to pay three dollars a day to the sur-
veyor, and to assess the amount upon the county. The survey was
made by the present Hon. William Peacock, during the summer of
that year, gratuitously. Then came the important question, where



Buffalo Harbor. 211

to get the money to build this harbor ? At that day no one thought
of looicing to congress for appropriations, and tliere was no encour-
agement to apply to the legislature of the state. The citizens could
not raise the means, hovvever willing tbey might have been, A pub
lie meeting was called, and an agent (the Hon. Charles Townsend)
was appointed to proceed to Albany and obtain a loan. Jonas Har-
rison, Ebenezer Walden, H. B. Potter, J. G. Camp, 0. Forward, A.
H. Tracy, E. Johnson, E. F. Norton and Charles Townsend, were the
applicants. Judge Townsend, after a protracted effort, succeeded,
and an act was passed, April 17th, 1819, authorizing a loan to the
above mentioned persons and their associates, of twelve thousand
dollars, for twelve years, to be secured on bond and mortgage to
double that amount, and applied to the construction of a harbor,
which the state had reserved the right to take when completed, and
to cancel the securities. The year 1819 was one of general financial
embarrassment, and no where was the pressure or want of money
more sensibly felt than in the lake country. It had no market, and
its produce was of little value. Some of the associates became em-
barrassed and others discouraged. The summer passed away, and
finally all refused to execute the required securities, except judge
Townsend and judge Forward. Thus matters stood in December,
1819. Unless the condition of the loan should be complied with, the
appropriation would be lost, and another might not easily be obtain-
ed ; for the project of a harbor at Black Rock, and the termination
of the canal at that place, was advocated by influential men, and the
practicability of making a harbor at the mouth of Buffalo creek was
seriously questioned. At this crisis, judge Wilkeson, who had declin-
ed being on the original company, came forward, and with Messrs.
Townsend and Forward, agreed to make the necessary security.
This was perfected during the winter of 1820 — each individual giv-
ing his several bond and mortgage, for eight thousand dollars. The
money thus loaned was received in the spring. By an arrangement
between the parties, it was to be disbursed by judge Townsend. An
experienced harbor-builder was to be obtained to superintend the
work. One was engaged who had acquired reputation in improving
the navigation of some river down east. He was to receive fifty
dollars per month. Under his advice a contract was made for one
hundred cords of flint stone from the Plains, at five dollars per cord,
and four hundred hemlock piles, from twenty to thirty-six feet long,
at thirty-one cents each. While the stone and piles were being deliv-
ered, the superintendent, with several carpenters, was employed in
buildhig a pile-driving machhie and scow. An agent was dispatched



212 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

to the nearest furnace (which was in Portage county, Ohio,) to pro-
vide the hammer and machinery.

Mr. Townsend with much solicitude continued to watch the move-
ments of the superintendent for a few weeks, making himself fully
acquainted with his plans and management. He became satisfied
that the superintendent, if not incompetent, was not such an econo-
mist as our limited means required, and that if we retained him, the
money would be spent without getting a harbor. The judge was
decided, that it was better to abandon the work than to pursue it
under the then existing arrangements. His associates concurring, the
superintendent was discharged — but no substitute could be obtained.
West Point engineers were scarce at that time, and if one could have
been found, twelve thousand dollars would have been but a small
sum in his hands. The situation of the company was embarrassing.
Private property had been mortgaged to raise the money — nearly a
thousand of it had been spent, in preparations to commence a work
that neither of the associates knew how to execute — nor could any
one be found, experienced in managing men, who would undertake
the superintendence.

Mr. Townsend was an invalid and consequently unable to perform
the duty. Mr. Forward was wanting in the practical experience that
was necessary. Mr. Wilkeson had never seen a harbor, and was
engaged in business that required his unremitted attention. But
rather than the effort should be abandoned, he finally consented to
undertake the superintendence, and proceeded immediately to mark
out a spot for the erection of a shanty on the beach, between the
creek and the lake — hired a few laborers — gave the necessary orders
for lumber, cooking utensils and provisions. The boarding house
and sleeping room were completed that same day.

NUMBER II.

Having abandoned his own private business, Mr. Wilkeson called
his men out to work the next morning by daylight — without suitable
tools, without boats, teams or scows. Neither the plan of the work
nor its precise location were settled. But the harbor was commenced.

Two plans had been proposed for the work : one by driving paral-
lel lines of piles, and filling up the intermediate space with brush and
stone, — and the other by a pier of hewn timber, filled with stone.
The latter plan was adopted, and the location of the pier having
been settled, the number of laborers was increased, and contracts
immediately made for suitable timber and stone, to be delivered as
fast as thoy might be required. In the meantime the timber intended



Buffalo Harbor. 213

for piles, was used in the construction of cribs, three of which were
put down the first day.

The first two days after commencing the work, the lake was calm ;
but the succeeding night a heavy swell set in, the waves acting on
the outside of the cribs, forced the sand and gravel from under them,
sinking the ends of some, the sides of others, and throwing them out
of line — the whole presenting the most discouraging appearance.
Fortunately a little brush had been accidentally thrown on the wind-
ward side of one of the piers, which became covered with sand, and
preserved this pier from the fate of the others. Profiting by this dis-
covery, every crib subsequently put down was placed on a thick bed
of brush, extending several feet to the windward of it. But other
unforeseen difficulties were soon experienced. The cribs could be
put down only when the lake was perfectly smooth. However fine
the weather, the swell raised by an ordinary sailing breeze, suspend-
ed the work in the water. To obviate this difficulty, the cribs, (which
after the first week were formed of large square timber,) were put
up and completed on shore. The timbers were secured by ties six
feet apart, made to fit so tight as to require to be driven home with a
sledge, and were bored with a two inch auger ready for the trunnels,
which were two feet long, and made of the best oak or hickory. The
timbers were marked and numbered, so that when required for use,
they could be taken apart, floated out to their place, and put together
in an hour, even in ten feet of water, and secured with stone the
same day.

The manner of constructing the pier is thus particularly described,
as it so effectually secured the timbers together, that when the west
end of the pier was undermined by the high water of the creek and
turned over, so that the side became the top, not a stick was separat-
ed. After the prevalence of a west wmd for several days, the water
became smooth, but it rained severely and the workmen justly claim-
ed exemption from labor. To be interrupted by swells in fair
weather, and by the rain when the lake was smooth, would never
answer. Every day's experience admonished the company of the
necessity of economizing their means, and it was already feared that
the fund provided would prove insufficient for the object to be accom-
plished. A new contract was, therefore, made with the workmen,
by which their wages were raised two dollars a month, in considera-
tion of their working in rainy days ; and from that time until the
harbor was completed, the work was prosecuted whhout regard to
the weather. This arrangement, however, did not much increase the
exposure either of the men engaged on the work, or of those employ-



214 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

ed in delivering stone, which was principally obtained on the reefs
under water. In loading the scows with brush on the beach of the
lake, and in moving timber from the beach to the pier, the men were
forced to be in the water, in order to perform their work in the least
possible time.

Neither clerk nor other assistant, not even a carpenter to lay out
the work, was employed for the first two months, to aid the superin-
tendent ; who besides directing all the labor, making contracts, receiv-
ing materials, &c., labored in the water with the men, as much expos-
ed as themselves, and conformed to the rules prescribed to them of
commencing work at daylight, and continuing until dark, allowing
half an hour for breakfast, and an hour for dinner. Besides the labors
of the day, he was often detained until late at night waiting the
arrival of boats, to measure their loads of stone, and to see them
delivered in the pier, as without this vigilance some of the boatmen
would unload their stone into the lake, which was easier than to
deposit it in the pier.

After the pier was extended about thirty rods into the lake, and
settled as well as the limited time would allow, a carpenter was em-
ployed at one dollar per day to superintend the raising of the pier,
from the surface of the water to its full height. This was done by
securing the timber in the manner already described. As the work
advanced into deep water, the bases of the cribs were enlarged, and
the cost of the work alarmingly increased. It was resolved to sus-
pend operations for that year, on reaching seven and a half feet
water.

On the seventh of September, after the timber work was completed,
and while the pier was but partially filled with stone, two small ves-
sels came under its lee, and made fast. Towards evening, appear-
ances indicated a storm, and while the superintendent and captains
were deliberating whether the vessels might not endanger the pier,
and perhaps carry away that part to which they were fastened, the
gale commenced, rendering it impossible to remove the vessels other-
wise than by casting them loose, and letting them go on the beach.
This was proposed by the superintendent, and agreed to by the cap-
tains, on condition that the safety of the pier should appear to be
endangered by the vessels. Both the pier and the vessels, however,
remained uninjured through the storm, which was regarded as no
mean test of the utility and permanency of the works.

The pier, which at this time extended fifty rods into the lake, was
in a few days filled with stone, and the operations upon it suspended
for the season.



Indian Ideas and Eloquence. 215

It may not be out of place here to name the captains of the two
first vessels which found shelter in Buffalo harbor — Austin and Fox.
The former was an old Point Judith fisherman, who after spending
most of his life on the ocean, removed to the Vermilion river and
settled on a farm. But yielding to his yearning for the water, he
built a small vessel, of which he was captain, and his sons the crew,
and engaged in the lake trade. He was a shrewd, observing man,
had seen and examined many artificial harbors, and his advice con-
tributed much to the correct location and permanent construction of
Buffalo harbor. Fox, long known as a successful captain on the
lakes, took a deep interest in the construction of the work, and during
the three years that it was in progress, frequently aided by volunteer-
ing his own labor and that of his crews. Trifling as this circum-
stance may appear, it gave at the time no small encouragement, and
has been gratefully remembered.



ww^^^^^v^wsr



INDIAN IDEAS AND ELOQUENCE.

FROM FRANKLIN.

At the congress of Lancaster, in 1744, between the government of Vir-
ginia and the Five Nations, the Indians were told, that if they would send
some of their young men to Virginia, the English would, give them an edu-
cation at their college. An Indian orator replied to this offer as follows:
" We know that you highly esteem the kind of learning taught in those col-
leges, and that the maintenance of our young men while with you would be
very expensive to you. We are convinced, therefore, that you mean to do
us good by your proposal, and thank you heartily. But you who are wise
must know, that different nations have different conceptions of things ; and
you will not therefore take it amiss, if our ideas of this kind of education
happen not to be the same with yours. We have had some experience of it ;
several of our young people were formerly brought up at the colleges of the
northern provinces ; they were instructed in all your sciences. But when
they came back to us, they were bad runners ; ignorant of every means of
living in the woods ; unable to bear either cold or hunger ; knew neither how
to build a cabin, take a deer or kill an enemy ; they spoke our language very
imperfectly; were neither fit for hunters, warriors or counselors; they were
totally good for nothing. We are, however, not the less obliged by your
kind offer, though we decline accepting it ; and to show our grateful sense
of it, if the gentlemen from Virginia will send us a dozen of their sons, we
will take great care of their education, instruct them in all we know, and
make men of them."



216 Rev. John Williams.



REV. JOHN WILLIAMS.

Biographical Memoir of the Rev. John Williams, first Minister in
Deerfield, Massachusetts ; with an Account of the sacking of
that town by the French and Indians iii 1703-4. By Stephen
W. Williams, A. M., M. D., late Professor of Materia Medica
and Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Lake Erie, &pc.

CHAPTER IV.

Negociations for the exchange of prisoners — Death of Zebediah Williams — Mr. Williams
and several other prisoners return to Boston, and ultimately to Deerfield — Some account
of his writings — His death and character.

About the commencement of the month of March, 1706, while Mr.
Williams was at Quebec, Mr. Sheldon, one of our commissioners for
the exchange of prisoners, arrived there with letters from the govern-
or of Massachusetts bay. While there, one night about ten o'clock,
a shock of an earthquake was felt, the report of which was as loud
as a cannon, and which caused the houses to tremble. It was heard
and felt a great many miles, throughout the whole extent of the
island of St. Lawrence, and various other places.

In the month of April, a man by the name of Zebediah Williams
died. He was probably a son of Zebediah Williams, one of the first
settlers of Deerfield, who came there in 1674. He was a very reli-
gious young man, who did much during his captivity to animate and
console the prisoners ; and he redeemed a captive from the thraldom
of popery, who was taken during the last war. On this account
many among the Catholics were very much prejudiced against him;
but the French themselves, where he resided, acknowledged that he
was an excellent man, a man of good information, indefatigable in
studying the Scriptures, and prayerful to God. At the commence-
ment of his sickness, before he entered the hospital at Quebec, he
made Mr. Williams a visit, as he had frequently done before, and
they mutually contributed to each other's comfort in their forlorn sit-
uation.

At the commencement of June, 1706, an army of five hundred
Macquas and Indians left Canada with the intention of attacking
some of the settlements on Connecticut river, but meeting with a Sca-
tacook Indian who afterwards deserted from them, they were divert-
ed from their purpose, fearing that he would alarm the inhabitants in
those places. From fifty to eighty of their number returned, and
God thus frustrated their designs.

Information was received that an English brigantine was on its
voyage to Canada, and that the honorable captain Sainuel Atherton
and captain John Bonner were on board as commissioners for the
redemption of the prisoners.

They had reason to bless God that he had wrought deliverance for
so many of the unhappy prisoners, and they prayed to him that fur-
ther means of deliverance might be pointed out. Not much less than
one hundred captives still remained behind, and several of these
were still among the Indians, and many were children whom they



Returns to Boston. 217

had every reason to fear would become savages, unless a particular
interposition of providence prevented.

Tlie vessel that was sent out for them was near being wrecked on
its voyage to Canada, having struck on a sandbar, where she lay in
great distress for some time, in consequence of the action of four tides
upon lier. They, however, had reason to bless God for the occur-
rence, for, if they had passed the bar without obstruction, they would
at midnight, during a violent snow-storm, have run upon a terrific
reef of rocks.

They left Quebec on the 25fh of October, 1706. They were retard-
ed by contrary winds and a great storm, and driven back again near
the city, and they came very near being shipwrecked, the vessel
during the storm having struck twice upon a rock. They all arrived
in safety at Boston on die 21st of November. The number of cap-
tives v/iio left Canada in the brigantine, and arrived at Boston, was
fifty-seven, among whom were two of JNlr. Williams' children. He
had yet a daughter of ten years of age, and many friends and neigh-
bors among the French and Indians in the cold and inhospitable
regions of Canada, and he solicited the compassionate prayers of the
benevolent and good, that they would intercede with God for their
deliverance.

On their arrival at Boston, they found the people of that place ex-
tending the hand of charity towards them in a remarkable manner,
amply supplying their wants in their necessitous circumstances, for
which they were very thankful. Mr. Williams thought there was
more benevolent feeling and action in Boston than in the whole of
Canada, although the people in the latter place strongly believed in
the doctrine of merit. He earnestly prayed that the Lord would
grant, that those who had given so liberally to them, might find the
accomplishment of his promises in their persons and families from
generation to generation.

The names of several of the captives who were taken from Deer-
field, and who were left in Canada after Mr. Williams' return, have
been found among the Indians near Montreal. There were several
intermarriages, and their names have not become extinct in that vicin-
ity. As lately as the year 1756, Mary Harris, who was one of the
female prisoners, and a child at the time of the capture of the town,
resided at Cahnawaga. She was at that time a married woman, and
had several children, one of whom was an officer in the service of
France. A gentleman from Montreal said that he saw at the lake of
the Two Mountains, a French girl who told him that her grand-
mother was Thankful Stebbins, who was taken from Deertield in
1704. General Hoyt has procured the names of the principal part
of the prisoners who were taken at Deerfield, and who were
left in Canada after the return of Mr. Williams. They are as fol-
lows : —

William Brooks, Mary Brooks, Daniel Crowfoot, Samuel Carter,
John Carter, JNIary Carter, Elizabeth Corse, Abigail Denio,Mary Field,
Freedom French", Abigail French, INIary Harris, Samuel Hastings.
Ebenezer Hoit, Thomas Hnrst, Joanna Kellog, Abigail Nims, Jere-
miah Richards, Josiah Rising, Ebenezer Stebbins, Thankful Stebbins,

Vol. 1—2 C. 19



218 Rev. John Williams.

Joseph Stebbins, Elizabeth Stevens, Waitstill Warner, Eunice Wil-
hams.

Many of the prisoners became very much attached to the Indians
and their mode of life, and some of them were very loth to leave
them after they were redeemed. A lad, by the name of Jonathan
Hoit, who was taken at the time of the destruction of the town, at
the age of sixteen years, was very fond of them. He resided with
them two years and" a half, at a place called Lorete, upon the river
St. Charles, not far from Quebec. He learut their language so per-
fectly, that he never forgot it to the day of his death, which was in
the ninety-second year of his age. Soon after his return to Deerfield,
his former Indian master came down to make him a visit, and he was
kindly received by him, and treated with kindness and respect.
Jonathan was redeemed by major Dudley, son of governor Dudley,
of Massachusetts, in the following manner, as related by colonel
Elihu Hoyt, one of his descendants, in his history of the first settle-
ment of Deerfield, a small pamphlet in the duodecimo form: —

" The Indians were in the habit of raising and bringing to market
garden sauce, &c. One day major Dudley saw young Hoit in the
street ; he said to him, are you not an English boy ? He answered,
yes. Do you not wish to go home and see your friends ? I do, was
the answer. Where is your master ? said the major. Some where
in the city, answered the boy. Bring him to me, said he. The boy
now tripped over the ground with a light heart, in pui-euit of his
master, who soon came. The agent said to the Indian, I will give
you this for the boy, holding out to him a purse of twenty dollars.
The temptation was too great to be resisted ; the bargain was made,
the money handed over, and the Indian went away well satisfied.
The gentleman immediately sent the boy on board a ship then lying
in the river for the reception of the ransomed prisoners. The agent
was aware that when the Indian had leisure to reflect, he would
return and make a proposition to give up the money, and take his
boy again ; he was not mistaken in his conjecture ; he soon came
back and desired to give up the money for the boy ; he told him he
could not have him, he was out of his reach. The Indian went away
lamenting that he had parted with his favorite captive boy, for a few
dumb dollars, that would neither fish nor hunt. By this means the
captive was restored to his home and his friends."

About the time that Mr. Williams left Canada, new troubles began
to arise in that province. Letters were received from Mississippi,
written in the preceding May, stating that the plague was prevailing
there, and that one hundred and fifty Frenchmen had died within a
very short space of time, and that the tribe of Indians there called
the Lazilouways, were very boisterous and had wounded a Jesuit
severely, and had killed his servant, a Frenchman. Farther inform-
ation reached them in July, that the Indians upon the river were en-
gaged in war with each other, and the French who resided amongst
them were in great danger; tliat the Mitchel Macquinas had com-
menced war against the Miziamnies, and had killed a friar, three
Frenchmen, and eleven Indians, at a place called the straits, where
they were erecting a fort for the purpose of traffic ; they had also



Returns to Deer field. 219

taken sixteen Frenchmen prisoners, and burnt their trading liouses.
These things greatly perplexed the French in Canada, but the Jesuits
strove hard to pacify them, but their troubles ratlier increased than
subsided when they left Canada; for the last letters from the French
prisoners in those regions stated that the Indians had sent out two
companies, one of one hundred and sixty, and one of one hundred
and fifty-nine, against the savages at the straits, and they were fear-
ful that they would attack the French as well as the Indians.

Ivlr. Williams did not immediately return to Dcerfield after his
emancipation from the French and Indians. He probably had some
doubts whether he should again settle in the ministry in Deerfield.
On the 30th of November, 170G, nine or ten days after his arrival at
Boston, the town of Deerfield chose commissioners, viz. " captain
Thomas French and captain Jonathan Wells, to go down to the bay
for them, and in their behalf to act and treat with their pastor, the
Rev. John Williams, in order to his re-settlement with them again in
the work of the ministry, as also to talte advice and counsel of the
elders in our county for the management of the work, as also to put
up a petition to the general court, or counsel, for a grant of money
for the encouragement of the Rev. Mr. John Williams in his re-set-
tlement in said work with them, and in all these particulars to act
and do according to the best of their discretion." Mr. Williams, after
serious consideration, accepted the call, although the war still con-
tinued with unabated fury, and the inhabitants were kept in a con-
tinual state of alarm.

On the 9th of January, 1707, the town agreed to build a house for
him, "as big as ensign Sheldon's, and a back room as big as may be
thought convenient.-' Ensign Sheldon's house was the old picketed
fort which is still standing, and is occupied by the family of the late
colonel Hoyt. On the third of April, the town voted, "that they
would pay unto Mr. John Williams twenty pounds in money, and
every male head of sixteen years and upwards, one day's work a
piece ; those that have teams, a day with their teams for the year."
They also voted to pay Thomas Wells for boarding Mr. Choate the
last half year he preached in Deerfield. On the 17th of November
they voted "to send a petition to the general court for a grant of
money towards the maintenance of the Rev. John Williams in the
work of the ministry in Deerfield." They also gave him and his
heirs forever, a large tract of land adjoining his house, and in the
meadows.

Indian depredations continued for many years after the re-settle-
ment of INIr. Williams. Soon after the destruction of the town at
the time of his capture the mhabitants rebuilt it. In May, 1704, Mr.
John Allen and his wife were killed at a place called the Barrs, and
in the summer of the same year, serjeant John Hawks was attacked
by the Indians, but escaped to Hatfield with a slight wound upon his
hand; and in July a man by the name of Thomas Russell was killed
by them at the north part of the town.

August, 1708. As some scouts from Deerfield were returning
from White river, in Vermont, they were attacked by the Indians,
and a man by the name of Barber was killed, he having killed the



220 Rev. John Williams.

Indian who fired upon him, so near together did they discharge their
guns. Martin Kellog was captured; the rest were so fortunate as
to escape. On the 26th of October of this year, Mr. Ebenezer Field
was killed by the Indians near Bloody brook.

In the montli of April, 1709, Mehuman Hinsdale, a son of one of
the first settlers of Deerfield, and the first male child ever born there,
was taken prisoner by the Indians, as he was driving his team be-
tween Hatfield and Northampton, and carried by them to Canada.
From thence he was carried to France, and from France to England,
and he was brought from the latter place to Deerfield. The succeed-
ing month of the same year, lieutenant John Wells and John Burt,
inhabitants of Deerfield, were killed in a skirmish with the Indians
on French, or Onion river, in Vermont. They, with others, had
been out on an expedition against the enemy, as far as Lake Cham-
plain, where they had killed several of them.

It seems that the Indians and their commanders were not yet sat-
isfied with their hostilities upon this land abounding with milk and
honey, for another attempt was made to sack or destroy the town in
the month of June, 1709, by Rouville, one of the brothers who made
the successful attack upon the town in 1 704. His force consisted of
one hundred and eighty French and Indians, but vigorous efforts
were now made by the inhabitants, for the defence, many of whom
had recently returned from Canada, and their late disasters had taught
them mihtary prudence, and inspired them with courage in opposing
the savage foes. The enemy, from these preparations, thought it
most prudent to withdraw their troops and abandon the attack. They
did not quit the place until they had taken Joseph Clesson and John
Arms prisoners. Jonathan Williams and Matthew Clesson were kill-
ed at the time, and lieutenant Mattoon, and Isaac Taylor were wound-
ed, but both of them fortunately survived. I am inclined to think
that this Joseph Clesson was the one who was so cruelly treated by
the Indians in Canada in one of their sports, which was to cause him
to run the gauntlet. The account of the transaction is as follows : —
The Indians arranged themselves in two rows facing each other, arm-
ed with clubs. They then pinioned the hands of the captive, and
forced him to run through the ranks, while every Indian gave him a
severe blow with his club. Mr. Clesson was severely mangled by
them in this way, while in Canada and under the protection of the
French. His lower jaw was broken, and he was otherwise most
cruelly bruised. He was ever afterwards extremely indignant against
the Indians for this outrage, and the bare mention of an Indian would
rouse a resentment in his breast as furious as a lion or a bear in its
rage.

Mr. Williams about this time was earnestly solicited to accept the
office of chaplain in the army in the expedition against Canada under
general Hill and admiral Walker. He had been previously requested
to accept the same in the expedition against Port Royal, under the
command of colonel March, with seven hundred men, in the year
1707. Soon after, he was appointed chaplain in the winter expedition
to Canada under the command of colonel Stoddard, for the purpose
of redeeming prisoners. Colonel Stoddard was successful in redeem-



Indian depredations. 221

ing many of his fellow citizens, but they could not obtain the daugh-
ter of Mr. Williams,

Mr. Williams' salary was, for some time, probably too small to
support him, and the general court allowed him two islands in Con-
necticut river, opposite to the town of Dcerfield, now called Smead's
and Corse's islands, containing between thirty and forty acres, in con-
sequence of his petitioning in behalf of the town, for an extension
of its territories. This petition was granted, and the line then extend-
ed west from Connecticut river nine miles, as far as the western
boundaries of Northampton and Hatfield. The town was then about
fourteen miles in length, and nine in breadth, and occupied the towns
now embracing Greenfield, Conway, Shelburne, Gill, and a part of
Whately.

On the 30th of September, 1712, some scouts were sent from Deer-
field under the command of Samuel Taylor, to the Hudson, or North
river, as it was then called, in the state of New York. They were
attacked by the Indians on this day, and a man b}'' the name of
Samuel Andros was killed ; Jonathan Barret was wounded, and he
and William Stanford were taken prisoners, carried to Canada, and
redeemed by lieutenant Samuel Williams, who was there with a flag
of truce, and they returned to Deerfield after an absence of two
months. From the year 1712 to 1720, the people of Deerfield were
not much molested by the Indians.

To show the continued attachment of the people of Deerfield to
Mr. Williams, the town voted to provide him his wood at its own
expense, in addition to his salary, and to procure him the value of
sixty ordinary loads, in the year 1724 — 5.

In the latter part of June, 1724, as some scouts were returning
from the north part of Greenfield, near Rocky Mountain, to the fort
at Deerfield, they were attacked by the Indians, and Ebenezer Shel-
don, Thomas Colton, and Jeremiah English, a friendly Indian, were
killed ; the Indians were dispersed by the rear of the scouts coming
upon them suddenly. In the same year, two men by the names of
lieutenant Timothy Childs and Samuel Allen, who had been at work
in the north meadows, were attacked by a party of Indians who lay
concealed in the woods at Pine Hill. They were both wounded, but
fortunately they recovered.

On the 25th of August, 1725, as Deac, Field, Deac. Childs, and sev-
eral others from Deerfield were passing up the road near Green River
Farms, they were ambuscaded by the Indians, whom the party had
previously discovered, as they were posted on an eminence. An In-
dian was killed by John Wells. The party afterwards returned to-
wards a mill, but one of them. Deacon Field, was severely wounded,
the ball passing through the lower part of the right side of the abdo-
men, cutting olf several folds of the mesentery, which protruded
through the wound to tiie extent of two inches, and was cut otF even
with the body; the ball then passed between the two lowest ribs,
fracturing the last one. It likewise took otf one of his thumbs at the
root, and the bone of the fore-finger, and lodged in the hand between
the fore and second finger. The ball was extracted, and a petfect

19*



222 Rev. John Williams.

cure of all his wounds was effected by Dr. Thomas Hastings, in less
than three weeks.

Mr. Williams for many years devoted much of his time and atten-
tion to the pursuits of science and literature, and to the cares and
obligations attendant upon his professional duties as a faithful minister
of the Gospel. For the times in which he lived, he was a writer of
no mean abilities. He has not left behind him many of his published
productions. The only ones which I recollect to have seen, are his
Redeemed Captive returning to Zion, in which he gives an account
of his captivity and suiferings, and a Sermon preached at Boston,
December 6, 1706, soon after his return from Canada. These works
evince talents and great piety. The age in which he lived was not
one of publications hke the present, or doubtless more of his works
would have been published. He was a very constant attendant upon
the annual convention of ministers in the then province of Boston,
when he was always treated with respect and attention. In 1728,
he preached an interesting discourse at that convention.

I have seen some of his manuscript productions which are interest-
ing. In some of his writings under the head of Philosophy, he treats
of mists and fogs — of wind, of water, or the doctrine of Hydrostatics
— of matter — of the earth — of fire — of beasts, birds, and fishes — of
insects of the Julian period — of the method of drawing a meridian
line upon an horizontal plain — of Mercury — of Vulcan — of Mars —
of an Echo, &c. &c. These topics shew that he had a philosophical
turn of mind, and a greater taste for the abstruse sciences than is
usual to be found at that period.

The following is his description of a drunkard, which will give
some idea of his style of writing, and will shew that the habit of in-
toxication is not confined to the present day : —

A DRUNKARD DESCRIBED.

"Though wine is so beneficial to this life that in vitse vitam homi-
nis Esseidieros, and how many say that tlie happiness of one consists
in the enjoyment of the other ; but do not consider that if wine be
the cradle of life, yet it is the grave of the reason, for if men do not
constantly sail in the "red sea of claret" their souls are olt times
drowned therein. It blinds them, and leaves them under darkness,
especially when it begins to draw fortli sparkles and little stars from
their eyes. Then the body being drowned in drink, the mind floats,
or else is stranded. Thus too great love of the vine is pernicious to
life, for from it come more faults than grapes, and it breeds more mis-
chief than pleasures. Would you see an instance of this, observe a
drunken man. beast ! See how his head reels and totters. His
head sinks, iiis feet fail, his hands tremble, his mouth froths, his
cheeks are flabby, his eyes sparkle and water, his words are unintel-
ligible, his tongue falters and stops, his throat sends forth a nasty
loathsome stench; but what do 1 do ? There is no end of his filthi-
ness."

Soon after Mr. Williams' return to Deerfield, he married a second
time to the daughter of captain Allen of Windsor, Connecticut. She,
as well as his first wife, were grand-daughters of the Rev. Mr. War-



Death and Character. 223

ham, formerly pastor of Windsor. By his second wife he had five
children. Eiglit of his children survived him ; four sons and four
daughters. His three eldest sons, Eleazer, Stephen and Warham,
were settled in the ministry at Mansfield, Connecticut, and at Spring
field and Watcrtown, Massachusetts. Stephen received the degree of
doctor of Divinity from Dartmouth College, but was educated at
Harvard. He lived to a great old age. His son Elijah, by his second
wife, was educated at Harvard College, and lived at Deerfield, where
he was much respected as an honorable merchant, and an able ma-
gistrate. His eldest daughter married Mr. Meacham, the former
pastor of Coventry, Connecticut.

Mr. Williams died at Deerfield on the 12th of June, 1729, in the
65th year of his age, and the 44th year of his ministry. He was
attacked with a fit of apoplexy on the morning of the 9th. It was
perceived upon speaking to him that he had the exercise of reason,
but he was never able to articulate distinctly more than two or three
words after he was taken ill. The writer of his obituary notice, which
was published in the Boston News-Letter, the first newspaper ever
published in New-England, thus speaks of him : — " God, who first
sent him to us, and mclined his heart to settle with us in our small
beginnings, hath made him a great blessing unto us. His heart was
engaged in his work, and was abundant in his labors, both in season
and out of season, plainly, faithfully, and frequently warning, urging,
and entreating both elder and younger unto piety and perseverance
in it. He was much in prayer, and singularly gifted in it. We hope
through grace he has left many seals of his ministry among us.

"The divine providence which fixed his post in one of the frontier
towns of the province, fitted him for it by giving him patience and
cheerfulness of spirit; so that he v/as wonderfully carried through all
the difficulties, distractions and dangers that he encountered. And
his prayers, counsel, and example, did not a little contribute to the
support and encouragement of his people from time to time."

And another writer, the Rev. Rodolphus Dickinson, of this town,
in his view of Deerfield, thus beautifully eulogizes him : —

"The character of Mr. Williams was extensively known, and held
in high estimation ; as may be learned aside from other respectful
attentions, by his appointment to preach to a general convention of
the clergymen of Massachusetts at Boston. He is represented by his
contemporaries, who have witnessed his efforts before the most eu-
hghtened and powerful auditories in the province, as a powerful and
affecting preacher. He is also commended for his domestic virtues,
his eminent piety, humility, sincerity, and goodness of heart. His
voluntary abandonment of the scenes of his beloved nativity, secure
from the incursions of the savages, to settle in a frontier place, per-
petually exposed to their depredations, where personal safety, so in-
dispensable to other enjoyments, was lor many years a stranger to
their habitations; and his return to the work of the ministry, subject
to the same dangers, after the complicated atilictions of his captivity,
evince his ardent love for the people of his care, and testify that he
was animated with the spirit of a martyr in the advancement of the
Gospel. It is impossible to peruse his interesting narrative of the



224 Simon Kenton's real Sisrnature.



o'



destruction of Deerlield, and the slaughter and captivity of its inha-
bitants, in the suffering in which he so largely participated, without
being inspired with a respect for his talents and piety, and an admir-
ation of that unexampled fortitude, which could sustain him under
private calamities, such as rarely happen to man, and a view of pub-
lic desolations, similar, though less extended, to those apostrophized
by the mournful son of Hilkiah. But a holy resignation to the
Supreme Disposer of events, was the balm of every sorrow. His
path was lighted by a hope that looks beyond this transient scene.
He was redeemed from the flames, passed through the wilderness and
sea of dangers, and, as we trust, reached a temple eternal in the
heavens."



SIMON KENTON'S REAL SIGNATURE.

The following signature of general Simon Kenton, is taken from a bond
executed by him to general Nathaniel Massie, July 30, 1798. Henry Mas-
sie, Esq., of Chillicothe, who kindly furnished it for publication, says he
knows that it is Kenton's bona fide signature and that he has others. We




find, therefore, that both they who believe the signature, we gave on page 160
to be genuine, and they who believe general Kenton could not write at all,
are mistaken. It is quite probable, however, that his capacity for writing
extended litde farther than his signature.



► Ci/vry**



Lost Confidence. — An Indian runner, arriving in a village of his
countrymen, requested the immediate attendance of its inhabitants in
council, as he wanted their answer to important information. The
people accordingly assembled, but when the messenger had with
great anxiety delivered his message, and waited for an answer, none
was given, and he soon observed that he was likely to be left alone
in his place. A stranger present asked a principal chief the meaning
of this strange proceeding, who gave this answer. " He once told us
a lie.'^



A Serious Question. — About 1794, an officer presented a western
chief with a medal, on one side of which president Washington was
represented as armed with a sword, and on the other an Indian was
seen in the act of burying the hatchet. The chief at once saw the
wrong done his countrymen, and very wisely asked, " Why does not
the President bury his sword too ?"



Anecdotes of Joe Logston. 225



ANECDOTES OF JOE LOGSTON.
To Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

I comply with your request, in giving you, for the Pioneer, a sketch
of the Hfe and character of a family by the name of Logston, as be-
ing connected with the early settlement of Virginia and Kentucky.

The elder Logston, whose name was Joseph, and his wife, whose
name, I think, was Mary, with an only son bearing his name, lived,
when I first knew them, in Virginia, near the source of the north
branch of the Potomac, in one of the most inhospitable regions of
the Alleghany mountains, some twenty or thirty miles from any set-
tlement. There never was, perhaps, a fomily better calculated to
live in such a place. Old Joe (for they were soon known as Old Joe
and Young Joe Logston) was a very large athletic man, with uncom-
mon muscular strength. The old lady was not so much above the or-
dinary height of women, but like the Dutchman's horse, was built up
from the ground ; and it would have taken the strength of two or
three common women to equal hers. The son was no discredit to
either in the way of strength, size, or activity. In fact he soon out-
stripped his father. What little he lost in height was more than
compensated in the thickness and muscle of the mother, so that when
he came to his full size and strength, he Avent by the name of Big Joe
Logston. I would not venture to say his physical powers were equal
to those of the strong man of old, but such they were as to become
proverbial. It was often said tQ stout looking, growing young men,
" You will soon be as big as Big Joe Logston."

Joe sometimes descended from his mountain heights into the val-
leys, in order to exchange his skins for powder, lead, and other arti-
cles for the use of the family. While in society he entered, with
great alacrity, into all the various athletic sports of the day. No
Kentuckian could ever, with greater propriety than he, have said, "I
can out-run, out-hop, out-jump, throw down, drag out, and whip any
man in the country." And as to the use of the rifle, he was said to be
one of the quickest and surest centre shots to be found. With all this,
as is usual with men of real grit, Joe was good natured, and never
sought a quarrel. No doubt many a bullying, bragging fellow
would have been proud of the name of having whipped Big Joe
Logston, but that, on taking a close survey of him, thought "pru-
dence the better part of valor," and let him return to his mountain
without raising his dander.

About the time Joe arrived at manhood, his father, and perhaps

his mother, were called hence, leaving him single handed to contend,
Vol. 1—2 D



226 t/2 Kentucky Hunter.

not only with the Spitzbergen winters of the mountains, but with the
bears, panthers, wolves, rattlesnakes, and all the numerous tribes of
dangerous animals, reptiles and insects, with which the mountain
regions abound, Joe, however, maintained his ground for several
years, until the settlements had begun to encroach on what he had
been accustomed to consider his own premises. One man sat down
six miles east of him, another about the same distance in another
direction, and finally one, with a numerous family, had the temerity
to come and pitch his cabin within two miles of him. This Joe could
not stand, and he pulled up stakes and decamped to seek a neighbor-
hood where he could hear the crack of no man's rilie but his own.

Of all the men I ever knew he was the best qualified to live on a
frontier where there were savages, either animal or human, to con-
tend with. His uncommon size and strength, and inclination to be
entirely free from restraint, made him choose his residence a little
outside of the bounds of law and civil liberty. I do not know the
precise time he left the Alleghanies, but believe it was between the
years of 1787 and '91. The next that we heard of Joe was, that he
had settled in Kentucky, south of Green river, I think on Little Barren
river, and of course, a little in advance of the settlements. The
frontiers were frequently compelled to contend with the southern
Indians. There was not a particle of fear in Joe's composition ; that
ingredient was left out of his mixture. I never knew such a man in
my life. There he would be. He soon had an introduction to a
new acquaintance. So far he had been acquainted only with savage
beasts, but now savage man came in his way, and as it "stirs the
blood more to rouse the lion than to start a hare," Joe was in his
delight. The Indians made a sudden attack, and all that escaped
were driven into a rude fort for preservation, and, though reluctant-
ly, Joe was one. This was a new life to him and did not at all suit
his taste. He soon became very restless, and every day insisted on
going out with others to hunt up the cattle. Knowing the danger
better, or fearing it more, all persisted in their refusals to go with him.

To indulge his taste for the woodman's life, he turned out alone,
and rode till the after part of the day without finding any cattle.
What the Indians had not killed were scared off. He concluded to
return to the fort. Riding along a path which led in, he came to a
fine vine of grapes. He laid his gun across the pommel of his sad-
dle, set his hat on it, and filled it with grapes. He turned into the
path and rode carelessly along, eating his grapes, and the first intima-
tion he had of danger, was the crack of two rifles, one from each
side of the road. One of the balls passed through the paps of his



Anecdotes of Joe Logston. 227

breast, which, for a male, were remarkably prominent, almost as
much so as those of many nm'ses. The ball just grazed the skin
between the paps, but did not injure the breast bone. Tlie other ball
struck his horse behind the saddle, and he sunk in his tracks. Thus
was Joe eased oft' his horse in a manner more rare than welcome.
Still he was on his feet in an instant, with his rifle in his hands
and might have taken to his heels ; and I will venture the opinion,
that no Indian could have caught him. That, he said, was not his
sort. He had never left a battle ground without leaving his mark,
and he was resolved that that should not be the first. The moment
the guns fired, one very athletic Indian sprang towards him with
tomahawk in hand. His eye was on him, and his gun to his eye,
ready, as soon as he approached near enough to make a sure shot, to
let him have it. As soon as the Indian discovered this, he jumped
behind two pretty large saplings, some small distance apart, neither
of which were large enough to cover his body, and to save himself
as well as he could, he kept springing from one to the other.

Joe, knowing he had two enemies on the ground, kept a lookout
for the other by a quick glance of the eye. He presently discovered
him behind a tree loading his gun. The tree was not quite large
enough to hide him. When in the act of pushing down his bullet, he
exposed pretty fairly his hips. Joe, in the twinkling of an eye,
wheeled and let him have his load in the part exposed. The big
Indian then, with a mighty "Ugh!" rushed towards him with his
raised tomahawk. Here were two warriors met, each determined to
conquer or die, — each the Goliah of his nation. The Indian had
rather the advantage in size of frame, but Joe in weight and muscu-
lar strength. The Indian made a halt at the distance of fifteen or
twenty feet, and threw his tomahawk with all his force, but Joe had
his eye on him and dodged it. It flew quite out of the reach of
either of them. Joe then clubbed his gun and made at the Indian,
thinking to knock him down. The Indian sprang into some brush,
or saplings, to avoid his blows. The Indian depended entirely on
dodging with the help of the saplings. At length Joe, thinking he
had a pretty fair chance, made a side blow with such force, that
missing the dodging Indian, the gun, now reduced to the naked bar-
rel, was drawn quite out of his hands, and flew entirely out of reach.
The Indian now gave another exulting " Ugh !" and sprang at him
with all the savage fury he was master of Neither of them had a
weapon in his hands, and the Indian, seeing Logston bleeding freely,
thought he could throw him down and dispatch him. In this he was
mistaken. They seized each other and a desperate scuflle ensued.



228 Combat with tivo Indians.

Joe could throw him down, but could not hold him there. The
Indian being naked, with his hide oiled, had greatly the advantage
in a ground scuffle, and would still slip out of Joe's grasp and rise.
After throwing him five or six times, Joe found, that between loss
of blood and violent exertions, his wind was leaving him, and that he
must change the mode of warfare or lose his scalp, which he was
not yet wiUing to spare. He threw the Indian again, and without
attempting to hold him, jumped from him, and as he rose, aimed a
fist blow at his head, which caused him to fall back, and as he would
rise, Joe gave him several blows in succession, the Indian rising
slower each time. He at last succeeded in giving him a pretty fair
blow in the burr of the ear, with all his force, and he fell, as Joe
thought, pretty near dead. Joe jumped on him, and thinking he
could dispatch him by choaking, grasped his neck with his left hand,
keeping his right one free for contingencies. Joe soon found the Indian
was not so dead as he thought, and that he was making some use of
bis right arm which lay across his body, and on casting his eye down
discovered the Indian was making an effort to unsheath a knife that
was hanging at his belt. The knife was short and so sunk in the
sheath that it was necessary to force it up by pressing against the
point. This the Indian was trying to effect, and with good success.
Joe kept his eye on it, and let the Indian work the handle out, when
he suddenly grabbed it, jerked it out of the sheath, and sunk it up to
the handle into the Indian's breast, who gave a death groan and
expired.

Joe now thought of the other Indian, and not knowing how far he
had succeeded in killing or crippling him, sprang to his feet. He
found the crippled Indian had crawled some distance towards them,
and had propped his broken back against a log and was trying to
raise his gun to shoot him, but in attempting to do which he would
fall forward and had to push against his gun to raise himself again.
Joe seeing that he was safe, concluded he had fought long enough for
healthy exercise that day, and not liking to be killed by a crippled
Indian, he made for the fort. He got in about nightfall, and a hard
looking case he was — blood and dirt from the crown of his head to
the sole of his foot, no horse, no hat, no gun — with an account of
the battle that some of his comrades could scarce believe to be much
else than one of his big stories in which he would sometimes in-
dulge. He told them they must go and judge for themselves.

Next morning a company was made up to go to Joe's battle
ground. When they approached it Joe's accusers became more con-
firmed, as there was no appearance of dead Indians, and nothing Joe



Anecdotes of Joe Logston. 229

had talked of but the dead horse. They, however, found a trail as
if something had been dragged away. On pursuing it they found
the big Indian, at a httle distance, beside a log, covered up with
leaves. Still pursuing the trail, though not so plain, some hundred
yards farther, they found the broken backed Indian, lying on his back
with his own knife sticking up to the hilt in his body, just below the
breast bone, evidently to show that he had killed himself and that he
had not come to his end by the hand of an enemy. They had a long
search before they found the knife with which Joe killed the big
Indian. They at last found it forced down into the ground below
the surface, apparently by the weight of a person's heel. This had
been done by the crippled Indian. The great efforts he must have
made, alone, in that condition, show, among thousands of other in-
stances, what Indians are capable of under the greatest extremities.

Some years after the above took place, peace with the Indians wa.s
restored. That frontier, like many others, became infested with a
gang of outlaws, who commenced stealing horses and committing
various depredations. To counteract which a company of regulators,
as they were called, was raised. In a contest between these and the
depredators, Big Joe Logston lost his life, which would not be
highly esteemed in civil society. But in frontier settlements, which
he always occupied, where savages and beasts were to be con-
tested with for the right of soil, the use of such a man is very con-
spicuous. Without such, the country could never have been cleared
of its natural rudeness so as to admit of the more brilliant and orna-
mental exercises of arts, sciences and civilization.



(^^i^ (/L^^^t^C^



The readers of the Pioneer will never object to filling some little spaces
with choice and short receipts or pieces of information such as the following.

To insure presence of mind in case of accident, let every parent and every
child be impressed with the idea that if a person whose clothes take fire will
lie down and roll over, almost all danger from such an accident is avoided,
for clothes burn slowly when in a horizontal position. Many years ago the
editor of the Pioneer would, in all probability, have lost a child by such an
accident, but his little brother and sister, the only ones in the house with the
infant, intuitively threw him down and with their dry hands extinguished the
flames ! No other damage was done than the blistering of the hands of the
little conquerors, and perhaps the loss of a calico frock.

20



230 Origin of the name, Indian and Yankee.



ORIGIN OF THE NAME, INDIAN.

The name, Indian, was erroneously applied to the original man
of America by its first discoverers. The attempt to arrive at the
East Indies by sailing west, caused the discovery of the islands and
continent of America. When they were at first discovered, Colum-
bus, and many after him, supposed they had arrived at the eastern
shore of the continent of India, and hence the people they found there
were called Indians. The error was not discovered until the name
had so obtained, that it could not well be changed. It is true, that it
matters but little to us by what name the indigenes of a country are
known, and especially those of America, in as far as the name is sel-
dom used among us but in application to the aboriginal Americans.
But with the people of Europe it was not so unimportant. Situated
between the two countries, India and America, the same name for
the inhabitants of both must, at first, have produced considerable in-
convenience, if not confusion ; because, in speaking of an Indian, no
one would know whether an American or a Zealander was meant,
unless by the context of the discourse. Therefore, in a historical
point of view, the error is, at least, as much to be deplored as that
the name of the continent itself should have been derived from
Jimericus instead of Columbus.



- '■*^*AAX^^^^>^^^**M



ORIGIN OF THE NAME, YANKEE.

As BURY, an author who did not respect the Americans, being an
officer in general Burgoyne's army, and among the captives surren-
dered at Saratoga, has the following paragraph upon this word:

" The lower class of these Yankees — apropos, it may not be amiss
here just to observe to you the etymology of this term: it is derived
from a Cherokee word, eankke, which signifies coward and slave.
This epithet of yankee was bestowed upon the inhabitants of New
England by the Virginians, for not assisting them in a war with the
Cherokees, and they have always been held in derision by it. But
the name has been more prevalent since [1775] the commencement
of hostilities; the soldiery at Boston used it as a term of reproach;
but after the affair at Bunker's Hill, the Americans gloried in it.
Yankee-doodle is now their poean, a favorite of favorites, played in
their army, esteemed as warlike as the grenadier's march — it is the
lover's spell, the nurse's lullaby. After our rapid successes, we held
the yankees in great contempt ; but it was not a little mortifying to
hear them play this tune, when their army marched down to our sur-
render."

But Mr. Heckewelder thinks that the Indians, in endeavoring to
pronounce the name, English, could get that sound no nearer than
these letters give it, yengees. This was perhaps the true origin of
Yank ee. — Drake.



American Chronology. 231



CHIKATAUBUT.

Chikatatjbttt, or Chikkatabak, — in English, a honse-a-Jirc, — was
a sachem of considerable note, and generally supposed to have had
dominion over the Massachusetts Indians. Thomas Morion men-
tions him in his Nkw Canaan, as sachem ol" Passonagesit, (about
Weynioulh,) and says his mother was buried there. I need make no
comments upon the authority, or warn the reader concerning the
stories of Morton., as this is done in almost every book, early and
late, about New England; but shall relate the following from him.

\\\ the first settling of Plymouth, some of the company, in wander-
ing about upon discovery, came upon an Indian grave, which was
that of the mother of Cldkataubut. Over the body a stake was set
in the ground, and two bear-skins, sewed together, spread over it ;
these the English took away. When this came to the knowledge of
Chikataubut, he complained to his people, and demanded immediate
vengeance. VVlien they were assembled, he thus harangued them :
"When last the glorious hght of all the sky was underneath this
globe, and birds grew silent, I began to settle, as my custom is, to take
repose. Before mine eyes were fast closed, me tho't I saw a vision,
at which my spirit was much troubled, and trembling at that doleful
sight, a spirit cried aloud, 'Behold ! my son, whom I have cherished ;
see the paps that gave thee suck, the hands that clasped thee warm,
and fed thee oft ; canst thou forget to take revenge of those wild peo-
ple, that hath my monument defaced in a spiteful manner ; disdaining
our ancient antiquities, and honorable customs ! See now the sa-
chem's grave lies like unto the common people, of ignoble race de-
faced. Thy mother doth complain, implores thy aid against this
thievish people new come hither; if this be suffered, I shall not
rest in quiet within my everlasting habitation.' "

If this be fiction, a modern compiler has deceived some of his
readers. The original may be seen in Morton's New Canaan, page
106 and 107.



>w^s#^'^^^^4f^^^^^^v««•



AMERICAN CHRONOLOGY.

1583. Sir Humphry Gilbert made another voyage to America, and

perished, during a storm, in attempting to return in the
Squirrel, a bark of only ten tons!

1584. Sir Walter Raleigh, step-brother to sir Humphry Gilbert,

obtains a patent to colonize.

July. — Takes possession of the land in the name of the
queen of England (Elizabeth) on Woioken, the southern-
most island of Ocracock inlet.

As the queen heard their reports, she esteemed her reign
signalized by the discovery of the enchanting regions, and
as a memorial of her state of life, named them Virginia.



232 American Chronology.

1585. April. — A fleet commanded by Ralph Lane, afterwards sir
Ralph Lane, sailed from Plymouth, England, to establish a
colony under Raleigh's patent, and to be governed by sir
Richard Grenville. Harriot, the inventer of notation in
modern algebra, and Cavendish, the circumnavigator, ac-
companied this expedition.
The fleet was near being wrecked near a cape which they
called Cape of Fear, They colonize Roanoak island.

15S6. Sir Francis Drake discovered and named New England.

Sir Francis Drake arrived off Roanoak with his fleet and
attempted to relieve the colony, but was prevented by a
storm. They embark with Drake for England and intro-
duce the use of tobacco. Grenville arrived with supplies and
colonists and left fifteen men to keep possession of the coun-
try. They are supposed to have been killed by the Indians.

1587. Raleigh sent out more emigrants, who attempt again to colo-

nize Roanoak island under the command of John White.
They lay the fonndation of the city of Raleigh, some of the

remains of which are still to be seen.
Virginia Dare, grand-child of governor White, and the first

child of English blood on United States soil, born.

1588. Spanish invasion prevent supplies being sent, and the colony

was cut oft^ and scattered.
1590. Attempts to find the colonists, but without success. Five

attempts make by Raleigh to find some traces of them, but

without success,
1598. French again attempt to settle Canada by De la Roche, but

failed.
1600. Chauvin obtains a patent monopoly of the fur trade.

1602. Bartholomew Gosnold visited the Bay of Massachusetts and

landed on cape Cod.

1603. Quebec settled by Champlain as a suitable place for a fort.
De Monts obtains a still wider monopoly of the fur trade.
Martin Bring sailed for America and explored the country

from Maine to Martha's Vinyard.

1604. Pontrincort entered the harbor of Annapolis and named it

Port Royal.
De Monts made his first attempt at settlement on the island

of St. Croix.
V 1605. De Monts removed to and built Port Royal and explored the

rivers of New England as far as cape Cod.
Weymouth visited Maine and Massachusetts.

1606. De Monts attempts a settlement of New England, but was

prevented by contrary winds.
Pring made another voyage and more accurate survey of

Maine.
April, — James IL issues a patent for Virginia to John Smith,

Gosnold and others,

1607. May 13. — Fleet moored off Jamestown, and the next day

they commenced the first permanent settlement of the terri-
tory now the United States.



AME RICAN PION EER.

JDcooteb to tl)c ®rutl) antJ lusticc of ijistonj.
VOL. I. JULY, 1842. NO. VII.



FORT DU QUESNE AND FORT PITT.

[See Frontispiece.]

Before speaking specifically of this important point, it may not be amiss
to say that by right of discovery France claimed and settled Canada as seen
in pages 119 and 120 of the Pioneer; and by the same right England claim-
ed the land now the United States. She chartered to her settlers, granting
the land from the Atlantic coast to the South sea, that is, she deeded the
Atlantic front extending indefinitely back. The east and west line was not
however definitely settled between the two countries, for while each might
conceed to the other the respective tracts, the lines which should divide those
tracts were not marked, but became subjects of dispute which nothing but
the sword seemed adequate to settle. Appeals of this sort seldom stop short
of aggression and robbery on a large scale, so it turned out in this instance,
for although the right of discovery might be considered valid, and the fact
of discovery might be well ascertained and acknowledged, yet the quantity
or bounds of discovery was a matter not so easily adjusted.

We are told that as early as the year 1660, information was received in
Canada from the Indians, that, west of Canada there was a river which flow-
ed neither east nor north. The government conjectured that it must empty
itself into the gulf of Mexico or the Pacific, and sent Joliet and Marquette to
ascertain the fact. They proceeded from lake Michigan up Fox river and
down the Wiskonsin to the Mississippi, and down that river to the 33d degree
of latitude, and returned through Illinois. The mouth of the Mississippi was
afterwards discovered by La Salle. Upon this ground it was that France
claimed the whole of the Mississippi valley, which confined the English gov-
ernment east of the AUeghanies. This of course conflicted materially with
what England had claimed as her rights, and also with the amount of territory
which she had given to her Atlantic patentees.

France however was determined to hold the valley of the Mississippi, and
in the year 1722 settled New Orleans, intending to maintain her rights by a
line of fortifications ; and New France or Canada, in their ideas, extended
around the English possessions, from New Foundland to Louisiana. About
the middle of the eighteenth century hostilities commenced and was truly a
"long and bloody war," but in which " Logan took no part,"although almost
every Indian except himself was engaged in conflict on one side or the other.
It was in this war that major, afterwards general JVaskington, learned the

235



236 Fort Die Quesne and Fort Pitt.

country and the art of warfare. In 1754, the French fortified the confluence
of the Monongahela and Alleghany rivers, and called it Fort Du Quesne,
where Pittsburgh now stands. In this same year general Bradock was de-
feated, and the place was maintained by them till 1758, when they abandon-
ed and destroyed the fort, which the English took possession of and fortified,
under the name of the then prime minister of England, Wm. Pitt, favorably
known in American history. Next year Quebec was taken, and the British
government extended over Canada, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. This
war lasted till 1764.

With pleasure we now introduce Isaac Craig, Esqr. of Pittsburgh, to the
readers of the Pioneer. He contributed with much care the drawing which
has with mathematical precision been copied for the Pioneer— He says :

" The copy of the plan of Fort Du Quesne, the first Fort Pitt, and
the more important work subsequently built by general Stanwix, and
also called Fort Pitt, was taken by me from a previous copy obtained
by Hon. Richard Biddle, from the British museum.

« The following notes in relation to these several works may not be
uninteresting as an accompaniment to the map.

" The French troops under the command of Monsieur Contrecoeur
arrived at the point where those forts were built, on the 17th of April,
1754, and took ensign Ward and his small party of forty-one men
prisoners. They then proceeded to erect Fort Du Quesne and the
horn-work attached to it, and extending up parallel to the Alleghany
river. This horn-work, as well as the fort itself, was a mere stockade
or picket work, the former intended mainly t© protect the store-house
and the cabins of some of the troops.

" Captain Stobo, who was taken prisoner at Fort Necessity on the
4th of July, 1754, and held as a hostage at Fort Du Quesne, in a letter
dated 29th July, 1754, stated that there were only two hundred men
then under Contrecoeur, and two hundred more expected in a few
days. He also stated that none lodged in the fort but Contrecoeur and
the guard, consisting of five officers and forty men. The rest lodged
in cabins around the fort. Probably the horn-work was not then built.

« On the 24th of November, 1758, general Forbes arrived here, and
took possession of the point, the French having previously destroyed
Fort Du Quesne and descended the river. Provisions being scarce, a
large force could not be maintained there during the winter ; the first
Fort Pitt, a slight v/ork composed of pickets with a shallow and nar-
row ditch, was hastily thrown up for the reception of two hundred
and twenty men, and the rest of the army returned to the settlements.

« That work was intended merely for a temporary purpose, and in
the summer of 1759, general Stanwix arrived, and in the latter part



^(



Plan of Fort Pitt. 237

ol August or beginning of September, commenced the erection of
Fort Pitt, a work designed to "perpetuate the Britisli power" here, as
was stated in a letter written at that time.

The draught of that work was made by R. Ratzer, who was pro-
bably the engineer who superintended the work. Washington visited
this place in October, 1770, and in his journal of the 17th of that
month mentions that the sides next the country are of brick, the
others stockade.

The brick alluded to were those in the revetment or wall which
supported the rampart from L to M. The rest was not merely a
stockade, but included also a rampart of earth thrown up, but being
unsupported by a wall, assumed its natural slope.

REFERENCES.

a. Barracks already built.

b. Commandant's house, not built.

c. Store house.

d. d. Powder magazine.

e. Casemate completed.

f. Store house for flour, &c.

g. Wells, in two of which are pumps.
h. Fort Du Quesne.

i. i. Horn-work stockaded to cover French barracks.

k. First Fort Pitt destroyed.

n. Sally port.

In the south-east bastion, Mr. Ratzer places two magazines marked
d. d. Within a few years past a single stone magazine stood in that
place, which was erected, as I am told, by my grand-father, major
Isaac Craig, in 1781.

In 1764, colonel Bouquet built a redoubt outside of the fort, in the
spot marked *. This redoubt is still standing, and with some addi-
tions to it, is now occupied as a dwelling house, and is the only re-
maining monument of British industry and skill at this place.

The frontispiece is a draught of Fort Du Quesne, the first Fort Pitt,
and Fort Pitt. It was made by R. Ratzer in 1761, afterwards given to
George III., and by George IV. presented to the British Museum.
From this draught a copy was made in 1830 by Wm. Osnian for the
Hon. Richard Biddle of Pittsburgh, who was then in London, and
from that copy this second copy is made at Pittsburgh the 10th of
February, 1842, by




238



Fort Du Quesne and Fort Pitt.
THE REDOUBT.




Sketch of the Brick Redoubt buih near Fort Pitt, " A. D. 1764, colonel
Bouquet;" and of the addition made to it by Turnbull, Marmie & Co.
in 1785 — the redoubt being the only relic of the works erected here by
the British. Corrected from a sketch by Field, made in 1837.

This building, the only relic now standing in Pittsburgh, of the
■work' erected here by the British, was built (as is stated on tiie stone



British Redoubt in Pittsburgh. 239

tablet in its front,) by colonel Henry Bouquet, in 1764. It is situated
north of Penu street, about forty-six feet west of Point street, and
seven and a half feet north of Brewery alley, measuring to the right-
hand corner in the sketch.

Another redoubt precisely similar, had previously been erected by
colonel Wm. Grant, on the bank of the Monongahela river, just op-
posite to the mouth of Redoubt alley.

The front which is presented in the plate is seventeen feet, as is
also the opposite side ; the other two sides are twenty-two feet each.

In looking at the drawing, the reader should understand that the
Vedoubt is merely the square building in front, having two windows
and the stone tablet with the inscription. The oddness of the whole
block and its entire unfitness for defense, would convince any military
man that the other buildings must have been designed for other than
military purposes.

In the winter of 1783-4, before the town of Pittsburgh was laid
off, the agent of the Penns sold to Isaac Craig and Stephen Bayard,
the piece of ground extending from the ditch of Fort Pitt to the Alle-
ghany, supposed to be about three acres. This redoubt being on the
out side of the ditch of the fort, passed to Craig and Bayard, and
when the subsequent firm of Turnbull, Marmie & Co. was formed, it
became partnership property. By this firm, the addition to the old
redoubt was built in 1785, thus constituting a dwelling house, which
was occupied one year by Mr. Turnbull, and subsequently three
years by the father of the writer of this article, who, in 1787, was
born in that building.

Colonel Bouquet, who built this now only remaining monument of
British labor, was a very distinguished actor in this country, during
that exciting period, from 1758 to 1764. He was an influential friend
and adviser of general Forbes before and during the march to, and
capture of, Fort Du Quesne.

While preparations for that march Avere making, he came in con-
tact with our Washington, Washington deemed it all important that
the army should pursue Braddock's road to this place, while Bouquet
preferred taking a route through Pennsylvania by Ligonier, although
a road had to be cut. A conference between them was held, but
Bouquet remained immovable,

Washington immediately after his return from the conference, wrote
a letter to major Halket, an old associate in arms, and one of general
Forbes' family, from which we extract a few passages,

«I am just returned," says he, "from a conference with colonel
Bouquet. I find him fixed, I think I may say unalterably fixed, to



240 Fort Bu Quesne and Fort Pitt.

lead you a new way to the Ohio, through a road, every inch of which
has to be cut at this advanced season, when we have scarce time left
to tread the beaten track, universally confessed to be the best passage
through the mountains.

" If colonel Bouquet succeeds in this point with the general, all is
lost — all is lost indeed — our enterprise will be ruined, and we shall be
stopped at Laurel hill this winter ; but not to gather laurels, except
of the kind that covers the mountains."

The Pennsylvania route was pursued, and contrary to Washington's
prediction, it terminated successfully in the capture of Fort Du Quesne,
on the 25th of November, 1758.

But it is no slight evidence in favor of Washington's opinion, that
the commanding general had at one time concluded to abandon the
expedition, until the ensuing spring.

Judging from what we now know, the strength of the argument
would seem to be on the side of Washington, but we cannot know
what reasons may have prevailed in the mind of Bouquet and
Forbes.

In Sparks' life of Washington, it is said that Forbes "was believed
to have been influenced by the Pennsylvanians, to construct a new
road, which would be of lasting benefit to that province, by opening
a more direct channel of intercourse with the west."

From the capture of Fort Du Quesne until July, 1763, we know no-
thing more of Bouquet, but at that time he was ordered to march
from Carlisle with portions of the 42d and 77th British regiments,
to relieve captain Ecuyer, then besieged in Fort Pitt by the Delawares,
Shawnees, Wyandotts, and other Indians. On his march he was at-
tacked by these combined Indians, at Bushy run, in Westmoreland
county, on the 5th and 6th of August, and after a desperate struggle
of two days, he, by a masterly manoeuvre defeated them, and then
effected the object of his march, by raising the siege of Fort Pitt. In
the ensuing year, in October and November, he marched to the Mus-
kingum, and there dictated peace to the Shawnee, Delaware, and Sen-
eca Indians, and rescued more than two hundred white men, women,
and children, from captivity. He was subsequently promoted to a
brigadier generalship, for his good conduct in this country ; and in
1766 died at Pensacola. Thus it will be perceived that this gallant
officer was among the most distinguished benefactors of this section
of the country, during that trying period.



y^i!>i^-t^^^i^ /3^



History of Illinois. 241



HISTORY OF ILLINOIS.

The following proceedings and letter were not sent to us for publication,
but being so congenial to the genius of the American Pioneer, wliich should
apprise the public of what is doing in the historical community, that we are
pleased with the opportunity to announce the prospect of so good a work.
The Rev. Mr. Peck is becoming favorably known as a historian, and may his
labors be successful. We anticipate a good history of Illinois from his pen ;
and concerning the first efforts of civilization in the valley of the Mississippi,
it cannot fail to be interesting. His letter contains other interesting particu-
lars which should not be concealed from the public, as well as some important
suggestions worthy of observance. It is with great gratification we have the
opportunity of complying with the request witii which his letter closes.

" Vandalia, Illinois, Saturday evening, Feb. 4, 1S37.

"At a meeting ot citizens of Illinois, held in the representa-
tives' hall, Vandalia, at the close of an original and interesting lec-
ture by Rev. J. M. Peck, on the early Indian history of Illinois, on
motion of Jesse B. Thomas, Esq., Hon. Samuel D. Lockwood was
called to tlie chair, and Hon. Walter B. Scates chosen secretary.

Plon. Thomas Ford, from a committee appointed at a preliminary
meeting on the 2d inst., made a report, with the following resolu-
tions :

Eesolved, That this meeting regard the preparing and publishing
of a complete history of Illinois, as a measure that should be accom-
plished so soon as it can be done with correctness of manner and
accuracy of detail.

Resolved, That a competent person be nominated and requested to
perform this work, and that a committee of correspondence be ap-
pointed to aid him in that object.

The report and resolutions were unanimously adopted.

On motion of J. M. Hewitt, Esq.,

Resolved, That a complete history of Illinois should embrace the
various stages of its progress, from its earliest discoveries to the pres-
ent time ; and the various relations of its inhabitants, political, mili-
tary, commercial, moral, and religious.

On motion of Jesse B. Thomas, Esq.,

Resolved, That a history of Illinois should be complete in its parts,
methodical in its arrangement, accurate and discriminating in all its
details, perfectly impartial in its characteristics, and divested of all
political, religious and local prepossessions.

On motion of Hon. Cyrus Edwards,

Resolved, That Rev. .tohn M. Peck be requested to undertake the
writing and publication of a complete history of Illinois, from the
earliest visits of the Europeans up to the present time.

On motion of James Shields, Esq.,

Resolved, That the following named gentlemen, citizens of this
state, be appointed a committee of correspondence, and that they be

Vol. 1—2 F 21



242



History of Illinois.



solicited to procure materials, and otherwise aid Mr. Peck in prepai
ing the history of Ulhiois.

After the resolution was read, several additional names were added
to the list, amongst which, on motion of judge Ford, was that of the
mover, all of which were unanimously adopted.

COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDNNCE.



Hon. Sidney Breese, Clinton county,

Hon. S. McRoberts, Vermilion "

Hon. N. Pope, Randolph "

Hon. William Wilson, White "

Hon. R. M. Young, Adams "

Hon. Thomas Ford, Ogle "

Hon. Zadock Casey, Jefferson "

Hon. Pierre Menard, Randolph "

Hon. Cyrus Edwards, Madison "

John Russell, Esq., Green "

J. H. Kinzie, Esq., Cook "



Hon. J. Reynolds, St. Clair county,
Hon. J. M. Robinson, White "
Hon. S. D. Lockwood, Morgan "
Rev. G. Blackburn, Macoupin "
J. Shields, Esq., Randolph "

John Hay, Esq., St. Clair "

Rev. James Lemen, " "

Gen. J. B. Moore, Munroe "

J. W. Whitney, Esq., Adams "
Hon. Wm. Kinney, St. Clair "



On motion of colonel William Ross,

Resolved, That the proceedings of this meeting, and the names of
the committee of correspondence, be pubhshed in all the papers of
this state.

On motion of J. W. Whitney, Esq.,

Resolved, That the Rev. J. M. Peck be requested to publish in the
papers of this state, the two lectures delivered by him at this place,
on the early French discoveries, and the early Indian history of
Illinois, And the meeting adjourned.

S. D. LOCKWOOD, Chairman.

Walter B. Scates, Secretary.^'

Rockspring, Illinois, *^pril Sth, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir, — On arriving home from a tour of five months in the
southern states, I found amongst the papers that had accumulated in
my office, a copy of the "American Pioneer Extra." I had pre-
viously observed, in some of the weekly prints, notices of the appear-
ance of the first number of such a work.

The plan of the work is exactly such a one as I have long desired
to see, and hope you will be successful in obtaining a very extensive
patronage, which in these no-currency and bank-breaking times is the
main thing to sustain such a periodical.

Of materials there is no lack. You will see, from the printed por-
tion of this sheet, that the history of our western frontiers has en-
gaged my attention. A history of Illinois, which includes the early
French history of this great valley, is in good progress. But it is a
work I do not intend to hasten. Mr, John Russell, formerly of Bluft-
dale, in this state, but now temporarily at Louisville, Kentucky, is
engaged with me in this field of labor,

I have collected and nearly completed a western library, that is,
a library of every book I can get about western affairs, and I have



Wives in Virginia. 3^i3

obtained many exceedingly scarce and ancient works, especially of
French and Indian history.

I would suggest that you re-publish Boon's Narrative entire, as lie
wrote it. I was personally acquainted with Boon, in Missouri, from
1818 to 1S20, the period of his death, and have treasured up a great
variety of anecdotes received from him and his family. The late
Timothy Flint wrote a pleasant romance called the Life of Boon.
Very little of it is truth. Amongst other romantic incidents, Mr.
Flint killed him at a salt lick, in 1818, whereas I attended his funeral
in 1820. He died of fever at the house of his son-in-law, Flanders
Callaway, not having hunted any for some ten years.

I am now about starting for Philadelphia and New York, to return
in June, but shall be occupied in traveling most of the summer.
Please send me a copy of the Jimerican Pioneer, to the post office
of Rock Spring, Illinois, commencing with No. 1, and allow me, if
convenient, to furnish matter enough to pay for the subscription.
Very respectfully, yours, &.c..



J^^a^.



WIVES IN VIRGINIA.

Although the emigration from England continued to be considerable, few
females had crossed the Adantic. Men without wives could not consider
their residence as permanent, and must intend, after amassing some wealth, to
return to their native land. To remove this impediment to the population of
the colony, ninety girls, of humble fortune and spotless character, were
transported by the company to Virginia; and in the subsequent year (1621)
they were followed by sixty of the same description. They were received
by the young planters as a blessing which substituted domestic happiness for
the cheerless gloom of solitude ; and the face of the country was essentially
changed. Mr. Stith says, the price for a wife was at first one hundred
pounds of tobacco, and afterwards one hundred and fifty pounds ; and a debt so
contracted was made of higher dignity than any other. MARSHALL.



Bene Plant. — A few leaves of the plant when green, plunged a
few times in a tumbler of water, makes it like a thin jelly, without
taste or color, which children affiicted with the summer complaint
will drink freely : it is said to be the best remedy ever discovered.



244 The Indian Treaty of 1758.



THE INDIAN TREATY OF 1758.

In the [English] Annual Register for 1759, page 191, we find the minutes
of the above treaty. We transfer them to the pages of the Pioneer as an
item of history worthy of preservation, and also as containing some beautiful
specimens of native eloquence. Those who love to follow an orator who
just tells his tale and no more, will be delighted with some of the speeches
delivered on this occasion, not only by the chiefs themselves, but the good
imitations of native eloquence to be found in the speeches of some of our
pioneer fathers who took a part in that event.

In Drake's table of the principal Indian tribes, he mentions most of the
tribes composing this council thus :

Mohawks, formerly a great tribe of the Iroquois, and the most warlike of
those five nations.

Oneidas, a nation of the Iroquois, near Oneida lake ; about 1,000.

Onondagas, a nation of the Iroquois, Onondaga hollow ; about 300.

Senecas, one of the ancient Iroquois nations ; 2,200, near Buffalo, New
York. [Messasagnes not mentioned.]

Tuscaroras, joined the Iroquois, from Carolina, in 1712. This made the
sixth nation of the "United People," as the Iroquois called themselves.

Nanticokes, near the east branch of the Susquehanna, in 1780; about 80.

Tuteloes, an ancient nation between the Delaware and Chesapeake bays.

Delawares, once numerous on the river and bay of the same name, now
chiefly beyond the Mississippi ; anciently Lenalenape.

Munsees, north branch of the Susquehanna, in 1780 ; on Wabash, in 1808 ;
now unknown.

Mohegans, a remnant now on the Thames ; below Norwich, in Connecticut.

Twightwees, on the Great Miami ; 200 in 1780.

At another time we shall endeavor to give our readers some farther ac-
count of the different tribes of Indians, as well as their customs, and of their
strings, belts, &c. so often mentioned in the following minutes.

MINUTES OF THE TREATY AT EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA,

IN 1758.

In October last all differences were made up with the several tribes
of Indians inhabiting beyond the mountains as far as the lakes; and
a firm peace was concluded with them itpon the ancient footing.
The treaty for this purpose took up from the 8th to the 26th of Octo-
ber to settle; and tiiough the minutes of each day's proceedings are
not equally interesting, yet they will serve to convey an idea of their
manner of transacting council affairs.

At this treaty the governors of Pennsylvania and New Jersey
attended ; accompanied by Mr. George Croghan, deputy agent under
sir William Johnson for the Indian affairs; four members of the
Pennsylvania council; six commissioners, members of the assembly;



Opening of the Council. 245

two agents for the province of New Jersey ; a great number of gen-
tlemen of property in the provinces ; and near forty of the principal
citizens of Philadeipiiia,cliiet!y quakers. These were met at Easton,
about ninety miles from Pliiladelphia, by the Mohawks, Oneidoes,
Onondagoes, Cayugas, Senecas, Tuscaroras, Nanticokes, and Conoys,
Tuleloes, Chugn'uts, Delawares, and Unamies, Munseys, or Minisinks,
Moliickons, and Wappingers; the chiefs of all these nations, with
their women ard children, made the wliole number 507.

On the 7th of October, the governor, witli his council, coming to
Easton in the afternoon, was waited upon immediately by Teedy-
uscung, accompanied by Moses Tittamy, Daniel, Teepuscung, and
Isaac Stille, (Delaware chiefs and interpreters, with whom peace had
been concluded the year before,) who, after the usual compliments,
said :

" Brotlier, you desire me to hollow loud, and give notice to all the
Indians round about. I have raised my voice, and all the Indians
have heard me as far as the Twightwees,* and iiave regarded my
voice, and are now come to this place. I bid you welcome, and
entreat you to join with me in casting up our eyes to heaven, and
praying the blessing of the Supreme Being on our endeavors. Ac-
cording to our usual custom, I with this string wipe the dust and
sweat oft" your face, and clear your eyes, and pick the briars out of
your legs; and desire you will pick the briars out of the legs of the
Indians that are come here, and anoint one of them with your heal-
ing oil, and I will anoint the other." ^ string.

The governor thanked him for his visit and advice, and appointed
the next day to begin the conferences.

Sunday, October 8th, the governor of Pennsylvania, with his whole
company, met in council the chiefs of the nations, and opened the
conferences with a short speech.

" Brethren, it gives me pleasure to see so many of you of so many
different nations at this council tire. I bid you heartily welcome.
Brethren, with this string I wipe the sweat and dust out of your eyes,
that you may see our faces and look cheerful. With this string I
take all bitterness from your heart. With this string I take the blood
from your council seats, that your clothes may not be stained, nor
your minds disturbed." Three strings.

After a short pause, Tagashata, the Seneca chief, rose up, and
repeating, as usual, every thing the governor said, returned thanks,
and went through the same ceremonies to the governors and all in
authority. He delivered his belts of invitation, which the nations
had received to come to the conferences ; and desired to see the belts
sent by them in return ; which the governor said should be given
them ; and after all ceremonies had passed, the council broke up for
this day.

* The Twightwees are the nations between the Ohio and the lakes, the most remote of
all the others, and the most hearty in the French interest. ^I'hough they were not present
at this treaty of 1758, yet a discreet, sober, rehgious man named Frederic Post, accompanied
by Pisquitomen, Daniel, and Thomas Hickman, Delaware Indians, had been sent among
them the preceding year, and had etl'ectually paved the way for a peace; but the preliminaries
not being fully settled, they decUned meeting till they were waited upon again.

21 *



246 The Indian Treaty of 1758.

Conrad Weiser, Esq., attended as provincial interpreter.

Captain Mountour, interpreter in the Six Nations and Delaware lan-
guages.

Steven Calvin, Isaac Stille, and Moses Tittamy, Delaware Indians,
interpreters in that language.

Monday, October 9th. Governor Bernard arrived, and desired a
meeting with the Indians to bid them welcome ; but was told, that
they were in council among themselves.

Tuesday, October 10. The Indians chiefs remained in council all
day, and desired the governors not to be impatient.

Wednesday, October 11. This morning the Indian chiefs commu-
nicated the business they had been upon to the governor. At four
in the afternoon the conferences opened. Tagashata, intending to
speak first, had laid some strings upon the table ; when Teedyuscung
got up, and holding a string, said he had something to deliver.*
But governor Bernard signifying his desire to bid the Indians wel-
come, put an end to the contest, and he was heard.

Governor Bernard. " Bretliren, 1 bid you welcome, and wish the
good work of peace may prosper in your hands. Having sent a
message some months ago to the Minisinks, I received an answer
from our brethren the Senecas and Cayugas, in which they take upon
them to speak for the Minisinks. To you, therefore, brethren, I now
address myself, and must remind you, that if you are disposed to be
our friends for the future, you should return us the captives that have
been taken out of our province, and are now within your power. It
is not usual for our king's governors to go out of their provinces, to
attend treaties of this kind; but I have v/aived forms to show my
good dispositions to restore peace, and settle all manner of ditferences
for the mutual benefit of all parties."

Then Teedyuscung rose up and said, " Brethren, you desire me to
call all the nations who live back. Such as have heard my halloo
are here present. If you have any thing to say to them, or they to
you, sit and talk together. I have nothing to do but to see and hear.
I have made known to the governor of Pennsylvania why I struck
him, and have made up all diflerences for our future peace."

i/? string.

Tagashata, chief of the Senecas. " Brethren, it has pleased the
Most High to bring us together with cheerfulness; but as it is now
late, I desire to be heard to morrow."

Thursday, October 12. Tagashata. "We approve of what the
governor of Jersey said yesterday concerning the Minisinks; they
desired us to bring about the good work of peace, have assured us
they will deliver up the prisoners, and doubt not but all difi'erences
will be made up between them and the province of New Jersey.

« Brethren, I now speak at the request of Teedyuscung, and our
nephews the Delawares, living at Wyomink, and on the waters of

* The subject of their conferences was the treaty made by Teedyuscung the year before,
who pretended he acted as ambassador for the Six Nations, as well as sachem for four
nations of his own. The Six Nations wanted to have canceled that peace as not properly
made ; but as a general peace was now to be made, the thing was waived, as altogether im-
material.



Debate in Council. ^14^

Susquchannah ; they have assured us they will never think of war
against their brethren the English any more. A belt.

" Brethren, our nephews, the Minisink Indians, have declared the
same, and the warriors of the four difl'erent tribes of the same nation
have entreated us to use our endeavors to make their peace, declar-
ing their sorrow for what they have done at giving this belt. Ji belt.

"Brethren, we the Mohawks, Senecas, and Onondagoes, dehver this
string likewise, to remove the hatchet out of your heads, that has
been struck into it by the Ohio Indians, in order to lay a foundation
for peace." Eight strings of loampuvi.

Tokaaio, chief of the Cayugas. " I speak in behalf of the younger
nations, port of and confederated with the Six Nations, namely, the
Cayugas, Oneidoes, Tuscaroras, Tuteloes, Nanticokes, and Conoys.
A road has been opened for us to this council fire ; but by some mis-
fortune, blood has lately been spilt upon that road. By these strings
we wash that blood away, and take the hatchet out of your heads.

Three strings.

" Brethren, I now speak only for my own nation. I will hide no-
thing from you; the French, like a thief in the night, have stolen
some of our young men, and corrupted them to do mischief Our
chiefs held them fast, but the French artfully unloosed them ; we
take the hatchet out of your heads with which they have struck you,
and are sorry for what they have done." A belt of ten rows.

Friday, October 13. Governor Denny. " Brethren, chiefs, and war-
riors, I invited you down to the council fire, kindled at this place by
me and your nephew Teedyuscung. I am now about to communis
cate to you matters of great consequence, and to answer all that has
been said by you to me since our meeting together. I therefore by
this string open your ears that you may hear clearly." A. string.

Here he repeated all that had been said by 4he chiefs, producing
their belts and strings ; and then proceeded :

" Brethren, you may remember, that the day before yesterday, your
nephew Teedyuscung told me by this string, that he had made me
acquainted with the cause why he struck us; that he had given the
halloo; that he would sit by, &c.

"Now as there are many of you here who v/ere not present at
our former meetings, I think it proper for your information to give a
short account of what passed between your nephews the Delawares,
and us.

"About three years ago, your brethren the English, living on the
borders, were struck of a sudden ; many killed, and others carried
away captive. We knew not by whom, but sent messengers up the
Susquchannah as far as the Six Nations, to inquire from whence the
blow came, and for what reason. On the return of these messengers,
we were informed, that the Delawares and Shawanese were the
aggressors. Some time after this discovery, a cessation of hostilities
was brought about ; Teedyuscung came down to our conncil fire, told
us the cause of the war was the proprietaries' taking from him by
fraud the ground on which we now stand : and that the inducement
to begin it, was from the persuasion of the false-hearted French king.
At last all blood was wiped away ; and Teedyuscung then declared



248 The Indian Treaty of 1758.

to us, that he acted in behalf of ten nations, and promised to restore
to us all our fellow-subjects that had been carried away prisoners. I
desire therefore to Icnow the true reason, wiiy our flesh and blood
who are in captivity are withheld from us, and what is become of
those belts we gave him to confirm the peace, and that promise ; for
till that promise is complied with we can never sleep in quiet, or rest
satisfied in the friendship of those who detain our children and rela-
tions from us." ^ belt.

Governor Bernard. " What the governor has now declared, so far
as it relates to my province, I confirm by this." Belt.

Here Frederic Post's negotiation with the Ohio Indians was intro-
duced by Pisquitomen, who attended him ; and it appearing that
three strings of wampum had been returned by them, he was asked
to whom they were sent? Pisquitomen replied, one to the governor
of Pennsylvania ; one to Teedyuscung ; and the third to Isaac Pem-
berton ; at which Nichas, the Mohawk chief, rose up and spoke with
great vehemence for some time, frequently pointing to Teedyuscung ;
and Mr. Weiser was desired to interpret what he said, but as it was
merely personal, Mr. Weiser referred it to a private conference.

Saturday, October 14. The Indians declined meeting.

Sunday, October 15. At a private conference, Nichas rose up and
said, " Brothers, you all know, that our nephew Teedyuscung gives
out that he is the great man, and chief of ten nations ; now 1, on be-
half of the Mohawks, say we do not know he is such a great man.
If he is such a great man, we desire to know who made him so.
Perhaps you have, and if this be the case, tell us so. It may be the
French have made him so. We want to inquire and know whence
his greatness arose."

Tagashata. " We^do not know who made him this great man over
ten nations."

Assarandonguas, chief of the Onondagoes. "No such thing was
ever said in our towns, as that Teedyuscung was such a great man."

Thomas King, for the Oneidas, Cayugas, Tuscaroras, Nanticokes,
and Conoys. " We, for our parts, entirely disown his having any
superiority over us."

Tokaaio, chief of the Cayugas, [addressing himself to the English.]
" Brethren, you may remember you said, you could not be easy with-
out your prisoners. We speak from the bottom of our hearts, you
shall have them all. You told us a tender father, husband, wife, bro-
ther or sister could not sleep soimd when they reflected their relations
were prisoners; we know it is so with us, and we will therefore
make your hearts easy, and give you this belt that we will perform
our words." ^ belt.

Nichas confirmed his promise with A string of seven rows.

Monday, October 16. Yesterday's private conference was read,
and interpreted to Teedyuscung and the Delawares.

Governor Denny. " 13rethren, you say we know that Teedyuscung
gives out that he is the great man ; and by his belt you denied him
to be so, and desired to know of me who made him so. I will an-
swer you truly. Soon after the Delawares had struck us, we invited
them to meet us at a council fire kindled at this place. At the time



Debate continued. 249

appointed, Teedyuscung came and told us he represented ten nations,
his own as chief, and the United Nations as a messenger; we believ-
ed what he said, and therefore made him a counsellor and agent for
us to publish to the nations what we did at our council fires, and how
sincerely we were disposed to peace. But I assure you, 1 never
made Teedyuscung the great man; and I must do him the justice to
say, that he never assumed any authority over, but on many occasions
spoke of the Six Nations as his uncles and superiors. I never shall
attempt to impose a chief on any Indian nation ; but on all occasions,
will pay due regard to those who are chosen by their countrymen.

" Brethren, by this belt and string you promised to make diligent
search in your towns for our flesh and blood, who are prisoners, and
return them to us. We have always found you honest and punctual
in the performance of your promises ; your words therefore give us
comfort." %/i belt and string.

Governor Bernard. " I know not who made Teedyuscung so great
a man, nor do I know that he is any greater than a chief of the
Delaware Indians settled at Wyomink.

" Brethren, you say you will return our prisoners ; we hope you
will be mindful to engage your nephews to do so too ; for which I
give you this." Belt.

After the governor had done speaking, the Indian chiefs were ask-
ed, if they had any thing more to say, on which Tagashata arose,
and addressing himself to the Delawares and Minisinks, said :

" Nephews, the governors who sit there, have put you in mind of
what was agreed upon last year. You both promised to return the
prisoners. We, your uncles, put you in mind of this promise, and
desire you will perform it. You have promised it, and you must
perform it. As soon as you come home, cause this to be done ; you
know it is an article of the peace for which you have received a belt."

Robert White, the Nanticoke chief, [spoke hi English.] " When our
cousins the Delawares first took up the hatchet, we invited them to
our town of Otsaningo, and persuading them to peace, gave them a
belt of a fathom long and twenty-five rows in breadth ; but not hear-
ing from our cousins for a long time, we sent them two other belts,
one of sixteen, the other of twelve rows, desiring them once more to
lay down the hatchet ; but still we heard nothing from them. Indeed,
some time afterwards we understood the Delawares should say, the
Indians at Otsaningo had grey eyes, and were like Englishmen, and
should be served in the same manner. As our cousins have been loth
to give an answer to these belts, we desire they would let us know
in a public conference what they have done with them." t.^ string.

Tuesday, October 17. The Indians in council all day.

Wednesday, October IS. Nichas, the Mohawk chief, acquainted
the governors, that as counsellors, they had finished ; having nothing
more to propose at this meeting. The warriors were to speak now,
and Thomas Khig was appointed to deliver their words.

Thomas King, [addressing himself to the governors and all in au-
thority.] " Brethren, you have been desirous to know the true cause
of the war, and of the bitterjiess of our hearts. Look well about
you, and you will find you gave the first oifense. In time of pro-
VoL. 1—2 G



250 The Indian Treaty of 1758.

found peace, some of the Shawanese, passing through South Carolina
to go to war with their enemies, as their yearly custom is, were per-
suaded in a friendly manner into your houses, deceitfully and unjust-
ifiably dragged to prison, where one, who was a head man, lost his
life, and the others were severely used. This first raised ill-will in
the minds of the Shawanese ; the French aggravated the offense ;
put the hatchet into their hands to revenge the blood of their brother;
they besought the Delawares to join them to make the blow fall the
heavier ; and by degrees the young men among us were stirred up
to vengeance.

" Brethren, this was the case of the Shawanese. Another of the like
nature happened about three years ago to the Senecas, when eight of
their warriors were returning from war, with seven prisoners and
scalps with them, through Virginia ; these, at a place called Green
Briar, met a party of soldiers, not less than one hundred and fifty,
who kindly invited them to a certain store, and said they would sup-
ply them with provisions ; two days they traveled with them in a
friendly manner ; but when they came to the house on the third, they
began to disarm them ; the head man cried out, " Here is death, de-
fend yourselves !" Two of them were killed on the spot, and one, a
boy, was taken prisoner. As this was upon the warriors' road in
time of profound peace, judge ye of the degree of provocation. Bre-
thren, you have justly demanded your prisoners ; it is right so to do ;
and, if this unhappy boy is alive, as we have reason to think he is,
we desire you may return him. If he is dead, we are content. His
name is Squissatago. Six strings of wampum.

" Brethren, the cause why the Indians at Ohio left you was owing
to yourselves ; when we heard of the French coming there, we de-
sired the governors of Virginia and Pennsylvania to supply us with
implements and necessaries for war, and we would defend our lands ;
but these governors disregarded our message; the French came to
us ; traded with our people ; used them kindly ; and gained their
affections. The governor of Virginia settled on our lands for his
own benefit ; but when we wanted his assistance he forsook us.

A belt.

" Brother, [addressing himself to the governor of Jersey] our cousins
the Minisinks tell us, they were wronged of a great deal of land, and
pushed back by the English settUng so fast upon them, so as not to
know whether they have any lands or no. You deal hardly with us ;
you claim all the wild creatures, and will not let us come on your
lands so much as to hunt after them ; you will not let us peel a single
tree. Surely, this is hard. You take of us what lands you please,
and the cattle you raise on them are your own ; but those that are
wild are still ours, and should be common to both ; for our nephews,
when they sold the land, did not propose to deprive themselves of
hunting the wild deer, or using a stick of wood. We desire you, the
governor, to take this matter into your care, and see justice done to
the Minisinks." Tioo strings of wampum.

Addressing himself to the governor of Peimsylvania, he said, "Bro-
ther, we must put you in mind, that four years ago, you bought at
Albany a large tract of land, for a part of which, that was settled, the



Debate continued. 251

proprietaries' agents then paid one thousand pieces of eight. We
acknowledge the receipt of that money, and tiie vaUdity of so much
of the purchase ; but for the other part that was not paid for, that we
reclaim. Our warriors, our hunters, when they heard of this vast
sale, disapproved our conduct in council ; in the deed our hunting
grounds are included, and without them we must perish."

Three strings.

The Six Nation chiefs being asked if they had any thing farther
to say, answered, they had done.

Teedyuscung. " About three years ago, nine of my countrymen
were killed near Goshan in time of peace, for no other reason than
because Ihey were hunting upon that land ; one of their brethren
b-ssures me, that he then went with tears in his eyes to George Free-
land, and presented him with three belts to have the matter cleared
up ; but has never received an answer to this day. I give you this
string to inquire what is become of these belts.

Three strings of white wampum.

" Brethren, I have already acquainted you with my grievances. I
told you that the proprietaries had wronged me, and I referred my
cause to the great king ; now I desire to know if king George has
yet decided that matter between you and me. I do not mention my
uncles' lands; only what we the Deia wares own as far as the heads
of the Delaware." A belt.

Teedyuscung then took up another belt, intending to speak to his
uncles the United Nations ; but whilst he was speaking, as above,
the chiefs had one after another left the council, seemingly much dis-
pleased ; he therefore held his peace.

Thursday, October 19. At a private council, governor Bernard,
after reciting the request of the United Nations to take the case of
the Minisinks under his care, said, that as the people of New Jersey
declared, they had bought all the Minisinks' lands, and the Minisinks
said they had a great deal unsold, he could not tell which was in the
right ; but would suppose the Minisinks ; he therefore desired the
mediation of the United Nations, and left it to them to propose a
reasonable sum by way of satisfaction, of which he desired they
would consider and give an answer. The United Nations said it was
a kind proposal, and recommended it to the consideration of the
Minisinks.

Teedyuscung waited on governor Denny at his house, and ac-
quainted him, that his nation did not claim lands high up the Dela
ware river ; those, he said, belonged to his uncles ; of which he de-
sired the governor to take notice, that no misunderstanding might
arise from what has been said at the public council.

Friday, October 20. Governor Denny desired to know of Teedy-
uscung, if he proposed to speak, as the abrupt departure of the Six
Nations chiefs had interrupted his discourse the day before,

Teedyuscung. " Uncles, according to ancient custom, we used to
speak one to another at home ; but now I must speak to you in the
presence of the English governors. You may remember that you
have placed us at Wyomink and Shamokin, places where Indians
have lived before. Now I hear since, that you have sold that land



252 The Indian Treaty of 1758.

to our brethren the EngUsh ; let this matter be now cleared up. 1
sit like a bird on a bough. I look about and do not know where I
may be driven to. Let me therefore come down upon the ground,
and make that my own by a deed, and I shall have a home for ever;
for if you, my uncles, or I die, our brethren the English will say they
have bought it from you, and so wrong my posterity out of it."

^ belt.

Governor Denny then requested the attention of all the Indians.
Addressing himself to the chiefs and warriors of the United Nations
and their nephews, he repeated distinctly all their complaints in the
order they were delivered. He thanked them for declaring the true
cause of the bitterness of their hearts ; and said he would join with
them in endeavoring to prevent the like evils for the future ; he pro-
mised to make inquiry concerning the Seneca boy, and if alive, to
return him; he assured them, that the proprietaries cheerfully agree
to release all that part of the purchase reclaimed, and desired they
might settle the boundaries to their own satisfaction ; he acknowledg-
ed their justice in promising to return the prisoners. And then ad-
dressing himself to the chiefs of the United Nations, he said, " Prov-
idence has brought you and your nephews together at this meeting,
face to face with us, that every thing may be settled, so as no doubt
may remain to create any uneasiness in our hearts hereafter. You
know, brethren, there is an old agreement between the proprietaries
and you, that you will not sell any of the lands lying within this pro-
vince to any but them, and they never take possession of lands till
they have bought them of Indians ; you know also, that the United
Nations have sold lands to the proprietaries, which your nephews the
Delawares now claim as their right. This is the case with regard to
some part of the lands which Teedyuscung, in your hearing, said the
proprietaries had defrauded him of. The proprietaries are desirous
of doing strict justice to all the Indians ; but it cannot be supposed
they can know in which of you the right is vested. This is a matter
that must be settled among yourselves, and till it is done, there will
probably remain some jealousy and discontent amongst you, that
may interrupt both your and our future quiet." A string.

He concluded with telling them, that stores of all sorts of goods
had been opened at Shamokin, where they might be supplied on the
most reasonable terms, and have the best price for their peltry ; and
that another was intended to be opened for them at Fort Allen.

Ji string.

After the governor had done speaking, Tagashata and Nichas
arose, and said in some heat, they did not rightly understand what
the governor meant by settling matters about lands among them-
selves. He left things in the dark ; if he meant the lands on the
other side of the mountains, he knew the proprietaries had their
deeds for them, which ought to be produced and showed to them.
Their deeds had their marks, and when they should see them, they
would know their marks.

Governor Bernard rose, and said he had something to say to them ;
they replied, they chose to be spoken to by one governor at a time ; and
called for the deed, which being produced, Nichas said, "This deed



Amicable Arrangements. 253

we well remember, we sold the land; the land was ours, and we will
justify it." The conference then broke up.

Teedyiiscung having, on the 19th, requested the governor that two
belts, which he then presented to him, might be sent as their joint
belts to the Ohio Indians, the United Nations had this day a meeting
with Teedyuscung and two of the governors' council, about the an-
swer that was to be sent back to those Indians- wliich being seltled
and approved, the Indian chiefs were asked if the ()liio Indians might
not be desired to take up the hatchet and join general Forbes against
the French. Their answer was : By no means. Their wounds were
not yet healed, nor peace confirmed ; their warriors were not yet
called home; they might kill their own flesh and blood; let it suffice
to advise them to sit still ; and that advice, they said, will be heark-
ened to. They then desired that two white inhabitants might accom-
pany Pisquitomen and Thonjas Hickman, the two messengers, to the
Ohio Indians, and promised themselves to send the like number.
Teedyuscung said he would send one.

Saturday, October 21. At a private conference, governor Bernard
proposed to settle the claims of the Minisinks; and iiaving asked the
advice of the United Nations, Thomas King said, that they the Six
Nations had no claim to those lands, and should therefore leave the
price to themselves. The Minisinks desired to know what the gov-
ernor was willing to give; and he having named the sum of eight
hundred Spanish dollars, as an extraordinary price, the Uiiited Na-
tions, by Thomas King, said that it was an honorable offer; but in
regard that many persons were to share in the purchase money, they
recommended it to his excellency to add two hundred dollars more,
the report of which would be carried to all the nations, and would
be very agreeable to them. The governor, after paying a polite com-
pliment to the chiefs as mediators, cheerfully complied ; and then
Tagashata rose up and said :

" Nephews, now you must remember the friendship between you
and your brethren the English, and transmit it to your children, and
make them acquamted with the transactions of this day. It should
seem that your grandfathers forgot the treaties they used to make
with their brethren, and buried them with them in the grave. Give
over all further thoughts of your lands, and take care that your
young men do no more violence to their brethren the English."

The Egohohowen (the Minisink chief) addressed himself to the
governor, and said . " We are now satisfied, and we still retain a
friendship for the English ; and we desire that if we should come in-
to your province to see our old friends, and should have occasion for
the bark of a tree to cover a cabin, or a little refreshment, that we
should not be denied, but be treated as brethren ; and that your peo-
ple may not look on the wild beasts of the forest, or fish of the water,
as their sole property, but that we may be admitted to an equal use
of them."

The governor answered, that as soon as he got home, he should
notify the peace through all the provinces by proclamation ; but de-
sired the Indians might not go into those parts where they had so
lately committed hostilities, till the passions of the people were cool-

22



254 The Indian Treaty of 1758.

ed ; for that he could not answer for his people's behavior, while
their sufferings were fresh upon their minds.

This day, at a meeting of the United Nations with the Delawares
their nephews, about settling the deed in dispute, the members of the
Pennsylvanian council were invited to be present; when Teedy-
uscung rose up, and said : " We have seen the deed for the lands be-
yond the Kittochtinny hills, and acknowledge its validity ; our chief,
Nutimus, remembers it, and received forty-four dollars for his share
of the purchase money ; but this is not the land that I have disputed
with my brethren the English ; that land lies between Tohiccon creek
and the Kittochtinny hills." ^ string.

Tokaaio and the Six Nations chiefs stood up and said : " Cousin,
I thank you for your openness and honesty, in freely acknowledging
the truth. I wish the governors of Pennsylvania, Virginia, Carolina,
and Jersey, were so honest and precise. They have called us down
to a council fire, to brighten the chain of friendship ; but our time is
taken up in a fruitless dispute about lands, without coming to the
main point. The English first began to do mischief; we told them
so, they only thanked us for our frankness, but they healed no
wounds. In short, when they speak to us, they do it with a shorter
belt and string than that which we speak to them with, though they
can make wampum, and we cannot. They ought not thus to treat
with Indians in council affairs. Several of our strong belts are lost
in their hands. I fear they speak only from tlieir mouth, and not
from their heart."

Sunday, October 22. The Six Nations chiefs held a private council,
and named two of their people to send to the Ohio. Frederic Post
arrived with the news from general Forbes, that a large body of
French and Indians having attacked his advanced post at Loyal Han-
ning, were repulsed with great loss, which loss he communicated to
the Indians.

Monday, October 23. Governor Denny. "Brethren, by this belt
we heal your wounds, we remove your grief, we take the hatchet out
of your heads, we make a deep hole in the earth, and bury the
hatchet so low, that nobody shall be able to dig it up again. Ji belt.

"Brethren, now we have healed your wounds; we, by this belt,
renew all our treaties ; we brighten the chain of friendship; we re-
turn to our first affection ; we confirm our ancient union ; we put
fresh earth to the roots of the tree of peace, that it may bear up
against every storm that can blow, and live and flourish to the end
of time, whilst the sun shines and the rivers run. And we desire
you to publish this to all the nations, your friends and allies.

A large peace belt.

" Brethren, we now open a road to the old council fire at Phila-
delphia, and be assured we shall always be glad to see you there.

A belt.

" Brethren, this treaty will convince all our enemies, that we are
now united in the firmest band of amity, and while we join our
strength together, it will not be in their power to hurt either you or us.

A belt.

" Brethren, as a token of our love, we present you with a quantity



Termination of the Council. 255

of goods,* and desire your acceptance of them ; sensible of the ap-
proaching season, and of the many diflicuUies you Uve under from
the present war, we give it with a hearty good will.

"Brother Teedyuscung, you put me in niind of your having refer-
red your dispute to the great king, and you desired to know if he
has decided it ; you may depend upon ir, that as soon as his answer
can be obtained, it shall be communicated to you." Jl belt.

Then governor Bernard, requesting the attention of the Indians,
acquainted them, that in consequence of their advice, he had come to
a full agreement with the Mini^inks, for all the lands in dispute on
the part of this province, to which he desired they would pay a par-
ticular regard, that the remembrance of it might never be lorgotten.

*/i belt.

Then addressing himself to Teedyuscung, he said : The nine men
killed at Goshan, of which he had justly complained, were not in his
province ; the three belts he would make inquiry about of the gov-
ernor of New York, and would send him an answer. He added,
that the fact had been blamed by all good and wise men. Ji string.

Governor Denny, being obliged to return to Philadelphia, took his
leave, assuring them of his affection, and wishes for their happiness.

Teedyuscung desired to be heard on behalf of the Wappinger In-
dians, living near Esopus, and produced a short belt of white wam-
pum with a double heart, which was given them by the government
of New York, in 1745, representing their union, which, he said, was
to last as long as the sun should continue hi the firmament; he there-
fore recommended them to the protection of governor Bernard ; and
as their chief was old, he requested a horse to carry him home, which
was granted.

The Six Nations chiefs consulted together, and, in a little time,
Nichas, in behalf of the rest, returned answers to the governors'
speeches, repeating distinctly what each of them had said, and ex-
pressing the highest satisfaction.

Tuesday, October 24. The proprietaries' agents settled the limits
of the lands to be released with the Indian chiefs; and the deed of
confirmation, as well as that of release, were respectively executed.

Wednesday, October 25. The Indians were employed all day in
dividing the presents.

Thursday, October 26. The secretary of the conferences having
observed to the Six Nations chiefs, that the governors were charged
by Tokaaio with not corning to the point, by which it w^as under-
stood, that some things had been omitted in' their answers, Thomas
King said, they were afterwards supplied ; but for the fuller satisfac-



• Three groce naiTow starred gartering; 56 ditto, various sorts; 33 looking-glasses; 12
pieces red stroud ; 15 ditto, blue; 1 ditto, black ; 1 red; 1 blue; 2 ditto, 6 quarter blue duffil;
2 ditto, 7-8ths; 1 ditto, napped; 1 ditto, stamped serge; 1 ditto, red half-thicks; 1 brown
half-thicks; 2 ditto, white; 1 ditto, blue broad cloth; 5 laced coats, 8 plain; 50 pair of shoes;
37 pair of women's worsted stockings ; 12 ditto, yam; 2 pieces and 2 Bandanoe handker-
chiefs ; 1 ditto, Lungee romals ; 1 ditto, cotton romals ; 4 ditto, nonso pretties ; 8 lbs. colored
thread ; 46 worsted caps ; 2 dozen of knives ; 1 dozen of tobacco boxes ; 5 pieces of linen
handkerchiefs; 4 ditto, figured gartering ; 46 plain hats; 24 tailors' shears; 6 gun locks; 1
bunch of black leads; 3 and a half groce of sleeve buttons; 48 ivorv combs; 1 groce of
thimbles; 100 blankets; 160 watch coats; 246 shirts, plain; and 187 ditto, ruffled.



256 The Indian Treaty of 1758.

tion of all present, he recommended a farther explanation : agreeable
to which, the members of the Pemisylvania council made the follow-
ing addition to the governor's speech.

" Brethren, as we have now settled all differences, and confirmed
the ancient leagues of amity, and brightened the chain of friendship,
we now clean the blood off your council seats, that when you hold
councils at home, you may sit as you formerly used to do in your
seats with the same peace and tranquillity.

t-^ string of one thousand grains of wampum.

"Brethren, with this string of wampum we condole with you for
the loss of your wise men, and for the warriors that have been killed
these troublesome times, and likewise for your women and children;
and we cover the graves decently, agreeable to the custom of your
forefathers." Jl string as before.

" Brethren, we disperse the dark clouds that hang over your heads,
during these troubles, that we may see the sun clear, and look on
each other with the cheerfulness our forefathers did." The sarrte.

The Five Nations chiefs having laid all the belts and strings on the
table that were delivered at this and the last conference, Tokaio de-
sired all present to hearken to what Thomas King was going to say ;
on which Thomas King arose, and taking up the belt given by Teedy-
uscung, when he requested the grant of the Wyomink lands, he ad-
dressed the Dela wares, Teedyuscung not been present, in this man-
ner. "Cousins, by this belt, Teedyuscung desired us to make you
owners of the lands of Wyomink, Shamokin, and other places on the
Susquehannah river. In answer to which, we who are here at pres-
ent, say that we have no power to convey lands to any one ; but we
will take your request to the great council fire, for their sentiments,
as we never convey or sell any lands, before it be agreed in the great
council of the United Nations. In the mean time you may use those
lands in common with other Indians, in confirmation of which we
give you this." Ji string.

Then taking up each belt and string, he proceeded to repeat what
had been said upon each, approved of all that had passed, and made
particular mention of the large peace belt, which, he said, should be
made known to the nations. Then addressing himself to governor
Bernard, he thanked him for his kind assistance at this treaty, which,

lie said, the United Nations would remember with pleasure.

After a pause, he desired to be excused in mentioning one thing,
which he believed the governors had forgot. "You have" said he,
" forgot to bring with you ammunition, of which we always used to
receive a sutficient quantity, not only to serve us our journey, but to
support us in our hunting season, that we might be enabled to make
provisions for our families. You have given us gun locks, but no
guns ; it is impossible for Indians to subsist without guns, powder,
and lead, of which we have received none."

He then took up the proprietaries' release, and returned thanks for
it. When it was referred to Onas, " The United Nations," he said,
"had no doubt but Onas would grant their request; this act has con-
firmed our good opinion of him."

Having now finished what the nations had commissioned him to



Ji TaOCe of the principal Indian Tribes. 257

say, he cast his eyes round the room, and seeing Mr. Vernon, the
clerk of the stores, he desired, that now council business was over,
the lock nriight be taken off the rum, that it might run freely, and the
hearts of all be made glad at parting.

Some wine and punch was then ordered in, and the conference
concluded with great joy and mutual satisfaction.



A TABLE OF THE PRINCIPAL INDIAN TRIBES.
From Drake's Indian Biography, a loork of great interest and

immense merit.

t/56enGrA;?e5, near Three Rivers, in Canada; in number about 150,
in 1780; in 1689, about 200.

Jibsorokas, or Crow Indians, on the Missouri, near the Rocky
INIountains.

Adirondaks, on the St. Lawrence; numerous in 1607; in 1786,
about 100.

Ajoues,^Q)\\\\\ of the Missouri, and north of the Padoucas; 1100
in 1760.

A7nalistes, formerly on the St. Lawrence; about 500 in 1760.

Apalachicolas, on the river of that name; in 1835, about 340;
have agreed to emigrate ; about 260 have gone west of the Mis-
sissippi.

Arrapahas, now about 4000, about the sources of the Kanzas
river.

Jissinnaboins, now about 1000, on Ottowa river ; reduced by the
Sioux.

Attikamegups, in the north of Canada ; destroyed by disease in 1670.

Aiighqvagas, on the east branch of the Susquehannah river; 150
in 1768.

Bedies, on Trinity river, about 60 miles southward of Nacogdo-
ches; 100.

Big Devil Indians, Yonktons of the Plains, 2500; heads of the
Red river.

Blackfeet, various warlike bands about the sources of the Missouri,
and in the region of the Rocky Mountains; estimated in 1834
at 30,000.

Blanches, or Bearded Indians, white Indians on upper southern
branches Missouri; 1500 in 1760.

Brothertons,\xi New York, near Oneida lake; now (1836) sup-
posed to number 350.

Caddoes, in 1717, a powerful nation on Red river ; now reckoned
at 800.

Caiicas, near the heads of the Arkansas ; neither brave nor gener-
ous.

Camanches, or Comanches, a warlike and numerous race on the
confines of Texas.

[To ho ro"tinund.]
Vol.. T— 2 TI. ^3*



258 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

EARLY INCIDENTS OF BUFFALO— BUFFALO HARBOR.

NUMBER III.

Although the pier had been successfully extended over nine hun-
dred feet, and was believed to be sufficiently strong to resist the force
of the waves, still it was but an experiment. The situation was the
most exposed of any on the lake, and no similar work had been con-
structed. Should the whole, or any considerable part of the work
be destroyed by the gales of wind, or by the ice, the fund remaining
would be insufficient to repair the damage, and extend tlie work to
the requisite distance to make a harbor. Should the experiment on
the pier prove never so successful, a most difficult part of the plan for
forming a harbor was yet to be executed, and the more difficult be-
cause the expense would depend on contingencies which the com-
pany could not control.

Buffalo creek, in 1820, entered the lake about sixty rods north of
its present mouth, running for some distance nearly parallel with the
shore. A new channel had to be made across the point of sand,
which separates the creek from the lake. This point was about
twenty rods wide, and elevated about seven feet above the lake. It
was proposed to remove the sand by scrapers to the level of low wa-
ter, dam the mouth of the creek by brush and stone, and trust to the
action of a spring flood to form a straight channel in a line with, and
near to, the pier. The scraping was commenced in November, by
the voluntary labor of several of the citizens ; but instead of finding
the point composed of fine sand, as had been expected, when a few
feet of the top was removed, a heavy compact body of coarse gravel
and small stones was found, which, if removed by the current of the
creek, instead of being carried into deep water in the lake, would
be deposited to the leeward of the pier, in the very place our channel
must be, and from whence there was neither money nor machinery
to remove it. The scraping was therefore given up, and the subject
of forming a new channel, proving a very serious one, laid over for
further consideration, in the expectation that some plan could be
devised to overcome the seemingly insurmountable difficulty. The
company had the satisfaction to see the fall gales pass away without
doing any damage to the pier, not even removing a single timber,
and it was loaded with so great a body of ice, that no apprehension
was entertained of damage from the breaking up of the lake in the
spring.
Favorable contracts were made during the winter for square timber,



Buffalo Harbor. 259

and ties to complete the pier ; and as it was sufficiently extended to
protect the pile-driving scow, and as the use of this machine would
be important in farther prosecuting the work, it was determined to
finish it. A hammer and gearing however were wanting. These
had been contracted for in Ohio, but, owing to a misunderstanding,
had not being received. The iron gearing could be dispensed with,
and a good substitute for a hammer was found in a United States
mortar, used during the last war, but which had lost one of its trun-
nions. After breaking off the other, two holes were bored through
the end for the staple by which to hoist it. The ends of the staple
projecting into the chamber were bent, and the chamber itself filled
with metal. Similar holes were bored on each side, and two bars of
iron between two and three inches square firmly secured to act as
guides. The hollow part being filled with a hard piece of wood, cut
off even with the end, it proved to be an excellent hammer of about
two thousand pounds weight. The machinery to raise the hammer
was of the cheapest and simplest kind, and worked by a single horse.
Before attempting the farther extension of the pier, it was resolved
to attempt the formation of the new channel. About the 20th of
May, laborers were engaged, and the pile-driver put in operation.
Two rows of piles six feet apart were driven across the creek, in a
line with the right bank of the intended channel, and the space be-
tween these rows of piles was filled with fine brush, straw, damaged
hay, shavings, &c. This material was pressed down by drift logs, which
were hoisted into their places by the use of the pile-driver. On the up-
per side of the work, a body of sand was placed, making a cheap and
tolerably tight dam, by which the creek could be raised about three
feet. Then by breaking the bank at the west end of the dam, a cur-
rent was formed sufficiently strong to remove about fifteen feet of the
adjoining bank to the depth of eight feet. The success of the first
experiment was most gratifying. The dam was extended across the
new made channel, and connected with the bank, with the least pos-
sible delay, and every dam full of water let off removed hundreds of
yards of gravel, and deposited it not only entirely out of the way,
but at the same time filled up the old channel. While this plan was
in successful operation, and when the new channel had been pushed
to within a few feet of the lake, and the strongest hopes were enter-
tained, that by the same process the sand and gravel even under the
shoal water of the lake could be removed, and the channel extended
to the end of the pier, and the harbor rendered immediately avail-
able, the work was arrested by one of the most extraordinary rises
of the lake perhaps ever witnessed. About seven o'clock in the



260 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

morning, the lake being entirely calm, the water suddenly rose, and
by a single swell swept away the logs that secured the materials in
the dam, broke away the dam on the east side, wholly destroyed the
west end which was made of plank, and left the whole a total wreck.

A more discouraging scene can scarcely be imagined. The pile-
driving scow, without which the damage could not be repaired, nar-
rowly escaped destruction. The blind horse which worked the pile-
driver, was thrown from his platform on the scow, and, swimming
in his accustomed circle, came near drowning. All the lumber, tim-
ber, piles prepared for use, with the boats, scows, and every floating
article within the range of the swell, were swept from their places
and driven up the creek.

It was afterwards ascertained that an extraordinary vein of wind
had crossed the lake a few miles above this place, and proceeding
eastward, prostrated the timber in its course, and marked its way
with fearful destruction. This was supposed to have caused the
swell referred to.

NUMBER IV.

After securing the scows, boats and lumber which had been put
afloat, the condition of the dam was examined. About thirty feet
of the east end was entirely gone, and the injury to other parts was
greater than was at first anticipated. Before the examination was
completed, a northeast wind commenced blowing, accompanied by a
heavy rain, and appearances indicated its continuance.

Although a flood had been wished for, to aid in deepening and
widening the new channel, yet the disastrous accident which had just
occurred, destroyed the only means of controling it, and turning it to
account. A freshet then, might open the old channel, or perhaps
enlarge the new one in a wrong direction, and even undermine the
pier. It was therefore resolved to repair the damage if possible.
The pile-driver was put in operation to restore the breach at the east
end of the dam, and the men set to work to collect materials ; but
the rain increasing, and the weather being uncommonly cold, it was
soon discovered that without a large additional force the dam could
not be so far repaired as to resist the flood, which might be expected
within twenty -four hours. The recent disaster and the importance
of immediate help was communicated to the citizens, a large number
of whom, notwithstanding the rain fell in torrents, repaired to the
dam. They were distributed in parties, some getting brush, others
collecting logs, some placing the materials in the dam, while others
aided in working the pile-driver. Their labor was continued during



Buffalo Harbor. 261

the day except a few minutes relaxation for dinner, which consisted
of bread and beer, and was taken standing, in the rain. Without this
help of the citizens, it would have been impossible to make the neces-
sary repairs on the dam ; with it, and by continuing the labor of the
harbor workmen by torch light until late at night, all was done that
human effort could do to prepare for the flood. The men retired to
rest, after having been exposed to the rain, cold and water, for more
than twelve hours. Besides securing the dam, a few piles had been
driven in the lake across the line of the proposed channel in about
five feet water, against which several large sycamore logs were
secured by chains, and loaded with stone. This was done with the
view of protecting the pier, and turning the current, and with it the
sand and gravel, down the lake out of the way of the harbor.

The rain having continued through the night, in the morning the
flood was magnificent. The strong northeast wind which had pre-
vailed for nearly twenty-four hours had lowered the lake two or
three feet, and added much to the effect of the water in forming a
new channel. The barrier erected had produced the desired effect,
the gravel removed out of the new channel was carried down the
lake, and in fact the whole operation was so favorable, that it seem-
ed as though Providence had directed this flood in aid of the great
work of forming a harbor.

The breaking up of the dam had disheartened the men, and their
extraordinary efforts to repair the damage had exhausted them ; but
a day's rest, and witnessing the triumphant success of the plan for
opening a channel, restored them to cheerfulness. The doubts and
fears that were entertained of ultimate success in making a harbor,
were dissipated. When the freshet had subsided, it was found that
the average width of the new channel was about ninety feet at the
bottom, and for the first twelve rods it was as deep as the creek, and
no where less than five feet, furnishing a straight channel. The
quantity of sand and gravel that had been removed by the agency
of the water in twenty-four days, was nearly or quite twenty thou-
sand yards, to remove which by artificial means would have required
a greater amount of money than all the harbor fund.

From this time, small vessels could enter and depart from Buffalo
harbor without interruption, and the entry of two or three small ves-
sels in a day, excited more interest then, than the arrival of a hun-
dred large vessels and boats would now.

Much yet remained to be done. The lines of piles in extension
of the dam were continued, and filled up with brush and stone,
intended to form a permanent margin for the north bank of Buffalo



262 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

creek. This work was extended forty-six rods from the east bank
of the creek, the dam was strengthened, the number of men increas-
ed, and preparations made for recommencing the pier. On a careful
examination and measurement of the water, it was found that the
pier, if extended in the direction of that already built, would require
to be carried out much farther than had been anticipated. The cal-
culation of the company as to the length of the pier, had been pre-
dicated on the survey of Mr. Peacock, and the fact was not known
to them, that the water had fallen after the time that survey was
made. This discovery was the more embarassing, as the company
had become satisfied that they would be unable, with the fund pro-
vided, to complete the pier, even to the extent at first contemplated,
and it had been resolved to apply to the citizens for aid, which was
subsequently done. Scrip was issued, entitling the bearer to a pro
rata mterest in the harbor. Over a thousand dollars of this scrip was
disposed of, for a small part of which, cash was received, but the
greater part v/as received in goods, &c. However small this sum
may appear at this day, it was then deemed very liberal, and it gave
judge Townsend, who negociated this matter, no little trouble to raise
even that amount.

For the sums thus advanced, no consideration was ever received
by the holders of the scrip, and perhaps some of them, to whom no
explanation has been made, may have felt themselves aggrieved.
For the satisfaction of such, it may be well here to state how this
business was closed. The act of the legislature creating the Buffalo
Harbor Company, and making the loan, provided that if the legisla-
ture did not accept the harbor, it should be, and remain, the property
of the company, and that the canal commissioners should settle the
rate of tolls to be paid by all boats and vessels entering it. The issue
of the scrip was predicated on this provision ; and it was believed
that if the state accepted the harbor, they would willingly pay the
extra cost of its construction, over and above the loan of the twelve
thousand dollars, (which was to be cancelled.) This no doubt would
have been done but for the provision of a law passed in the spring
of 1822, entitled "An act for encouraging the construction of harbors
at Buffalo and Black Rock." This act provided to pay the two har-
bor companies, Buffalo and Black Rock, each twelve thousand dol-
lars on completing their harbors, thus limiting the sum to the amount
already loaned to the Buffalo Harbor Company, and cutting off all
hope of remuneration from the state, for any amount that might be
expended beyond that sum.

The object to be attained by this singular law, is connected with



Case of Signal Barbarity. 263

the history of another subject, which may yet be given to the public,
and which will disclose the reason, why the canal commissioners
declined to accept the harbor for the state. The company could not
retain the harbor as private property, and impose tolls on vessels
entering it, without driving the business to a rival port. Application
was therefore made in the spring of 1825 to the legislature, which
passed a resolution to cancel the bonds and mortgages given to secure
the loan, but refused to allow the claim for the additional sum expend-
ed; which sum included not only the money received for the scrip,
but several hundred dollars advanced by Townsend, Forward and
Wilkeson, beside contributions by other individuals.



A CASE OF SIGNAL BARBARITY.

It is related by Black Hawk, in his life, that some time before
the war of 1812, one of the Indians had killed a Frenchman at Prai-
rie des Chiens. " The British soon after took him prisoner, and said
they would shoot him next day ! His family were encamped a short
distance below the mouth of the Ouisconsin. He begged permission
to go and see them that night, as he was to die the next day ! They
permitted him to go, after promising to return the next morning by
sunrise. He visited his family, which consisted of a wife and six
children. I cannot describe their meeting and parting, to be under-
stood by the whites ; as it appears that their feelings are acted upon
by certain rules laid down by their preachers / — Whilst ours are gov-
erned only by the monitor within us. He parted from his wife and
children, hurried through the prairie to the fort, and arrived in time !
The soldiers were ready, and immediately marched out and shot him
downlV^ — If this were not cold-blooded, deliberate murder, on the
part of the whites, I have no conception of what constitutes that
crime. What were the circumstances of the murder we are not in-
formed ; but whatever they may have been, they cannot excuse a
still greater barbarity. I would not by any means be understood to
advocate the cause of a murderer ; but I would ask, whether crime
is to be prevented hy crime : murder for murder is only a brutal re-
taliation, except where the safety of a community requires the sacri-
fice. — Drake.



Self Esteem. — A white man, meeting an Indian, accosted him as
brother. The red man, with a great expression of meaning in his
countenance, inquired how they came to be brothers ; the white man
replied, 0, by way of Adam, I suppose. The Indian added, « Me
thank him Great Spirit toe no nearer brothersJ"



264 American Chronology.



AMERICAN CHRONOLOGY.

1607. Fort George settled.

1608. Fort George abandoned.

De Mont's monopoly of the fur trade revoked.

Smith taken prisoner by the Indians, and saved by Pocahon-
tas, the daughter of Powhatan — she was ten or twelve
years old.

Champlain settles at Quebec, which was the first permanent
settlement of Lower Canada.

1609. Smith explores the Chesapeake bay ; is disabled by an explo-

sion of gmipowder, and returns home, leaving Piercy in
his place.
Champlain, at the head of the Huron Indians from Montreal,
and Algonquins from Quebec, invades the Iroquois or Five
Nations in the north of New York.

1610. Great distress, famine, pestilence and death in the colony.

Sir Thomas Gates arrived, and from the urgency of the colo-
nists concluded to abandon Jamestown, which was done
one day when they met the long boats of lord Delaware,
and returned. He brought supplies, and June 10, restored
the colony.

1611. The health of lord Delaware failed, and sir Thomas Dale sent

to take charge of the colony.
De Bruncourt and Father Biart, explored the coast as far as
the Kenebeck, and ascended that river. Father Biart intro-
duced the Christian religion to the natives, and they made
the Indian tribes between the Kenebeck and Penobscot, the
allies of France, and thus placed them in a hostile attitude
to the encroachments of the English.

1613. Fort on mount Derest island, at the mouth of the Penobscot,

built, and thus the French take possession of Maine.
John Rolf married to Pocahontas.
Samuel Argall asserts the right of England to Maine.

1614. Smith explored New England.

The Dutch settle New York. The country they called New
Netherlands, and the city New Amsterdam.

Gates went to England, and left sir Thomas Dale in command
of the colony in Virginia.

1615. Tobacco first cultivated by the colony in Virginia.
Champlain's second expedition against the Iroquois — is wound-
ed, repulsed, and left destitute.



Comic. — An Indian having been found frozen to death, an inquest
of his countrymen was convened to determine by what means he
came to such a death. Their verdict was, " Death from the freezing
of a great quantity of water inside of him, which they were of opin-
ion he had drunken for rum."



AME RICAN PION EER.

Pecoteb to tl)e ^rwtl) anb Justice of t^istorji.
VOL. I. AUGUST, 1842. NO, VIII.



MIAMI UNIVERSITY.

[8ee Frontispiece]

It cannot fail to interest the lover of American prosperity to trace the
rise and progress of the means of education, not only in the West, but in the
•whole Union. It would be a delightful task for us to be enabled to do for
other institutions of learning what Mr. Naylor has enabled us to do for the
Miami University.

Oxford, Ohio, April 26, 1S12.

Mr. Editor, — In compliance with a recent request, you have
promptly furnished me with the numbers of the "American Pioneer,"
the perusal of which I find to be both entertaining and instructive.
I am much pleased with the plan and object of the Pioneer. Such a
periodical was greatly needed, and I sincerely hope that you will be
amply rewarded for your pains and labor, by receiving a liberal
patronage, such as your valuable periodical deserves. And if we
love our country; if we know the value of liberty, and remember
what it cost ; if we feel any sentiments of gratitude to, and wish to
cherish and perpetuate the memory of our patriot fathers, to whom
we are so much indebted for both civil and religious liberty, surely
we will be willing to contribute our mite to sustain and promote so
praise-worthy an object. As you propose collecting and publishing
facts relative to the state and progress of literature in the West, as
well as other subjects, I thought perhaps a few historical facts would
be acceptable to the readers of the " Pioneer," relative to the origin
and rapid progress of

MIAMI UNIVERSITY,
located at Oxford, Butler county, Ohio. For most of the following
facts, I acknowledge my obligations to Charles Anderson, Esq., of
Dayton, Ohio.

The first thing which attracts the attention of one reviewing the
history of this institution, is that the original design of those who
gave life to this university, was part of a great national scheme for
the settlement and civilization of the great North Western Territory.
Although many of our fathers enjoyed but little education, yet they

267



268 Miami University.

knew its value ; they knew, and acted upon the principle, that "learn-
ing is power," and that an intelligent and virtuous people will not
lose their Uberties: neither can an ignorant and degraded people
preserve them. Therefore we need not think it strange, that the first
emigrants to these western wilds should desire to make provision for
the moral and intellectual culture of their posterity, and that they
considered this object worthy of the nation's liberality. It is to the
benevolence and beneficence of those philanthropic "pioneers," who
first opened these dense forests to the light of the sun, that we are in-
debted for the radiations of literature, science and religion which we,
their children, enjoy.

As early as 1787, the congress of the confederation passed an or-
der to secure to the uses of learning, certain portions of the public
lands.

In the same year, John Cleves Symmes petitioned congress to sell
to him and his associates, all the land between the two Miamies, from
the Ohio river northward, to a specified line. After some altercations
in September, 1794, president Washington, by the authority of a
previous act of congress, conveyed to Symmes and Co., by patent, so
much land, as, by the fixed bounds before mentioned, and by such a
north line, as, within them, would contain three hundred and eleven
thousand six hundred and eighty -two acres of land at sixty-six cents
per acre. In this patent, the president stipulated that one entire
township of land, to be located, with the consent of the governor of
the North West Territory, as near as might be to the centre of the
tract conveyed to Symmes and Co., should be held in trust, for the
exclusive purpose of erecting and establishing therein an academy,
and other public seminaries of learning.

But from too long neglect on the part of the settlers, or from some
other cause, the township could not be obtained within said purchase,
for the above named purposes ; whereupon, the territorial legislature
passed a resolution, September 16, 1799, instructing general William
Henry Harrison, then the delegate to congress for the North West
Territory, to endeavor to procure from congress other lands, in lieu
of those sold by Symmes. This effort proved unsuccessful. A simi-
lar application was again made by the convention which formed the
state constitution, through their agent, general T. Worthington, to
which congress favorably responded. Another township was granted,
to be selected from any of the unsold lands in the state of Ohio,
within the district of Cincinnati, to be subject to a reversion to the
United States, provided that within five years from the passage of
the act, a township should have been secured, situated as originally



University established, 1809. 2C9

contemplated, within tlie bounds of the purchase of Symmes, which
was never accompHshed. Whereupon, tlie Ohio legislature, on April
15, 1803, appointed Jeremiah Morrow, Jacob White and William
Ludlow commissioners to locate the township. On the 1st Septem-
ber, 1803, these gentlemen selected and entered those lands now held
by the institution, containing twenty-three thousand three hundred
and twenty-one acres.

On the 17th of February, 1809, the legislature of Ohio formally
established the Miami University, by a charter which created the
offices of the trustees and of the faculty, appointed the former, de-
fines their duties and regulates the government of the lands, funds,
and of the institution itself. These preliminaries being settled, some
difficulty arose with regard to the location of the college, some want-
ing it near, others, at some distance from the college lands.

But this matter was soon settled, by the interposition of the legis-
lature, which directed the trustees to lay out a town, and to locate the
site within the university lands. The trustees met accordingly at
Hamilton, in March, 1810; passed an ordinance regulating the leas-
ing of the lands, and made the location where the university now
stands, one of the most eligible, beautiful and salubrious points with-
in the district or country. Such are the principal facts relative to the
early history of the institution. The lands and lots were leased by
January 20, 1820, at six per cent, on minimum prices, varying from
two dollars and fifty cents to eight dollars per acre; all since reduced
to three dollars per acre.

The quit-rents amount to five thousand and two dollars and four
cents, or to six per cent, on a principal of eighty-four thousand dollars.

In 1811 and 1812, one hundred and sixty dollars were appropria-
ted for the purpose of erecting a large school house on the college
square. In 1812 two acres were cleared at an expense of twenty-
five dollars, for a site for the university. Another story was after-
wards added to the school house, and it was fitted up for a mansion
for the president, at a cost of one thousand two hundred dollars. On
the 21st of October, 1817, a committee was appointed to prepare ma-
terials for building a wing to the college, forty by fifty-six feet. This
is now "Franklin Hall," — it was completed in 1818, at a cost of six
thousand one hundred and sixty-seven dollars.

Centre building, eighty-six by sixty feet, was begun in 1820 and
completed in 1823, at a cost of twenty-three thousand dollars.

Clinton and Washington halls, commenced in 1828, were finished
in 1829, one hundred by forty feet, at a cost of eight thousand five
hundred dollars. The southeast hall, commenced in 1834, one hun-

23*



270 Miami University.

dred by forty feet, was completed in 1835, at a cost of nine thousand
five hundred dollars. The trustees bought a house for the president
at one thousand five hundred dollars.

In 1838 a laboratory, forty by twenty-four feet, was built, for fif-
teen hundred dollars ; making the building expenses in all, not far
from fifty-two thousand dollars.

In October, 1817, fifteen hundred dollars were appropriated for one
or more professors of languages and mathematics, to commence their
duties on the first of May, 1818.

The tuition fee was established at five dollars the session, including
room rent, fuel, &c.

In April, 1818, the tuition fee was raised to ten dollars, and the
salary of a tutor to a grammar school so altered, that he was to have
one half the tuition fees, five hundred dollars out of the treasury, and a
dwelling house rent free. In June, 1818, the Rev. James Hughes was
appointed ttitor of the grammar school, which he accepted, and en-
tered upon his duties in November of the same year ; and alternate
vacations of three weeks each, were established for April and Octo-
ber, every year. In April, 1821, Mr. Hughes resigned his seat, and
the institution stopped business for a time. In July, 1824, the board
proceeded to organize the faculty, and to appoint other professors.
The Rev. R. H. Bishop, D. D., (vice president and professor of natur-
al philosophy in Transylvania University,) was elected president,
with a salary of one thousand dollars, and William Sparrow, teacher
of languages, with a salary of five hundred dollars. In September,

1824, John E. Annan of Baltimore, was elected professor of mathe-
matics and natural philosophy, with a salary of seven hundred dol-
lars. The college was regularly opened for the reception of stu-
dents, on the 15th of November, 1824. On the 30th of March,

1825, the president (Dr. Bishop) was inaugurated in the presence of
a large and much interested audience.

William Sparrow was then elected professor of languages; and in
March, 1826, he having resigned his seat, William H. M'Guffey, of
Washington college. Pa., was chosen to supply his place, with a sal-
ary of six hundred dollars. In September, 1825, the grammar school
was established ; J. P. Williston was appointed principal, at a salary
of five hundred dollars. He was succeeded by J. P. Vandyke and
J. S. Weaver. In March, 1829, W. F. Ferguson was elected to the
ofiice. W. W. Robertson followed him, and he was since succeeded
by R. H. Bishop, Jr., A. M., who still occupies that station.

In September, 1828, the chair of professor Annan became vacant,
which was filled in March following, by the election of J, W. Scott,



Offices of the Institution. 271

A. M., of Washington college, Pa. In September, 1832, owing to
the increasing number of students, and consequently the increased
amount of labor required on the part of the teachers, it was deemed
expedient to create two new professorships. Accordingly J. W. Scott
was promoted to the chair of natural philosophy and chemistry, and
W. H. M'Guffey to that of philology and mental science, each with a
salary of eight hundred and fifty dollars, and S. W. McCracken and
Thomas Armstrong, (deceased) both graduates of the institution,
were elected to the professorships of languages and mathematics.

After the death of professor Armstrong in 1835, A. T. Bledsoe, of
Kenyon college, was elected in his place. In 1836, professors
M'Guffey and Bledsoe resigned their seats, and in 1837 they were
again filled by the election of Rev. John Mc Arthur, A. INI., of Cadiz,
Ohio, as professor of Greek and Rhetoric, and Chauncy N. Olds as
professor of Latin and Hebrew. In August, 1840, Dr. Bishop, the
venerable and much loved president, signified his willingness to retire
from the presidency.

His resignation was accepted, and a new professorship of history
and political science was created, to which Dr. Bishop was elected,
with a salary of six hundred and fifty dollars, and a house, rent free.
I. C. Young, D. D., president of Centre college, Ky., was elected as
the successor of Dr. Bishop, and upon his not accepting the appoint-
ment, the Rev. George Junkin, D. D., president of Lafayette college,
Pa., was elected to the presidency of Miami University, which he
accepted. He entered upon the duties of his ofiice on the 12th of
April, 1841, and on the 11th of August following he was inaugurated
in the presence of a large assembly. In 1841, professors McCracken
and Olds resigned their seats, which were again filled by the election
of John Armstrong, A. M. and J. C. Moffat in their stead. The
faculty is now full and stands as follows, viz : George Junkin, D. D.,
president, and professor of mental and moral philosophy, political
economy and evidences of Christianity ; R. H. Bishop, D. D., pro-
fessor of history and political science ; J. W. Scott, A. M., professor
of natural philosophy, astronomy and chemistry ; John M'Arthur, A.
M., professor of Grecian literature and rhetoric ; John Armstrong, A.
M., professor of mathematics and civil engineering ; J. C. Moffat, A.
M., professor of Roman literature ; R. H. Bishop, Jr., A. M., master
of the preparatory department.

The literary societies are of great value to the institution. They
are three in number.

The Erodelphian Society was organized November 9, 1825.
The Union Literary Society, December 14, 1835. The :Miami Hall,



272



Miami University.



May 22, 1833. The libraries and furniture of the first two societies
are estimated at more than five thousand dollars each.

The libraries connected with the institution, together, contains more
than seven thousand volumes.



That of the college contains about
" Erodelphian Society

" Union Literary Society

« Miami Hall -

" Missionary Society

Total



3,000

- 1,500
1,700

- 1,100

400

7,700



These are well-selected and valuable books, in every department
of useful knowledge.

The following table contains a synopsis of the number of students
and graduates in each year since the institution was organized.



Classes.


Years.


Whole No. of Students.


AUun


1st.


1824


20




2nd.


1825


95




3rd.


1826


119


12


4th.


1827


144


9


5th.


1828


152


11


6th.


1829


129


10


7th.


1830


153


10


8th.


1831


192


17


9th.


1832


163


12


10th.


1833


228


22


11th.


1834


238


22


12th.


1835


207


27


13th.


1836


186


22


14th.


1837


167


28


15th.


1838


227


21


16th.


1839


250


32


17th.


1840


196


25


18th.


1841


164


28


Total in 18 years,




3030


308



This shows, that during the eighteen years which have elapsed
since the university has been in operation, an average number of one
hundred and sixty-eight students have been in regular attendance.

Men who have been educated at this institution, are now in all
parts of the United States, in every department of society, and
pursuing every laudable calling. More than sixty of her allumni
are now engaged in the practice of the law ; and more than eighty
are successfully employed as watchmen upon the walls of Zion.
The influence of Miami University has already been extensively felt
for good in the South and West ; and who can tell the amount of
good that may yet result from it, to the favored inhabitants of this



Jintcdotes of Jesse Hughs, etc. 273

beautiful and fruitful valley. May she continue to prosper ; and may
similar institutions be multiplied in our land, until our nation shall be
distinguished among the nations of the earth, not only for freedom of
thought and action, but also for universal intelUgence and sound
morality.




»*A/<#^^*S/VV»~



[Communicated for the American Pioneer.]

ANECDOTES OF JESSE HUGHS, PIONEER CUSTOMS, ETC.

At a time when the Indians were still occasionally committing
depredations on the settlements in the neighborhood of Clarksburg, in
Virginia, Hughs and one of his neighbors having business on the
Ohio, agreed to go together ; and, as the saying is, to kill two birds
with one stone, they concluded to make a hunting expedition of it.
Hughs was bred up an Indian fighter. There was perhaps no man
that better understood the Indian character, or their sagacity in war-
fare ; neither was there any man less fearless in danger, yet no one
was more cautious or knew better how to avoid exposure. He pro-
posed to his companion to take a different route from any that the In-
dians had been in the habit of traveling. This his friend thought
rather an unnecessary precaution, as there were no Indians then
known or suspected to be on the southeast side of the Ohio river; but
yielding to the better judgment of Hughs, they set out by a new
route, traveled slowly and killed what game they could, leaving their
skins to take home with them on their return. On the second or third
evening after leaving home, they struck up their camp in thue to
prepare and eat their supper before nightfall.

Here I will make a small digression by giving a short description
of camping in the woods in those days, as well as a description of
the costume or dress worn by most of the male pioneers. A place
for a camp was selected as near water as convenient. A fire was
kindled by the side of the largest suitable log that could be procured.
The ground was preferred to be somewhat side-lying, so that they
might lie with the feet to the fire and the head up hill. The com-
mon mode of preparing a repast, was by sharpening a stick at both
ends and sticking one end in the ground before the fire and their
meat on the other end. This stick could be turned round, or the meat
on it, as occasion required. Sweeter roast meat than such as is pre-
pared in this manner no epicure of Europe ever tasted. Bread, when
Vol. 1—2 K



274 Anecdotes of Jesse Hughs, etc.

they had flour to make it of, was either baked under the ashes or the
dough rolled in long rolls and wound round a stick like that prepared
for roasting meat, and managed in the same way. Scarce any one
who has not tried it, can imagine the sweetness and gusto of such a
meal, in such a place, at such a time. French mustard, or their thou-
sand and one contrivances (condiments) to make victuals go down
without an appetite, are all nothing to this.

The pioneer's dress consisted principally of a tow linen shirt and
pantaloons, manufactured by their wives, daughters and female
friends. The remainder was nearly all of buckskin, killed with their
guns and dressed by their own hands. Their moccasins fitted the
foot neatly, and dry oak leaves mostly supplied the place of socks or
stockings. Above these a pair of buckskin leggins, or gaiters, made
to fit the leg and tie in at the ankle with the moccasins. These
extended some distance above the knees, and a strap from the upper
part extending up and buttoning to the hip of the pantaloons. These
leggins were a defence against rattlesnakes, briars, nettles, &c. In
cutting these leggins, or gaiters, there was a surplus left on the out-
side, at the outer seam. This surplus was left from one to two
inches in width, which, after the seam was sewed, was cut into an
ornamental fringe. The hmiting shirt comes next. It too was made
of dressed buckskin, and in the same way ornamented with the fringe
down the outside of the arms, around the collar, cape, belt and tail,
and sometimes down the seams under the arms, or even other parts ; for
from the hunter in the woods to the belle in the city, fashions reign
and rule the human mind more than we are sometimes willing to
own ; and as we see in palaces, so in the woods these ornaments on
the buckskin hunting shirts were carried to excess by those among
the pioneers whose tastes were less refined.

Habited in this manner, the pioneers, or frontier settlers as they
were called, thought themselves quite sufficiently equipped to attend
church, go to a wedding, quilting, or visit their sweethearts, and even to
get married : and under such circumstances, a new hunting shirt, leg-
gins and moccasins had the same charms to draw forth the loving
looks and the sweet smiles of the lassies then, as the long tailed blues,
the dandy dress, or the glittering uniform now ; and they were not a
whit the less appreciated by the laddies, coming from rosy lassies in
linsey wolsey, or perhaps partly in buckskin, than they are now after
they have passed lines of silks, laces and artificials. Men who have
been reared in this manner, and the mothers of whose children were
wooed and wedded in this way, I have known afterwards to occupy
some of the highest stations in the gift of their fellow citizens.



Jin Attack by the Indians. 275

Such was the equipment of the hero of our narrative and his
friend. As was customary, they took off their moccasins to dry.
The gaiters and hunting sliirt was usually taken off and placed under
the head of the owner to supply the place of a pillow. A huntsman
without a dog would have been considered an anomaly. Such an
one, faithful and well trained, liughs and his friend had with them.
At dusk they began to make some preparations for laying down by
unbuttoning the leggins at the hips and loosing their belts. Hughs dis-
I covered his dog was not satisfied, and that he became very restless. He
would advance a few steps in a certain direction, snuff and scent the
air, and frequently give a low stifled growl. This excited Hughs*
suspicion, which made him decline undressing any further, and to
buckle up his belt again ; but unfortunately, as it might seem from
the sequel, he forgot to button the straps of his leggins to the hips of
his pantaloons. After watching his dog for some time, he named it
to his friend, and said he was fearful there were Indians about. His
friend thought it hardly possible, for they had discovered no Indian
signs, nor heard the crack of any rifle but their own. He thought
they could not be discovered. This reasoning did not dispel Hughs'
doubts. The dog's uneasiness increased. Hughs told his friend that
they had better leave the camp a small distance and watch it ; that if
there were Indians, as he really expected, they would break on the
camp as soon as they supposed they had got asleep, or at day-break
in the morning; by watching the camp at a small distance, they
would have an opportunity to kill two Indians at least, and then of
making their escape if necessary. Nothing could induce his friend to
believe that there was any danger, and he refused to leave the camp.
Hughs then told him that he would not leave him alone, but they
must sleep on their arms and be ready for any emergency that might
happen. To this his friend agreed. Hughs and his dog had a poor
night's rest ; and as soon as day began fairly to break, the dog
broke out into a furious bark. They both sprang to their feet at the
same instant that a volley of rifle shots was poured in upon them.
Hughs friend fell dead on the spot, but himself received no injury ex-
cept a bullet hole or two through his hunting shirt. He took to his
heels with a whole posse of Indians close after him, happily for him,
with empty gnus. At first he out-ran them with ease, but his loos-
ened leggins slipped down about his ancles and at length got over his
feet and hampered him so nuich, that the Indians began to gain fast
on him. He found he must get clear of his leggins or lose his scalp.
This he was not quite ready for, and straining every nerve, he as-
cended a ridge and a little over the top he stopped, and alternately



276 Political Contest of 1799.

setting his feet on his leggins tore them off. By this time the Indians
had got nearly within tomahawk distance of him. Relieved of this
embarrassment, he again set off at the top of his speed and soon
gained a safe distance. In passing over the top of the next high
ridge he gave a loud shout of triumph, well understood by the In-
dians, who gave up the chase, and let him make for home at his
leisure.

Thus terminated this unfortunate trip. Hughs providentially es-
caped with his life and the loss of his friend. This might not only
have been prevented but turned to the advantage of the whites, had
Hughs been able to prevail on his less experienced and more unfortu-
nate friend to leave the camp, from his apprehensions of danger.

Indian Creek Farm, near Chillicothe, June 4, 1842.






c/LCt^O^



•**#«r^^^>^^>^^^^^Vs^***—



POLITICAL CONTEST OF 1799.

It agrees with the intentions of the American Pioneer to bring forward
sketches of early history ; but when pieces of that sort are introduced, which
seem to have little or no use, an apology for the act is not inappropriate ; and
when the piece, like that which follows, may be viewed as having an evil in-
fluence, some introductory sentiments become almost indispensably necessary.

To love and support our political institutions as a patriotic people ought,
we must have confidence that they are based upon the true principles of gov-
ernment, so far at least as to be capable, under all common occurrences, of
being so improved and adjusted as will ensure their permanency. We have
but to pay attention to the common political parlance of Americans, to be
convinced that there is no lack of the love of a republican form of govern-
ment, and that there is a want of confidence in the permanency of our insti-
tutions. This lack of confidence has a deleterious effect upon our actions,
for without confidence men lose their energies, and fall a prey to any power
capable of operating upon them. The introduction of the following piece is
intended to show that the gross irregularities which are at this day so frequent
in political contests, whether in bar-rooms or in the halls of congress, although
reprehensible in the actors, are but a repetition of former scenes, and by no
means indicative that our political institutions want sufficient basis to ensure
permanency. History informs us that since the struggle of 1799-1800, there
presided a no-party-president, (James Monroe) and that in 1820, such politi-
cal apathy existed, that in many places no presidential election Avas held. In
short, that president at his second election scarcely received votes enough to
elect a constable. The government in 1799 and 1800, was like the earth at



Permanency of our hepublic. 277

the perihellum of her orbit. In its periheliutn its motion is more rapid, and
seemingly in more danger of falling upon the sim. In 1820, she was in her
alphelium, her motion slow, and the danger of going off into regions of
eternal cold and darkness was equally great. Since that she has again ap-
proached or passed her perihelium. So far these periods seem to be about
twenty years.

Descartes has demonstrated that the permanency of the planetary system
depends upon the irregularity of all planetary motion, lie has shown us
that were the motions of the carlli and planets in their orbits perfectly regular,
all would inevitably perish. Lest some of our readers may not see the force
of this, we will indulge a moment in explanation. Any one may conceive
that a perfect balance of opposite forces is equal to no force. For instance,
suppose a planet equal in size and weight to our earth, to be suspended be-
tween two suns, so that the attraction of one shall be exactly equal to the at-
traction of the other, it is easy to see that it would remain at rest, but that
the force of a child's hand applied to one side or the other, would cause its
destruction, by addition to the force of one, and subtraction from the other ;
and the effect would be its destruction hy falling on that sun toward whi'^'i
the child impelled it. But if that planet so balanced had but a vibratory mo-
tion, say of one tenth of an inch only, and power to maintain it, the for'-i
necessary to produce that vibration would be, say equal to the power of
ten thousand children. In this case, 9,999 cliildren all pushing one way,
would not be sufficient to throw it out of its vibratory plane. But to make it
more familiar, suppose a boat or vessel of any magnitude in perfectly still
water; see what little force will move it! Suppose it to be perfectly balanced
between two currents as we sometimes see pieces of drift wood, a child might
push it in favor of one current or other, down a cataract to its total destruc-
tion; but if that vessel has but a vibratory motion creating an amount of
force equal to ten men, nine could not produce its destruction.

We will familiarize a litde further: suppose a boy's spinning-top or a danc-
ing-button on a lady's work stand, had a perfectly regular motion, it is easy
to see tliat there would be a perfect balance of power on all sides, and there
would be no more power applied to keep it erect, than tliere is in one perfect-
ly still. It is impossible to produce a perfectly regular motion, and the irre-
gularity of the motion causes the force applied to turn it, to be exerted in
favor of keeping it erect, for it is always falling, which the whirling force acts
against. Were it possible to remove all the resistance of the atmosphere and
friction at the pivot, the top or button would revolve forever without the least
danger of upsetting; and it is only when the propelling force is so diminish-
ed by resistance, that the irregularity exceeds the remainder, that the top or
button will completely fall. Just so in the motion of the earth. The forc^
which would be necessary to make the earth vibrate (without orbicular mo-
tion,) equal to the distance from the perihelium to the aphelium, is exacUy
the amount necessary to produce those results with orbicular motion. This

24



278 Political Contest of \199.

is incomparably less than the amount of force which causes the orbicular
motion, and until the vibrating force shall equal the projectile force, there i&
no danger of the earth leaving her orbit by means of the vibratory motion
which causes the perihelia and aphelia. This vibratory force is also incom-
parably greater than all the disturbing forces applied by other planets, comets,
&c., for their tendency to disturb is irregular and tends to balance itself.
Hence they can never produce destruction. Take away the earth's projectile
force, and the vibratory force would destroy it. Take this away, and the dis-
turbance of planets, comets, &c. would destroy it. The projectile force,
great as it is, has not of itself the least power to counteract the smallest
disturbance from another planet or comet, which, small as it might be, by pro-
ducing a regular enlargement or diminution of the earth's orbit, would end
disastrously ; but the vibratory force being millions times greater than the dis-
turbing force, no danger ensues. It is plain to see that a perfectly regular circu-
lar motion would be by the smallest impulse changed to a spiral motion,
either enlarging or contracting, but an elliptical motion could not be changed
to a spiral motion without power sufficient to make a circle of, it be first applied.

Republicanism or the love of our institutions is the projectile force, party-
ism or love of party is the vibratory motion, and the influence of other in-
stitutions upon us is the disturbance of other planets. Take away republic-
anism, and partyism would destroy us. Take away partyism, and the regular
influence of other institutions would in time so change our views, and dimin-
ish or enlarge our republican feeling, that we would fall upon thesun in. con-
solidation, or go out into the unknown regions of perfect agrarianism.

The following piece extracted from a valuable work purcliased by the editor
of the Pioneer from the library of Thomas Jefferson, is a beautiful and his-
torical illustration of these principles. In that debate, or rather quarrel, where-
in the real states of the parties are shown without reserve, the love of our in-
stitutions, love of party and foreign influence are shown conspicuously to be
subject, the less to the greater and better, in such immense differences as to
insure the safety of republican principles embraced in our blessed form of
government. Who cannot see that love of our own government reigned
triumphantly in the breasts of both disputants, and that the love of party,
(easily mistaken for love of country, as the earth's orbit might be mistaken
by superficial observers for a circle,) condemned and destroyed foreign influence
in each other. All our political quarrels are seen by an attentive observer to
be of this sort, and to contain preserving principles in good proportion.

THE SPIRIT OF POLITICAL CONVERSATION.

^ JJ'ritten i/i 1799.

I WENT hitely into tlie company of two persons, whom I will call
Tom and Harry, talking very loudly upon politics. The debate, as
usual, had proceeded from argument to sarcasm, and from raillery to
railing, and went on somewhat in this style :



The Sjnrit of Political Conversation. 279

Tom. Yes, your party aims at nothing but to overthrow the present
govennnent.

Harry. The very purpose of tlie villanous faction whom we fight
against.

T. To throw us all into anarchy, and deUver us over to a Robes-
pierrian usnrpation.

H. And who's to biame, if tliat falls out, merely from our struggles
to prevent you from establishing a titled and hereditary despotism,
well known to be the dearest wish of your hearts, and the end of all
yonr labors ?

T. For that you wish to cement us, by alliances and treaties of
fraternity, with the horrid and inexorable French.

IL The only expedient we have left to elude the efiects of yoxir
unnatural and traitorous devotion to Britain.

T. But no wonder you act as traitors to your country, and as tools
and sycophants of France. Power is the bribe lield forth to you ;
and, to reign is worth your ambition, though as slaves and puppets
oi a foreign power.

//. Whereas you more wisely content yourself with money, and
will barter the freedom of your country for a much safer considera-
tion. Gold, British gold, is the spell that binds you.

T. A pack of knaves ! cajoling the people by lies and stratagems !
and laboring to build up your private fortunes, profligate and bank-
rupt as you are, upon the ruins of your country !

H. Better knaves than fools, say I : better pursue measures by
which a few shall prosper, than, like you, to embrace those by wliich
all shall perish in commom The knave promotes his own interest,
ai least, but the fool partakes himself of the ruin which he heaps
upon others. Ye are blind guides, that fall first into the ditch into
which you lead others. Sampsons, that, in order to destroy your
enemies, pull the house upon your own heads.

T. Not content with warring against all political order, ye labor,
with a diabolical zeal, to destroy the very names of morals and religion.

H. Whereas you are contented merely with abolishing the things.
You leave us to console ourselves with the name, but take care that
the substance shall be exchanged ior bigotry, intolerance, and super-
stition.

T. Cursers of God ye are, and tools of the devil !

H. Fit companions, if so, for the enemies of man, and the victims
of their own folly.

T. Ungrateful scoundrels, that, if I had my will, should all be ship-
ped off to-morrow to your respective countries, where your crimes
have already merited the gallows. What are you but the refuse of
Europe, fugitives from states where your restless malignity strove in
vain against wholesome order, and vipers who sting to death that
bosom which gave you an asylum !

H. Fit companions, once more say I, for those impious monopolists
who deny us the rights of human nature ; because, forsooth, we were
not born among you. More savage, you, than those savage tribes
with whom every stranger is an enemy ; for, with you, it seems,
every guest is a slave !



280 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

T. How dare you abuse the government that fosters and protects
you ; by whose indulgent influence you are what you are ; and which
if your ingratitude were treated as it merits, would reduce you in a
moment to the beggai;y and dirt from whence you sprung !

H. I can't tell. I wonder at my own audacity as much as you.
For a slave like me to pretend to question the will of one who has
my life, liberty, and property in his own hand, and may kill or ban-
ish me just as caprice shall prompt him, is a rashness truly surprising.
To supplicate his mercy, to pamper his arrogance, to confess that his
power over me is no more than simple equity, that I have no shadow
of pretence to aspire to an equality with him, to take an equal share
in the government of myself and my fellows, is by far the safest way.

T. I understand your irony. And so you would insinuate that you
have a right to enter my house, to claim a seat at my table, and share
the possession of my wife and children, would you ? That is one
of the rights of human nature, is it? All exclusive property, all
household and conjugal privileges, are arrant tyranny and usurpation,
I Wcirrant you. Maxims worthy of those who are at once rebels to
their country and their God.

H. Rebels let us be as long as we are ruled by tyrants.

T. Atheists !

H. Hypocrites !

T. Liars !

H. Dissemblers !

T. Vile, bloody-minded jacobins !

H. Proud, detestable aristocrats !

T. How dare you, rascal, use such terms ?

H. Your humble imitator, sir, am I ; I dare do all, as the poet
viight have said, that other rascals dare.

T. Do you call me rascal, sir?

H. No, sir ; 1 miscal you gentleman, that's all.

T. Take that, sir [kicking^)

H. And, to be out of your debt, take that, sir [striking.)

Having little relish for this species of debate, and other persons
being present to see fair play, 1 hastily withdrew. This being a
pretty good specimen of the fashionable political conversation, I have
amused myself by giving you this account of it, which, I hope, may
likewise amuse some of your readers.



EARLY INCIDENTS OF BUFFALO— BUFFALO HARBOR.

NUMBER V.

After ascertaining the distance to which it would be necessary to
extend the pier, and estimating the cost of completing it, the contin-
uous line was abandoned, and it was resolved to lay down a pier two
hundred feet long, several rods south and west of the pier already
built, but in the same direction. This pier would form the western



Buffalo Harbor. 281

termination of the harbor, and was to be connected with the other
by two hnes of piles eight feet apart. As these Unes of piles would
be at right angles with the course of the waves, it was believed the
work would be sufficiently permanent, and would furnish a good and
cheap substitute for a pier. Both pile-driving and pier work were
commenced, and prosecuted with a vigor and economy suited to the
scanty funds of the company.

It was found much more difficult to erect piers in ten or twelve
feet water, than in the more shallow water in which they were put
down the preceding year. In attempting to put down the first crib
which was to form the eastern end of the block, in about ten feet
water, the current was found so strong that it was impossible to keep
the brush in line on which to place the crib. To obviate this diffi-
culty, piles were driven tea feet apart on the north line of the pro-
posed pier. This not only secured the brush, but served as a guide
in putting down the cribs, which for this block were forty feet long,
twenty feet wide at the bottom, and eighteen at the surface of the
water. In addition to the plan adopted for strengthening the cribs
the preceding year, braces of oak timber, three by six inches, and
extending from the bottom to tiie top of the crib, were let into the
timbers composing the windward side of each crib, and secured by
spikes, as the crib was put down. The quantity of brush was also
increased. Two large scow loads were used as a bed for each crib.
These, besides securing the crib from being undermined, aided by
their elasticity, in resisting the force of the swells.

A slight rise in the creek about the middle of July, encouraged a
hope that by a temporary contraction of the channel, it might be
deepened. About fifty of the citizens volunteered their aid for a day,
and a foot of additional depth was gained.

One difficulty attending the pier work was that of procuring a sup-
ply of stone. About twenty cords were required for each crib, but
httle of which could be put in until the crib was all put together, and
this quantity could not always be obtained at the time it was wanted.
The loose stone easily raised from the reefs near the harbor, had al-
ready been used, and now stone had to be brought from the Canada
shore. Boats were scarce, the price paid for stone was so low, (only
about three dollars per cord,) and the quantity required so small, that
there was no encouragement to build suitable boats, and those used
were of the frailest kind, and liable every day to fail.

The pile work proved to be a tedious and dilficult job. An aver-
age of a hundred strokes of the hammer was required for each pile.
The interruption from the swells made it necessary to work at nighl
Vol. 1—2 L 24*



282 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

during calm weather. The pile work was at length completed, but
when secured in the best manner that could be devised, was a very
imperfect barrier to the swell, and a very poor substitute for a pier.
The swells during gales of wind had removed some of the stones out
of the first pier, these were recovered, the pier filled up, and covered
by ties six inches apart let into the top timbers, and secured by trun-
nels. The outer pier was also filled with some stone and covered hi
the same way, and fifty cords of stone were deposited on the wind-
ward side for its greater security.

Thus was completed the first work of the kind ever constructed on
the lakes. It had occupied two hundred and twenty-one working
days in building, (the laborers always resting on the Sabbath,) and
extended into the lake about eighty rods to twelve feet water. It
was begun, carried on and completed principally by three private in-
dividuals, some of whom mortgaged the whole of their real estate to
raise the means for making an improvement in which they had but a
common interest. And now, although but twenty years have elapsed,
these sacrifices and efforts, and even the fact that such a work ever
existed, are unknown to most of the citizens of Buffalo, who have
only seen the magnificent stone pier erected at a cost of over two
hundred thousand dollars. But should the names of those who pro
jected and constructed the first pier be remembered, for a few years,
yet the subordinate actors by whose faithful labors the drudgery of
this work was accomplished, must remain unknown even to those
who enjoy the immediate fruits of their labor in wealth and luxury.
Their names would be inserted here, but that the time book behig
kept with a pencil, and having been frequently wet, has become in
part illegible. Simon and Clark Burdock and Charles Ayres, deserve
special notice, and should either of these men, or any of the others
engaged on the work, wish to take passage on the lake, it is hoped
that any steamboat captain hailing from Buffalo, would give them a
free passage. There is a debt of gratitude due to the laborers on
Buffalo harbor for their extraordinary faithfulness. They were all
farmers, or the sons of farmers from the adjoining country, whose
necessity for money brought them from their homes. Some of them
engaged at the commencement of the work, and were never absent
from it a day until it was finished ; and such were their steady habits,
that but one case of intoxication occurred, and not a single instance
in which a jar or misunderstanding proceeded to blows. The labor-
ers either individually or as a company never shrunk from exposure,
nor hesitated to turn out at night when required, and their work was



Buffalo Harbor. 283

performed with such faithfulness that not a single timber was lost
from the pier.

The company were equally fortunate in their boatmen. The two
stone contractors contributed much to the successful prosecution and
completion of the harbor, often running their boats at night when
stone was required ; and in more than one instance, their extroardi-
nary exertions preserved portions of the work from destruction, and
saved the company from great loss.

Sloan and Olmstead were the names of these hard-weather men —
and those only who have experienced the difficulties of making im-
provements in a new country, with means and facilities wholly inad-
equate to the object to be accomplished, can justly appreciate the
worth of such men.

James Sloan was first known as a salt boatman on Niagara river
in 1S07 or 8, was a hand on board the boat Independence, and had
only left her the day before she, with all on board, was carried over
the Niagara falls. He was a lake boatman until some time after the
commencement of the war. He volunteered in various hazardous
expeditions, was one of the party who cut out the brig Adams at
Fort Erie — commanded the ammunition boat during the siege of that
fort, and had several marvelous escapes from shot and rockets. After
the war he removed to the west, but returned shortly before the com-
mencement of Buffalo harbor, and took as deep an interest in the
progress of the work as if it had been his own private business. He
has been rich and poor several times, has endured more fatigue, and
performed more labor than most men of his age. Few persons know
so much of men and things generally as he does, and no one is more
liberal, benevolent and honest.

N. K. Olmstead, though quite a diiferent character from Sloan, was
a man of unusual muscular power and remarkable courage and reso-
lution. He was a citizen of Buffalo before the war. His property
had been burnt by the British ; and when peace was concluded be-
tween the two governments, not considering himself a party to the
treaty, he determined to make reprisals. In pursuance of this deter-
mination, he soon managed to get a contract to transport, from Chip-
pewa to Fort Erie, British army stores, among which were several
kegs of specie. He brought his load to the American side of the
river, and hid the goods and money, waiting a favorable opportunity
to remove them. The boatmen stole a part, and the vigilance of the
officers who made pursuit recovered most of the balance. Olmstead
retired from the frontier for a time, but in 1819 returned to Buffalo.
When the harbor was commenced, he engaged as a stone-boatman,



284 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

and in the varied and severe labor required upon the work, perhaps
no man hi the country could have equalled him. After stones be-
came scarce upon the reef, all the other boats resorted to the
Canada shore, where they were abundant. Olmstead soon ventured
to go over. The first few trips he carried a loaded pistol and a fish
spear, but not being molested his apprehensions ceased. He was
admonished not to risk himself, but he continued his trips, and per-
haps would not have been noticed but for his resisting a demand
made by the deputy collector for a clearance fee of fifty cents each
load. Soon afterwards he was seized and hurried on board a large
boat, which immediately put out for Chippewa. It was not deemed
necessary to confine him. There was a small skiff in tow with a
paddle in it. Olmstead resolved to possess himself of it, and make
for the American shore, resolved to risk going over the falls rather
than remain a prisoner. When taken he had concealed his jack
knife in his shoe, which he got ready for use, and when the boat was
near Chippewa sprang on board the skift', cut the fast, and pushed his
skiff" into the current. Using his paddle, he directed his course to the
American shore. By extraordinary efforts he made one of the grass
islands, where he rested, got out of the skiff, and towed it up the
river as far as he could wade, expecting that a boat would put out
from the American side for his relief; but none appearing, and discov-
ering one putting out from the Chippewa side in pursuit, he took to
his skiff", and succeeded in landing in Porter's mill race, at the falls.
The next morning he resumed his work upon the harbor, to the no
small gratification of the workmen, with all of whom he was a great
favorite.

NUMBER VI.

The pier was completed, and the creek carried by a new and
straight, although shallow, channel into the lake.

The fact that the pier built in 1820 had endured the storms of one
winter uninjured, encouraged the company to believe that the outer
pier, although more exposed, would, by being better secured, prove
strong enough to resist the swells, and in future protect the channel
from the moving sands which had yearly barred it up. It was ex-
pected that the spring freshet would so widen and deepen the chan-
nel as to permit the lake vessels and even the Walk-in-the-Water,
(the only steamboat on the lake) to enter safely. This boat had been
built at Black Rock, and run to that place, not ever touching at Buf-
falo ; and the very prospect of having a steamboat arrive and depart
from Buffalo, was highly encouraging. But while anticipating these
benefits, the Walk-in-the-Water was driven on shore a short distance



Buffalo Harbor. 285

above Buffalo, while on her last trip, in 1821, and bilged. The en-
gine, boilers and furniture were saved, and there was no doubt that
the Steamboat Company would build a new boat, as they had pur-
chased from Fulton's heirs the right to navigate by steam that portion
of lake Erie lying within the state, which right was then deemed
valid. The citizens of Buffalo, without loss of time, addressed the
directors of the company, presenting the advantages that would ac-
crue to them by building their boat at Buffalo. The company im-
mediately on learning their loss, made a contract with Noah Brown
& Brothers, of New York, to build a boat at Buffalo, if it could be
constructed as cheaply there as at the Rock, and if there could be a
certainty of getting the boat out of the creek.

Brown came on early in January, passing on to Black Rock with-
out even reporting himself in Buffalo, nor was his arrival known here
until he had agreed to build his boat at the Rock, and engaged the
ship carpenters of that place to furnish the timber. The Black Rock
contractors, gratified with their success, agreed to accommodate
Brown by meeting him at the Mansion House in Buffalo in tlie eve-
ning to execute the contract, which was to be drawn by an attorney
in Buffalo, an acquaintance of Brown's. The gentlemen with their
securities were punctual in their attendance.

As soon as it was known in Buffalo that the boat was to be built
at the Rock, the citizens assembled in the bar-room of the Mansion
House, and after spending a few minutes in giving vent to their in-
dignation, it was resolved to have an immediate interview with
Brown, (who was in his parlor,) and know why Buffalo had been
thus slighted. Perhaps he might yet be induced to change his mind,
if the contract were not already signed. The landlord undertook to
ascertain this fact, and reported that it was not yet executed. A de-
legate to wait on Brown was chosen with little ceremony — there was
no time to give specific instructions. " Get the boat built here, and
we will be bound by your agreement." The delegate had never
seen Brown, and on entering his parlor, had to introduce himself.
This done he proceeded :

« Mr. Brown, why do you not build your boat at Buffalo, pursuant
to the wishes of the company ?"

" Why, sir, 1 arrived in your village while your people were sleep-
ing, and being obliged to limit my stay here to one day, I thought to
improve the early part of the morning by conanencing my inquiries
at Black Rock, and consulting the ship-carpenters residing there, who
had aided in building the Walk-in-the-Water. While there I was
told that your harbor is all elhumbug, and that if 1 were to build the



286 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

boat in Buffalo creek, she could not be got into the lake in the spring,
and perhaps never. Besides, the carpenters refused to deliver the
timber at Buffalo, Considering the question of where the boat should
be built as settled, I proceeded to contract for timber to be delivered,
and shall commence building the boat immediately at the Rock."

" Mr. Brown, our neighbors have done us great injury, although
they, no doubt, honestly believe what they have said to you about
our harbor. Under the circumstances, I feel justified in making you
a proposition, which will enable you to comply with the wishes of
the Steamboat Company, and do justice to Buffalo, without exposing
yourself to loss or blame. The citizens of Buffalo will deliver suit-
able timber at a quarter less than it will cost you at the Rock, and
execute a judgment bond to pay to the Steamboat Company one
hundred and fifty dollars for every day's detention of the boat in the
creek after the first of May."

" I accept the proposition. When will the papers be made out ?"

" To-morrow morning. And if you wish it, a satisfactory sum of
money shall now be placed in your hands, to be forfeited if the con-
tract and bond are not executed."

"This, sir, I do not require. I shall leave at ten o'clock this even-
ing, and my friend Moulton will prepare the necessary papers and
see them executed."

The judgment bond was signed by nearly ali the responsible citi-
zens, and the contract for the timber taken by Wm. A. Carpenter, at
the reduced price agreed on. To comply with this contract, both as
to time and the quality of timber, required no little energy and good
management, but the contractor, who is still a citizen of Buffalo, ex-
ecuted it to the satisfaction of all concerned.

Buffalo having completed a harbor, and established a ship yard,
began to assume new life. Brighter prospects opened, and it only
remained to secure the termination of the canal at this place, of which
there was a fair prospect. David Thomas, an engineer, in the em-
ploy of the canal board, had been occupied the preceding summer in
making surveys preparatory to a location of the canal from the lake
to the mountain ridge. He had spent some thue in examining the
Niagara river, and Buffalo creek and harbor. He was known to be
opposed to the plan of terminating the canal in an artificial basin at
the Rock, and it was presumed that he would report decidedly in
favor of terminating the canal in Buffalo creek. This encouraged
the citizens to send an agent to Albany to represent to the president
of thecanal board, De Witt Clinton, the fact that a harbor had been
completed, and to urge the immediate location of the canal to Buf-



Buffalo Harbor. 287

falo. This subject was considered by the board, and the canal report
of that year, 1823, contained their decision in favor of Buffalo.

Although this decision was not unexpected, yet it occasioned great
rejoicing to the citizens, who, burnt out and impoverished by the
war, and disappointed in their just expectations of remuneration from
the government, had for years been battling manfully with adversity,
cheered on by hopes which were now about to be realized.

While congratulating themselves on the prospect of still better
times, the expected flood came, and removing a large body of sand
and gravel, opened a wide and deep channel from the creek to the
lake. But unfortunately a heavy bank of ice resting on the bottom
of the lake, and rising several feet above its surface, had been formed
during the winter, extending from the west end of the pier to the
shore. This ice bank arrested the current of the creek, forming an
eddy along side of the pier, into which the sand and gravel removed
by the flood was deposited, filling up the channel for the distance of
over three hundred feet, and leaving a little more than three feet
water where, before the freshet, there was an average of four and a
half feet. This disaster was the more vexatious, as it might have
been prevented by a few hours of well directed labor in opening even
a small passage through the bank of ice. It was attempted to open
a channel through the ice by blasting, but this proving ineflectual, no
other means were tried, and it was now feared that the predictions
of our Black Rock neighbors were about to be realized.

This obstruction of the harbor produced not only discouragement
but consternation, A judgment-bond had been executed, which was
a lien upon a large portion of the real estate of the village for the
payment of one hundred and fifty dollars per day, from and after the
first of May, until the channel could be sufficiently opened to let the
steamboat pass into the lake. The payment of this sum, which for
the sunmier would amount to at least iwenty-four thousand dollars,
could o!ily be avoided by removing the deposit. To form a channel
even eight rods wide and nine feet deep would require the removal
of not less than six thousand yards of gravel, for whicli work tliere
was neither an excavator, nor time, skill or money to procure one.
The superintendent of the harbor was absent ; as soon as the news
of the disaster reached him he hastened home, and arriving about the
middle of March, a meeting of the citizens concerned was called. It
was resolved immediately to attempt the opening of the channel, and
a subscription was proposed to defray the expenses which was esti-
mated at one thousand six hundred dollars. The subscription went
heavily, only about three hundred dollars were obtained. Although



288 Mr. Sharp's Letter.

all were deeply interested, some believed that the duty of removing
the obstruction devolved on the harbor company, others had no con-
fidence in the plan of operations proposed, and with many who
would cheerfully have contributed, it was difficult to raise money.
But without waiting to see how the means was to be provided, pre-
parations were made for commencing the work next morning.



MR. SHARP'S LETTER.

We give below another letter from our valued correspondent and pioneer
in Missouri. Our readers will impatiently anticipate his forthcoming reci-
tals, as well as be pleased with his poetic powers. They will please to re-
press their smiles at the thought of our poet having been twelve years old in
Dunmore's war, when they duly appreciate the fine sentiments they incul-
cate. We hope his poetic taste will be frequently exerted for our benefit,
especially in historical poetry.

JVarren County, Mo., June 11th, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir, — Your last, dated the 8th, came to hand on the 24th ult.
You never fail to cut out some employment for me, without making
any allowance for age or infirmity. You leave me no alternative, for
you say, "you must ;" yes, must is the word, "loose no time in put-
ting down, for the Pioneer, all those reminiscences of your life that
will be interesting to our readers," It is true, I could recount many
curious incidents which occurred on the frontier settlements of west-
ern Virginia, during the war of the revolution, and for several years
after, many of which I was a witness of, and an actor in, and others
which were currently reported and believed in the country at the
time ; but I fear my crude style and awkward manner of express-
ing my ideas, would do an injury to your periodical. However, as
you appear so urgent, if you will allow me time to digest and prepare
my communications, I will make the attempt. And when you re-
ceive them, if they will suit your purpose, you can publish them ;
and if not, you can pass them by without the fear of giving otfense,
for I am by no means anxious to appear in print. I shall have to
write altogether from memory, and may not at all times be exactly
correct as to date, &c. I find you sometimes give us a little poetry,
and as an earnest that I will perform my promise, I send you a



Poetry — Contentment,

specimen of my poetical powers, which must suffice till something
better is prepared. If you approve of it, you can place it in the
poet's corner.

Would heaven indulge the fond wish of my heart,

I'd ask neither power nor wealth —
With all its allurements of beauty and art,
The world and its grandeur can never impart

The sweets of contentment and health.

In a little cottage, a garden hard by,

And an orchard of fruit-bearing trees ;
A site, where no strife or profusion comes nigh.
With a glass of pure water, to drink when I'm dry,

I'd enjoy both my freedom and ease.

With books that are useful, selected with taste,

My principal leisure I'd spend ;
No part of my time I'd imprudently waste,
On Virtue's rich viands I'd mentally feast.

Or converse with a sensible friend.

And last, but not least, I would add to all this,

To insure the enjoyments of life,
A female companion to heighten my bliss,
And cheer up my heart with a smile and a kiss —

Endear'd by the the title of wife.

Her form should be graceful, her mind should be free

From vain affectation and pride ;
Good sense and good nature in her should agree,
Her affection exclusively fix'd upon me.

With the fond yielding blush of a bride.

Thus calmly I'd glide down old Time's silent stream.

Untainted by folly or crime ;
Resign'd to the mandates of Wisdom supreme.
Take leave of Mortality's whimsical dream,

And the empty illusions of Time.

Yours, respectfully.



Jno. S. Williams, Esq.
Vol. 1—2 M 25



J^^t




290 Br. S. P. Hildreth.



DR. S. P. HILDRETH.

It is with gratitude and joy that we again introduce this faithful contribu-
tor to our readers. These feelings are heightened by a long and dangerous
illness through which he has passed, but from which he has recovered. A
report, which we had not the means to doubt the truth of, reached us that he
had actually taken his flight to another world, and we had made up our mind
to try to get along without him, but in the Divine Providence of the Lord,
his life has been spared, and may it long be preserved, not only to delight the
readers of the American Pioneer, but to perform other uses in society for
which his talents and industry eminently qualify him.

We give below a shoi't account of the death of Silver-heels, from his pen,
and we promise next month a rare treat from the same source, in a Biograph-
ical Sketch of Isaac Williams, a most worthy pioneer. A view of his (Wil-
liams') plantation, on the Virginia shore, opposite to Fort Harmer, may be seen
accompanying the first number of the American Pioneer. We hope many
such sketches will grace our pages. They most eminently connect the past
with the present, and with the past the future, and do more to make one na-
tion of the whole than any thing else can. They will thus have a more
happy influence upon our future national character and prosperity, than the
superficial thinker will perhaps be willing to acknowledge. We cannot now
promise all of this interesting article in one number, but will give it in not
more than two. Meanwhile, for good reasons, excuse us for just saying, that
as far as we know, neither Isaac nor the Rev. John AVilliams were in the
most remote degree of our family connexions, excepting that all of the name,
as we believe, are descendants of that hardy race of ancient Britons, which
neither the arm of Caesar nor the force of Rome could conquer.

DEATH OF SILVER-HEELS.

For many years after the first settlement of Ohio, the article of
marine salt was one of primary importance, as being absolutely neces-
sary in the domestic economy of civilized man. The savage never
having been accustomed to its use, can live and enjoy very good
health without it ; never lying by any great stores of meat, but letting
each day provide for itself. If he needed a supply for a journey, or
the short interval of summer, when hunting was poor, it was easily
preserved by "jerking," or drying over a slow fire. Not so with the
white man. Salt was an article of absolute necessity, and he was
obliged to bring it across the mountains on pack-horses, for many
years after the first settlement of the country, at an expense of six or
eight dollars a bushel, even as late as the year 1800. Those immense
fountains of brine that now are known to exist deep in the rocky beds
below, were then not dreamed of ; and it was supposed that the west



Death of Silver-heels. 291

would always be dependent on the Atlantic coast for salt, and deeply
deplored as a serious drawback on the prosperity of this beautiful
region. Although springs of salt water were known in various places,
yet they were of so poor and weak a quality as to require from four
to six hundred gallons of the water to make a bushel of salt ; and
when made, it contained so much foreign matter as to render it a very
inferior article. Yet as it could be used in place of the imported salt,
and saved the borderer's money, at that day not very plenty, it was
occasionally resorted to by the settlers, who, assembling in gangs of
six or eight persons, with their domestic kettles, pack-horses, and pro-
visions, camped out for a week at a time in the vicinity of the saline.
These springs were generally discovered by hunters, and were at re-
mote points from the settlements. One of the most noted in this part
of Ohio, was on Salt creek, near the present town of Chandlersville,
in Muskingum county. About the year 1798, a few years after the
close of the Indian war, a party of men from the settlement on Olive-
green creek, twenty-five miles from the saline, had assembled at this
spot for the purpose of manufacturing a little salt. While they were
occupied at this business, and cracking their rude jokes, a noted old
warrior, well known to the borderers in early days by the name of
Silver-heels, who was hunting near the spring, called at their camp.
During times of peace, the intercourse of the Indians with the whites
was free and unrestrained, and it was not uncommon for them to hunt
in company with perfect confidence and good fellowship. This In-
dian had formerly lived a few miles south-west of this place, on the
Muskingum river, near a rapid, or ripple, well known to all keel-boat
men on that stream, by the name of " Silver-heels," and which it re-
tains to this day.

At that period whisky was considered as much an article of neces-
sity, for the support of man, and especially for those any way expo-
sed to the vicissitudes of the weather, or engaged in any laborious
employment, as meat or bread. Temperance societies were then un-
known ; and a person who did not offer his neighbor or friend a dram,
even if casually calling at his house, was thought a stingy fellow, and
as much despised, as he would now be who should make such an
offer and call it hospitality. The party of salt makers had not ne-
glected a supply of the favorite beverage of the day, and knowing an
Indian's habitual reUsh for whisky, offered it to him with a liberal
liand. After taking a few drinks, the spirit of the old warrior was
aroused, and as is their custom, he began to relate his war exploits,
saying that in his various battles, and marauding excursions on the
frontiers, he had taken the scalps of sixteen whites. Amongst others,



292 Death of Silver-heels.

during the late war, he stated he had taken that of an old man,
a little below the mouth of Olive-green creek, on the Muskingum
river, not far from the block-house. This scalp he minutely described
as having two crowns, or spiral turns of the hair on the top of the
head, and that by carefully dividing it he had converted it into two
scalps, and sold them at Detroit for fifty dollars each. He said the old
man was gathering the fruit of the May-apple, and that he had the
bosom of his hunting shirt full of them at the time he shot him. He
also described him as being armed with a musket with iron bands
around it, but being in haste at the time, expecting a pursuit from the
men in the block-house, and the gun of no use to him, he had hidden
it in the hollow of a fallen tree, a few rods higher up the river. The
salt makers listened with intense interest to this portion of the old
warrior's feats, as several of them had been not only acquainted with
Abel Sherman, but lived with him in the block-house at the time, and
all were familiar with the fact of his being killed by the Indians in
the manner, and at the place, described by Silver-heels. It so chanced
that a son of Mr. Sherman was one of the party ; and to satisfy him-
self of the truth of the statement, he returned directly home. On
making search as directed, he found in the rotten wood and earth of
the decayed tree, an old musket. The stock was much wasted and
the iron corroded, but sufficient was left to identify it as the gim of
his father ; thus proving the truth of the Indian's statement, that he
was personally concerned in the death of Abel Sherman. A few days
after this, the dead body of Silver-heels was found by a hunter lying
in the ashes of his camp fire, pierced by a rifle bullet. Many years
have passed away since this transaction ; but the ripple which bears
his name still remains, and will continue to be known long after these
events are forgotten.



^^i d* J(/cZcOiZ^i^



p. S. This article was written before the late improvements on the
Muskingum were made. A dam at the mouth of Bald Eagle creek,
just below " Silver-heels' Ripple," I am sorry to say, has obliterated
this interesting rapid. Mr. Hackewelder says that the old warrior.
Silver-heels, was killed on the way from Coshocton to Detroit by
some unknown enemy. Whether there were more than one Indian
of this name, I do not know ; or it is possible that my informant may
have been mistaken as to the proper name of the Indian, but the facts
narrated I have reason to believe are correct.



Waijne\- Indian ff^ar, 293

WILL'S LETTER.

We congratulate our readers upon the reception of such valualile documents
as the following letter, and the journal of which Mr. Will speaks. They are
indeed truly interesting, and will be published entire ; they will have a tendency
to settle some things that are considered uncertain. We shall much indeed
regret if Mr. Will cannot be prevailed upon to write out more of his pioneer
soldier experience. It is our intention almost to besiege him for it. When
our readers look at his signature, and are informed that every line and letter
in the whole composition is fully equal, and ready to go into the printer's
hands, without the shghtest alteration, they will feel confident that he ought
to do his country that service.

We look upon such historical lore as he is in possession of, like gold and
diamonds on the brink of a river, which if not soon collected, will by the cur-
rent soon be carried to the bed of the ocean and lost forever. The journal
of lieutenant Boyer will be commenced next month.

Jldelphi, May 25th, 1842.
John S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir — The first opportunity that offers of any of my neighbors
going to Chillicothe, I will send the old journal I have in my posses-
sion to Mr. Ely. It is a journal that contains the daily occurrence of
the most important transactions during the campaign of general An-
thony Wayne, commencing at Greenville the 28th day of July, 1794,
and ending the 2d November following. You will find some things
contained therein very interesting, particularly many of the general
orders, and the correspondence between general Wayne and the com-
mander of the British garrison at Fort Maumee or Miami, which took
place next day after the general battle on the 20th August, 1794.
You may rely on the truth of all that is contained in the journal. I
was an eye-witness to all that is stated therein. If I had the talent
for writing, I could inform you of many transactions that took place
in the army; (I joined Wayne's army at Pittsburgh, in Atigust, 1792,
and continued therein until I was discharged in Detroit, in April,
1798,) but I am not qualified to write a history of that war.

I will give you a short statement oi some of the principal move-
ments of that army. The regular troops destined for the army to be
put under the conmiand of general Wayne, were concentrated at
Pittsburgh in August and September, '92. On the 12th day of De-
cember the army moved down the river about twenty miles and erect-
ed huts on the bank of the Ohio, and there remained tmtil the 2Sth
day of April, 1793, when it descended the river in numerous
flat boats, containing the troops, numitions of war, provisions, and not

less than twenty boat loads of hay for the use of the dragoons, and

25*



294 WilVs Letter.

arrived at Cincinnati on the 5th day of May, '93; formed our camp
at the lower end of the small village of Cincinnati, and called the
camp "Hobson's Choice." The army remained there mitil Sep-
tember following, when it again took up its line of march and
arrived at what was afterwards called Fort Greenville, and com-
menced building huts for winter quarters. On the 24th of December,
1793, general Wayne marched with about one thousand men to the
ground where general St. Clair was defeated, and erected a fort on
that ground, which was called Fort Recovery. We arrived on that
ground on Christmas day, and pitched our tents on the battle ground.
Six hundred skulls were gathered up and buried ; when we went to
lay down in our tents at night, we had to scrape the bones together
and carry them out to make our beds. After the fort was completed,
one company of artillery and one company of riflemen were left in
the fort, and the balance returned to Greenville. Nothing particular
took place until the last day of June and first day of July, 1794. The
Indians attacked Fort Recovery, but were repulsed with consid-
erable loss on both sides. Major McMahan, (a braver man never
existed,) was killed ; he was much regretted by all persons in the
army, officers and soldiers. On the 28th of July, 1794, the army left
Greenville on the campaign. An account of that campaign, you will
find in the journal sent you, written by a lieutenant Boyer. The
treaty with the Indians took place at Greenville in the summer of
1795. In the early part of the summer of 1796, the army, with the
exception of a small force, left Greenville for the purpose of taking
possession of the American forts, to wit : Maumee, Detroit, Macka-
nac, &c., that had still remained in the hands of the English. If I
mistake not, general Wayne left the army at Detroit early in Decem-
ber for his residence in Pennsylvania, but got no further than Erie,
where he died.

I forgot to say in the proper place, that in the battle of the 20th
August, '94, I received a severe wound through my body, which ren-
dered me unfit for actual service for about two months.

Very respectfully, yours, &c.




The treaty between France and America was concluded February
6th, 177S, by which the former agreed to join arms with the latter
against the British, and occasioned prodigious joy in the army at Val-
ley Forge, and over the whole country.



Historical Societies. 295



HISTORICAL SOCIETIES.

It is with satisfaction that we are made acquainted M'ith the various efforts
that are making to collect and preserve the history of the country, and delight-
ed will we be, if in any way we can serve the purposes of any man or soci-
ety of men, in promoting such an object. We offer the pages of the Amer-
ican Pioneer to any such society now formed, or hereafter to be formed.

By societies of the kind, having one organ of communication, they become
as it were, one grand operative in the great work. Let the condition of the
European nations in relation to their early history, admonish us to be dili-
gent in respect to ours. The darkness in which their ancient history is
shrouded, was of necessity from the want of such facilities as we have at
command, and which will leave us without excuse. One word to Societies.
Beware of receiving as members such persons as thirst for fame, without be-
ing willing to acquire it by industry. They will neither do much themselves,
nor be willing to see others do it, unless they can be sure to get the credit of
it. With ardent desires for success to all such efforts, we introduce to the
notice of our readers the

HISTORICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF NORWALK
SEMINARY.

The attention of the patrons of Norwalk Seminary, and the friends
of Science generally, is respectfully invited to the objects contemplated
by this Society. The Society was organized in the fall of 184L It
is believed that many of the citizens of Ohio are now in possession of
interesting and important historical facts and incidents, which, though
now fresh in the memory of our fathers, if not collected and preserved
in some depository, may in a few years be entirely lost. As such
facts will constitute essential njaterials for the future historian of the
state, the collection of them will, we trust, meet with the approbation
and aid of a generous public. We rejoice at the publication of the
"American Pioneer," a monthly periodical recently established at
Chillicothe, and devoted especially to this subject.

The subject of Agricultural Geology is now attracting the attention
and eliciting the ettbrts of the first minds in the nation. Ohio is an
agricultural state, and the improvement of any department of know-
ledge connected therewith, must be regarded as a desirable object.
The Society hope to engage the attention of those whose lectures or
communications will prove a valuable acquisition. It is presumed
also, that many will take pleasure in presenting specimens of minerals,
and various natural curiosities to augment the cabinet which has been
commenced. A room in the Seminary has been appropriated ex-
pressly for the purpose of its safe keeping and exhibition, where all
donations and contributions will be faithfully recorded and ca^fully
preserved. Contributions either of Historical and Geological facts, or
of curiosities for the Cabinet, may be forwarded to Rev. A. Nelson,
President of the Society, or to H. Dwight, Secretary.



296 Historical Societies.

CONSTITUTION.

Art. I. This Association shall be called the Historical and Geo-
logical Society of Norwalk Seminary.

Art. II. The object of this Society shall be to collect facts and in-
cidents relating to the early history of Ohio, to advance the science
of Geology, particularly as connecled with the resources of the state,
and to establish a cabinet of Indian relics, minerals, shells, and other
natural curiosities.

Art. III. The officers shall consist of a President, Vice President,
and a Corresponding and Recording Secretary, elected annually by
ballot on the first Wednesday in July.

Art. IV. The officers shall constitute a Board of Managers for the
transaction of business, who, besides their pecuhar duties, shall have
discretionary power to call meetings of the Society, and to take such
measures to promote the objects of the Society, as they shall deem
proper, not inconsistent with this constitution.' The charge of the
cabinet shall devolve upon the Secretary.

Art. V. Any person interested in the objects of the Society, may
become a member by the nomination of the Board, through the Pres-
ident, and a vote of two-thirds present at any regular meeting. Hon-
orary members may be elected in the same manner.

Art. VI. Every donation shall be labeled with the name and resi-
dence of the donor, and in the event of the dissolution of the Society
within five years, shall be returned, if demanded, to the donor, other-
wise they shall be the property of the Seminary.

Art. VII. This Constitution may be altered or amended by a vote
of two-thirds present at any regular meeting.

Norwalk, Huron Co., O., Jipril 12, 1842.



War Department, Oct. 31, 1803.
Sir — There being reason to suspect that the officers of the Spanish gov-
ernment at New Orleans, may decline or refuse to give possession of the
country of Louisiana, ceded to the United States by the French Republic,
and which Congress have by law authorized the President of the United
States to take possession of; and the President having judged it expedient
to pursue such measures as will ensure the possession, I have therefore been
directed by the President of the United States to request your excellency to
assemble, with the least possible delay, five hundred of the militia of the state
of Ohio, including a suitable number of officers, and cause the same to be
formed into a regiment of eight companies, to be engaged to serve four
months, unless sooner discharged, to be mustered in companies and ready to
march, if called, by the 20th December, at farthest. After having been so
mustered in companies, by suitable persons appointed by your excellency,
the men may return to their homes, but must hold themselves in readiness to
march at the shortest notice. Each officer and soldier will be entitled to pay
from the day they shall receive orders and march to join their respective reg-
iments j until discharged. They will be entitled to the same pay as regular
troops in the service of the United States.

I have the honor to be, respectfully, <fec.

H. DEARBOURN.
To His Excellency, Edward Tiffin, Gov. of the State of Ohio.



AME RICAN PION EER.

Slcnoteli to tl)c $rutl) anb Instlce of i^^storji.
VOL. I. SEPTEMBER, 1842. NO. IX.



ANCIENT FORTIFICATION.

Pittsburgh, Jipril, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir — The accompanying plan is an accurate representation of
an old fortification situated on Big Beaver creek, Fayette county, Va.
This work was first surveyed by Mr. Beckley, in October, 1837. I
visited it in August of the following year, and must say that you can
form no adequate idea, from drawings, of the immense quantity of
labor it must have required to erect this fortification. The walls
have fallen, or have been thrown down, covering a space of twenty
feet from the edge of the fallen stone on the inside to the edge of
the fallen stone on the outside. I suppose, from this measurement of
the fallen stone, that the walls at the base were about seven feet
thick, and that they were about six feet high. The distance from
gate-way to gate-way is a little over one hundred feet.

This curious work is situated (as you will perceive) upon a level
bottom of some twenty or more acres, and near its extreme point,
where the creek makes a sudden bend ; and it is evident to a military
coup d'oeil that the creek was intended to serve as a wet and formi-
dable ditch, for cleared of laurel and timber, as we may presume the
point then was, and during most of the year the creek presenting a
rapid current, if not very deep, and of average width of fifteen
yards, with banks perhaps six feet abrupt ascent, the garrison could
have swept all its approaches with their arrows, &:c. The three
northern faces are evidently so placed as to enfilade an enemy ap-
proaching up the creek, or from the small sandy islands, while the
southern face opposes the approach down the creek. The terra plane
of the fort, and the point of land on which it stands, are covered with
heavy timber, chiefly white and spruce pine, and a dense growth of
laurel trees, some of which are fifteen or twenty feet high. At pres-
ent the wall is little over three feet high above the terra plane —
which, by the by, I should mention, is lower than the outer circum-
jacent surface. It was suggested by an old hunter (the discoverer of

this work) that the ground had been beaten down by the tramp of

299



300 Benjamin Siites' Letter.

men ; but this could not be, for the first frost would have raised the
ground to its original height. Again, it has been suggested that the
work was a cattle pen, and that the mud that would necessarily ac-
cumulate in such a place, had been carried out on the feet of the cat-
tle. The idea of this work being a pen for cattle, is at once dispelled
by looking at the drawing. The position and disposition of the work
proves it to be of a military character.

The walls, to all appearance, were faced inside and outside with
dry masonry and filled in with smaller stones ; there are two small
pieces of inside facing still standing — one in the southwestern angle
of the work, the other at the north side of the eastern gateway : this
piece of facing, which is the butt of the northeast circular face, have
their joints well broken.

The stone of which this work is built, is evidently fractured by
percussion. The stone, as they lie, are edges up ; evidently the fallen
faces of the walls. It may be well to remark that the bottom land,
on which this work is situated, presents no appearance of rock or
stones whatever. The soil is extremely rich ; it is jet black and is very
light. The ground, when I visited it, viras covered with fern breast high.

You will perceive by the drawing, that the hills on the opposite
side of the creek from the work come sharp up to the creek.

Large pine trees have taken possession of all the salient angles, as
if to perpetuate the form of the work. The area of this work is
about twenty square rods. At a there is a spruce pine six feet eight
inches in girth growing on the wall.



.,Ws/^i#^ •^»#^/^rf^«^^



Columbia, June IS, 17S9.

Sir, After my respects to you and family, I would inform you

that after further deliberation on the subject of the second purchase,
that if you should find it valued, that you would endeavor to pur-
chase or come in with the owners of the point, if you can find who
they are, so that we may hold some lots in and some out. Sir, do
what you can, and we will be on the same terms of the article of
agreement betwixt us. This from your humble servant.




P^^^^^'^^^^



/^



To John S. Gano, Washington.



William Pitt. 301



WILLIAM PITT.

A BRIEF account of the life of a man so highly distinguished as the friend
of liberty among her stoutest foes as William Pitt, (in honor of whom
Pittsburgh received its name) cannot be unacceptable to the readers of the
American Pioneer. We extract it from the Literary Magazine of 1806.

"William Pitt, afterwards earl of Chatham, inherited but a scanty
patrimony, and though he had recourse to the profession of arms for
support, never rose higher than a cornet of horse. What was want-
ing, however, in weaUh, was abundantly supplied by talents, for na-
ture lavished on him her choicest store, and formed him on the model
of ancient times."

« Having opposed sir Robert Walpole, that minister meanly depriv-
ed him of his commission ; but this proved no obstacle to his advance-
ment in the state, for in 1756 he became minister. His administra-
tion forms the most illustrious portion of tlie British annals, and it is
memorable in every point of view. During that period, so able were
his plans, and so original, and yet judicious, the manner in which
they were executed, that, notwithstanding a strong opposition in the
cabinet, the nation united in his support. Despising narrow preju-
dices, he was the first to call forth all the resources of the empire, by
employing indiscriminately all its inhabitants ; and with this collected
mass he smote the French monarchy with a blow, from which it could
never have reco\'ered had he been supported in that quarter where
he had the strongest claims. Thus the earl}'- portion of the reign of
George III. became clouded by his dismission, and men of penetration
began to forebode the most disastrous events.

" Retiring, though not in disgrace, the wishes of the people still fol-
lowed him ; nor did he ever betray their confidence, for he perse-
vered to the last moment of his life in those principles which he had
early avowed. Two of the great objects on which his noble mind
was constantly employed during the latter years of his life, appear to
have been a reform in parliament, without which he prognosticated
the most fatal evils, and an immediate conclusion to the American
war, the disasters of which but too clearly he anticipated."

"He may be said to have died as he had lived, in the service of
his country : for, having fainted in consequence of his violent exer-
tions in the house of peers, he was seized with a malady which
speedily conducted him to his grave."

" The demise of Chatham was lamented by all parties ; as during
his ministry no inroads were made on public liberty, and as he had
no enemies but those of his country, his death was counted a public
calamity. The parliament which had despised his counsels unani-
mously voted him a funeral at the public expence, in Westminster
Abbey, and a pension of four thousand pounds per aimum to his heirs,
annexed in perpetuity to the title which he had so gloriously acquired
for theyn, rather than himself."

26



302 Jl Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh.

A BRIEF SKETCH OF THE HISTORY OF PITTSBURGH.

In writing a history of the prosperous city which now stands at
the head of the Ohio, it is not necessary to loolc very far back. There
are now living many persons, not yet arrived at extreme old age^
whose memories extend beyond the time when a white man first at-
tempted to make a settlement at the " Forks of the Ohio," the site of
the city of Pittsburgh.

The governor of Canada, with that enterprising ambition so char-
acteristic of Frenchmen, had formed a vast scheme for the connection
of Canada with Louisiana, by a line of well selected posts, to be ex-
tended from the Lakes to the Mississippi. It was hoped that this
scheme, if successful, would not only contribute to the mutual advan-
tage of those distant provinces, but would also circumscribe the
bounds of the English colonies, and eflectually destroy their trade
and influence with the Indians. A post had already been established
at the mouth of French creek, where the village of Franklin now
stands, and preparations were making to take possession of " the
Forks," at the junction of the Monongahela and Allegheny rivers.
The governor of Virginia, becoming alarmed by the intelligence he
had received of the progress of the French, despatched GEORGE
WASHINGTON from that state with instructions to proceed to Fort
Venango, (the name of the Fort at French creek,) to demand an ex-
planation of their designs from the French commandant. On his way
to Fort Venango, on the 23d of November, 1753, he arrived at the
spot which Pittsburgh now covers. While here he carefully exam-
ined the ground, and thought it a very suitable position for the erec-
tion of a military post. From a careful perusal of his journal, it seems
manifest, that there was not, at that time, a single white resident
within the limits of our present city.

In the ensuing spring, the Virginia Ohio Company made arrange-
ments to take permanent possession of the country near the junction
of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers, and had commenced the
erection of a redoubt, to secure their possession. On the 17th April,
1754, before this redoubt was completed. Monsieur de Contrecceur,
a French officer, with three hundred canoes, containing one thousand
Frenchmen and Indians, and eighteen pieces of cannon, arrived here
from Fort Venango, and compelled ensign Ward, who commanded
the party engaged in erecting the redoubt, to surrender. The cap-
ture of this small detachment of troops was the first open act of hos-
tility committed by the French, and may be considered as the com-
mencement of a war which continued for nine years, and which agi-
tated the two continents, from the banks of the Ganges to the head of
the Ohio. From the 17th April, 1754, to the 24th November, 1758,
the French retained possession of this place ; and this position gave
them an influence over the neighboring tribes of Indians, which was
so used as to inflict upon the frontier settlers much distress and blood-
shed. The importance of this position in a military point of view,
was duly appreciated, and early and energetic measures were adopted
to expel the French. The expedition and defeat of general Brad-
dock, on the 9th July, 1755, are notorious events, the account of



A Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh. 303

which is not necessary to repeat in this sketch. In 1758, a formida-
ble army was assembled at Carlisle, under the command of general
Forbes, On the 14th September, 1758, major Grant, who had been
detached in advance from Loyal-hanna, with eight hundred men, was
surrounded by the enemy, on the hill which has since borne his name,
and lost above three hundred men killed or taken prisoners, and him-
self sliared the latter fate. General Forbes, however, undismayed by
this disaster, pressed forward, and having on the 24th November,
1758, arrived within one day's march of Fort du Quesne, the French
having set Ih-e to the fort, abandoned it, and descended by the Ohio
to their posts on the Mississippi. On the next day general Forbes
took possession of the abandoned post, having hastily repaired the
fortifications and garrisoned them with four hundred and fifty men,
prhicipally Provincials, from Pennsylvania, Maryland and Vu'ginia,
under colonel Mercer — the general marched the rest of the troops to
Lancaster, Reading, and Philadelphia.

In 1763 an arrangement was made between the Shawanese, and
other tribes of Indians, along the lakes, and on the Ohio, and its trib-
utary streams, to attack, simultaneously, all the English posts and
frontier settlements. In the execution of this plan, they captured Le
Boeuf, Venango, Presquile, Michilimackinac, and various other posts,
which were feebly garrisoned, and murdered all the prisoners. As a
part of this great scheme of operations, Fort Pitt was completely sur-
rounded by the Indians, who cut otf all communication with the inte-
rior of the country, and greatly annoyed the garrison by an incessant
discharge of musketry and arrows. The commanding officer, cap-
tain Ewyer, and the garrison, (which was increased by the Indian
traders, who had escaped massacre and taken refuge in the fort) made
a gallant defense.

Colonel Bouquet was detached from Carlisle, to relieve the belea-
guered post, and after a severe conflict with the Indians at Bushy Run,
he arrived at Fort Pitt on the 9th of August, 1763. In the action of
the 5th August, 1763, the Indians were severely handled, several of
their principal chiefs were killed, and they were so much dispirited
that they immediately abandoned their operations against Fort Pitt,
and retned to their towns on the Muskingum and farther west. In
October, 1764, colonel Bouquet marched on an expedition against the
Indian towns on the Muskingum. He reached the Indian towns near
the forks of that river, without opposition, and there dictated terms
of peace to them.

It was during this year, 1764, probably after the treaty had removed
all fear of the Indians, that the old military plan, being that portion
of the city lying between Water street and Second street, and
between Market and Ferry streets, was laid out. During this year,
also, was erected the brick redoubt still standing, a little west of Stan-
wix street, and north of Penn street, being the only remaining mon-
ument of British industry within our city limits. In a stone block, in
the south face of this redoubt, is still to be seen this inscription, " Col.
Bouquet, A. D. 1764."

From this time until the close of the Revolutionary War, but little
improvement was made at Pittsburgh. The fear of Indian hostilities,



304 t/^ Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh.

or the actual existence of Indian warfare, prevented emigration. In
1775, the number of dwelHng houses within the limits of our present
city, did not, according to the most authentic accounts, exceed twen-
ty-five or thirty.

During the Revolution, the Penn family were adherents of the Brit-
ish government, and in 1779, the legislature of this state confiscated
all their property, except certain manors, &c., of which surveys had
been actually made and returned into the land office, prior to the 4th
of July, 1776, and also, except any estates which said Penns held in
their private capacities, by device, purchase or descent. Pittsburgh
and the country eastward of it and south of the Monongahela, con-
taining about 5,800 acres, composed one of these manors, and of
course remained as the property of the Penns.

In the spring of 1784, arrangements were made by Mr. Tench
Francis, the agent of the Penns, to lay out the manor of Pittsburgh,
in town lots and out-lots, to sell them without delay. For this pur-
pose he engaged Mr. George Woods, of Bedford, an experienced sur-
veyor, to execute this work. In May, 1784, Mr. Woods arrived here,
bringing with him, as the operative surveyor, Mr. Thomas Vickroy, of
Bedford county, who was then a very young man, and who still sur-
vives and enjoys vigorous health, at a good old age. Through their
activity and industry, the work was soon completed, and the lots and
out-lots being placed in market, seem to have been very rapidly pur-
chased. From this time improvement seems to have commenced
here — mechanics and traders composed a greater proportion of the
population. In 1784, Arthur Lee, a conspicuous diplomatist during
our Revolution, was appointed a commissioner to treat with the Indi-
ans, and on his way passed through Pittsburgh. In his journal we
find the following notice of this place : " Pittsburgh is inhabited al-
most ENTIRELY by Scots and Irish, who five in paltry log-houses, and
are as dirty as if in the north of Ireland, or even Scotland. There is
a great deal of trade carried on ; the goods being brought at the vast
expense of forty-five shillings per cwt., from Philadelphia and Balti-
more. They take, in the shops, money, wheat, flour, and skins.
There are in the town four attorneys, two doctors, and not a priest of
any persuasion, nor church, nor chapel. The rivers encroach fast on
the town ; and to such a degree, that, as a gentleman told me, the Al-
legheny had within thirty years of his memory, carried away one
hundred yards. The place, I believe, will never be very considera-
ble." If Mr. Lee could now visit the valley of the head of the Ohio,
he would find here, a free white population exceeding that of the six
largest cities and towns in the Old Dominion. The appearance of
Pittsburgh at that time, was not such as would excite extravagant
expectations. A small town, composed of two or three brick redoubts,
converted into dwelling houses, and some forty or fifty round or hewn
log buildings, inhabited principally by poor mechanics and laborers,
would have a very discouraging aspect to the eye of a Virginia gen-
tleman, who had visited London, Paris, and Madrid. But those me-
chanics and laborers were free, had the directions of their own exer-
tions, were industrious, were striving for the advantage of themselves
and their offspring, and the possession and enjoyment of the proc'uce



A Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh 305

of their own labor were secured to them by equal laws. These cir-
cumstances, aided by the natural advantages of this situation, in less
than fifty years converted a village of a few petty log houses, into a
large, wealthy, and rapidly increasing city.

Discouraging as were the appearance of things in 1784, yet in 1786
John Scull and Joseph Hall, two poor but enterprising young men,
boldly determined to risk their little all in a printing establislunent
here, and on the 29th of July of that year issued the first number of
the Pittsburgh Gazette. The publication of a paper, by disseminating
information and attracting attention to the place, no doubt contributed
to the growth of the town ; it therefore deserves to be mentioned as
one of the causes of the rise of a frontier village to a great city.

About this time the tide of emigration from Pennsylvania and Vir-
ginia to Kentucky commenced, and in its progress it contributed to the
advancement of the place, not only by leaving portions of the funds
of the emigrants in exchange for the means of transportation and sup-
plies, but by occasionally leaving here some of the emigrants them-
selves.

The Indian wars, too, which raged on our northern and western
frontier, until Wayne's treaty in 1795, by collecting here large bodies
of troops, thus creating a demand for the produce of farms and shops,
contributed greatly to the prosperity and growth of our town. On
the 24th September, 1788, an act passed creating the county of Alle-
gheny, out of parts of Washington and Westmoreland counties. By
this act the courts were appointed to be held at Pittsburgh, until cer-
tain trustees, named in the act, should erect suitable buildings on
the reserved tract opposite Pittsburgh. By the act of the 13th of
April, 1791, this provision of the act of 1788 was repealed, and the
trustees were authorized and required to purchase lots in Pittsburgh
for a court house and jail.

The creation of a separate county, and the consequent establish-
ment of county offices, and the frequent assemblage here of jurors,
suitors, and witnesses, operated to the advantage and improvement of
the place. The most important event, however, in the early history
of our town, was the Western Insurrection, in 1794. This disturbance
compelled the government to send a large number of troops to this neigh-
borhood. These troops were principally volunteers ; active, enterpri-
sing young men, many of whom were so pleased with Pittsburgh and
the surrounding country, that after performing their tour of duty, they
returned home merely to make the necessary arrangements for a per-
manent settlement here. From that time the progress of tlie city has
been regular and scarcely interrupted, except by the reaction which
took place after the late war.

In addition to the foregoing "Brief Sketch," a few statistical and
historical facts relative to the progress of our town, at an early period,
will here be added.

In an article written by the late Judge Brackenridge, then a young
attorney, and published in the first number of the Pittsburgh Gazette,
the number of houses in the town of Pittsburgh was stated to be
about one hundred. — Allowing to each house five inhabitants, which
is probably quite enough, the population would be about five hundred.
Vol. I.— 2 36 *



306 t/? Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh.

In the Pittsburgh Gazette of the 9th of January, 1796, we find the
following paragraph :

'<The number of inhabitants in the borough of Pittsburgh, as taken
by the assessors, daring the last w^eek, amounts to one thousand three
hundred and ninety-five.^' This is the earliest authentic account of
the population of this place.

In a description of the country at the head of the Ohio, published
in the fourth and fifth numbers of the Pittsburgh Gazette, on the 19th
and 26th of August, 1786, we find some statements which may be
interesting.

1st, It appears that there was then settled in the town, one clergy-
man of the Calvinistic church, Samuel Barr, and one of the German
Calvinistic church, occasionally preached here.

2. It is stated also, that " a church of squared timber and moderate
dimensions is on the way to be built." This church stood within the
ground now covered by the First Presbyterian church.

3. There were two gentlemen of the medical faculty then here.
One we know, was Dr. Bedford.

4. There were also two lawyers here. These, we presume, were
the late Judge Brackenridge and John Woods.

5. Carriages from Philadelphia were then six pence for each pound
weight. The writer makes the following prediction. "However im-
proved the conveyance may be, and by whatever channel, the impor-
tation of heavy articles will still be expensive. The manufacturing
them, therefore, loill become more an object here than elsewhere.''''

Pittsburgh was then (1786) in Westmoreland county, and the in-
habitants had to travel to Hanna's town, about thirty miles, to attend
court.

In the Pittsburgh Gazette of September 30, 1786, there is tlie fol-
lowing extract of a letter, dated,

Philadelphia, September 14, 1786.

"Mr. Brison has jnst returned from New York, with orders to
establish a post from this place to Pittsburgh, and one from Virginia
to Bedford. — The two to meet at Bedford."

Prior to that time there was no regular mail to this place, and the
then printers of the Gazette and other inhabitants had to depend upon
casual travelers.

In the Gazette of March 10, 1787, it is mentioned that "a meeting
of the inhabitants of Pittsburgh had been held on the 1st instant, and
that Messrs. Hugh Ross, Stephen Bayard, and the Rev. Samuel Barr,
had been appointed a committee to report a plan for building a inar-
ket house and establishing market days." The citizens were also
invited to meet the committee in the public square on Monday the
12tli instant, to hear their report. Soon afterwards the first market
house was erected near the corner of Second and INIarket streets,
where Beale's tavern now stands.

During the session of the legislature of 1786-7, an act was passed
"for the establishment of an academy or public school at Pittsburgh,
and another for the incorporation of the Church of Pittsburgh," being
in fact the first Presbyterian church.

The first act for the incorporation of the borough of Pittsburgh,



Jl Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh. 307

was passed on the 22nd of April, 1794. The act to incorporate the
City of Pittsburgh, was passed on the 18th of March, 1816.

From 1790 to 1800, the business of Pittsburgh and tlie West was
small, but gradually improving, the fur trade of the West was very-
important, and Messrs. Peter Maynard and William Morrison were
engaged largely in it, and from 1790 to 1796, received considerable
supplies of goods, through Mr. Guy Bryan, a wealthy merchant in
Philadelphia, and the goods were taken to Kaskaskia in a barge,
which annually returned to Pittsburgh, laden with bear, buiialoe, and
deer skins, and furs and peltries of all kinds, which were sent to Mr.
Bryan, and the barge returned, laden with goods ; at that period
there was no regular drayman in Pittsburgh, and the goods were -gen-
erally hauled from the boats with a three horse wagon, until (in 1797)
a Mr. James Rattle, an Englishman, settled in this city, and was en-
couraged to take up the business, and drayed and stored goods, until
a box of dry goods was stolen from his yard, and shed, (for then we
had no warehouse, nor regular commission merchant, in Pittsburgh,)
and this broke the poor man up, and he died broken-hearted and un-
happy.

A French gentleman, Louis Anastasius Tarasyon,* emigrated in
1794, from France, and established himself in Philadelphia, as a mer-
chant ; he was a large importer of silks, and all kinds of French and
German goods; being very wealthy and enterprising, in 1799 he sent
two of his clerks, Charles Briigiere and James Berthoud, to examine
the course of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, from Pittsburgh to ]New
Orleans, and ascertain the practicability of sending ships and clearing
them from this port, ready rigged, to the West Indies and Europe.
Those two gentlemen returned to Philadelphia, reported favorably,
and Mr. Tarasgon associated them and his brother, John Anthony,
with himself, under the firm of "John A. Tarasgon, brothers, James
Berthoud, & Co.," and immediately established, in Pittsburgh, a large
wholesale and retail store and warehouse, a ship yard, a rigging and
sail loft, an anchor smith shop, a block manufactory, and in short ev-
ery thing necessary to complete vessels for sea. The first year, 1801,
they built the schooner Amity, of 120 tons, and the ship Pittsburgh,
of 250 tons ; and sent the former, loaded with flour, to St. Thomas,
and the other, also with flour, to Philadelphia, from whence they sent
them to Bordeaux, and brought back a cargo of wine, brandy, and
other French goods, part of which they sent here in wagons at a car-
riage of from six to eight cents per pound. In 1802, they built the
brig Nanino, of 250 tons, — in 1803, the ship Louisiana, of 300 tons,
— and in 1804, the ship Western Trader, of 400 tons.

In or about the year 1796, three of the royal princes of Orleans
came to Pittsburgh, and stopped at a hotel, situated on the bank of
the Monongahela, where Juo. D. Davis' warehouse now stands ; they
were very affable and conversant, and remained for some time in the
city ; at length they procured a large skiff, part of which was cover-
ed with tow linen, laid in a supply of provisions, and (having procur-
ed two men to row the skiff,) proceeded on to New Orleans. One of
these princes was Louis Philippe, the present king of France ; who,

• These facts have been furnished by Anthony Beelen, Esq., an early merchant.



308 Jl Brief Sketch of the History of Pittsburgh.

in his exile, visited our city, and spent his time very agreeably
'.vith general Neville, general James O'Hara, and several other
respectable families, who then lived on the bank of the Monongahela
liver.

Having lived in Pittsburgh forty years, the most of which time we
have been actively engaged in business, in the busy throng of trade,
and having in early times traveled a good deal, we present a variety
of facts and statistics, in the course of our work, to shew by way of
contrast, not only what Pittsburgh — but Wheeling, Erie, Cieaveland,
Chambersburgli, and a number of flourishing towns and cities, were
in our early days, and what, by their real business, they are now.
Fa(?ts that will shew, that in about forty years, our own time, these
United States, and especially our range and portion of it, have ex-
ceeded in growth, population, improvement, and wealth, any nation
on the face of the earth; for we remember well during the embargo
times and last war, when the internal trade and commerce of Pittsburgh,
by the Ohio, western, and southern rivers, brought us comparatively
nigh to Wheeling, Cincinnati, Louisville, Nashville, St. Louis, Nat-
chez, and New Orleans — but the slow process of keel boats and
barges was such, that it consumed almost a whole summer for a trip
down and up, — when all was done by the hardy boatman, with the
pole or by warping, — and when a barge arrived, with furs from St.
Louis, cotton from Natchez, hemp, tobacco, and saltpetre from Mays-
ville, or sugar and cotton from New Orleans and Natchez, it was a
wonder to the many, and drew vast crowds to see and rejoice over it;
and the internal commerce during the v/ar, allied us closely with
Richmond, Baltimore, Philadelphia and New York, these cities get-
thig much of their sugar, saltpetre, &c., by boats and wagons, through
Pittsburgh, which then did an immense carrying trade for the United
States.

Since the steam boats, canals, turnpikes, rail roads, and other pub-
lic improvements have afforded vast additional facilities for supplying
the great, wide-spread, and wonderful West with goods and manu-
factures of all kinds, and transporting her rich and inexhaustless sup-
plies of tobacco, lead, iron, cotton, sugar, molasses, flour, furs, pel-
tries, &.C. &c. to the eastern cities, who, we ask, can measure, count,
or estimate the immense magnitude of this trade in future years and
ages, as the country teems with her millions upon millions of sober,
intelligent, industrious, productive citizens, and her rich prolific soil;
and especially, in times such as we have seen and passed through;
wars in Europe, and wars in our own country, and our foreign trade
and commerce, embargoed and cut up ?

EARLY STATISTICS OF PITTSBURGH.

1768. South-western portion of western Pennsylvania purchased

from the Indians.
Commencement of Indian wars in western Pennsylvania.
1775. Land east of the Allegheny river, to the west branch of the

Susquehannah, open for settlement; and mostly taken up

by rapacious speculations.



Letter of Hon. Jilhert Gallatin. 309

1792. West of the Allegheny river in Pennsylvania open for set-
tlement.

1795. Treaty of Greenville and cessation of Indian hostilities.

1804. Pittsburgh magazine commenced.

1807. Pittsburgh has but one glass-house, one air-furnace, fifty
stores, four nail factories (worked by liand,) no steam en-
gines employed. Houses, 767. Population, 4,740.

1813. Houses, 958.

1817. Pittsburgh has five glass-houses, four air-furnaces, one hun-
dred and nine stores. Manufactures four hundred tons of
nails by steam.

Eight steam engines moving mills.
1,303 houses; 8,000 inhabitants.
March IS. — Organized under city charter.
Steamer New Orleans burnt at New Orleans.
Steamer Franklin and Bufialo built.



Treasury Department, October 9, 1801.

Sir — The President of the United States having thought proper
to appoint you a Commissioner under the fourth section of an act
of Congress, passed March 3d, 1801, entitled "An Act giving a
right of pre-emption to certain persons who have contracted with
John Cleves Symmes, or his associates, for lands lying between the
Miami rivers, in the Territory of the United States, north-west of the
Ohio," I enclose to you herewith a commission for that purpose.

The duties to be performed and the compensation to be allowed to
you therefor, being fully detailed in the act above recited, I shall only
remark, that as the commissions will not arrive in time to admit of
the three weeks notice required by the law, all practicable means
should be employed to apprise the parties concerned of the appoint-
ment of the commissioners, as well through the medium of the news-
paper published at Cincinnati, as by handbills posted up in the neigh-
boring districts. As it will be proper, however, that the commission-
ers should act in concert in this and all other matters confided to
them, I beg leave to recommend that a meeting be immediately held
for that purpose. I am, very respectfully, sir.

Your obedient servant.




William Goforth, Esq , at Cincinnati.



310 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF ISAAC WILLIAMS.

CHAPTER. I.
Early reminiscences should be preserved — Isaac Williams' birth and adventures — A distress-
ing occurrence — Settlement and explorations — Land entries — ^Marries Rebecca Martin—
Her prowress — Her medical skill — Their wedding — Indian troubles.

To US who are now enjoying the benefits of the toils and dangers
of the early explorers and pioneers of the valley of the Ohio, there
ought to be no more pleasant employment than that of recounting
their exploits, and preserving the remembrances of their names. It is
a duty we owe to their memory. Amongst that hardy list of adven-
turers, on the left bank of the Ohio, I know the name of no one
more worthy of preservation than that of Isaac Williams.

He was born in Chester county, Pennsylvania, the 16th day of July,
1737. While he was quite a boy his parents moved to Winchester,
Virginia, then a frontier town. Soon after this event his father died,
and his mother married Mr. Buckley. When he was about eighteen
years old, the colonial government employed him as a ranger, or spy,
to watch and observe the movements of the Indians, for which his
early acquaintance with a hunter's life eminently fitted him. In this
capacity he served in the army of general Braddock. He also formed
one of the party who guarded the first convoy of provisions to Fort
Du Quesne, after its surrender to general Forbes in 1758. The stores
were carried on pack horses over the rough declivities of the moun-
tains, continually exposed to the attack of the Indians, for which the
deep ravines and narrow ridges of the mountain ranges afforded
every facility. After the peace made with the Indians in 1765, by
colonel Bouquet, the country on the waters of the Monongahela be-
gan to be settled by the people east of the mountains. Amongst the
early emigrants to this region were the parents of Mr. Williams,
whom he conducted across the mountains in 1768, but did not finally
locate himself in the west till the following year, when he settled on
the waters of Buffalo creek, near the present town of West Liberty.
He accompanied Ebenezer and Jonathan Zane, when they explored
and located the country about Wheeling, in 1769. Previous to this
period, however, he made several hunting excursions to the waters of
the Ohio.

In returning from one of these adventurous expeditions in company
with two other men in the winter of 1767, the following incident be-
fell him. Early in December, as they were crossing the glades of the
Allegheny mountains, they were overtaken by a violent snow storm.
This is always a stormy cold region, but on the present occasion the



Locates himself on Buffalo Creek. 311

snow fell to the depth of five or six feet, and put a stop to their
further progress. It was followed by intensely cold weather. While
confined in this manner to their camp, with a scanty supply of food
and no chance of procuring more by hunting, one of his companions
was taken sick and died, partly from disease and partly from having
no food but the tough indigestible skins of their peltry, from which
the hair had been signed off at the camp fire and then boiled in their
kettle. Soon after the death of this man, his remaining companion,
from the difficulty of procuring fuel, became so much frozen in the
feet that he could render Mr. Williams no further assistance. He
contrived, however, to bury the dead man in the snow. The feet
of this man were so badly frosted that he lost all his toes and a part
of each foot, thus rendering him entirely unable to travel for a period
of nearly two months. During this time their food consisted of the
few remnants of their skins, and their drink of melted snow. The
kind heart of Mr. Williams would not allow him to leave his friend
in this suffering condition while he went to the nearest settlement for
aid, lest he should be attacked by wild beasts or perish for want of
sustenance. With a patience and fortitude that would have awarded
him a civic crown in the best days of the chivalrous Romans, he re-
mained with his helpless friend until he was so far restored to health
as to enable him to accompany him in his return to his home. So
much reduced was his own strength, from starvation and cold, that it
was many months before his usual health was restored.

In 1769, he became a resident of the western wilds, and made his
home on the waters of Buffalo creek. Here he found himself in a
wide field for the exercise of his darling passion, hunting. From his
boyhood he had displayed a great relish for a hunter's life, and in this
employment he for several years explored the recesses of the western
wilds, and followed the water courses of the great valley to the mouth
of the Ohio ; and from thence along the shores of the Mississippi to
the banks of the turbid Missouri. As early as the year 1770 he
trapped the beaver on the tributaries of this river, and returned in
safety with a rich load of furs.

During the prime of his life he was occupied in hunting and in
making entries of lands. This was done by girdling a few trees and
planting a small patch of corn. This operation entitled the person to
four hundred acres of land. Entries of this kind were very aptly
called "Tomahawk improvements." An enterprising man could
make a number of these in a season, and sell them to persons who,
coming later into the country, had not so good an opportunity to
select prime lands as the first adventurers. Mr. Williams sold many of



312 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.

these "rignts" for a few dollars, or the value of a rifle gun, which
was then thought a fair equivalent, of so little account was land then
considered; and besides, like other hunters of his day, thought wild
lands of little value except as hunting grounds. There was, howev-
er, another advantage attached to these simple claims; it gave the
possessor the right of entering one thousand acres of land adjoining
the improvement, on condition of his paying a small sum per acre in-
to the treasury of the state of Virginia, These entries were denom-
inated "pre-emption rights," and many of the richest lands on the
left bank of the Ohio river are now held under these early titles. As
Virginia then claimed all the lands on the north-west side of the Ohio,
many similar entries were made at this early day on the right bank,
and also on the rich alluvions of the Muskingum, as high up as the
falls — one tract, a few miles above Marietta, is still known as " Wise-
man's bottom," after the man who made a "tomahawk entry" at
that place. After the cession of the lands or the territory north-west
of the river Ohio to the United States, these early claims were for-
feited.

While occupied in these pursuits, he became acquainted with Re-
becca Martin, the daughter of Mr. Joseph Tomlinson, of Grave creek,
then a young widow, and married her in October, 1775. Her former
husband, John Martin, had been a trader among the Indians, and
was killed on the Big Hockhocking in the year 1770. A man by the
name of Hartness, her uncle on the mother's side, was killed with him
at the same time by the Shawanee Indians. As a striking proof of
the veneration of the Indians for William Penn and the people of his
colony, two men from Pennsylvania who were with them were spared.
The two killed were from Virginia. The fact is referred to by lord
Dunmore, in his speech at the Indian treaty near Chillicothe, in the
year 1774. Mr. Williams accompanied Dunmore in this campaign,
and acted as a ranger until its close.

By this marriage Mr. Williams became united to a woman whose
spirit was congenial to his own. She was born the 14th of February,
1754, at Will's creek, on the Potomac, in the province of Maryland,
and had removed with her father's family to Grave creek in 1771.
Since her residence in the western country, she had lived with her
brothers, Samuel and Joseph, as their house keeper, near the mouth
of Grave creek ; and for weeks together, while they were absent on
tours of hunting, she was left entirely alone. She was now in her
twenty -first year ; full of life and activity, and as fearless of danger as
the man who had chosen her for his companion. One proof of her
courageous spirit is related by her niece, Mrs. Bukey. In the spring



Mrs. Williams' Medical Skill. 313

of the year 1774, she made a visit to a sister, who was married to a
Mr. Baker, then living on the Ohio river opposite the mouth of Yel-
low creek. It was soon after the time of the massacre of Logan's
relatives at Baker's station. Having finished her visit, she prepared
to return home in a canoe by herself, the traveling being chiefly done
by water. The distance from her sister's to Grave creek was about
fifty miles. She left there in the afternoon, and paddled her light
canoe rapidly along until dark. Knowing that the moon would rise
at a certain hour she landed, and fastening the slender craft to the
willows, she leaped on shore ; and, lying down in a thick clump of
bushes, waited patiently the rising of the moon. As soon as it had
cleared the tops of the trees and began to shed its cheerful rays over
the dark bosom of the Ohio, she prepared to embark. The water
being shallow near the shore, she had to wade a few paces before
reaching the canoe ; when just in the act of stepping on board, her
naked foot rested on the dead cold body of an Indian, who had been
killed a short time before ; and which, in the gloom of the night, she
had not discovered in landing. Without flincliing or screaming, she
stepped lightly into the canoe, with the reflection that she was thank-
ful he was not alive. Resuming the paddle she reached the mouth
of Grave creek in safety early the following morning.

Walter Scott's Rebecca, the Jewess, was not more celebrated for
her cures and skill in treating wounds, than was Rebecca Williams
amongst the honest borderers of the Ohio river. About the year
1785, while living a short time at Wheeling, on account of Indian
depredations, she, with the assistance of Mrs. Zane, dressed the
wounds of Thomas Mills, who was wounded in fourteen places by
rifle shots. He with three other men were spearing fish by torch.
light about a mile above the garrison when they were fired on by a
party of Indians secreted on the shore. Mills stood in the bow of the
canoe holding a torch, and, as he was a fair mark, received the most
of the shots — the others escaped unhurt — one arm and one leg were
broken in addition to the flesh wounds. Had he been in the regular
service with plenty of surgeons, he probably would have lost one or
both limbs by amputation. But this being out of the question here,
where no surgeon could be procured, these women, with their fomen-
tations and simple applications of slippery elm bark, not only cured
his wounds, at the time deemed impossible, and restored him to
health, but also saved both his limbs. Many years after this, while
the writer of this article was attending on a man with a compound
fracture of the leg from the kick of a horse, and who was lying near
her residence, she was present at one of the dressings, and related
Vol. 1—2 P 27



314 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.

several of her cures in border times. She said her principal dressings
were made of slippery elm, the leaves of stramonium, or " jimson,"
and daily ablutions with warm water.

Their marriage was as unostentatious and as simple as the man-
ners and habits of the party. A traveling preacher happening to
come into the settlement, as they sometimes did, though rarely, they
were married without any previous preparation of nice dresses, bride
cakes, or bride maids — he standing up in a hunting dress, and she
in a short gown and petticoat of homespun, the common wear of the
country.

In the summer of 1774, the year before her marriage, she was one
morning busily occupied in kindling a fire preparatory to breakfast,
with her back to the door on her knees puffing away at the coals. Hear-
ing some one step cautiously on to the floor, she looked round and be-
held a tall Indian close to her side. He made a motion of silence to
her, at the same time shaking his tomahawk in a threatening manner
if she made any alarm. He, however, did not offer to harm her ; but
looking carefully round the cabin he espied her brother Samuel's rifle
hanging on the hooks over the fire place. This he seized upon, and
fearing the arrival of some of the men hastened his departure without
any further damage. While he was with her in the house, she pre-
served her presence of mind and betrayed no marks of fear ; but no
sooner was he gone, however, than she left the cabin and secreted
herself in the corn till her brother came in. Samuel was lame
at the time, but happened to be out of the way ; so that it is prob-
able his life might have been saved from this circumstance. It
was but seldom that the Indians killed unresisting women or child-
ren, except in the excitement of an attack and when they had met
with opposition from the men. In 1777, two years after their mar-
riage, the depredations and massacres of the Indians were so fre-
quent that the settlement at Grave creek, now consisting of several
families, was broken up. It was the frontier station, and lower on
the Ohio than any other, above the mouth of the Big Kenawha. It
was in this year that the Indians made their great attack on the fort
at Wheeling. Mr. Williams and his wife, with her father's family,
Mr. Joseph Tomlinson, moved on to the Monongahela river above
Redstone, old fort. Here he remained until the spring of the year
1783, when he returned with his wife and Mr. Tomlinson to their
plantations on Grave creek. Iti the year 1785, he had to remove
again from his farm into the garrison at Wheeling.
( To be continued.)



Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign. 315



DAILY JOURNAL OF WAYNE'S CAMPAIGN,

From Juhj 2S(h to November 2d, 1794, including an account of the memor-
able battle of 20th ^^ugust.

Fort Gree)iville — where we were employed in erecting huts, and
remained mitil the 2Sth July, 1794.

Camp at Stillwater, 2SthJy/y, 1794, — Agreeable to the general
order of yesterday, the legion took up their line of march at eight
o'clock, and encamped at half past three on the bank of Stillwater,
twelve miles from Greenville, The weather extremely warm — water
very bad. Nothing occurred worth noticing.

Camp one mile in advance of Fort Recovery, 29th July, 1794, —
At five o'clock left the camp — arrived on this ground at one o'clock,
being fifteen miles. Nothing took place worth reciting,

I am now informed that tracks were perceived on our right
flank, supposed to be runners from the Oglaize,

Camp Beaver Swamp, eleven m.iles in advance of Fort Recov-
ery, 30(h July, 1791, — This morning the legion took up the line of
march, and arrived here at 3 o'clock. The road was to cut, as will be
the case on every new route we take in this country. The weather
still warm — no water except in ponds, which nothing but excessive
thirst would induce us to drink. The musquetoes are very trouble-
some, and larger than I ever saw. The most of this country is cov-
ered with beech, the land of a wet soil intermixed with rich tracts,
but no running water to be found.

A bridge to be built over this swamp to-morrow, which prevents
the march of the legion till the day after. We are informed there is
no water for twelve miles.

July 31, 1794, — Commenced building the bridge, being seventy
yards in length, which will require infinite labor; it will be five feet
deep, with loose mud and water.

One hundred pioneers set out this morning, strongly escorted, to
cut a road to the St, Mary's river, twelve miles. I expect the bridge
will be completed so as to march early in the morning.

Camp St. Mary's River, 1st ^iugust, 1794. — Proceeded on our
way before sun-rise, and arrived at this place at three o'clock, being
twelve miles as aforesaid. Our encampment is on the largest and
most beautiful prairie I ever beheld, the land rich and well timbered ;
the water plenty but very bad — the river is from forty-five to fifty
yards wide, in which I bathed, I am told there is plenty offish in it.

Jiugust 2nd, 1794, — The legion detained here for the purpose of
erecting a garrison, which will take up three days. This day one of



316 Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign.

the deputy quarter-masters was taken up by the Indians. Our spies
discovered where four of the enemy had retreated precipitately with
a horse, and supposed to be the party the above person had been
taken by. It is hoped he will not give accurate information of our
strength.

August Srd, 1794. — An accident took place this day by a tree fall-
ing on the commander-in-chief and nearly putting an end to his exis-
tence ; we expected to be detained here some time in consequence of
it, but fortunately he is not so much hurt as to prevent him from
riding at a slow pace.

No appearance of the enemy to-day, and think they are preparing
for a warm attack. The weather very hot and dry, without any
appearance of rain.

Camp thirty-one miles in advance of Fort Recovery, 4th August,
1794. — The aforesaid garrison being completed, lieutenant Underbill,
with one hundred men, left to protect it; departed at six o'clock and
arrived here at three o'clock, being ten miles. The land we marched
through is rich and well timbered, but the water scarce and bad ;
obliged to dig holes in boggy places and let it settle.

Camp forty -four miles in advance of Fort Recovery, 5th August,
1794. — We arrived at this place at four o'clock, nothing particular
occurring. The land and water as above described — ^had some rain
to-day.

Camp fifty -six miles from Fort Recovery, 6th August, 1794. —
Encamped on this ground at two o'clock. In the course of our
march perceived the track of twenty Indians. I am informed we are
within six miles of one of their towns on the Oglaize river, supposed
to be the upper Delaware town. If so I expect to eat green corn to-
morrow.

Our march this day has been through an exceeding fine country,
but the water still bad — the day cooler than heretofore.

Camp sixty-eight miles from Fort Recovery, 1th August, 1794.
— This day passed the upper town on the Oglaize, which the Indians
evacuated some time ago. I expect to see one of their new towns,
where I am told there are all sorts of vegetables, which will be very
acceptable to the troops. We have had no appearance of Indians
to-day.

Camp Grand Oglaize, 8th August, 1794. — Proceeded on our march
to this place at five o'clock this morning, and arrived here at the con-
fluence of the Miami and Oglaize rivers at half past ten, being seven-
ty-seven miles from Fort Recovery. This place far excels in beauty
any in the western country, and believed equalled by none in the



Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign. 317

Atlantic States. Here are vegetables of every kind in abundance,
and we have marched four or five miles in cornfields down the
Oglaize, and there is not less than one thousand acres of corn round
the town. The land in general of the fir nature.

This country appears well adapted for the enjoyment of indus-
trious people, who cannot avoid living in as great luxury as in any
other place throughout the states, nature having lent a most bounti-
ful hand in the arrangement of the position, that a man can send the
produce to market in his own boat. The land level and river naviga-
ble, not more than sixty miles from the lake.

The British have built a large garrison about fifty miles from this
place, and our spies inform us that the enemy are encamped about
two miles above it on the river.

Grand Oglaize, 9th August, 1794. — We remain here. — The com-
mander-in-chief has ordered a garrison to be erected at the conflu-
ence of the Miami and Oglaize rivers, which was begun this morning,
and will take up some time ; by this means the troops will be much
refreshed, as well as the horses and cattle, the latter being much
wearied and in need of a recess of labor. No appearance of an
enemy.

Grand Oglaize^ lOM August, 1794. — The troops in good spirits.
No interruption from, or account of, the enemy. We have plenty of
vegetables. One of our militia officers wounded by his own sentinel
by mistake.

Grand Oglaize, Wth August, 1794. — Nothing occurs to prevent
the completion of our work.

[Here were a few leaves lost out of the manuscript, to my great regret.—
Editor American Pioneer.']

Took up their line of march, and at one arrived on this ground
without any occurrence. Our camp is situated in sight of Snaketown,
on the Miami of the Lake. Vegetables in abundance.

Camp nineteen miles from Oglaize, 16th August, 1794. — Our
march this day was through a bushy ground, and the road generally
bad. Miller (the flag) returned this day from the enemy with infor-
mation from the tribes, that if the commander-in-chief would remain
at Grand Oglaize ten days they would let him know whether they
would be for peace or war.

Camp thirty -one miles from Camp Oglaize, 11 th August, 1794.^
This day a small party of the enemy's spies fell in with ours; both
parties being for discoveries, they retreated, at which time the en,
amy fired and wounded one of our horses. Our camp, head of the
Rapids.

27*



318 Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign.

Camp forty -one miles from Grand Oglaize^ 18M August, 1794. —
The legion arrived on this ground, nothing particular taking place.
Five of our spies were sent out at three o'clock — they fell in with an
advanced body of the enemy, and obliged to retreat ; but May, one of .
our spies, fell under the enemy's hold. What his fate may be must
be left to future success.

Camp Deposit, I9th August, 1794. — The legion still continued in
encampment, and are throwing up works to secure and deposit the
heavy baggage of the troops, so that the men may be light for action,
provided the enemy have presumption to favor us with an interview,
which if they should think proper to do, the troops are in such high
spirits that we will make an easy victory of them.

By this morning's order, the legion is to march at five o'clock.

Camp in sight of a British gai^rison, on the Miamis of the Lake,
August 20, 1794 — one hundred and fifty miles from Greenville. —
This day the legion, after depositing every kind of baggage, took up
the line of march at 7 o'clock, and continued their route down the
margin of the river, without making any discovery, until eleven
o'clock, when the front guard, which was composed of mounted vol-
unteers, were fired on by the enemy. The guard retreated in the ut-
most confusion through the front guard of the regulars, commanded
by captain Cook and lieutenant Steele, who, in spite of their utmost
exertion, made a retreat. These fell in with the left of captain How-
ell Lewis' company of light infantry and threw that part of the men
into confusion, which captain Lewis observing, he ordered the left of
his company to retreat about forty yards, where he formed them and
joined the right, which had stood their ground. They continued in
this position until they were joined by part of captain Springer's bat-
talion of riflemen, which was nearly fifteen minutes after the firing
commenced, who drove the enemy that had attempted to flank us
on the right. Nearly at the same time, the right column came up,
and the charge was sounded — the enemy gave way and fired scatter-
ing shots as they run off".

About the time the right column came up, a heavy firing took place
on the left, which lasted but a short time, the enemy giving way in
all quarters, which left vis in possession of their dead to the number
of forty. Our loss was thirty killed and one hundred wounded.
Among the former we have to lament the loss of captain Miss Camp-
bell of the dragoons, and lieutenant Henry B. Fowles of the 4th sub-
legion; and of the latter, captains Prior of the first, Slough of the
fourth, and Van Rensselaer of the dragoons, also lieutenant Campbell
Smith of the fourth sub-legion. The whole loss of the enemy cannot



Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign. 319

at present be ascertained, but it is more than probable it must have
been considerable, for we pursued them with rapidity for nearly two
miles. As to the number of the enemy engaged in this action, opin-
ions are so various, that I am at a loss to know what to say ; the most
general opinion is one thousand five hundred, one third of which are
supposed to be Canadians ; I am led to believe this number is not
over the mark. After the troops had taken some refreshment, the le-
gion contiimed their route down the river, and encamped in sight of
the British garrison. One Canadian fell into our hands, who we load-
ed with irons.

Camp Foot of the Rapids, 2\st August, 1794. — We are now ly-
ing within half a mile of a British garrison. A flag came to the com-
mander-in-chief, the purport of which was that he, the commanding
officer of the British fort, was surprised to see an American army so
far advanced in this country ; and why they had the assurance to en-
camp under the mouths of his Majesty's cannons ! The commander-
in-chief answered, that the affair of yesterday might well inform him
why this army was encamped in its present position, and had the fly-
ing savages taken shelter under the walls of the fort, his Majesty's
cannons should not have protected them.

Camp Foot of the Rapids, 22d Jiugust, 1794. — We have destroy-
ed all the property within one hundred yards of the garrison. The
volunteers were sent down eight miles below the fort, and have de-
stroyed and burnt all the possessions belonging to the Canadians and
savages. The commander-in-chief led his light infantry within pistol
shot of the garrison to find out the strength and situation of the place,
and in hopes of bringing a shot from our inveterate but silent enemies.
They were too cowardly to come up to our expectations, and all we
got by insulting the colors of Britain, was a flag, the amount of which
was, that the commanding officer of the fort felt himself as a soldier
much injured, by seeing his Majesty's colors insulted, and if such
conduct was continued, he would be under the necessity of making a
proper resentment ; upon which the commander-in-chief demanded
the post, it being the right of the United States, which was refused.
A small party of dragoons were sent over the river to burn and de-
stroy all the houses, corn, &c. that were under cover of the fort,
which was effected.

Camp Deposit, 23d »dugust, 1794. — Having burned and destroyed
every thing contiguous to the fort without any opposition, the legion
took up the line of march, and in the evening encamped on this ground,
being the same they marched from the 20th. It may be proper to
remark that we have heard nothing from the savages, or their allies



320 Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign.

the Canadians, since the action. The honors of war have been paid to
the remains of those brave fellows who fell on the 20th, by a dis-
charge of three rounds from sixteen pieces of ordnance, chained with
shells. The ceremony was performed with the greatest solemnity.

Camp Thirty -two Mile Tree, 24tk August, 1794. — The wounded
being well provided for with carriages, &c,, the legion took up the line
of march, and halted in their old camp about two o'clock in the even-
ing without any accident. In this day's march we destroyed all the
corn and burnt all the houses we met with, which were very consid-
erable.

Camp Fifteen Mile Tree, 25th August, 1794. — The legion contin-
ued their march, and encamped on this ground at three o'clock P. M.
This morning a few of the volunteers remained in the rear of the
army ; and soon after the legion took up their line of march they
saw eight Indians coming into our camp ; they fell in with them, kill-
ed one and wounded two.

Camp Nine Mile Tree, 26th August, 1794. — The legion continued
their march, and after burning and destroying all the houses and corn
on their route, arrived on this ground at two o'clock, being one of
our encamping places when on our advance.

All the wounded that were carried on litters and horseback were
sent forward to Fort Defiance. Doctor Carmichael through neglect
had the wounded men of the artillery and cavalry thrown into wag-
ons, among spades, axes, picks, &c., in consequence of which the
wounded are now lying in extreme pain, besides the frequent shocks
of a wagon on the worst of roads. The wounded of the third sub-
legion are under obligations to doctor Haywood for his attention and
humanity to them in their distress.

Camp Fort Defiance, 21th August, 1794. — The legion continued
their route, and at three o'clock were encamped on the Miami, one
mile above the garrison. On this day's march we destroyed all the
corn and burnt all the houses on our route, the wounded are happily
fixed in the garrison, and the doctors say there is no great danger of
any of them dying.

Fort Defiance, 2Sth August, 1794. — The commander-in-chief thinks
proper to continue on this ground for some time, to refresh the troops
and send for supplies. There is corn, beans, pumpkins, &c., within
four miles of this place, to furnish the troops three weeks.

General orders. — The quarter master general will issue one gill of
whisky to every man belonging to the federal army, (this morning,)
as a small compensation for the fatigues they have undergone for sev-
eral days past. Major general Scott will direct his quarter masters to



Daily Journal of Waynt's Campaign. 321

attend accordingly with their respective returns. The commander-in-
chief wishes it to be fairly understood, that when he mentioned, or
may mention the federal army in general orders, that term compre-
hends and includes the legion and mounted volunteers as one com-
pound army, and that the term legion comprehends the regular troops,
agreeable to the organization by the president of the United States,
and by which appellation they are known and recognized on all occa-
sions, when acting by themselves, and separate from the mounted
volunteers. As the army will probably remahi on this ground for
some time, vaults must be dug, and every precaution taken to keep
the encampment clean and healthy.

The legion will be reviewed the day after to-morrow at ten o'clock.
In the interim the arms must be clean and varnished, and the clothing
of the soldier repaired and washed, to appear in the most military
condition possible ; but in these necessary preparations for a review,
great caution must be used by the commanding officers of wings, not
to permit too many men at one time to take their locks off, or to be
engaged in washing.

All the horses belonging to the quarter master and contractors' de-
partment, in possession of the legion, must be returned this afternoon.

This is the first fair day that we have had since we began to return
to this place, it having rained nearly constant for five days, which
was the occasion of fatiguing the troops very much.

Fort Defiance, 29th Jiugust, 1794. — We are as yet encamped on
this ground ; all the pack-horses belonging to the quarter master and
contractors' department, moved this morning for Fort Recovery, escort-
ed by brigadier-general Todd's brigade of mounted volunteers, for the
purpose of bringing supplies to this place. It is said the legion will
continue in their present camp until the return of this escort. Our
spies were yesterday twelve miles up this river, and they bring in-
formation that the cornfields continue as far as they were up the river.

Fort Defiance, 30th August, 1794. — This day at ten o'clock, the
commander-in-chief began to review the troops at the posts occupied
by the different corps, and I am led to believe that he was well pleas-
ed at their appearance. Major Hughes, captain Slough, captain Van
Rensselaer, and lieutenant Younghusband, obtained a furlough to go
home to repair their healths, being, as they pretended, very much in-
jured by the service.

I believe the two first and the last mentioned, if they never return
will not be lamented by the majority of the army.

The out-guards were much alarmed this morning at the mounted
volunteers firing ofi" all their arms without our having any notice.

Vol. 1—2 Q



322 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

Head Quarters, 3\st August, 1794. General orders. — A general
court-martial to consist of five members, will set to-morrow morning
at ten o'clock, for the trial of such prisoners as may be brought before
them. Major Shaylor, president, lieutenant Wade, judge advocate.
■ The disorderly and dangerous practice of permitting the soldiery to
pass the chain of sentinels, on pretext of going after vegetables, can
no longer be suffered. In future, on issuing day, oniy one man from
each mess, properly armed, and commanded by the respective sub-le-
gionary quarter masters, will be sent as a detachment for vegetables,
to march at seven o'clock in the morning.

The pack-horses shall forage daily under protection of a squadron
of dragoons ; every precaution must be taken to guard against sur-
prise. Any non-commissioned officer or soldier found half a mile
without the chain of sentinels, without a pass signed by the command-
ing officer of wings or sub-legion, or from head quarters, shall be
deemed a deserter, and punished accordingly. Every sentinel suffer-
ing a non-commissioned officer or private to pass without such writ-
ten permit, except a party on command, shall receive fifty lashes for
each and every violation of this order.

A fatigue party of three hundred non-commissioned officers and
privates, with a proportion of commissioned officers, will parade at
seven o'clock to-morrow morning, furnished with one hundred axes,
one hundred picks, and one hundred spades and shovels, with arms,
commanded by major Burbeck.

A part of this order was in consequence of three men of the first
sub-legion being either killed or taken by the enemy, when out a for
aging, which was done some time since, in a very disorderly man
ner, at the same time liable to the attacks of the enemy, without hav
ing it in their power to make the smallest resistance.

To be continued.



^■^•^^^■O-^^ ^^ ^^.jTVsr,^—



EARLY INCIDENTS OF BUFFALO— BUFFALO HARBOR.

NUMBER VII.

About twenty-five laborers were immediately collected, the pile-
driver prepared for use, and a line of piles driven, two hundred feet
from the pier, on the north side of that part of the channel which
was obstructed. Two harbor-scows were made fast to these piles,
and a platform of timber and plank extended over them. Four cap-
stans were set up in these scows about twenty feet apart, and each
rising a sufficient distance above the platform to receive four bars,



Buffalo Harbor. 323

eight feet long. While this was in preparation, scrapers were formed
of a single oak plank, eight feet long and twenty inches wide, the
lower edge bevelled and faced with a thin bar of iron. They were
finished like the common scrapers used by farmers in improving and
smoothing the roads, with the addition of iron braces, and a rod of
iron through the scraper near the lower edge, which passed through
the pole or scantling by which it was drawn. On the upper end of
the brace was a screw to regulate the scraper, which was loaded with
iron to sink it, and connected by a strong rope with the windlass. A
rope attached to the back part of the scraper, and extending to the
pier, completed the simple machinery with which it was proposed to
remove the gravel. Two men stationed on the pier could, by the
small ropes, pull back the four scrapers as fast as they could be drawn
home by the men at the four windlasses, each of which was worked
by four men at the levers, and one to handle the rope. The men
could Avork dry, but the labor was excessively exhausting. The ex-
periment succeeded admirably, and other capstans were prepared for
use. The weather the first three days proved favorable, and the
heavy lujbroken body of ice which covered the lake, prevented all
interruptions from the waves. The progress made in removing the
sand was most encuuraging, and there appeared no doubt that by in-
creasing the scrapers the channel could be opened before the first of
May. But to effect this the work must be continued every working
day without regard to the weather. Piles were put down, and a raft
of timber substituted for scows on which to erect more capstans. Sa-
turday night came, and the workmen were dismissed until Monday
morning. During the night a heavy gale set in, and increased in
violence until about noon on the Sabbath when the ice began to break up,
and the lake to rise. Soon the ice was in motion, and driving in from
the lake, was carried up the creek with such force as to destroy the
scows and all the fixtures. The pile-driver, being securely fastened
by strong rigging to the piles, it was hoped would remain safe, but
the fasts gave way, and it was driving towards shore where it could
scarcely escape destruction. As the breaking up of the ice would
make it impossible to work the capstan on rafts, put in motion by the
swell to which they would be exposed, scaffolds raised out of the
way of the water must be substituted, and these could not possibly
be built without piles. It was therefore all important to save the
pile-driver. It was saved by the extraordinary exertions of two in-
dividuals who (making their way to it by the aid of two boards each,
which they pushed forward alternately over the floating ice agitated
by the swells,) succeeded in fastening it with a hawser to a pile near



324



Early Incidents of Buffalo.



which it was floating. This was not done without imminent hazard
to the men, who, several times losing their position on the board,
came near being crushed by the moving mass of ice.

The scow being secured, the anxious and disheartened citizens and
workmen retired to their homes.

Any community less inured to disappointments and adversity
would now have given up in despair. The very elements seemed to
have conspired against them. The gale was frightful, and in the
afternoon was accompanied by a heavy fall of snow : the water was
high, and ice driving with violence on to the flats.

Monday morning the wind had subsided, but the weather was cold
and still stormy. A general meeting of the citizens was convened,
to whom the superintendent stated the extent of the damage, the pro-
bable time it would take to repair it, the amount of funds requisite
to complete the work, and his entire confidence in ultimate success.
He, however, refused to resume the work until sufficient funds were
provided. As the liability to pay a hundred and fifty dollars a day
would soon attach, the importance of a united and speedy efl'ort was
more sensibly felt. The meeting was fully attended, not only by
those who were liable on the bond, but by many young mechanics
and others. Dr. Johnson, John G. Camp and Dr. Chapin, were chos-
en a committee to obtain and collect subscriptions.

The following is a list of the names and sums subscribed :



Ebenezer Johnson, in goods at cash




1


John Root,


25 00


price, $110 00


Jahez Goodell, in labor, provisions,




Sylvester Mathews, in bread,


25


00


&c.


25 00


James Reed,


12


50


H. M. Campbell, in hats or labor,


25 00


EUsha Wilhams, in labor or goods,






Hart & Cunningham, in goods.


50 00


by H. B. Potter,


50


00


Sheldon Chapin, in goods.


50 00


Wm. Mason, in beef,


5


00


J. D. Hoyt, in boots and shoes,


50 00


Joseph Stocking,


25


00


A. James, in goods,




S. G. Austin,


12


50


P. G. Jenks,


5 00


G. & T. Weed, (including sub-






R. B. Heacock & Co. horse $15,




scription a few days since) dona-






goods $35,


50 00


tion,


20


00


Thomas Quigly, in labor,


12 50


O. Newberry,


20


00


Timothy Page,


5 00


Ezekiel Folsora, in meat from the






Thomas More,


2 00


market,


12


50


Martin Daley, in labor.


6 25


Samuel Wilkeson,


100


00


A. Bryant, in goods and clothing,


.50 00


Townsend & Coit,


100


00


H. R. Seymour,


50 00


H. B. Potter, cash $50, brick $25,


75


00


Nathaniel Vosburgh, saddlery,


12 50


E. F. Norton,


50


00


F. B. Merrill, in labor,


25 00


Moses Baker, in labor or blacksmith






John E. Marshall,


25 00


work.


50


00


D. M. Day,


12 50


Thomas C. Love,


25


00


Z. Piatt,


6 25


John G. Camp, in cash or labor,


50


00


E. Walden, in goods.


100 00


William Ketchum, $20 cash, $30 in






J. Guiteau, in labor or cash,


12 50


hats.


50


00


Cyrcnius Chapin,


100 00


John A. Lazell,


25


00


James Demaresl, in saddlery.


5 00


Lucius Gold, in labor.


50


00


D. Henion, 100 lbs. pork, when call-




Samuel A. Bigelow, in goods or






ed for.




labor.


25


00


W. T. Miller, in fresh meat at mar-




Wm. Folsom, in labor,


25


00


ket in Buffalo village,


50 00



Buffalo Harbor. 325

Selden Davis, 5 00 | Zachariah Griffin, 10 barrels of lime

William Hodge, in labor or materials, 25 00 | to be delivered in Buffalo, 6 25

Velorus Hodge, in work or materials, 5 00 i Alvin Dodge, in team work and



Benjamin Hodge, in lumber, 5 00

William Long, a certain brown cow,
with a white head, to be apprais-
ed by commissioners of Harbor
Association.
Roswell Rosford, in produce or pro-



manual labor, 10 00

H. A. Salisbury, in produce and hats, 12 50

Hiram Pratt, in goods, 25 00

Erastus Gilbert, in shoes and boots, 25 00

" libl. pork, 10 00

cash, 2 50



visions, 5 00 Oliver Coit, one crow-bar, $3, cash $5, 8 00

W. W. Gnapin, in team work, 10 00 Joseph Dart, Jr. in hats, 10 00

' Benjamin Caryl, in pork, 25 00

These subscriptions amounted to S 1,361 25, exclusive of the cow
and pork, the whole of which was paid except ^110. The provi-
sions and goods were paid to the workmen without loss, but on much
of the otiier property, (which was sold at auction) there was an aver-
age loss of about thirty -seven and a half per cent.

The means being secured to prosecute the work, the laborers were
called together, and the afternoon of Monday was spent in collecting
from the wreck, scrapers, capstans, rigging, &c. and preparing to re-
sume the work. The weather was as uncomfortable as it well could
be. Indeed, from the commencement of the gale until the middle of
April, there were but two days without snow or rain.

Note — The writer discovers that injustice has inadvertently been done to Mr. George
Coit, in not connecting his name with that of judge Townsend, in the responsibilities assum-
ed, and moneys advanced for the construction of the harbor.

NUMBER Vni.

Tuesday morning two rows of piles were put down, on which to
erect platforms in place of scows and rafts, which had been destroyed.
These platforms were raised several feet above the water to protect
the workmen from the spray of the swells which broke against the
piles. Six scrapers were got in motion during the day, and notwith-
standing the laborers were exposed to a heavy rain, rapid progress
was made in removing the sand. Although the heavy swells, which
continued to roll in from the lake, rendered it difficult to keep
the empty scrapers in line, yet they carried the sand, removed
from the channel, towards the shore, and prevented its accumulation.

The necessity of improving all the time was such, that the laborers
were required to breakfast in season to appear on the beach by sun-
rise ready to be carried out to the platforms. Cooked provisions were
taken with them for dinner, which each man ate when he pleased
standing in the storm. They continued their work without returning
to the shore until dark. The labor was so hard, and the exposure so
great, that it was difficult to obtain the necessary help ; indeed, it
would have been impossible but for the labor furnished by the citi-

28



326 Early Incidents of Buffalo.

zens — many of whom sent their hired men for a day or more until
their places could be supplied.

The excavation commenced near the outer end of the pier, and
progressed towards the shore, deepening the channel to eight feet.
By the 15th of April much more than half of the work was accom-
plished, and every doubt as to the practicability of completing it re-
moved.

The steamboat was rapidly advancing to completion. The builder
(who from the first had despaired of seeing the channel opened by
the means resorted to) on examining the work and measuring the
water in the yet obstructed part of the channel, pronounced the whole
scraping process useless, and proposed that the channel of the creek
should be confined by planks, extending from the shore into deep
water, believing that the water thus confined would produce a cur-
rent which would soon do what the scrapers could never do — open a
good channel. These opinions and plans communicated to the citi-
zens, created a feverish excitement, which the superintendent had no
opportunity to allay, as he was confined to the work.

The committee which had been charged with the duty of raising
the fund for carrying on the work, deemed themselves entitled to
direct its expenditure. A majority of them (influenced by the boat-
builder) insisted on the immediate construction of the board fence,
(for such in fact it was) which he had suggested. Piles supplying
the place of posts, and planks sharpened at one end and driven into
the sand, the upper end spiked to a rail, was lo form the whole of this
proposed structure. And such was the confidence in its success, that
it was with difficulty the committee could be prevailed on to let the
scraping be continued. The board work was put down in two days,
and proved, as was anticipated by the superintendent, to be totally
useless. A heavier swell than usual setting in, broke it up and re-
moved it out of the way. The scraping then was relied on as the
only hope of opening a passage for the boat, which would be ready
in a few days to leave the creek.

Although the weather became good the latter part of April, and
the work was prosecuted with the utmost diligence, yet the first of
May came while there was still a few rods of the channel in which
only about six and a half feet of water had been gained. As con-
siderable work yet remained to be done on the boat, and no loss or
inconvenience could accrue to the owners in allowing a few days to
deepen the channel, yet no time could be obtained. The boat was
put in motion, and fortunately the pilot, captain Miller, having made
himself acquainted with what channel there was, ran her out into the



T. S. Hinde's Letter. 327

lake without difficulty. The bond was cancelled. The boat was,
however, light; and when fully loaded would require much more
water. The scraping was therefore continued.

When the boat was finished, the citizens were invited to take an
excursion on the lake. It was feared that if the boat should be deep-
ly loaded with passengers, she would ground in the new made chan-
nel. Although this would be a trifling occurrence in itself, yet cir-
cumstances had recently occurred which led them to regard the ex-
periment with the deepest anxiety. An act had passed a few days
before, authorizing the canal board to contract for the construction of
a harbor at Black Rock, which, if completed, might secure the term-
ination of the canal at that place, and supercede Buffalo harbor. The
subject was to be acted by the canal board in a few days, and even
so trifling an incident as the grounding of a steamboat might influ-
ence their decision, and deprive Buflalo of the fruits of all her toils
and exertions in building a harbor.

An eff'ort was therefore made to either postpone the steamboat ex-
cursion, or limit the number of passengers, but in vain. Neither the
captain, nor a majority of the citizens, could appreciate the solicitude
of the few. The whole village crowded on board, and the boat
grounded. This was the more mortifying, as many of our Black
Rock friends were on board, who had always predicted our failure.
But after a few minutes delay in landing some of the people on the
pier, the boat moved forward, went along side of the pier, took on
the passengers, and proceeded up the lake, with bugles sounding and
banners flying.



•****N*##^^^**^V»»—



Mount Carmel, Illinois, May 6, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir — Your extra was placed in my hands on yesterday. 1
have just returned from the East, having visited the Atlantic cities
generally for the first time, after forty-five years pioneering in the wild-
erness of the West. I have been three times a citizen of Kentucky,
twice of Ohio, and twice of Illinois. I was neighbor to Daniel Boon,
the first whiteman that fortified against the Indians in Kentucky. In
October, 1797, I saw him on pack horses take up his journey for Mis-
souri, then upper Louisiana. Subsequently I became neighbor to
Simon Kenton, who was the second or third man who fortified against
the Indians at Washington, Kentucky. Perhaps Harrod's station was
fortified before his.



/328 T. S. Hinde's Letter.

In February last I fell in company with Wm. Smith, who told me
of all the survivors of the first settlers of Ohio, at Marietta in 1788,
as follows : Wm. Smith himself, of Gallia county, Ohio ; Hezekiah
Flint, of Cincinnati, Ohio ; Porter, of Duck creek, Washington county,
Ohio; Allen Duval, of some county; Jarvis Cutler, of Nashville, Ten-
nessee. Mr, Cutler was at one time a partner of Nathaniel Massie,
whose character as a pioneer stands high in Ohio. In 1788, Mr.
Smith knew every man, woman, and child, in Ohio.

In December, 1S34, in traveling through Indiana, I fell in with
Jacob Davis, of Bartholomew county, who informed me that at ten
years of age he was with his father on a trading expedition among
the Indians; was there prior to 1774, when lord Dunmore made his
treaty at Camp Charlotte, on Sippo, on old Winn Winship's farm. He
told me that the Indian chief Logan, had attempted to associate the
Missouri and Mississippi Indians against the whites. Mr. Davis says
he was present at the council when the messengers returned from the
west, and gave an account of their proceedings. Like Tecumseh, they
failed to arrive in time ; the Indians were defeated on the 10th of Oc-
tober, 1774, at Point Pleasant, by the left wing of Dunmore's army.
This brought on the treaty of Camp Charlotte. Logan was lying
down in a trader's tent, in a sullen mood, with his elbow on the ground
and cheek on his hand, looking on the ground, and would not attend
the treaty. He got a trader to write a note to lord Dunmore, which
forms the celebrated speech. General Simon Kenton built his last
cabin for him; and captain James M'Pherson, of Logan coimty,
was adopted as chief in his place.

According to Ben Kelly, Tecumseh's adopted brother, who was
five years in Blackfish's family, Tecumseh was born near Xenia, on
Mr. Saxon's lot, near a spring. I was in a treaty with him at Chil-
licothe, in 1807, while Thos. Kirker, the acting governor, presided, and
took down Tecumseh's speech for my nephew, captain R. D. Rich-
ardson, then editor of the Fredonian ; also, I took down the speech of
]31ue Jacket. Tecumseh was then raising a breeze. My paper would
fail to tell all, and for the present I must cease. At another time I
shall take pleasure in communicating more for your work. Having
seized upon facts, I hope your work will receive a support equal to
its merits.

Yours, very respectfully.




Second Trip to the West. 329

SECOND TRIP TO THE WEST— LOGAN.

BY FELIX RENICK, ESQ.

CONTENTS.
Introduction — Object and commencement of the trip — Difficulties on the Hockhocking, and
directions from an old pioneer — Dillicultics at the falls of Scotch creek — Arrival at Sippo
creek — Camp Charlotte and Westfall — Dunmore's treaty — Conduct of Logan — Witnes-
ses — Indian frolic — Logan kept aloof from it,

Jno, S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir, — Agreeably to promise, I now proceed to give you a
sketch of a second trip to the West. I cannot give all the incidents,
without needlessly filling the pages of the Pioneer. But I will give
the leading features of this trip, the main or most particular incident
of which was my being thrown upon Camp Charlotte, or Old Camp
Ground, as it is usually called.

Early in 1801, I set out from the south branch of the Potomac, in
company with Jonathan Renick and two hired hands, with the inten-
tion of raising a crop on Darby creek. The land belonged to Jona-
than and my brother Thomas Renick. We came out also with a
view of purchasing land at the congress sales, which were to take
place in the ensuing May at Chill ico the.

We had each a packhorse besides those we rode, loaded with farm-
ing utensils, ploughs, axes, hoes, &c., not forgetting a little provender
for ourselves, on which our hired hands occasionally rode, in bad
roads and in crossing water. We crossed the Ohio at the mouth of
the Little Kanawha, and took a trace leading to the Hockhocking, a
few miles below the falls of that river, mtending to go up to Zane's
trace, where the town of Lancaster now stands, thence with that trace
to the Scioto valley. Where we struck the Hocking, an old pioneer
had squatted the year before, and raised a small crop for the support
of himself and family, in the way of bread stuff, depending on his
rifle and dog for the balance. He informed us that the river was
entirely too high to be forded, and that we could not pmsue our
intended route up it, without crossing it several times, or encoimter-
ing several rough hills on either side. We were therefore under the
necessity of waiting until the river ran down, or getting over it the
best way we could, and striking our course through the woods for the
Scioto. We preferred the latter. We partook of the old man's hos-
pitality that night, and with his assistance swam our horses across
the river, and got our baggage over in a small canoe or dug-out, and
prepared to pursue our journey. He told us to go up the Hocking a
short distance, and to leave it where Dunmore's trace left it, which
he said was much the best way to get over the high rough hills,
Vol. L—3 R 38 *



330 Second Trip to the West.

between the Hocking and the Scioto. He also told us that we would
have to cross Scotch creek before we turned off from the Hocking,
and that in the present stage of the creek, there was but one place
we could cross it without swimming, which was on the falls, where
the creek poured over a smooth rock, and fell some twenty or more
feet perpendicularly into a large deep basin below, which covered
more than an acre of ground. He said it would look frightful, but
that there would be no danger, as it would be little, if any, more than
belly deep to our horses.

We took leave of our pioneer friend, and following his directions,
found the crossing of Scotch creek, as he described it, a really frightful
looking place. The muddy water, pouring over the rock into the
basin, agitated the whole of the water, and lashed it into a foam,
which gave it the appearance of a huge kettle of dirty water ready
to boil over. Its appearance had the effect to frighten one of our
hands so much, that he declared he never would venture into such a
horrible looking place. He said we would most assuredly be swept
off into the pool below, and that would be the last of us. He was a
large, six foot two, athletic looking fellow, who had been frequently
boasting on the way, of his power at fisticuff, and what he would do
with the Indians, should it be his good fortune to come into contact
with any of them. We used all the means in our power to prevail
on him to enter the creek with ns, but to no effect. We finally got
out of all patience with him, and as he was mounted on my pack-
horse, I bid him in very rough language to dismount and give me the
bridle, and stay or go where he pleased, for we had no use for such
a miserable coward as he was. lie did as I bid him, and the rest of
us put into the creek and crossed in safety. After we got over he
made sonje signs fur one of us to return and bring him over, to
which we paid no attention. This might be thought by some to par-
take too much of inhumanity ; but the pioneers of that day will bear
me out hi saying that the fate of a notorious coward was less regard-
ed than that of a faithful dog.

We pursued our route up the Hocking, and diverging from it agree-
ably to the directions of the pioneer, we got off the rough ground,
which divides the Hocking from the Scioto valley, as well as we
expected, and camped that night on the branches of Sippo creek, a
branch of the Scioto. About the time we were striking up our camp,
our brave fisticuff, Indian killing man, came up with us. Some snow
havhig fallen that day, enabled him to follow us; but how he got
over Scotch creek he never would tell. Should any ask what became
of him, I will say that in the summer following, there was a report in.



Logan's Speech. 331

circulation, that the Indians were about to combine and come down
the Scioto in a body, in order to rob the receiver's oflice, in Cliilii-
cothe. The captain in that district gave his men notice to be ready
at a moment's warning to defend the country. Our big man told the
captain he would give him bail that he would be ready; and he was
as good as his word, but it was leg-bail, and the next we heard of
him, he had topped the Alleghanies, and was descending the eastern
slope. Where or when he stopped I never knew.

Next day we pursued Dunmore's trace down the creek, and in a
few hours came upon Camp Charlotte. The encampment was then
very visible. The appearance was, that much labor had been spent
in its erection. Many of the tent poles were still standing. I believe
Dr. Winship now owns the land where the camp was. After leaving the
camp, we steered for the Scioto river, where the town of Westfall now
is, and then supposed to be about six or eight miles from Camp Charlotte.

From the best information I have been able to obtain, Camp Char-
lotte cannot claim to be the place where Logan delivered his cele-
brated speech. Logan did not come into camp at the request of Dun-
more, as most of the other chiefs did, to participate in concluding a
treaty. Dunmore (as was then suspected, and afterwards well under-
stood,) was very anxious to conciliate and obtain the good will of
the Indians toward the British government, fearing a rupture between
that government and the colonies. He sent a messenger with some
associates to invite Logan into camp. Some accounts say, that a Mr.
Clark was the principal messenger, others say that it was colonel
Gibson, which seems well established in the appendix to Jefferson's
Notes on Virginia. These messengers, agreeably to orders, sought
and found Logan in his camp, on the west bank of the Scioto river ;
which accounts, most to be relied on, state to have been where the
above named town of Westfall now stands.

Logan indignantly refused going into camp, or having any thing
to do with the treaty, saying that Logan was no counselor — Logan
was a warrior; but after having some conversation with the messen-
ger, he delivered the celebrated speech to him, and requested it to be
taken to Dunmore.

My first information on this subject, which is corroborated by what
I have since learned in this country, I obtained from an uncle and
two of our nearest neighbors on the south branch, the elder cap-
tain Daniel M'Neil, and captain James Parsons, who all served in
Dunmore's campaign, and also from W^illiam Renick, Sen'r., of
Greenbriar, Virginia, who was taken prisoner, when a youth, some
years previous to Dunmore's war, and resided at that time among



332 Second Trip to the West.

the Indians at the Pickaway plains, in Logan's very neighborhood.
One of these towns was on each side of the Sippo creek, immedi-
ately east of the road from Chillicothe to Circleville. He was then
reclaimed, with other prisoners, and returned to Virginia. Captain
Parsons informed me that he was at the town where Logan then
resided, and where he delivered his speech. He called it Chi-le-coth-e,
(sounding each syllable as it would detached from the rest,) and sev-
eral times related the manner and circumstances of his getting there.

Captain Parsons said that in consequence of Logan's, and perhaps
one or two other chiefs' refusing any participation in the treaty, Dun-
more was fearful they might have some evil designs, and ordered a
small posse of men over, to watch their movements, while the treaty
was in progress. When the treaty was brought to a close, a runner
was dispatched with the news to the men and Indians at Chillicothe,
and was conveyed with so much speed, that it reached Chillicothe
before it was promulgated in camp, and the moment it was received,
the white men and Indians commenced dancing and shooting as fast
as they could load and fire. The reports reached camp, and captain
Parsons and some of his men supposed a fight had commenced
between the Indians and men over the river. They flew to their
guns, and without further orders, took to their heels, with all speed,
to relieve, as they supposed, their fellow soldiers.

This specimen of insubordination may be accounted for by recur-
ring to the fact, that colonel Lewis encamped on Congo creek, near to
Westfall, and was for an Indian fight, whether or not. They were
sore from the battle at Kanawha, and it is said it was not till Dun-
more had drawn his sword on him, that he would give up the fight
and join the division at Camp Charlotte. The state of things will
perhaps be better understood, if it is considered that this was the
same year the tea was thrown overboard at Boston.

When they got to the river, the firing still continuing, they waded
over and crept up the bank very cautiously, determined to make sure
work with the first fire at least ; but to their surprise, they saw In-
dians and white men all mingled together in a real frolic. After join-
ing in and taking a few bouts with them, the captain and his men
returned to camp. If my memory is not very much at fault, he told
me that Logan held himself aloof, as well from this frolic as from the
treaty ground. You have now all the material facts, both as respects
the locality of Camp Charlotte, and in respect to where Logan deliv-
ered his speech. Very respectfully yours.



f^4^ c/tia^i>/t



Benjamin Sharp's Letter. 333



MR. SHARP'S LETTER.

fVarren County, Missouri, June 15(h, 1842.
Mr. Jno. S. Williams,

Dear Sir — In the year 1776, about the time American indepen-
dence was declared, all that part of West Virginia now contained in
the counties of Wythe, Smyth, Washington, Russell, Lee, and Scott,
with the adjoining counties in North Carolina (now Tennessee) of
Sullivan and Washington, were broken up and the inhabitants driven
into strongholds. About the last of June or first of July, the traders
fled from the Cherokee nation with the alarming news, that the Indi-
ans were coming in great force, and in a few days would break into
the settlements. A few of the militia, perhaps one hundred and fifty
or two hundred, hastily assembled under the command of captains
James Thompson, James Shelby and William Cook, and proceeded to
the frontier house, about fifteen miles in advance of the settlement,
and begun to build a kind of stockade fort with fence rails ; but before
they could finish their fort their spies gave them notice that a large
Indian force was within a few miles. It was then debated, which
would be the most prudent, to await their coming in their crazy
fort or march out boldly and meet them in the woods. The latter
proposition prevailed, and before they had proceeded more than
five miles, they discovered nine or ten Indians, who threw down their
budgets and fled. This threw the men into disorder, curiosity draw-
ing them around the Indian plunder in a crowd ; but presently they
heard a noise like distant thunder, and looking round they saw the
whole Indian force running upon them at full speed — they made a
hasty retreat to a rising ground, where they rallied ; and the Indians
came running up with savage yells, as if intending to rush among
them with their tomahawks. A sharp engagement ensued, lasting
from one-half to three-quarters of an hour, when the Indians disap-
peared, as if by magic, leaving the whitemen masters of the ground.
Of the whites none were killed and only four slightly wounded.
Eleven or twelve Indians lay dead upon the field and many trails of
blood were found where the dead were carried off or the wounded
had escaped. My oldest brother and a brother-in-lav/ were in the
action.

A curious incident occurred during the engagement. An Alexan-
der Moore, a strong, athletic, active man, by some means got into
close contact with an Indian of nearly his own size and strength ; my
brother-in-law, William King, seeing Moore's situation, ran up to his
relief, but the Indian adroitly kept Moore in such a position that King



334 Benjamin Sharp's Letter.

could not shoot him without shooting Moore. The Indian had a
large knife suspended at his belt, for the possession of which they
both Struggled, but at length Moore succeeded and plunged it into the
Indian's bowels ; he then broke his hold and sprung off from Moore,
and King shot him through the head.

The victorious party now returned to the fort, and instantly dispersed
to take care of their own families and concerns. In the meantime
the whole settlements were breaking up and the people fleeing from
every quarter. We had collected some horses and loaded them with
such necessaries as we could hastily pack up, and about the middle
of the day my father, an old man, set off with them and the females
of the family to seek a place of safety, he knew not where. I was
despatched on foot to accelerate the escape of a brother's and sister's
families, the one living four and the other six miles directly toward
the point of danger. I was a little turned of fourteen years of age ;
the day was warm, but I was light and active and had no incum-
brance but my gun and shot-pouch, and I traveled rapidly.

On my arrival I found the families had fled, and I turned to pursue
my father. I had twelve miles to go to gain the great road, which I
did as the day was nearly closing. In my whole route I had not
seen a human face, but here the road was full of people moving hast-
ily along ; they were all strangers to me, but learning my situation
one man generously proposed to carry me behind him till I could re-
gain my friends or hear some intelligence of them. This offer I gladly
embraced, and after some time we came to the farm of a captain
Joseph Black, where Abington now stands, where we found four or
five hundred souls of all descriptions collected together to build a fort,
and here I found my connections.

The next day, when all hands were engaged in procuring materials
and building fort Black, we received the news of the battle of Long
Island, which gave us much encouragement, and business was sus-
pended till a prayer of thanksgiving was offered up by the Rev.
Charles Cummings, a Presbyterian minister. Not more than two or
three days after this a captain James Montgomery, who lived about
eight miles off, came to the fort ; he had concluded, with two other
families, to defend his own house, but not knowing what was going
on he had rode out to try to find some people or get some intelli-
gence. He was earnestly beset to bring the families instantly to the
fort, and men and horses were sent to assist him. They soon return-
ed with the families and some of their effects, and went back for
more, but to their surprise they found the houses plundered and all in
flames. They retreated hastily to the fort, and spies were appointed
and sent out — but for several days they made no discovery, but at



Incidents in the early history of Western Virginia. 335

length they came in one night after dark and reported that they had
discovered a fire on the bank of the river above Mongomeies, which
they supposed to be the Indian camp. An express was sent otf to
another fort, requesting their men to meet our men at a certain place
at a certain hour that night. A party set off witli tlie spies and was
met by the men from the other fort according to appointment, and
the spies conducted them to the spot. They cautiously surrounded
them from the river below to the river above them, with strict injunc-
tions to preserve a profound silence till the report of the captain's gun
should give the signal for a general discharge, and in this position
they waited for day. As soon as day had fairly dawned the Indians
arose and began to move about the camp, when the crack of the cap-
tain's ritie was followed by a well directed fire from every quarter ;
the Indians fled across the river, exposed all the way to the fire of the
whites ; if any fell or sunk in the river it was not known, but if I recol-
lect right eleven lay dead at and around the camp. The men crossed the
river and found various trails of blood, one of which they traced up
to where the fellow had crept into a hollow log ; they drew him out
by the feet and found him mortally wounded : he requested them by
signs to shoot him in the head, which request they granted.

When the men returned all safe, with the Indian spoils and scalps,
there was great rejoicing, and the scalps were suspended to a pole
and fixed as a trophy over the fort gate. But we did not enjoy this
triumph long, for shortly after a different scene took place. One morn-
ing three parties prepared to go out ; one in which were my father,
my two brothers, and two brothers-in-law, went early and was un-
molested ; they v/ent to visit some plantations twelve miles off', and
knew of nothing that had happened behind them, and did not return
till late at night. Of the other two, one went to a field about a mile
off, I think to secure some flax, and the other about the same distance
to the house of the Rev. Charles Cummings, to bring his books, and
some of his effects to the fort. Both these parties were attacked at
the same time in full hearing of the fort ; and here an undescribable
scene of disorder took place, the women and children screaming, wives
clinging to their husbands, mothers to their sons, and sisters to their
brothers, to prevent them from going out, and crowding the fort gate,
so that the men could hardly pass or repass. However a number of
the men broke through, and ran to the rescue as fast as possible, but
before they could arrive tlie Indians had done their work and were
gone ; one man was killed and one wounded in each party. A man
by the name of Blackburn, was shot, tomahawked, and scalped, and
yet was found alive, brought in, and recovered of his wounds. He
was a long time an object of compassion.

The gallantry of two young men in this affray deserves to be re-
corded here. William Casey had a sister, a beautiful little girl, about
sixteen years of age, along with the party at the field ; and as he was
running for his li(e, he discovered the Indians in close pursuit of his
sister; and at that moment his eyes falling upon another young man,
by the name of Robert Hasold, he called to him to come and help
him to save Nancy ; Hasold obeyed, and although there were four or
five Indians in pursuit, (some said seven,) they rushed between them



336 Benjamin Sharp's Letter,

and the girl, and by dexterously managing to fire alternately, still
keeping one gun loaded when the other was discharged, they kept the
Indians at bay till they gave up the pursuit, and they brought the girl
in safe. Such acts of generous bravery ought at all times be held up
as examples to our youth. Ever after, these two young men stood
prominent in society.

During the summer several murders were committed; two men
were killed almost in sight of the neighboring fort, who had gone out
to bring up their horses. Of two men who went with an express
from fort Black, one was killed and the other made his escape. It had
been early determined to carry an expedition into the Indian country ;
and troops begun to assemble at the Long Island, the place of rendez-
vous, and build a fort, which was called fort Henry. A company was
enrolled at fort Black, and taken under pay, to guard the fort and es-
cort the provision and baggage wagons going to, and returning from
the rendezvous. In this company I engaged, which was the first of
my military service.

I think some time in November, the army, one thousand five hun-
dred, or two thousand strong, under the command of colonel William
Christian, of Virginia, moved on the Indian towns. I cannot recol-
lect that this army killed any Indians, or took any prisoners; but they
burned down ail their villages, destroyed their corn, and every article
of subsistence they could find, which reduced them to such a state of
starvation, that before spring they sent in a flag for peace, which re-
sulted in the treaty of the Long Island, in 1777.

I attended this treaty only one day, and that before the conferences
begun, and can report nothing of my own knowledge ; I will only
mention an oratorical figure in a speech of the Raven, the principal
Indian chief. A great many Indians with their squaws and children
had collected, and were quartered in the island, surrounded by a guard
to prevent improper intercourse with the whites; but notwithstanding
this precaution, some abandoned fellow shot across the river and kill-
ed an Indian. This produced great confusion ; the Indians thought
they were betrayed, and prepared to fly, and it was with much exer-
tion the ofiicers and commissioners could convince and pacify them.
Afterwards when the council met, the Raven opened the conference
on the part of his people by a speech, in which he reverted to the case
of the murdered Indian. He said, lest that unhappy affair should
disturb the harmony and sincerity that ought to exist at that time be-
tween the white and red brethren, each party ought to view it as hav-
ing happened so long ago, as if when the Indian was buried an acorn
had been thrown into his grave, which had sprouted and grown, and
become a lofty spreading oak, sufficiently large for them to sit under
its shade, and hold their talk. This speech was much talked of at
the time, and many thought it equal to any thing in the celebrated
speech of Logan. Thus ended the first Cherokee war.

I am, with much esteem, &c.



Jno. S. Williams, Esq.




AME RICAN PION EER.

JDcDotcb to tl)c ^rutl) anlr lustkc of ijistorji.
VOL. I. OCTOBER, 1842^ NO. X.

FORTIFICATIONS AT MARIETTA.

In the frontispiece our readers are presented with a plat or ground view of
the ancient fortification upon the site now occupied by the city of Marietta,
Ohio. This survey or sketch is a copy of, perhaps, the first that was ever
made of those works of antiquity, which are found throughout the West, to
which even conjecture cannot point out the time when, by whom, or for
what purpose, these time-worn structures were reared. They are overgrown
by the largest timber, and the tradition of the Indians throw little light on
the subject.

The sketch now presented has been compared with later ones, and found to
be correct. It is valuable on account of its early date. We have added an
outline of some of the streets of Marietta. It was presented for the Ameri-
can Pioneer by a venerable correspondent of Massachusetts, with the follow-
ing explanation.

Northampton, Massachusetts, May, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir. — I have a copy of a drawing of the Indian antiquities
taken five years previous to that of fort Harmar, by judge Oilman,
(1785.) Should the sketch be acceptable, it can be introduced into
any of the forthcoming numbers of the American Pioneer. The
plat, of which this is a copy, was presented to the Rev, Ezra Stiles, D.
D., president of Yale college, and at his request copied by me, then a
member of the college, to be preserved in the archives of Yale col-
lege, as a memento of olden time, and the early history of the state
of Ohio.

Trees of immense size grow on every part of these works, and tra-
dition itself fails to point out the time when these works were con-
structed. Military gentlemen, who have seen these uncommon forti-
fications, say that no modern engineers could have chosen situations
more proper for defense than these, where artillery is excepted.

References. — No. 1, Town. No. 2, The fort. No. 3, The great
mound and ditch. No. 4, The advance work. No. 5, Indian
graves. No. 6, Covered way from the town to the then locahty of
the river, which is supposed at that time to have ran along the edge
of the second bottom. These walls are now twenty feet high, and

330



340 Ancient Mound at Marietta.

the graded road between them was one hundred feet wide, and beau-
tifully rounded like a modern turnpike. No. 7, A second covered
way with walls of less elevation. No. 8, Caves. No. 9 and 10, ele-
vated squares. These works were interspersed with many small
mounds as represented in the drawings. Scale of drawings sixty -six
feet to the inch.

The town and fort is on a high and second bottom, a strip of low
bottom occupying the front between the works and the Muskingum,
which runs nearly parallel with the south-east wall of the town, and
very nearly parallel with the edge of the second bottom, and say one
hundred and fifty yards in advance of it. A branch of Tiber creek
occupies the rear, and partially separates the works from the adjacent
highlands.

The draft was copied by me for president Stiles, more than half a
century ago, and has been seen by thousands who have evinced great
curiosity. At this distance of time I cannot recollect who presented
the original to president Stiles, but believe it was either general Pit-
nam or Mr. Lyman. Respectfully yours,



^£'i'tP u./<f/nj^cyuf



ANCIENT MOUND AT MARIETTA.

[See Frontispiece.]

This beautiful mound is located near the southern border of the
elevated plain, on which are reared those venerable relics of a by
gone race, and which early attracted the notice of the first explorers
of the valley of the Ohio. They have often been described by vari-
ous writers, and especially in the Archseologia AmericaBua, which
is devoted to the history of American antiquities. The object of the
present article is not to describe the whole of these works, but only
« the mound," which beautiful structure is considered the pride and
ornament of Marietta. The venerable and worthy men, who were
the directors of the Ohio company, and superintended the platting of
the city of Marietta, viewing with admiration this beautiful specimen
of the arts amongst the ancient proprietors of this region, reserved a
square of six acres around the mound, and appropriated it to the use
of a burying ground, thus giving a hallowed aspect to the spot, and
preserving it from the violation of private individuals. It yet remains
in all its pristine beauty, a monument of the industry and arts of the
ancient inhabitants of the valley, and a lasting memento of the classic



tdncient Mound at Marietta. 341

taste of the directors of the Ohio company. Every provision was
also made that could be, for the protection of the two elevated squares,
or truncated pyramids, about half a mile north-west of the mound,
by appropriating three acres around each of them as public squares,
and placing them under the authority of the future mayor and corpo-
ration of the city. They also remain uninjured; while some of the
parapets of the ancient fort and city have been dug away in grading
the streets, and in some instances by individuals, when they fell with-
in their inclosures ; but to the credit of the inhabitants, it may be said,
that the old works have been generally preserved with more care,
than in any other town in Ohio. " The mound," a drawing of which
accompanies this article, was, when first measured, fifty years since,
about thirty feet in height ; it is now only about twenty-eight feet.
It measures one hundred and thirty yards around the base, and should
be one hundred and thirty feet in diameter. It terminates not in a
regular apex, but is flat on the top, measuring twenty feet across it.
The shape is very regular, being that of a cone, whose sides rise at
an angle of forty-five degrees. It stands in the centre of a level area,
which is sixty-six yards in diameter. This is surrounded by a ditch
one hundred and ninety-seven yards in circumference ; it is now
about four feet deep, and ten feet wide at lop, sloping evenly and re-
gularly from the top of the parapet, and inner edge of the ditch to
the bottom. Outside the ditch is a wall of earth, being apparently
that thrown out of the ditch, and elevated about four feet above the
adjacent surface of the earth. The parapet is two hundred and thirty-
four yards in circumference. On the north side is an avenue, or open-
ing of fifteen feet in width, through the parapet, across which no ditch
is dug. A {e\Y rods north, in a line with the gateway or opening,
are three low mounds; tlie nearest is oblong or elliptical, sixty feet
in length, and about twenty in width, with an elevation of six or
eight feet in the centre, tapering gradually to the sides. These
mounds communicate with the fort, as seen in the old plan. The par-
apet, ditch, circular area, and mound itself, are now covered with a
vivid and splendid coat of green sward of native grasses, Avhich pro-
tects them from the wash of the rain. There are several beautiful
oaks growing on the sides of the mound. When first noticed by the
settlers, it was covered with large forest trees, some of them four feet
in diameter. A few years since, sheep were allowed to pasture in
the cemetery grounds. In their repeated and frequent ascents of the
ground, they had worn paths in its sides, down which the wintry
rains taking their course, cut deep channels, threatening in a few
years to ruin the beauty of the venerable structure, if not to destroy

29*



342 Ancient Mound at Marietta.

it entirely. Some of the more intelligent inhabitants of Marietta, ob-
serving its precarious state, set on foot a subscription for its repair,
and for building a new fence, and ornamenting the grounds with
shade trees. Four hundred dollars were raised by subscription, and
four hundred were given by the corporation, and a very intelligent
man appointed to superintend the work. Three hundred dollars went
to the mound, and five hundred to the fencing, planting trees, and
opening walks, &c. IncUned planes of boards were erected, on which
to elevate the earth in wheel-barrows. At this day it would require
a sum of not less than two thousand dollars to erect a similar mound
of earth. At the same time a flight of forty-six stone steps, was laid
on the north side, making an easy ascent to the top. A circular seat
of plank is built on the summit, protected in the outer edge by locust
posts, with iron chains from post to post. The view from this eleva-
tion is one of the finest in the country, commanding a prospect of
eight or nine miles up and down the Ohio river, with a broad range
over the hilly region which skirts the Muskingum. No examination
has been made by digging, to discover the contents of this mound,
with the exception of a slight excavation into the top, many years
ago, when the bones of two or three human skeletons were found.
The public mind is strongly opposed to any violation, or disfiguring
the original form of this beautiful structure, as well as of the old
works generally. Several curious ornaments of stone and copper
have been brought up at various times in digging graves in the adja-
cent grounds.

From the precaution taken to surround this mound with a ditch
and parapet which was probably crowned also with palisades, it has
been suggested that it was a place of sacrifice, and the defenses for
the purpose of keeping off the common people, while the priests were
engaged in their sacred offices. There is yet a wide field for some
ChampoUion to exercise fiis ingenuity in developing the period and
uses of these erections in the West, by analogies and comparisons
with those of South America and Mexico.



.^^ d* J(/7ZcOiZ/ZZj



---•^•-•rfsr^^^ '^



Liberty. — Liberty must be limited in order to be possessed. The degree
of restraint it is impossible in any case to settle precisely. But it ought to
be the constant aim of every wise public council, to find out, by cautious
experiments, and rational, cool endeavors, with how little, not how much, of
this restraint the community can subsist. For liberty is a good to he improv-
ed, and not an evil to be lessened. — Burke.



Capture of John Wetzel. 343



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF ISAAC WILLIAMS.

CHAPTER II.
Capture of John Wetzel — His release — Williams settles opposite Fort Hanner — New settle-
ments — Great famine among the settlers — The benevolence of our hero — Famine ends —
Beaver trapping — Peculiarities in Mr. Williams' character — His death.

Some time in the spring of the succeeding year he had the follow-
ing adventure with the Indians.

John Wetzel, a younger brother of Lewis, the celebrated Indian
hunter, then about sixteen years old, with a neighboring boy of about
the same age, was in search of horses that had strayed away in the
woods, on Wheeling creek, where the parents of John resided. One
of the stray animals was a mare with a young foal, belonging to
John's sister, and she had offered the colt to John, as a reward for
finding the mare. While on this service, they were captured by a
party of four Indians, who having come across the horses, had seized
upon them, and placed them in a thicket, expecting that their bells
would attract the notice of their owners, and they should then easily
capture them or take their scalps. The horse was ever a favorite ob-
ject of plmider with the savages ; as not only facilitating his own
escape from pursuit, but also assisting him in carrying off the spoil. The
boys hearing the well known tinkle of the bells, approached the spot
where the Indians lay concealed, congratulating themselves on their
good luck in so readily finding the strays, and were immediately seized
by the savages. John in attempting to escape was shot through the
arm. On their march to the Ohio, his companion made so much lam-
entation and moaning on the account of his captivity, that the Indians
dispatched him with the tomahawk, while John, who had once before
been taken prisoner and escaped, made light of it, and went along
cheerfully with his wounded arm.

The party struck the Ohio river early the following morning, at a
point near the mouth of Grave creek, and just below the clearing of
Mr. Tomlinson. Here they found some hogs, and killing one of them
with the rifle, put it into a canoe they had stolen. Three of the Indians
took possession of the canoe with their prisoner, while the other Indian
was busied in swimming the horses across the river. It so happened that
Isaac Williams, Hamilton Carr, and Jacob, a Dutchman, had come down
that morning from WheeUng, to look after the cattle and hogs left at
the deserted settlement at the mouth of the creek. While at the outlet of
Little Grave creek, about a mile above, they heard the report of a rifle
in the direction of the plantation. « Dod rot'em," exclaimed Mr. Wil-
liams, " a Kentuck boat has landed at the creek, and they are shooting



344 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.

my hogs." Immediately quickening their pace to a smart trot, they
in a few minutes were within a short distance of the creek, when
they heard the loud snort of a horse. Carr being in the prime of life,
and younger than Mr. Williams, was several rods ahead, and reached
the bank first. As he looked down into the creek, he saw three In-
dians standing in a canoe ; one was in the stern, one in the bow, and
one in the middle of the boat. At the feet of the latter lay four rifles,
and a dead hog; while a fourth Indian was swimming a horse across
the Ohio, a few rods from the shore. The one in the stern had his
paddle in the edge of the water in the act of turning and shoving the
canoe from the mouth of the creek into the river. Before they were
aware of his presence, Carr drew up and shot the Indian in the stern,
who instantly fell into the water. The crack of his rifle had scarcely
ceased, when Mr. Williams came on to the bank and shot the Indian
in the bow of the canoe, who also fell overboard as Jacob came up.
Carr dropped his own rifle, and seizing that of the Dutchman, shot
the remaining Indian in the waist of the boat. He fell over into the
water, but still held on to the side of the canoe with one hand. So
amazed was the last Indian at the fall of his companions, that he
never offered to lift one of the rifles which lay at his feet in self de-
fense, but acted like one bereft of his senses. By this time the canoe,
impelled by the impetus given to it by the first Indian, had reached
the current of the Ohio, and was some rods below the mouth of the
creek. Carr now reloaded his own gun, and seeing another man ly-
ing in the bottom of the canoe, raised it to his face in the act of firing,
when he seeing the movement called out, "don't shoot, I am a white-
man." Carr told him to knock loose the Indian's hand from the side
of the canoe, and paddle to the shore. In reply he said his arm was
broken and he could not. The current however set it near some rocks
not far from land, on to which he jumped and waded out. Carr now
aimed his rifle at the Indian on horseback, who by this time had reach-
ed the middle of the Ohio, The shot struck near him, splashing the
water on to his naked skin. The Indian seeing the fate of his com-
panions, with the bravery of an ancient Spartan, immediately slipped
from the back of the horse, and swam for the abandoned canoe, in
which were the rifles of the whole four warriors. This was in fact an act
of necessity, as well as of noble daring, as he well knew he could not
reach his country without the means of killing game by the way. He
also was aware that in this act there was little or no hazard, as his ene-
mies could not cross the creek without a canoe ; and to ford it, they
must run up it nearly a mile, and before that could be done he would
be out of their reach. He soon gained possession of the canoe, un-



Williams Settles opposite Fort Harmer. 345

molested, crossed with the arms to his own side of the Ohio, mount-
ed the captive horse which had swam to the Indian shore, and with
a yell of defiance escaped into the woods. The canoe was turned
adrift to spite his enemies, and was taken up near Maysville with the
dead hog still in it, which had caused the discovery by their shoot-
ing, and being the source of all their misfortunes.

It has been stated that Rebecca Martin, before her marriage to
Mr. Williams, acted as house-keeper for her brothers for several
years. In consideration of which service, her brothers, Joseph and
Samuel, made an entry of four hundred acres of land on the Virginia
shore of the Ohio river, directly opposite to the mouth of the Mus-
kingum, for their sister; girdling the trees, building a cabin, and
planting and fencing four acres of corn, on the high second bottom,
in the spring of the year 1773. They spent the summer on the spot,
occupying their time with hunting, during the growth of the crop.
In this time they had exhausted their small stock of salt and bread
stuff, and lived for two or three months altogether on boiled turkies,
which were eaten without salt. So accustomed had San\uel become
to eating his meat without this condiment, that it was sometime be-
fore he could again relish the taste of it. The following winter the
two brothers hunted on the Big Kenawha. Some time in March, 1774,
they reached the mouth of the river on their return. They were de-
tained here a few days by a remarkably high freshet in the Ohio nver,
which from certain fixed marks on Wheeling creek, is supposed to
have been fully equal to that of February, 1832. That year was long
known as that of Dunmore's war, and noted for Indian depredations.
The renewed and oft repeated inroads of the Indians, led Mr. Wil-
liams to turn his thoughts towards a more quiet retreat than that at
Grave creek. Fort Harmer, at the mouth of the Muskingum, having
been erected in 1786, and garrisoned by United States troops; he
came to the conclusion that he would now occupy the land belonging
to his wife, and located by her brothers as before noted. This tract
contained four hundred acres, and embraced a large share of rich al-
luvions. The piece opened by the Tomlinsons in 1773, had grown
up with young saplings, but could be easily reclaimed. Having pre-
viously visited the spot and put up log cabins, he finally removed his
family and effects thither, the twenty-sixth of March, A. D. 1787,
being the year before the Ohio company took possession of their pur-

_ chase at the mouth of the Muskingum.

i In the January following the removal to his forest domain, his wife
gave birth to a daughter, and was the only issue by this marriage. He
was now fifty-two years old, so that she might be called the child of his

Vol. 1—2 T



346 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.

old age. This daughter was named Drusilla, and married Mr. John Hen-
derson. She died when about twenty years old, leaving no issue. Soon
after the Ohio company emigrants had established themselves at Mariet-
ta, a pleasing and friendly intercourse was kept up between Mr. Wil-
liams and them ; and as he had now turned his attention more especial-
ly to clearing and cultivating his farm than to hunting, he was glad to see
the new openings springing up around him, and the rude forest chang-
ing into the home of civilized man. Settlements had been commenced at
Belprie and Waterford, the year after that at Marietta. As yet little
had been done in cultivating the soil ; their time was chiefly occupied
in building cabins and clearing the land.

From the destructive effects of an untimely frost in September of the
year 1 789, the crops of corn were greatly injured, and where late planted
entirely ruined. In the spring and summer of 1 790, the inhabitants be-
gan to suffer from a want of food, especially wholesome bread-stuffs.
The Indians were also becoming troublesome, and rendered it hazardous
boating provisions from the older settlements on the Monongahela, or
hunting for venison in the adjacent forests. Many families, especially at
Belprie, had no other meal than that made from musty or mouldy corn ;
and were sometimes destitute even of this for several days in succes-
sion. This mouldy corn commanded nine shillings, or a dollar and a
half a bushel ; and when ground in their hand-mills, and made into
bread, few stomachs were able to digest it, or even to retain it for a
few minutes. The writer of this article has often heard his early
friend, C. Devoll, Esqr., who was then a small boy, narrate with much
feeling his gastronimic trials with this mouldy meal made into a dish
called "sap porridge," and which when made of sweet corn meal,
and the fresh sacarine juice of the maple, afforded both a nourish-
ing and a savory dish. The family, then hving at Belprie, had been
without food for two days, when his father returned from Marietta,
just at evening, with a scanty supply of 'mouldy corn. The hand-
mill was immediately put in operation, and the meal cooked into sap
porridge, as it was then the season of sugar making. The famished
children swallowed eagerly the unsavory mess, which was almost as
mstantly rejected ; reminding us of the deadly pottage of the children
of the prophet, but lacking the healing power of an Elijah to render
it salutary and nutritious. Disappointed of expected relief, the poor
children went supperless to bed, to dream of savory food and plente-
ous meals, unrealized in their waking hours.

It was during this period of want, that Mr. Williams displayed his
benevolent feelings for the suffering colonists. From the circumstance
of his being in the country earlier, he had more ground cleared, and had



His Benevolence. 347

raised a large crop of several hundred bushels of corn. This he now
distributed amongst the inhabitants, at the low rate of three shillings, or
fifty cents a bushel, when at the same time he had been ofiered, and
urged to take a dollar per bushel, by speculators, for his whole crop ; for
man has ever been disposed to fatten on the distresses of his fellows.
" Dod rot'em," said the old hunter, " I would not let them have a
bushel." He not only parted with his corn at this cheap rate, but he
also prudently proportioned the number of bushels, according to the
number of individuals in a family. An empty purse was no bar to
the needy applicant ; but his wants were equally supplied with those
who had money, and a credit given untill more favorable times should
enable him to discharge the debt. Captain Jonathan DevoU, the fa-
ther of Charles DevoU, Esqr., now living at the mouth of the Big
Hockhocking, hearing of Mr. Williams' corn, and the cheap rate at
which he sold it, made a trip to Marietta, directly after the adventure
with the sap-porridge, to procure some of it. The journey was made
by land, and in the night, traveling on the ridges adjacent to the river,
as the stream itself was so swollen by the spring flood as to prevent
his traveling by water in a canoe. He chose to come in the night on
» account of the danger from Indians. The intrepidity of the man may
be estimated from his making this journey alone, a distance of twelve
or fourteen miles. He reached fort Harmer at day light. Major
Doughty, the commander, after giving him a warm breakfast, ordered
two soldiers to set him across the Ohio in the garrison boat. Mr. Wil-
liams treated him with much kindness, and after letting him have sev-
eral bushels of corn at the moderate rate of three shillings a bushel,
the usual price at that day in plentiful years, also furnished him with
his only canoe in which to transport it to his home. Captain Devoll
felt unwilling to take it, but he urged it upon him, saying he could
soon make another.

During this season of want, some of our present inhabitants,
who were then children, to this day relate, with what anxiety
from week to week they watched the tardy growth of the corn,
beans, and squashes, and with what delight they partook of the
first meal prepared from vegetables of their own raising. Disinterest-
ed benevolence, such as every one must admire in Mr. Williams, is
confined to no country, and to no age ; but flourishes with the great-
est vigor in the hut of the forester, and amidst the inhabitants of an
exposed frontier. Common danger creates a community of feeling
and of interest; and there is no doubt that our forefathers, could they
again speak, would say that the years passed by them in garrison,
and surrounded by dangers and privations, were some of the most



348 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.

interesting, if not the most happy of their lives. Mr, Williams re-
tained a relish for hunting to his latest years, and whenever a little
unwell, forsaking his comfortable home, would take his rifle and fa-
vorite old dog " Cap," accompanied by one of his black servants, re-
tire to the woods, and encamping by some clear stream, remain there
drinking the pure water, and eating such food as his rifle procured.
Medicine he never took, except such simple remedies as the forest
aff'orded. The untrodden wilderness was to him full of charms, and
before the close of the revolutionary war he had hunted over all parts
of the valley of the Ohio, sometimes with a companion, but oftener
alone. From his sedate manners, and quiet habits, the trapping of
the beaver was his most favorite pursuit. This was a great art
amongst the early pioneers and hunters of the west, and he who was
the most successful and adroit in this mystery, was accounted a fortu-
nate man ; it was many times quite lucrative, the proceeds of a
few months hunt often realizing three or four hundred dollars to the
trapper. Mr. Williams stood high in this branch of the hunter's oc-
cupations ; and few men could entrap more beavers than himself To be
a successful trapper required great caution as well as a perfect know-
ledge of the habits of the animal. The residence of the beaver was
often discovered by seeing bits of green wood, and gnawed branches
of the bass-wood, slippery elm, and sycamore, their favorite food, float-
ing on the water, or lodged on the shores of the stream below, as well
as by their tracks or foot marks. They were also sometimes discov-
ered by their dams, thrown across creeks and small sluggish streams,
forming a pond in which were erected their habitations. The hunter,
as he proceeded to set his traps, generally approached by water in
his canoe. He selected a steep, abrupt spot in the bank of the creek,
in which a hole was excavated with his paddle, as he sat in the canoe,
sufficiently large to hold the trap, and so deep as to be about three
inches below the surface of the water, when the jaws of the trap
were expanded. About two feet above the trap, a stick, three or four
inches in length, was stuck in the bank. In the upper end of this, the
trapper excavated a small hole with his knife, into which he dropped
a small quantity of the essence, or perfume, used to attract the beav-
er to the spot. This stick was attached by a string of horse hair to
the trap, and with it was pulled into the water by the beaver. The
reason for this was, that it might not remain after the trap was sprung,
and attract other beavers to the spot, and thus prevent their going to
where there was another trap ready for them. The scent, or essence,
was made by mingling the fresh castor of the beaver, with an extract
of the bark of the roots of the spice-bush, and kept in a bottle for



Mode of trapping Beaver. 349

use. The making of this essence was held a profound secret, and
often sold for a considerable sum to the younger trappers, by the older
proficients in the mystery of beaver hunting. Where they had no
proper bait, they sometimes made use of the fresh roots of sassafras,
or spice bush ; of both these the beaver was very fond. It is said by
old trappers that they will smell the well prepared essence the dis-
tance of a mile. Their sense of smell is very acute, or they would
not so readily detect the vicinity of man by the smell of his trail.
The aroma of the essence having attracted the animal into the vicin-
ity of the trap, in his attempt to reach it, he has to climb up on to the
bank where it is sticking. This effort leads him directly over the trap,
and he is usually taken by one of the fore legs. The trap was con-
nected by a chain of iron, six feet in length, to a stout line made of
the bark of the leatherwood, twisted into a neat cord, of fifteen or
twenty feet. These were usually fabricated at home or at their
camps ; cords of hemp or flax were scarce in the days of beaver
hunting. The end of the line was secured to a stake drove into the
bed of the creek under water. In his struggles to escape, the beaver
was usually drowned before the arrival of the trapper. Sometimes,
however, he freed himself by gnawing off his own leg, though this
was rarely the case. If there was a prospect of rain, or it was rain-
ing at the time of setting the trap, a leaf, generally of sycamore, was
placed over the essence stick to protect it from the rain. The beaver
being a very sagacious and cautious animal, it required great care in
the trapper, in his approach to its haunts to set his traps, that no scent
of his feet or hands was left on the earth, or bushes that he touched.
For this reason he generally approached in a canoe. If he had no
canoe, it was necessary to enter the stream thirty or forty yards below,
and walk in the water to the place, taking care to return in the same
manner, or the beaver would take alarm and not come near the bait,
as his fear of the vicinity of man was greater than his sense of ap-
petite for the essence. It also required caution in kindling a fire near
their haunts, as the smell of smoke alarmed them. The firing of a
gun, also often marred the sport of the trapper. Thus it will be seen
that to make a successful beaver hunter, required more qualities or
natural gifts, than fall to the share of most men. Mr. Williams was
eminently qualified for the caUing of a hunter, both by disposition
and by practice. He was a close observer of nature ; taciturn in his
manners, and slow and cautious in his movements : never in a hur-
ry, or flurried by an unexpected occurrence. In many respects he
was an exact portrait of Cooper's " beau ideal" of a master hunter,
so finely portrayed in " the Pioneer," and other back woods legends.

30



350 Biographical Sketch of Isaac Williams.

During the Indian war, from 1791 to 1795, he remained unmolested
in his cabin, protected in some measure from attack, by the Ohio river
and the proximity of fort Harmer, as well as by the stockade around
his own dwellings, which sheltered several families besides his own,
Mr. Williams seldom spoke of his own exploits, and when related,
they generally came from the lips of his companions. There was
only one situation in which he could be induced to relax his natural
reserve, and freely narrate the romantic and hazardous adventures
which had befallen him in his hunting and war excursions in all parts
of the western wilderness, and that was when encamped by the even-
ing fire, in some remote spot, after the toils of the day were closed,
and the supper of venison and bear meat finished. Here while re-
clining on a bed of fresh leaves, beneath the lofty branches of the for-
est, with no listener but the stars and his companion, the spirit of nar-
ration would come upon him, and for hours he would rehearse the
details of his youthful and hazardous adventures by forest, flood, and
field. In such situations, surrounded by the works of God, his body
and his mind felt a freedom that the hut and the clearing could not
give. In this manner, the late Alexander Henderson informed the
writer, he had passed some of the most interesting hours of his life,
while hunting with Mr. Williams on the heads of the Little Kenawha.
In person, he was of the middle size, with an upright frame and ro-
bust muscular limbs ; his features firm and strongly marked, with a
taciturn and quiet manner. In his youth he does not appear to have
been attached to the rude sports, and rough plays, so congenial to
most of the borderers of those early days, but preferred social converse,
and an interchange of good offices with his fellows. Although he
lived at a time and in a situation where he was deprived of all op-
portunity for religious instruction, yet he appears to have had an in-
tuitive dread of all vicious words or actions. The writer distinctly
recollects hearing him reprove a keel boatman, a class of men whose
language was intermingled with oaths, in the most severe manner for
his profanity, as he was passing the boat where the man was at work.

Like Isaac and Rebecca of old, this modern Isaac and Rebecca
were given to good deeds; and many a poor, sick, and abandoned
boatman has been nursed and restored to health beneath their humble
roof. Many years before his death he liberated all his slaves ; and
by his will left valuable tokens of his love and good feeling for the
oppressed and despised African. Full of days and of good deeds,
and strong in the faith of a blessed immortality, Mr. Williams resign-
ed his spirit to Him who gave it, the 25th of September, A. D. 1820,
aged eighty-four years ; and was buried in a beautiful grove on his



Daily Journal of Waynt's Campaign. ^^51

own plantation, surrounded by the trees he so dearly loved when liv-
ing.



^i d» y^cZ^oto^Cy



DAILY JOURNAL OF WAYNE'S CAMPAIGN,
From July 2Sth to November 2d, 1794, including an account of the memor-
able battle of 20th August.
[Concluded.]

Fori Defiance, \st September, 1794. — This morning the fatigue party
ordered yesterday began to fortify and strengthen the fort and make
it of sufficient strength to be proof against heavy metal : the work
now on hand is a glascis with faschies, and a ditch twelve feet wide
and eight feet deep ; the block-houses are to be made bomb-proof.

Fort Defiance, 2d September, 1794. — Every effective man of the
light troops in the redoubts round the camp were ordered this morn-
ing to make three fascines.

The foraging party that went out this day brought in as much
corn, dry enough to grate, as will suffice the troops three days. The
soldiery gets sick very fast with the fever and ague, and have it
severely.

Fort Defiance, 3d September, 1794. — Nothing but hard fatigues
going forward in all quarters. The garrison begins to put on the ap-
pearance of strength, and will in a few days be able to stand the shock
of heavy cannon: the troops are very sickly, and I believe the longer
we continue in this place the worse it will be.

Fort Defiance, 4th September, 1794. — The number of our sick
increases daily, provision is nearly exhausted ; the whisky has been
out for some time, which makes the hours pass heavily to the tune of
Roslin Castle, when in our present situation they ought to go to the
quick step of the merry man down to his grave. Hard duty and
scanty allowance will cause an army to be low spirited, particularly
the want of a little of the tvet.

If it was not for the forage we get from the enemy's fields, the
rations would not be sufficient to keep soul and body together.

Fort Defiance, 5th September, 1794. — No news of the escort;
this day the troops drew no flour, and I fear we will shortly draw no
beef; however, as long as the issuing of beef continues the troops will
not sufler, as there is still corn in abundance on the river.

Fort Defiance, 6th September, 1794. — The work on the garrison



352 Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign.

goes on with life and will be completed in a few days. The weather
very wet and cold, this morning there is a small frost.

Fort Defiance, 1th September, 1794. — Nothing of consequence took
place this day. Our sick are getting better.

Fort Defiance, Sth September, 1794. — This day brings us infor-
mation of the escort ; by express we learn it will be with us to-mor-
row. It will be fortunate for us should provisions arrive, as we have
not drawn any flour since the 7th instant, nevertheless we have the
greatest abundance of vegetables.

Fort Defiance, dth September, 1794. — The escort has not yet
arrived, but will be in to-morrow. General Scott with the residue is
ordered to march to-morrow morning at reveiUie. The commander-
in-chief engaged with the volunteers to bring on the flour from Green-
ville on their own horses, for which they are to receive three dollars
per hundred, delivered at the Miami villages.

Fort Defiance, 10th September, 1794. — The escort arrived this
day about 3 o'clock, and brought with them 200 kegs of flour and
nearly 200 head of cattle. Captain Preston and ensigns Strother,
Bowyer and Lewis, joined us this day with the escort. We received
no liquor by this command, and I fancy we shall not receive any until
we get into winter quarters, which will make the fatigues of the cam-
paign appear double, as I am persuaded the troops would much rath-
er hve on half rations of beef and bread, provided they could obtain
their full rations of whisky. The vegetables are as yet in the great-
est abundance. The soldiers of captain Wm. Lewis' company are
in perfect health, the wounded excepted.

Fort Defiance, 11th September, 1794, — This day general Barber's
brigade of mounted volunteers marched for Fort Recovery for provi-
sions, to meet us at the Miami villages by the 20th.

Fori Defiance, 12th September, 1794. — This day the pioneers
were ordered to cut the road up the Miami under the direction of the
sub-legionary quarter-master ; they are to commence at 7 o'clock
to-morrow morning.

Fort Defiance, 13th September, 1794. — This day a general order
was issued, setting forth that the legion would march to-morrow morn-
ing precisely at 7 o'clock, every department to prepare themselves
accordingly.

The squaw that Wells captured on the 11th August, was this day
liberated and sent home. Three soldiers of the 1st and three of the
3d sub-legions deserted last night; sixteen volunteers pursued them,
they are to receive twenty dollars if they bring them in dead or alive.

Camp Hi Mile Tree, 14th September, 1794. — The legion began



Daily Journal of Wayne^s Campaign. 353

their march for the Miami villages at 7 o'clock this morning and
encamped on this ground at 3 o'clock, after marching in the rain eight
hours.

Camp 23d Mile Tree, \5th September, 1794. — The legion marched
at 6 and encamped at 4 o'clock. Captain Preston, who commanded
the light troops in the rear, got lost and lay out from the army all
night with a large part of the baggage.

Camp 33d Mile Tree, 16M September, 1794. — We encamped on
this ground at 4 o'clock, after passing over very rough roads, and
woods thick with brush, the timber very lofty and the land generally
rich and well watered.

Camp Miami Villages, 11 th September, 1794. — The army halted
on this ground at 5 o'clock, P. M., being 47 miles from Fort Defiance
and 14 from our last encampment; there are nearly 500 acres of
cleared land lying in one body on the rivers St. Joseph, St. Mary's and
the Miami ; there are fine points of land contiguous to those rivers
adjoining the cleared land. The rivers are navigable for small craft in
the summer, and in the winter there is water sufficient for large boats,
the land adjacent fertile and well timbered, and from every appear-
ance it has been one of the largest settlements made by the Indians
in this country.

Camp Miami Villages, ISth September, 1794. — This day the
commander-in-chief reconnoitered the ground and determined on the
spot to build a garrison on. The troops fortified their camps, as they
halted too late yesterday to cover themselves. Four deserters from
the British came to us this day, they bring information that the Indi-
ans are encamped S miles below the British fort to the number of 1600.

Camp Miami Villages, 19th September, 1794. — This day we hear
that general Barber's brigade of mounted volunteers are within 12
miles of this place and will be in early to-morrow with large supplies
of flour ; we have had heavy rains, the wind N. W., and the clouds
have the appearance of emptying large quantities on this western
world.

Camp Miami Villages, 20th September, 1794. — Last night it
rained violently and the wind blew from the N. W. harder than I
knew heretofore. General Barber with his command arrived in camp
about 9 o'clock this morning with 553 kegs of flour, each containing
lOOlbs.

Camp Miami Villages, 2\sf September, 1794. — The commander-
m-chief reviewed the legion this day at 1 o'clock. All the quarter-
master's horses set off" this morning escorted by the mounted volun-
teers for Greenville, and are to return the soonest possible ; we have

Vol. 1—2 U 30 '



354 Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign.

not one quart of salt on this ground, which occasions bad and disa-
greeable living, until the arrival of the next escort.

Camp Miami Villages, 22d September, 1794. — Nothing of conse-
quence took place this day, except that the troops drew no salt with
their fresh provisions.

Camp Miami Villages, 23d September, 1794, — Four deserters
from the British garrison arrived at our camp : they mention that the
Indians are still embodied on the Miami, 9 miles below the British
fort ; that they are somewhat divided in opinion, some are for peace
and others for war.

Camp Mia?ni Villages, 24th September, 1794. — This day the work
commenced on the garrison, which I am apprehensive will take some
time to complete it. A keg of whisky containing ten gallons, was pur-
chased this day for eighty dollars, a sheep for ten dollars ; three dollars
was offered for one pint of salt, but it could not be obtained for less
than six.

Camp Miami Villages, 25th September, 1794. — Lieutenant Blue
of the dragoons was this day arrested by ensign Johnson of the 4th
S. L., but a number of their friends interfering the dispute was settled
upon lieutenant Blue's asking ensign Johnson's pardon.

Camp Miami Villages, 26th September, 1794. — M'Cleland, one of
our spies, with a small party came in this evening from Fort Defiance,
who brings information that the enemy are troublesome about the garri-
son, and that they have killed some of our men under the walls of the
fort. Sixteen Indians were seen to day near this place, a small party
went in pursuit of them. I have not heard what discoveries they
have made.

Camp Miam,i Villages, 21th September, 1794. — No intelligence
of the enemy; the rain fell considerably last night, this morning the
wind is S. W.

Camp Miami Villages, 2Sth September, 1794. — the weather
proves colder.

Camji Miami Villages, SOth Septem,ber, 1794. — Salt and whisky
were drawn by the troops this day and a number of the soldiery be-
came much intoxicated, they having stolen a quantity of liquor from
the quarter-master.

Camp Miami Villages, \st October, 1794. — The volunteers ap-
pear to be uneasy, and have refused to do diUy ; they are ordered by
the commander-in-chief to march to-morrow for Greenville to assist
the pack-horses, which I am told they are determined not to do.

Camp Miami Villages, 2d October, 1794. — This morning the vol-
unteers refused to go on command, and demanded of general Scott



Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign. 355

to conduct them home ; he ordered them to start with general Bar-
ber, or if they made the smallest delay they should lose all their pay
and be reported to the war office as revolters ; this had the desired
effect, and they went off not in good humor.

Camp Miami Villages, 3d October, 1794. — Every officer, non-
commissioned officer and soldier belonging to the square, are on
fatigue this day, hauling trees on the hind wheels of wagons : the
first day we got an extra gill per man, which appears to be all the
compensation at this time in the power of the commander-in-chief to
make the troops.

Camp Miami Villages, Ath October, 1794. — This morning we had
the hardest frost 1 ever saw in the middle of December, it was like a
smaU snow; there was ice in our camp-kettles % of an inch thick: the
fatigues go on with velocity, considering the rations the troops are
obliged to live on.

Camp Miami Villages, 5th October, 1794. — The weather ex-
tremely cold, and hard frosts, the wind N. W.; every thing quiet and
nothing but harmony and peace throughout the camp, which is some-
thing uncommon.

Camp Miami Villages, 6th October, 1794. — Plenty and quietness
the same as yesterday ; the volunteers engaged to work on the garri-
son, for which they are to receive three gills of whisky per man per
day, their employment is digging the ditch and filling up the parapet.

Camp Miami Villages, 1th October, 1794. — The volunteers are
soon tired of work and have refused to labor any longer ; they have
stolen and killed 17 beeves in the course of these two days past.

Camp Miami Villages, Sth October, 1794. — The troops drew but
half rations of flour this day. The cavalry and other horses die very
fast, not less than four or five per day.

Camp Miami Villages, 9th October, 1794. — The volunteers have
agreed to build a block-house in front of the garrison.

Camp Miami Villages, 11th Octofjer, 1794. — A Canadian [Ro-
zelle] with a flag arrived this evening; his business was to deliver
up three prisoners in exchange for his brother, who was taken on the
20th August ; he brings information that the Indians are in council
with Girty and JNI'Kee near the fort of Detroit, that all the tribes are
for peace except the Shawneese, who are determined to prosecute the
war.

Camp Miatni Villages, 12th October, 1794. — The mounted vol-
unteers of Kentucky marched for Greenville, to be mustered and dis-
missed the service of the United States army, they being of no further
service therein.



356 Daily Journal of Wayne'' s Campaign.

Camp Miami Villages, I3th October, 1794. — Captain Gibson
marched this day and took with him a number of horses for Fort Re-
covery to receive suppUes of provisions.

Camp Miami Villages, I4th October, 1794. — Nothing particular
this day.

Camp MiaTni Villages, 1 5th October, 1794. — The Canadian that
came in on the 1 1th, left us this day accompanied by his brother ; they
have promised to furnish the garrison at Defiance with stores at a
moderate price, which, if performed, will be a great advantage to the
officers and soldiers of that post.

Camp Miami Villages, 16th October, 1794. — Nothing new,
weather wet, and cold, wind from N. W. The troops healthy in gen-
eral.

Camp Miami Villages, 11th October, 1794. — This day captain
Gibson arrived with a large quantity of flour, beef, and sheep.

Camp Miami Villages, ISth October, 1794. — Captain Springer and
Brock, with all the pack-horses, marched with the cavalry this morn-
ing for Greenville, and the foot for Recovery, the latter to return with
the smallest delay with a supply of provisions for this post and Defi-
ance.

Camp Miami Villages, 19th October, 1794. — This day the troops
were not ordered for labor, being the first day for four weeks, and
accordingly attended divine service.

Camp Miami Villages, 20th October, 1794. — An express arrived
this day with despatches to the commander-in-chief; the contents are
kept secret.

A court-martial to sit this day for the trial of lieutenant Charles
Hyde.

Camp Miami Villages, 21st October, 1794. — This day were read
the proceedings of a general court-martial, held on lieutenant Charles
Hyde, (yesterday) was found not guilty of the charges exhibited
against him, and was therefore acquitted.

Camp Miami Villages, 22d October, 1794. — This morning at 7
o'clock the following companies, under the command of lieutenant-
colonel-commandant Hamtramck of the 1st sub-legion, took possession
of this place, viz: captain Kingsbury's 1st; captain Greaton's 2d;
captain Spark's and captain Reed's, 3d; captain Preston's 4th; and
captain Porter's, of artillery ; and after firing fifteen rounds of cannon,
colonel Hamtramck gave it the name of Fort Wayne.

Camp Miami Villages, 23d October, 1794. — The general fatigue
of the garrison ended this day, and colonel Hamtramck, with the
troops under his command, to furnish it as he may think fit.



Daily Journal of Wayne's Campaign. 357

All the soldier's huts are completed except covering, and the wea-
ther is favorable for that work.

Camj) Miami Villages, 2Ath October, 1794. — This day the troops
drew but half rations of beef and flour, the beef very bad.

Caynp Miami Villages, 25th October, 1794. — Nothing extraordi-
nary the same as Yesterday.

This evening captain Springer with the escort, arrived with a sup-
ply of flour and salt. A Frenchman and a half Indian came to head-
quarters, but where they are from or their business we cannot learn
but that it is of a secret nature.

Cam]} Miami Villages, 2Qth October, 1794. — Nothing occurring
to-day except an expectation to march the day after to-morrow.

Camp Miami Villages, 21th October, 1794. — Agreeable to gen-
eral orders of this day, we will march for Greenville to-morrow morn-
ing at 8 o'clock.

Camp nine miles from Fort Wayne, 28th October, 1794. — The
legion took up the line of march at 9 o'clock and arrived here with-
out any thing particular occurring.

Camp twenty -one miles from Fort Wayne, 29th October, 1794. —
The troops proceeded on their march at sun-rise, and arrived on this
ground at half past 3 o'clock, our way was through rich and well tim-
bered land, the weather cold and much like for rain.

Camp South West side of St. Mary's river, 30th October, 1794. —
The legion proceeded on their march at 7 o'clock, and arrived here at
sun-set, continual heavy rain all day.

Camp Girty's Town, 31st October, 1794. — The troops took up
their line of march at sun-rise, and arrived here three hours after
night, through heavy rain.

Greenville, 2nd November, 1794. — This evening the legion arrived
here, where they march from 28th July, 1794.

We were saluted with twentyfour rounds from a six-pounder. Our
absence from this ground amounted to three Months and six days.
And so ends the expedition of general Wayne's campaign.

Jidelphi, July 5th, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq. — Dear Sir : — The leaves missing from the
journal of Wayne's campaign have been lost some years. The in-
terest of the remainder is not materially impaired by the accident.
This shows the great utility of a work like tiie Pioneer devoted to col-
lecting and preserving such manuscript. Yours.




^<P.



, /^fe



358 War in Virginia.



WAR IN VIRGINIA.
The following is another reminiscence from our faithful correspondent in
Missouri. It is truly interesting. He says, " to tell all would fill a volume ;"
we say, tell it if it fills twenty volumes. Is it possible that the American
people will not support a periodical, which shall save from oblivion an account
of the perils, hairbreadth escapes, and the prowess of our fathers and mothers ?
They will support it. Go on, Mr. Sharp.

CONTENTS.

False report that Glade Hollow fort was taken — .The true history of the affair — Mr. Sharp's
sisters captured, taken to Canada, and returned — Logan's life and death — Ranger's war
upon the tories — Other ranging parties — Mrs. Scott's captivity, &c.

Warren county, Missouri, July 13ih, 1842.
Mr. Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

My memory will not justify me in settling dates precisely ; but to
the best of my recollection, it was in the year 1778, about the middle
of May, that news came flying to our settlement like fire in a prairie,
that the Glade Hollow fort, on Clinch, (now Russell county,) was tak-
en by the Indians, and every soul in it either killed or captured. My
oldest sister, with her husband and family, I expected was in that fort.
That same evening, sun about an hour high, eighteen of us, including
our officer, lieutenant Samuel Newel, set off" for that fort. We ran
about twelve miles that evening, and waded the north fork of Holston
just before night, which wet us above the middle ; and when night
set in we were forced to stop and lie down without fire, wet as we
were, for we had no trace we could follow in the night, and in many
places the weeds and grass were waist high. We set off the next
morning by early dawn, and arrived in view of the fort by eight or
nine o'clock. On reconnoitering we found the fort had not been taken
as was reported ; but on discovering us, every soul in it ran out to
meet us, and I learned that my brother-in-law and family had remov-
ed to another fort called Elk Garden, ten miles higher up the country.

The true history of the case was this ; a man by the name of White-
sides, a large active man, came down one evening from the Elk Gar-
den to the Glade Hollow, to hunt a horse he had running in that range ;
the next morning he set out to find his horse, and his not returning to
the fort created no suspicion, they thinking he had found his horse and
returned home ; but he had not proceeded more than two miles when
his horse was shot down under him, and himself captured by nine In-
dians. They pinioned his arms back, loaded him with their extra
plunder and some meat cut out of the dead horse, and in this manner
they were skulking and spying about for three or four days, watching



Logaii's Life and Death. 359

an opportunity to attack the fort. The fort was in a wretched state
of defense ; there were but seven men in it, and they were every day
engaged in bringing saltpetre dust from a cave at some distance from
the fort, to make saltpetre. This the Indians soon discovered, and re-
solved to take the fort the next time the men went out ; on seeing the
men about to start, they tied Whitesides' feet, and left one Indian to
guard him, while the others sought a more convenient place to effect
their purpose, as soon as the men were gone. In the mean time the
Indian who had charge of Whitesides, thinking they were too much
exposed to view, untied his feet, and made him creep further into the
brush"; and laying down his gun, sat down before him to tie his feet
again. At that moment Whitesides seized the gun, and although his
arms were pinioned, gave him such a blow over the head, as broke
the gun to pieces, and felled him to the ground, and perhaps extin-
guished life. He then sprang to his feet, and gave the alarm to the
men, who strained back to the fort with all their speed ; but White-
sides ran past the fort towards the Elk Garden, carrying all the Indian
plunder on his back. The Indians on hearing the alarm, ran back as
was supposed, and finding their companion perhaps lifeless, pursued
Whitesides, and met a party of men, about forty in number, in
plain view of the fort, coming carelessly along to serve as rangers,
on whom they fired and killed two, and the rest fled ingloriously, each
one his own way, spreading the alarm that the fort was taken.

The next day after our arrival we were joined by a captain James
Dysart, with about the same number of men that we had, and for part
of the summer we entered upon the laborious service of ranging through
the mountains, with no other success than perhaps giving greater securi-
ty to the forts. This same sister, and another of my sisters, with their
husbands and families, removed I think the same fall to Kentucky,
and were all taken by the British and Indians in Riddle's station, on
Licking, and carried to Canada, and detained there as prisoners, till
the end of the war ; but they all got safe home with the increase of
one in each family.

The celebrated Logan was with this party ; my brother-in-
law, captain John Dunkin, an intelligent man, had several conver-
sations with him on the trip. He said Logan spoke both English
and French; he told captain Dunkin that he knew he had two
souls, the one good and the other bad ; when the good soul had the
ascendant, he was kind and humane ; and when the bad soul ruled,
he was perfectly savage, and delighted in nothing but blood and car-
nage. The account that captain Dunkin gave of his death was, that
his brother-in-law killed him as they returned home from a council



360 War in Virginia.

held at Detroit, on account of some misusage he had given his sister
at the council.

If I am correct, I think the next year, 1779, about the time
of harvest, news was received that tlie tories were embodying
on the head of the Yadkin, in North Carolina, and on New river
and Walker's creek, in Virginia, with the intention of destroying the
lead works on New river, from which the West had its chief supply
of lead, and then to force their way to the head-quarters of lord Corn-
waUis, which was then in the Carolinas. Our militia, all well mount-
ed, turned out under colonel William Campbell, a brave intrepid ofh-
cer, and proceeded to meet this, to us, new kind of enemy ; but the
tories did not choose to meet us in the field, but dispersed at our ap-
proach. We were then dispatched in small detachments, and had
active business for several weeks, pursuing, taking, and imprisoning
tories. We subsisted ourselves and horses on their grain and stock,
and compelled those who were old and unfit for service, to give sure-
ty for their good behavior, or go to jail, and pardoned the young ef-
fective men, on condition of their serving as faithful soldiers in the
armies of the United States, during the war, as an atonement for their
crimes. Thus we became the most successful recruiting parties that
perhaps had ever been employed. In this expedition, although we
did hard and active duty, yet we had no fighting, no lives lost or men
wounded.

Various other ranging parties and small expeditions were carried
on during the war, particularly one against an Indian town called
Chickeymagee ; and another in search of certain Indian lodges, said
to be in the lower end of Powel's valley ; but as I was not engaged
in any of them, I have no recollection of particulars, nor even of the
officers' names under whom they were undertaken, with the excep-
tion of the one down Powel's valley, which was commanded by col-
onel Joseph Martin, and which I think found one lodge, and killed
two Indians. My next elder brother was with this party.

In these times our part of the country was in a constant state of
alarm. To recount all the hairbreadth escapes and murders commit-
ted by marauding parties of Indians, would fill a volume. A Mrs.
Hamblin defended her house against the attack of eleven Indians,
with only an old musket that would not fire ; but the next year they
killed her and nearly all the family, and took one of her httle boys
prisoner to Canada. Twenty -four Indians broke into the house of a
Mr. Scott just after dark, and killed him and all his children, and took
Mrs. Scott prisoner. Another house which stood close by, in which
was a little girl, eleven or twelve years old, with her little brother



Toleration. 361

some years younger than her, they did not enter, but shot through
the door and killed the boy ; the girl sprung out at a window, and hid
in a nursery of young peach trees till the Indians were gone ; she then
re-entered the house, laid out her dead brother, and set by him all
night, and till late the next day, when a party of men arrived to bury
the dead. JNIrs. Scott traveled with her captors for several days, till
at length they encamped on the bank of a large river, supposed to be
the Ohio ; here the Indians separated, for what purpose she could not
tell, leaving her in the care of two. After resting here some days,
she found means to escape from her keepers, and wandered thirty-
three days through wilderness and mountains, before she reached the
settlements, without any subsistence but such roots, buds, and berries,
as she could find. One of our neighbors, a respectable young man
by the name of Fulkerson, was killed when driving up his horses
from the range. My oldest brother, Thomas Sharp, was fired at and
badly wounded, but being on horseback, made his escape, and recov-
ered of his wound. My brother-in-law, Jacob Fulkerson, and a
young man by the name of Callahan, were both killed when hunting
their cattle in the range. Such were the difficulties, not half told, the
early settlers on Holston's river had to encounter during the revolution,
and for several years after. The most important expedition, in its
consequences, took place from that part of Virginia, in the year 1780,
of which, perhaps, I may give you the particulars in a future com-
munication. Most respectfully yours, &c.



Jno. S. Williams, Esq.




•^^^^^^^ -^^s^-^^"*



Toleration. — In the year 1791, two Creek chiefs accompanied an
American to England, where, as usual, they attracted great attention,
and many flocked around them, as well to learn their ideas of certain
things as to behold « the savages." Being asked their opinion of reli-
gion, or of what religion they were, one made answer, that they had
no priests in their country, or established religion, for they thought,
that, upon a subject where there was no possibility of people's agree-
ing in opinion, and as it was altogether matter of mere opinion, "it
was best that every one should paddle his canoe his own way." Here
is a volume of instruction in a short answer of a savage! — {Drake.'S
Vol. 1—2 V 31



363 Post Office Facilities.

POST OFFICE FACILITIES.

Auditor's Office, Post Office Dep't., July 25, 1842.

Dear Sir, — I have been too much occupied, for several months,
with the present condition of this branch of the post office department,
to look into its general, early history. I recommence with the first re-
port made to congress on the 25th of July, 1775; and until I had put
this date on paper, I did not notice, that I had resumed to write to
you, just sixty-seven years after the first report was presented by the
committee, appointed to consider the best means of establishing posts,
for conveying letters and intelligence through this continent.

This is comparatively a short period of time ; but there is not now
m existence one single person, who was a member of the first or sec-
ond congress. What have time, and intelligence, and energy, under
the guidance of an over-ruling Providence, done for this country, and
for this people ! Sixty-seven years ago to-day, congress resolved, to
appoint a postmaster-general, and it recommended that he establish
a weekly post to South Carolina. The mail was to be carried on horse-
back, as a matter of course, for sulky, wagon and stage were not com-
mon, and as for steamboats and railroad-cars, they had not been heard of,
nor named : and if our fathers in that day had been told, that in about
half a century, the mail would be conveyed in these vehicles, they
would not have more marvelled, nor have been less astonished, than we
should be now, were it revealed to us, that within the next fifty years,
the mails will be conveyed in balloons, from continent to continent.

The first congress assembled at Carpenters' Hall, in the city of Phil-
adelphia, Monday, September 5th, 1774; and continued in session un-
til Wednesday, October 26th, when it dissolved itself The journal
furnishes no evidence, that the subject of sending intelligence by posts
was under consideration.

The second congress assembled at the state-house in Philadelphia,
on Wednesday, May 10th, 1775, and on the 29th, the following entry
was made in the journal.

"As the present critical situation of the colonies renders ' it highly
necessary that ways and means should be devised for the speedy
and secure conveyance of intelligence from one end of the continent
to the other. Resolved, That Mr. Franklin, Mr. Lynch, Mr. Lee, Mr.
Willing, Mr. S. Adams, and Mr. P. Livingston, be a committee to con-
sider the best means of establishing posts for conveying letters and in-
telligence through this continent."

This is the first recorded exercise of power by congress, over the
subject, that is found.



E. Whittlesey's Letter. 363

The committee reported on Tuesday, July 25th, 1775, and ou the
next day the same was debated and agreed to, as follows: "That a
postmaster-general be appointed for the united colonies, who shall
hold his office at Philadelphia, and shall be allowed a salary of one
thousand dollars per annum, for himself, and three hundred and forty
dollars per annum, for a secretary, and comptroler, with power to
appoint such, and so many deputies, as to him may seem proper and
necessary.

" That a line of posts be appointed, under the direction of the post-
master-general, from Falmouth in New England, to Savannah in
Georgia, with so many cross-posts, as he shall think fit.

"That the allowances to the deputies, in lieu of salary, and all con-
tingent expenses, shall be twenty per centum on the sums they col-
lect and pay into the general post office annually, when the whole is
under or not exceeding one thousand dollars, and ten per centum, for
all sums above one thousand dollars, a year.

" That the several deputies account quarterly with the general post-
ofRce ; and the postmaster-general annually with the continental treas-
urers, when he shall pay mto the receipt of the said treasurers the
profits of the post office, and if the necessary expense of this estab-
lishment should exceed the produce of it, the deficiency shall be made
good by the united colonies, and paid to the postmaster-general by
the continental treasurers.

" On motion made. Resolved, That it be recommended to the post^
master-general to establish a weekly post to South Carolina.

" That it be left to the postmaster-general, to appoint a secretary
and comptroler.

" The congress then proceeded to the election of a postmaster-gen-
eral for one year, and until another is appointed by a future con-
gress, when Benjamin Franklin, Esq. was unanimously chosen."

On the 7th of November, 1776, the following resolution was adop-
ted: '■^Resolved, That Richard Bache be appointed postmaster-general,
in the room of Dr. Franklin, who is absent."

Mr. Bache was son-in-law to Dr. Franklin, and the first comptrol-
er appointed in the general post office. He held the office until Mon-
day, January 2Sth, 1782, when congress proceeded to the election of a
postmaster-general, and the ballots being taken, Mr. Ebenezer Haz-
ard was elected, having been previously nominated by Mr. Sherman.

Mr. Hazard had been inspector of dead letters, in which station he
intercepted some letters of importance, for which he was complimented
by congress, on the day he was promoted.

On Friday, August 30th, 1776, the committee for regulating the post



364 Post Office Facilities.

office further reported, which was taken into consideration, whereupon
congress ^^Resolved, That the communication of intelligence with fre-
quency and dispatch, from one part to another of this extensive conti-
nent, is essentially requisite to its safety, and therefore, that there be
employed, on the public post-roads, a rider for every twenty-live or
thirty miles, whose business it shall be, to proceed through his stage
three times in every week, setting out immediately on the receipt of
the mail, and traveling with the same by night and by day, without
stopping, until he shall have delivered it to the next rider, and that
the postmaster-general be desired, either by the use of way-bills, or
such other means as he shall find most efficacious, to prevent delay in
the riders, and to discover whence they happen, that such dilatory
riders be discharged."

It was recommended to the states, to excuse deputy postmasters from
the public duties which might call them from their offices, and prevent
them receiving and delivering letters. Congress afterwards excused
them from performing military duty.

To defray in part the expense of keeping three advice boats in ser-
vice, the select committee were empowered to freight merchandize
and other commodities, as will be seen by the following resolution,
adopted at the last mentioned date.

^^ Resolved, That three advice boats be established, one to ply
between the state of North Carolina and such ports as shall be most
convenient to the place at which congress shall be setting ; one other
between the state of South Carolina and the said port; and one other
between the state of Georgia and the same port. That such advice
boats be armed, and put under the direction of the secret committee,
who are empowered to freight them with such merchandize or other
commodities as, without retarding their passage, may, together with
the usual postage on letters and other papers transmitted by them,
contribute to defray the expenses of the said boats."

Economy in those days was less discussed than practised.

Here is a case in point, to justify the mail-contractors, to transport
oysters in their stages from the Atlantic to the western wilds ; but the
restriction " without retarding their passage," should be scrupulously
observed.

Congress, as we have seen by the fundamental law, passed on the
25th day of July, 1775, pledged the profits of the post office, to defray
the necessary expense of the establishment, and bound itself, to make
good the deficiency to the postmaster-general. This is probably the
reason why the postmaster-general incurred no expense, without the
express direction of congress having been first given.



E. Whittlesey's Letter. 365

The following resolution very satisfactorily shows, that the com
mandants at distinct and distant posts, did not regularly communicate
with congress, if they sent expresses at all.

Richard Bache, comptroler of the post office, in a letter which was
referred to a committee, had pointed out the deficiency of intelligence
from different portions of the army, and on the 5th of November, 177G,
the committee reported : whereupon congress ^'■liesoloed, That for
obtaining early and frequent intelligence from the camps at White
Plains, and Ticonderoga, or such other places as the armies now, or
lately were, may march or have marched to, and forwarding dispatches
to the commanding officers, with the like expedhion, the postmaster-
general do immediately employ so many more riders, between Phil-
adelphia and head-quarters of these armies, as he shall judge will most
effectually perform that very important, and at this time, more espe-
cially necessary service : and that he endeavor to the utmost of his
power, to procure sober, diligent, and trusty persons, to undertake it;
and guard in the best manner he is able against robberies of the mails,
or losses of their contents otherwise."

Ferry keepers were enjoined to expedite the passage of post riders,
and others charged with dispatches to congress, and the state legisla-
tors were recommended, to carry the resolution into effect.

It appears, that all services at that period were obtained and paid
for under contracts ; and that perquisites and emoluments were dis-
approved, for congress '■^Resolved, That expresses and special mes-
sengers, employed in the public service, taking and carrying private
letters, and packets, ought not to receive the wages they would other-
wise be entitled to."

The compensation of the postmaster-general was increased to two
thousand dollars, on the 16th of April, 1779.

Monday, December 27th, 1779, congress ^^ Resolved, That the post
office be so regulated, as that the post shall set out, and arrive, at the
place where congress shall be setting, twice in every week ; to go so
far as Boston, in Massachusetts Bay, and to Charleston, in the state
of South Carolina."

That, as the duties of the postmaster-general and comptroler, will
henceforward be considerably increased, by the above resolution, the
salary of the postmaster-general be 5000 dollars per annum, and the
comptroler's be 4000 dollars per annum. The officers in the general
post office establishment, at periods from 1775 to 1789, or during the
confederation of the states, were, a postmaster-general, secretary,
comptroler, three surveyors, and an inspector of dead letters.

The postmaster-general appointed his deputy postmasters, estab-

31*



366 Post Office Facilities.

lished post offices, hired post-riders, &c.; dispatched the mail, as con-
gress required. Different orders and resolutions show, that congress su-
pervised and directed the whole, and in many instances, in minute detail.

It is not probable he had the power to remove a deputy postmas-
ter, for on the 20th of October, 1776, congress ^^ Resolved, That the
pastmaster-general be directed to remove Bessonet, of Bristol, in Penn-
sylvania, from the office of deputy postmaster, and appoint some
other trusty person in that town to that office." Bessonet and his
bar-keeper, were accused with having intercepted a packet from
general Washington, and the state authority, through the counsel of
safety of Pennsylvania, was supplicated to arrest Bessonet and his
bar-keeper and to carry them to Philadelphia for examhiation, keep-
ing them apart.

The secretary acted as clerk to the postmaster-general, and the
comptroler examined and passed, or disallowed the accounts of post
masters, and others, and was book-keeper.

The surveyors traveled on the routes, collected from the postmasters
when they did not remit, and attended to the post riders, and proba
bly paid them their services.

By a resolution passed on the 17th of October, 1777, the postmaster-
general was authorised to appoint two additional surveyors, and their
tours were assigned to them by congress, as follows : " One from
Casco Bay to Philadelphia, or during the enemy's being in possession
of that city, to Lancaster. One from Philadelphia or Lancaster to
Edentown, in North Carolina, and the third, from Edentown to
Savannah, in Georgia."

By the same resolution an inspector of dead letters was appointed,
with a salary of one hundred dollars a year, and his duties were de-
fined, as follows, " to examine all dead letters, at the expiration of each
quarter; to communicate to congress such as contain inimical schemes,
or intelligence ; to preserve carefully all money, loan office certifi-
cates, lottery tickets, notes of hand, and other valuable papers inclosed
in any of them, and be accountable for them, and to keep a book
containing an exact account of such papers, &c. so found, the date of
the letters, from whence, and by whom written, and to whom directed;
that he be under oath faithfully and impartially to discharge the
duties of his office ; that he be enjoined to take no copy of any letter
whatever, and not to divulge their contents to any but congress, or
those whom they may appoint for that purpose."

The general features of these regulations, as to noting, filing and
keeping letters, with their contents, if valuable, have been observed
and practiced, to the present time.



E. Whittlesey's Letter. 367

The duties of the office must have been trifling, when compared to
what they are now. Instead of one clerk employed, at the expira-
tion of each quarter, there are now four clerks assigned to this branch
of the public service, who are employed constantly, and others inci-
dentally, as the dead letters are sent with the waybills and quarterly
returns.

The number of dead letters, which were returned to the general
post office at that period, cannot be ascertained. In a report made
in 1830, it is stated, that the number of dead letters returned to the
general post office in 1829 was 380,000, and it was reported in 1831,
that the number in 1830 was about 500,000, and the number for the
last year is stated to have been about 1,250,000.

They are from every section of this country ; and ship letters are
from every nation, people, and tongue having any intercourse with us.
They are upon all subjects, concerning which people write. They
contain all kinds of articles transmitted by mail, from ringlets of hair
to silk dresses.

Drugs and medicines, and large tin tubes or cases containing maps,
and valuable papers, are not uncommon.

The salaries of the officers in the post office establishment, and the
pay of post-riders, varied with the fluctuations of the value of the cur-
rency.

Congress paid the salary of the postmaster-general, on the 15th of
September, 1780, at ^1000, and that of the secretary and comptroler
at §500 each.

On the 14th of October following, the surveyors of the post office
were allowed §533 33, and §3 50 a day when traveling, and from
these respective dates, such salaries were to be paid in specie. They
were afterwards increased.

The post-riders furnished their own horses and forage, generally,
for on the 12th of December, 1780, it was ordered, "That the post-
riders to the eastward, during their necessary stay at Fishkill, have
their horses kept in the public stables, and that a reasonable deduc-
tion be made from their pay, for the forage they shall be supplied
with." They were occasionally intercepted by the enemy, and at the
date last mentioned, it was ordered " That the postmaster-general
order the post-riders to travel through Connecticut, at a distance from
the sea shore, in such a manner as may render them secure from
attempts, of the like nature with that which lately happened at Strat-
ford in that state.

It does not appear that they were protected by a military escort,
before June 20th, 1781, and on that day it was ^'■Resolved, That the
postmaster-general be directed immediately to employ a post-rider in



368 Post Office Facilities.

the room of him, who was lately taken by the enemy between Fish
kill and Morristown, and to apply to the board of war for an escort,
on that part of the way, where the riders are exposed to be interrupt-
ed by the enemy."

Before you have followed me thus far, your patience will probably
be exhausted.

No branch of the public service has increased more rapidly than
the post office department ; and although it cannot boast af victories
won by its own power, it is connected with the defences, and the best
interests of the country. It was established to disseminate intelligence,
and it has fully answered, in war and in peace, the object of its cre-
ation. Every individual in this extensive country is benefited by it,
and interested in its prosperity.

I will give to you some further account of its rise and progress, if
time, business, and health permit.

Most sincerely and respectfully yours.



Jno. S. Williams, Esqr.



To the Hon. Elisha Whittlesey.

Pear Sir : — You will gratify us more than we can conveniently
express, if you will write for the American Pioneer, on all conveni-
ent occasions, and allow us the privilege of telling you in all candor,
when " our patience becomes exhausted." This we promise to do most
punctually, as well as of the first complaint our patrons make either
of the frequency or length of your inestimable contributions. Noth-
ing can more clearly show the rapid rise and improvement of Amer-
ica, than a knowledge of the growth or increase of the post office facil-
ities, and nothing will tend more to infuse a love of our country and
institutions in the minds of the citizens, than a just contemplation of
the blessings received through, in and under them. Placed where
you are, we are inclined to believe that, to that country, in the behalf
of which your industry has been long exerted, you owe (to you no
doubt) the pleasing duty of setting that and other historical and statis-
tical subjects, in a conspicuous light before the public.

For favors past, and in anticipation of more to come, please to ac-
cept a remembrance — the kind regards of yours, truely.





Chillicothe, 0. »/2ugust 1st, 1842.



AME RICAN PION EER.

JDtrotelr to tlje $rutl) anb lustuc of gistorji.



VOL. I. NOVEMBER, 1842. NO. XI.

MONUMENTAL CHURCH AT RICHMOND.

The Monumental Church, at Richmond, was erected in 1813, on
the spot where the theatre stood. It was dedicated on the 4th of
May, 1814. The Rev. W. H. Wilder deUvered the dedication ser-
mon. It is an elegant edifice of an octagon form. The steeple, on the
northeasterly side, is one hundred and thirty feet high. On the north-
westerly side of the church, and adjoining it, is the monument, the
foundation of which occupies thirty-sis feet square, within the walls
of which is engraved the following inscription: —

" In memory of the awful calamity, that by the providence of God,
fell on this city, on the night of the 26th of December, in the year of
Christ, 1811; when by the sudden and dreadful conflagration of the
Richmond theatre, many citizens, of diff"erent ages, and of both sexes,
distinguished for talents and for virtues, respected and beloved, per-
ished in the flames; and, in one short moment public joy and pri-
vate happiness were changed into universal lamentation ; this monu-
ment is erected, and the adjoining church dedicated to the worship of
Almighty God, that, in all future times, the remembrance of this
mournful event, on the spot where it happened, and where the re-
mains of the sufl"erers are deposited, in one urn, may be united with
acts of penitence and devotion."

The perspective view of the JNIonumental Church, from which the
engraving presented in this number of the Magazine is taken, was
drawn by William Strickland, F. S. A. Isaac Sturtevant, of Boston,
was the master builder.

An account of the burning of the Richmond Theatre, Avill not, we
trust, be considered out of place. It is compiled from the Rev. Tim-
othy Alden's collection of American epitaphs and inscriptions, a rare
and valuable work.

On Thursday night, the 26th of December, 1811, it appears that the
theatre, on Shockoe hill, in Richmond, way attended by an unusual
number of people. The pantomime, entitled ^/Ignes and Raymond,
or the Bleeding Niin,\v3LS to have closed the amusements of the even-
ing. This had been translated for the occasion by Mr. Girardin; and
many, who had seldom repaired to this place of recreation, now at-
tended in order to witness its performance, principally through civility
to their fellow-citizen. In the first act of this afterpiece, one of the
scenes exhibited the cottage of a robber, which was illuminated by a
chandelier. When the curtain fell on the close of the first act, and
before it rose for the second, this chandelier was raised aloft among



372 Monumental Church at Richmond.

the oil-painted scenery. By a fatal inattention, the lamp was not ex-
tinguished ! The fire instantly caught, spread with rapidity, and, in
less than five minutes, the whole roof, as well as the suspended com-
bustible materials, was in a blaze. " It burst through the bull's eye
in front; it sought the windows where the rarified vapor sought its
passage, fed by the vast column of air in the hollows of the theatre,
fed by the inflammable panels and pillars of the boxes, by the dome
of the pit, by the canvas ceiling of the lower boxes, until its suffo-
cated victims in the front were wrapped in its devouring flame, or
pressed to death under the smoking ruins of the building,"

The imagination may better paint, than the pen of the writer des-
cribe, the unutterable anguish of the gay assembly. In one moment,
hilarity and joy were exchanged for the most agonizing sorrow and
distress, and a multitude of precious and immortal souls, at a time
they little expected, was pkinged into the world of spirits. Shrieks,
groans, agony, and death, in its most terrific form, closed the tragic
scene !

The following is a list of the unhappy victims to this dreadful ca-
lamity, taken from the Gazettes published at the time, and corrected by
the writer of this article in May, 1814, from verbal information re-
ceived of sundry people at Richmond : —

From Jeflerson ward, his excellency, George W. Smith, governor
of Virginia, Miss Sophia Tourin, Miss Cecilia Tourin, sisters, Joseph
Jacobs and his daughter, Miss Elizabeth Jacobs, Cyprian Marks,
Mrs. Marks, the wife of Mordecai Marks, Miss Charlotte Raphael,
daughter of Solomon Raphael, Miss Adeline Bausman, Miss Ann
Craig, Mr. Nuttal, a carpenter. Pleasant, a mulatto woman, and
Nancy Peterson, a woman of color.

From Madison ward, Abraham B. Venable, Esq., president of the
Virginia bank, William Southgate, son of Wright Southgate, Benja
min Botts, Esq., an eminent attorney, and his wife. Miss Arianna
Hunter, Miss Mary Whitlock, Miss Juliana Harvie, Mrs. Sarah Heron,
Mrs. Girardin and her child, Mrs. Robert Greenhow, Mrs. Moss, child
of Baruch Judah, Mrs. Lesslie, Edward Wanton, a youth, George
Dixon, a youth, William Brown, Mrs. Elizabeth Pattison, John
Welch, a stranger, lately from England, nephew of Sir A. Pigott,
Miss Margaret Copland, Miss Margaret Anderson, Miss Sarah Gate-
wood, Miss Mary Clay, whose father was then a member of congress.
Miss Louisa Mayo, an orphan, Mrs. Gerard, Mrs. Eleanor Gibbons,
Miss Ann Green, Mary Davis, Thomas Frazier, a youth, Jane Wade,
a young woman, Mrs. William Cook and her daughter, Miss Eliza-
beth Stevenson, Mrs. Convert and her child, Martha Griffin, Miss
Lucy Gawthmey, Fanny Goff", a woman of color, Betsey Johnson, a
free woman of color, and Philadelphia, a man of color.

From Monroe ward, Mrs. Taylor Braxton, Mrs. Elizabeth Page,
Mrs. Jerrod, James Waldon, Miss Elliot, of New Kent, Mrs. Joseph
Gallego, Miss Sarah Conyers, James Gibbon, Esq., lieutenant in the
Navy of the United States, Mrs. Thomas Wilson, Miss Maria Nelson,
Miss Mary Page, Mrs. Laforest, and Mr. Almarine Marshall, of
Wythe county.

To the foregoing, these are also to be added : — Miss Elvira Coutts,



T. S. Hinde's Letter. 373

Mrs. Piclcit, Miss Littlepage, Jean Baptists Rozier, Thomas Lecroix,
and Robert Ferrill, a mulatto boy.

Many, who escaped with their hves, were much scorched in the
flames, some were killed and others were greatly injured by throwing
themselves from the windows, or by being trampled under foot in the
attempt to escape, with tiie crowd, Mrs. John liosher, and Edward
James Harvey, Esq., expired soon after the dreadful catastrophe.
Some are cripples, a considerable number has dropped into the grave,
and others languished under the weight of disease, iu consequence of
injury sustained at the time of the melancholy conflagration. Am. Mag.



■**^^•^#^N^^ ^^^^^^^



Mount Carinel, Illinois, May 30, 1842.
Mr. J. S. Williams,

Dear Sir — Your letter of the 17th, to major Armstrong, was placed
in my hands some days ago. The brief remarks and hints given
you are correct. I have a vast quantity of western matter, collected
in notes gathered from various sources, mostly from persons who
knew the facts. These notes reach back to remote periods. It is a
fact that the IVelsh, under Oiven ap Zuinch, in the 12th century,
found their way to the Mississippi, and as far up the Ohio as the falls
of that river at Louisville, wiiere they were cut off" by the Indians;
others ascended the Missouri, were either captured, or settled with
and sunk into Indian habits. Proof: In 1799, six soldiers' skeletons
were dug up near Jeffersonville ; each skeleton had a breast-plate of
brass, cast, with the Welsh coat of arms, the mermaid and harp,
with a Latin inscription, m substance " virtuous deeds meet their just
reward." One of these plates was left by captain Jonathan Taylor,
with the late Mr. Hubbard Taylor, of Clarke county, Kentucky, and
when called for by me, in 1814, for the late doctor John P. Campbell,
of Chillicothe, Ohio, who was preparing notes of the antiquities of the
West, by a letter from Hubbard Taylor, Jr., (a relation of mine,) now
living, I was informed that the breast-plate had been taken to Vir-
ginia, by a gentleman of that state, I supposed as a matter of curiosity.
Proofed: The late William Mcintosh, who iirst settled near this, and
had been for fifty or sixty years prior to his deatji, in 1831 or 2, a
western Indian trader, was in fort Kaskaskia, prior to its being taken
by general George Rogers Clarke, in 1778, and heard, as he informed
me himself, a Welshman and an Indian from far up the Missouri,
speaking and conversing in the Welsh language. It was stated by
Gilbert Imlay, in his History of the West, that it was captain Abra-
ham Choplin, of Union county, Kentucky, that heard this conversa-
tion in Welsh. Doctor Campbell visited Choplin, and found it was

not him ; afterwards ihefact was stated by Mcintosh, from whom I

32



374 T. S. Hindt's Letter.

obtained other facts as to western matters. Some hunter, many years
ago, informed me of a tomb-stone being found in the southern part
of Indiana, with initials of a name, and 1186 engraved on it. The
Mohawk Indians had a tradition among them, respecting the Welsh,
and of their having been cut off by the Indians, at the falls of the
Ohio. The late colonel Joseph Hamilton Daviess, who had for many
years sought for information on this subject, mentions this yac/, and of
the Welshmen's bones being found buried on Corn Island', so that
Southey, the king's laureate had some foundation for his Welsh poem !
As to Logan, the Mingo Indian chief, the facts, as stated by me,
were not only obtained from Mr. Jacob W, Davis, of Bartholomew
county, Indiana, then residing (1831) near Columbus, but from vari-
ous other sources, during the last thirty or forty years. I never like
to resl any statement of mine on mere rejiort. I sifted every state-
ment to the bottom. 1 had become wearied with hearing contradictory
statements ; anecdotes related of Wayne's officers or soldiers, I have
frequently heard applied to those of the last war, by young men who
knew no better. As to Mr. D., I know not whether he is living.
As to Tecumseh, or Tecumsekeh,\hQ Shawnee chief, in 1821, in Ohio
county, Kentucky, I fell in with the reverend Benjamin Kelly, a Bap-
tist preacher, who was taken prisoner, with colonel Daniel Boone,
while making salt, at the Blue-licks of Kentucky, in 1779 ; the Indi-
ans took them to a salt spring, six or eight miles south east of Chilli-
cothe, (now Ross county,) and set them to work making salt from a
secret spring, cut through a rock, and fitted in to hide it with a round
flat stone. The Indians having attacked a fort, in Greenbrier county,
Virginia, were defeated ; on coming to this spring, the salt makers
joined them to go home, (at Oldtown, three miles from Xenia.)
Boone, thinking that this defeated army intended attacking Boons-
borough, on their way he deserted, somewhere near Washington, in
Fayette county, and got to Boonsborough the second day ! What a
race ! nobody can do it now. T\\\sfact corrects the history of Ken-
tucky. Kelly was five years in Blackfish's family, with Lal-liize-stee-
ka, the prophet, and Tekumtha, (as the Shakers in 1807 wrote their
names,) sons of Bla^kfish. I published Mr. Kelly's statement, in a
Cincinnati paper, in 1824 or 5, and it went the rounds of the papers;
also a story of Tecumseh, related to me by captain Thomas Bryan,
who fell hi with Blackfish and his family, in 1788, while surveying,
on Ohio Brushcreek, and saved them (by killing two elks and a bear)
from starvation. On this occasion, Blackfish put up a prayer and
thanksgiving in his camp, which melted Bryan's men into tenderness
and to tears !



General Orders. 375

Reverend Henry Frost got hold of Dr. John P. Campbell's manu-
scripts, " Western Antiquities," and pubUshed them in Philadelphia.
General Samuel Finley arrested tlie sale of the work, for the doctor's
widow. I had furnished Dr. Campbell with the most important
facts, but Mr. Frost gave me no credit in his book. Doctor Camp-
bell died about IS 16. My notes are scattered through eight or ten or
more volumes, and as I am about arranging them under the head of
« Western Researches," at the request of my friends of the cities,
when so arranged I can then draw off for you what may best suit
your excellent work, " The Pioneer," which I think does great credit
to the West.

But I regret that in this age of improvement, writers delight in
hunting up hard dictionary phrases, to express their ideas. The
standard of plain language is our president's messages. I knew an
editor, somewhere in Ohio, who was thought to be a great man. He
had a strange title for his paper, and his sheets of editorial matter
were filled with new coined words. I was frequently asked their
meaning, and could not tell ; even a learned judge of your supreme
court asked the meaning of the title to his paper, which I could not
at that time explain ; but afterwards I found in his office a dictionary
of jaw-crackers, of new coined words, Greek, Latin, and phrases
not used by English readers, — and the mystery was solved ! I never
saw the book before, nor since. A popular work must come down
to plain English, so that all may know what we mean. Believing
this to be the course you are aiming at, permit me, my dear sir, to
say, that I wish you a successful operation on your plan.
Yours, very respectfully,




GENERAL ORDERS.

The second brigade of militia, composed of the counties of Butler
and Warren, is arranged into battalions and regiments, as follows :

FIRST REGIMENT.
First Battaliox — Butkr county.
Captain James Blackburn,
William Smith,
Joseph Cox,
John Wingate.
Secojs^d Battaliox.

Captain James IM'Cliire,
Michael Auld,
Robert Sigerson.
No return from a company election received.



SECOND REGIMENT.
FinsT Battalion — Wairen county.
Captain William Mason's company.
Benjamin Siites', Jr. do.
James Beedle's do.

James Maranda's do.
Secoxti Battalion-.
Captain William Bone's company.
Joseph Dill's do.

Charles Wolverton's do.
Samuel M' Cray's do.



376



General Orders.



THIRD REGIMENT.
First Battalion — Butler county.
Captain William Blackburn,
William Morris.
A comp'y not retm^ned the election for officers.
Captain John Hamilton.
Second Battalion.

Captain Samuel Beeler,
Daniel Griffing,
John Sample,
Moses Vail.



FOURTH REGIMENT.
First Battalion — Warren county.
Captain Aaron Reeder's company.
John C. Death's do.
James M'Donald's do.
James Kelley's do.
Second Battalion.

Captain Abiah Martin,

John Martindalls,
Joseph Hayes,
Aaron Sewell.



The commissioned officers in the second brigade, in the first divis-
ion of militia, in the state of Ohio, are hereby ordered to meet in their
battaUons, on Saturday, the 14th day of July next, at 11 o'clock, A.
M., and elect a major in each, as the law directs.

The commissioned officers in the first battalion, in the first regiment,
to meet at the house of John Torrence, in the town of Hamilton.

The commissioned officers in the second battalion, in the first regi-
ment, to meet at the house of captain James M'Clure, and elect a
major for the said battalion.

The commissioned officers in the first battalion, in the third regi-
ment, to meet at Rossville, opposite the town of Hamilton, and elect
one major for said battalion.

The commissioned officers in the second battalion, in the third regi-
ment, to meet at the house of captain Daniel Griffing, and elect one
major for said battalion.

The four last mentioned battalions lie in the county of Butler, and
as no returns have been received from two of the company districts,
agreeably to a former order ; I do hereby enjoin it upon the inhabit-
ants of the said districts, to make returns without delay.

The commissioned officers in the first battalion and second regi-
ment, are to meet at the house of David Sutton, in Deerfield, and
elect a major for said battalion.

The commissioned officers of the second battalion, in the second
regiment, to meet at the house of Ephraim Hathaway, and elect a
major for said battalion.

The commissioned officers in the first battalion and fourth regiment,
to meet at the house of doctor Reeder, in FrankUn, and elect a major
for said battalion.

The commissioned officers of the second battalion in the fourth re-
c;iment, to meet at the house of Thomas Gooding, in the town of
Waynesville, and elect a major for said battalion. Returns to be
made to me, agreeable to law.

The commissions for the company officers are received by me, and
if not called for previous to the time of the election hereby ordered,
they will be forwarded to the clerks of the counties of Butler and
Warren, where they may be had on application. In the case where
two persons had an equal number of votes for ensign, in captain Win-
gate's company, it is recommended that they decide by voluntary
draft, in presence of the captain, which shall hold it ; if they do not
agree to that mode, a new election for ensign will be ordered : a strict
compliance with this order is expected. JOHN S. GANO,

Major general, commanding the \st division militia, in the state of Ohio,
A true copy of the general order.

William Ruffin, Aid-de-camp.



Captain M^Gary defeated by the Indians. 377



Mr. JOHN M'CADDON'S LETTER.

The editor of the American Pioneer has been long acquainted with the
writer of the following letter, and knows him to be a man of sterling integri-
ty. His letter fixes the commencement of operations at Cincinnati. It also
gives other important information. We hope to get more from him.

NeiaarJe, Ohio, May 16M, 1842.
Mr. Jno. S. Williams.

Dear Sir — I am on the advanced side of eighty-five years of age.
It may therefore be supposed that I was old enough to remember well,
many interesting incidents in the earliest part of our revolution. It
is true I can relate many, and one of which I will now relate, being
personally engaged in it.

Having heard great accounts of the famous land of Kentucky, I
determined to possess myself of a small piece of it. Early in the
spring of 17S0, being then twenty -three years of age, I descended the
Ohio. During my stay in that devoted country, the Indians were ex-
tremely troublesome. The settlers were cooped up in small stockade
forts all over the country. Being thus harassed, the people determin-
ed to make an effort to chastise the enemy ; and accordingly placed
themselves, myself among them, under the command of colonel George
Rogers Clark, who at that time was ahnost the idol of Kentuckians.
We started from the falls, now Louisville. On our way up the river
to where Cinciimati now stands, captain Hugh M'Gary, a famous
Indian hunter, had placed himself on the Indian side of the river, fre^
quently boasting that they lived better than we did, for they kept their
hunters out to proctu'e meat. The main body kept the Kentucky
shore. One day, when the main body stopped for dinner, M'Gary's
men as usual halted op osite to us. When we were ready to march,
they concluded to cross over to our side, as they discovered fresh In-
dian tracks. They had got but a few yards from the shore, when they
were fired upon from the top of the bank. They seemed to have no
alternative but to jump out and mix with the Indians as they ran
down the bank. Colonel Clark's barge was instantly unloaded and
filled with men; but before they got across, they heard the Indians
give the scalp haloo on the top of the river hill. I have made this
digression to relate what in this instance was the end of fool hardiness,
often mistaken for true bravery, but in fact very little allied to it.

At the place where Cincinnati now is, it was necessary to build a
block-house, for the purpose of leaving some stores and some wound-
ed men we got of M'Gary's company. 1 may therefore say, that
Vol. 1—2 X 32*



DTS J. L. Bowman^s Letter.

although I did not cut a tree, or lift a log, I helped to build the first
house ever built on that ground, for I was at my post in guarding the
artificers who did the labor of building.

When this was done, we penetrated into the interior in search of
Indians. When we arrived at Chillicothe, on the head of the Little
Miami, we found it burned by the Indians. We next arrived at
Pickaway, on Mad river. Here tliey gave us battle ; but they were
forced to fly. After cutting down their corn, which was then in roast-
ing ear, and on which we subsisted while there, and burning their
town, we made the best of our way home. We however were not
so fortunate as to reach Kentucky without the loss of a few more
men.

After the close of the revolutionary war, in 1783, the Indians con-
tinued to murder our women and children along the frontiers. Al-
though a definitive treaty of peace had been made, the English gov-
ernment still continued to encourage the savages, by paying them for
the scalps of our people. It might be asked if in this way they were
not more savage, and greater murderers than the Indians ?

The American government ordered a few hundred men to march
out and chastise the Indians. These were mostly or entirely drafted.
I lived then in Fayette county, Pennsylvania, and was one, but hired
a substitute by the name of Aaron Longstreet, a very active young
man. When they arrived at the Sandusky plains, they were met by
the Indians, with whom they skirmished and fought for several days.
The Indian forces increased every day, until our men were overpow-
ered and surrounded. There was left to them no alternative but to
force their way through the enemy. They placed themselves in solid
column, the horsemen foremost. Mr. Longstreet caught hold of one
of the horse's tails, and scampered unhurt through the fire. After much
fatigue and starvation he reached home in safety. I could relate
many more incidents, but perhaps it would be superfluous.

o '




- — *«Vs/>^>^^^^S*S^*



PATIENT PERSEVERANCE,

The Way to Become Useful.
Mr. Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

The introduction of the surveyor-generalship of general Rufus Put-
nam, in one of the numbers of the " Pioneer," brought to my recoUec-



Patient Perseverance. 379

tion an official incident with that gentleman, which was related to me
by one of the parties.

When orders were given by the government to the surveyor-gen-
eral of the north-western territory, to have a portion of the public
lands therein surveyed, and subdivided into sections, many appUca-
tions were made by persons, for the situation of deputies. Among
the number was a young man from the extreme western part of Penn-
sylvania, who had, without pecunitiry means or the faciUty of instruc-
tion, but by his own application and industry during the recess from
labor, acquired a knowledge of surveying. Clad in a hunting-shirt
and moccasins, the usual habiliments of the hacJewoodsman of the
day, he presented himself personally to general Putnam, at Marietta,
and made known his desire to have a district to run out. The gen-
eral replied that there were so many applications, he was afraid he
could not gratify him, and that he could give no decisive answer fof
some time. " Sir," said the applicant, "I have come a considerable
distance and am dependant altogether upon my own exertions for my
support, — have you any work for me to do, by which I can gain a
support until you can give me an answer." "Yes," answered the gen-
eral, " I have some wood to cut." " Sir, I can swing an axe as well
as set a compass ;" and doffing his hunting-shirt, went at it with full
vigor, the general occasionally stepping out to see how he progress-
ed. The job was completed.

"Sir," again said the applicant, "have you any drafting or platting
in your office that I can assist you with?" "Yes," said the general,
"I can give you some of that to do." In due time the plat was com-
pleted and handed to the general, who examined it carefully, and
with apparent surprise, alternately looking at the plat and the appli-
cant — thus responding : "Young man, you may go home ; you shall
have the district you desired: and so soon as the necessary instruc-
tions are made out, I will forward them;" which was complied with,
and so satisfactorily executed to the department, by the young sur-
veyor, that at a subsequent progression of surveys, three districts were
awarded to him by general Mansfield, the successor of Putnam.

The young man thus represented as presenting himself, was the
late John Bever, Esq., formerly of Georgetown, Beaver county, Penn-
sylvania, and who has stated to the writer of this article, that that in-
cident was probably the foundation of the ample fortune, acquired in
after-life, and possessed at the time of his death in 1836.

Fiy^st Paper-Mill in Ohio. — The first paper-mill in Ohio, and the
second west of the mountains, was erected in 1805 — 6, on Little
Beaver creek, near its junction with the Ohio river, in Columbiana



380 J. L. Bowman's Letter.

county, and just within the state. It was called the " Ohio Paper-
mill." The proprietors were John Bever, Esq. of Georgetown, my
father, and John Coulter. In a few years the former purchased out
the latter. It is now my property, being the representative of the orig-
inal proprietors.

Nails. — My father established the first nail factory west of the
mountains, at Brownsville, Pa. Those made were of the kind known
as wrought nails ; the manner of making cut nails was not then Imown.
The workmen were brought from Hagerstown, Md; and two of these
workmen, George and Charles Michael, we believe, are now resid-
ing in Ross county, Ohio.

I have given you in this sheet, some small "affairs:" if worthy of
your periodical, give them a place. It is my intention (Deo volenti) to
give you something about " Redstone's old fort hereafter " — that is, so
soon as leisure will permit. I could say something about the first win-
dow-glass factory west of the mountains, which was established at New
Geneva, in this county, by Albert Gallatin and others; but your valu-
able Marietta correspondent could obtain from George Rippart, one
of the original proprietors, who now resides below Marietta, on the
river, a more satisfactory detail. He is an intelligent German, and
would take delight in giving a detail of the whole events of that es-
tablishment.

Very respectfully yours,



^-O^J^



Brownsville, July 30th, 1842.

The above valuable communication is from an intimate and worthy acquain-
tance of ours, and we trust he will excuse us for giving his name, when he
intended, in his characteristic modesty, to conceal it. To give the real sig-
nature of a contributor, is the nearest we can do towards introduceing the very
man himself to our readers. It is truly gratifying to us, to be able thus to
introduce many pioneers.

Our correspondent is a son of Jacob Bowman, Esq., who was an early pi-
oneer, and long a wealthy and respectable citizen of Brownsville, Pa. He
held the office of postmaster there for many years, and was president of the
Brownsville Bank of Pa. from its commencement. We know that our friend
Jas. L. can, from his personal and collected knowledge, and from notes of his
father, treat the readers of the Pioneer with a rare feast. We trust he will do
so. Will Dr. Hildreth please attend to the Glass-house history ?



Evan and Isaac Shelby. 381



THE BATTLE OF POINT PLEASANT.

Evan and Isaac Shelby.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir: — I have to notice briefly the remarks of your worthy
correspondents, the indefatigable Dr. Hildreth, and the veteran colonel
Sharp, with reference to Evan and Isaac Shelby, at the battle of Point
Pleasant, October 10th, 1774. The Doctor states that "Isaac Shelby,
afterwards governor of Kentucky, commanded a company in that bat-
tle ;" while colonel Sharp, with the design of correcting the supposed
" mistake," says, " the captain Shelby, who fought so bravely in that
battle, was Evan Shelby, the governor's father." With the behef
that I possess a knowledge of the facts in the case, I will venture so
far to presume upon your kindness as to state, that both doctor Hild-
reth and colonel Sharp, are in the main correct.

Evan Shelby, who subsequently rose to the rank of brigadier-gen-
eral, resided at that time, as did his son Isaac, in what is now Sulli-
van county, in East Tennessee. A company of bold and fearless
frontier-men was raised in that region, for the campaign of 1 774, of
which Evan Shelby was the captain, and Isaac the lieutenant. This
company and that of captain William Russell, were the only compa-
nies of colonel William Christian's regiment engaged in the action,
the main body of the regiment being on its march and not reaching
' the Point ' till about midnight after the battle.

The troops at Point Pleasant consisted of about eleven hundred
men, in three regiments, under the chief command of general Andrew
Lewis. His brother Charles commanded one of these regiments, doc-
tor William Fleming, the brother-in-law of colonel Christian, another,
and colonel John Field the other. They had reached this place of
rendezvous on Thursday, the 6th of October, and were awaiting the
arrival of governor Dunmore and his troops, to the number of about
twelve hundred, raised east of the Blue Ridge. General Lewis was
not apprehensive of danger, and his careless security well nigh caused
his surprise. About half an hour before sun-rise on Monday morn-
ing, October 10th, two of captain Russell's men discovered the enemy
about a mile from camp. One of these men was killed, the other
effected his escape and brought in the intelligence. But two or three
minutes elapsed before two of captain Shelby's company, James Rob-
ertson and Valentine Sevier, who had gone out hunting before day,
came m and corroborated the account. To digress a little, this same
James Robertson afterwards rose to the rank of general, and distin-



382 The Battle of Point Pleasant.

guished himself as one of the boldest pioneers and Indian fighters of
Tennessee ; and major Sevier, a brother of general John Sevier, gal-
lantly fought at King's Mountain, served under Marion in South Car-
olina, and played well his part in many a battle with the bravest war-
riors of the Cherokee nation.

General Lewis, who had served under Braddock and Washington,
in the old French war, was not in the least discomposed by the intel-
ligence of the near approach of the enemy. Having first lit his pipe,
he ordered colonel Charles Lewis, and colonel Fleming, to whose reg-
iment the companies of captains Shelby and Russell were attached, to
march and reconnoitre the ground where the enemy had been seen.
In a few minutes the action became general. Colonel Charles Lewis
was mortally wounded early in the engagement, and colonel Fleming
shortly after received three wounds, one through his breast, and had
to be taken from the field. At this critical period, when some of the
troops began to give way, colonel Field, with his regiment, came gal-
lantly into the action, and about noon this intrepid and lamented
officer was shot dead. Captain Evan Shelby was nov/ ordered to
take the command ; and, of course, Isaac Shelby, the lieutenant, suc-
ceeded to the command of his father's company. The fury of the bat-
tle somewhat abated about one o'clock, though it continued obstinately
enough till near night, when Isaac Shelby, George Matthews, and
John Stewart, were ordered to ascend Crooked creek, a small tribu-
tary of the Kenhawa, a short distance above its mouth, and under its
bushy banks to gain the rear of the enemy ; which movement, togeth-
er with the rapid approach of night, induced the Indians to retreat,
which, under cover of the darkness, they easily and safely effected.

It has always appeared to me, that no engagement with the Indi-
ans was ever more hotly contested, than the remarkable battle of Point
Pleasant. It was emphatically a western battle, fought by western men,
for all of general Lewis' troops were raised west of the Blue Ridge.
I have attempted to narrate only those particulars connected with the
engagement, as would explain satisfactorily the part taken in it by
general Evan and colonel Isaac Shelby.

I am indebted chiefly for my information, to two original letters in
my possession ; one written at " the mouth of the Great Canaway, Oc-
tober the 16th, 1774," by Isaac Shelby himself, and the other by col-
onel William Preston, under date October the 31st, 1774." It should
be added, that colonel Preston was not himself in the battle, but wrote
from intelligence received in letters, from " colonel Christian and other
gentlemen on the expedition."

Taking a lively interest in the success of your sterling magazine.



Daniel Slebbins' Letter. 383

and wishing to aid you in your praiseworthy endeavors to ekicidate
"the truth and justice of history," I have ventured to offer you this
explanation of an apparent historical discrepancy, which I flatter my-
self will not prove entirely unacceptable. I am sure no one can feel
more grateful to you for your untiring labors of love, than
Yours most sincerely.

Forest Home, near Pantoloc, Miss.

The above letter speaks for itself, and needs no commendation from us. It
shows conclusively one of the prominent uses of the American Pioneer. Let
us suppose for a moment, that doctor Hildreth or colonel Sharp were to write
a history of western Virginia. Is it not easy to see that neither, without the
documents referred to by Mr. Draper, would have been strictly correct, and
without the Pioneer, how would either of them, at the distance of one or two
thousand miles, have found Mr. Draper? The way that the venerable pio-
neers will gi'eet each other, and talk of olden times in the Pioneer, in the
course of two or three years, we think will be interesting.

Mr. Draper has been " long engaged in collecting Pioneer sketches, intend-
ing eventually to throw them into book-form." If there is any way that we
can aid him in his enterprise through the American Pioneer, we will do it.
Let the truth of history be written, and nothing but the truth under the name
of history. We presume this is his praiseworthy object.



REMINISCENSES OF OLDEN TIME.

After the destruction of tea in Boston harbor, the use of it was in-
terdicted by the common consent of the country ; this was a severe trial
for the daughters of mother Eve, for they delighted to sip of the deli-
cious beverage, but it must be done hi secret. When good Bohea
could not be used openly, a vegetable was used as a substitute, gath-
ered and sold in Springfield at one dollar and fifty cents per pound.
My father had erected a spacious house with a basement story, in
which was a suitable fire-place, where the tea-kettle could be boiled,
and here the good matrons thought they might take their real Bohea,
when the men were absent.

Like other children fond of sweet things, after our mothers had
regaled themselves, we, the children, were permitted to come around
the table for a share of the good things ; and in order to secure the
sugar, in simplicity asked for tea, but were mstantly reminded to ask
for coffee.



384 Re?ninisce7ises of Olden Time.

A neighbor, full of love of country, was to be from home ; and his

wife invited a party of matrons to spend the afternoon, and as

the good man would be absent; but he returned while the table was
setting and loading with the good things of the house, having no doubt
that the tea-pots contained the forbidden beverage. In the ardor of
patriotic feelings, he placed his foot beneath the table, and upset the
whole upon the floor, — in those days floor-rags or carpets were not
used and would have been called tory extravagance. He passed out
at another door, without saying a word, nor giving his better half
time to say "husband, how could you do so?" The visitors were left
staring at each otlier for a moment, and gathering up their knitting
aparatus, made tracks for home, and left the good woman to settle
the difficulty with her husband, with or without a curtain lecture, as
she might think best.

When Arnold was selected to march upon Canada, through a dense
forest in mid-winter, it became necessary to procure specie, which
was of all things most scarce and difficult to get in exchange for oui
paper currency. However, it must be had ; among other places Spring-
field was visited, and there was found one, my grand-father, who had
too much patriotism to resist the application. He and my father were
large dealers in beef-cattle, and in their stable was fatted the big ox,
which was roasted whole on Boston common, after having passed
through the principal streets, decorated in the most fanciful manner
with ribands, &c., and after being roasted and carved, was distributed
among the poor and spectators; but the Hancocks and other choice
spirits, might be served with the choice bits first, or in common with
their fellow-citizens.

My father was the principal operative on the farm, and my grand-
father was purser, and kept the precious metals in an oaken chest at
the foot of his bed, which served as his safety-chest. At the time al-
luded to, he was in cash, and counted out one thousand silver dol-
lars, ox its equivalent, in British gold, and replaced it with the same
number of paper dollars, which promised on the face thereof, to be re-
deemed in gold and silver, printed in large capitals. With this
money the stalls were to be replenished ; but this currency began to
depreciate, and my parents had been taught from their youth up, to
consider a dollar worth neither less nor more than six shillings, lawful
money; and not willing to suffer any discount thereon, permitted the
whole to die in the old chest.

Previous to Shays' rebellion, one Samuel Ely, a preacher, for some
offence against the peace or good name of the commonwealth, was
sentenced and confined in Springfield jail.



S/iat/s' Rebellion. 385

It so happened on a day, that the Rev. Mr. Williams, of Long-
Meadow, four miles from Springfield, was buried ; thus the town was
almost emptied of men. On this day a large number of mounted par-
tizans came to Springfield to effect a "jail-delivery." Intelligence
of this visit having been received, a number of young men, school-
boys and clerks, were hastily collected under captain Thomas Dwight,
and paraded on the opposite side of the street, in front of the jail.
The invading party, armed '■'cap a pie,''^ rode up and halted almost in
contact with captain Dwight's boys; a few men dismounted, and with
implements, rushed into the house to the door of the jail, which soon
gave way, and Ely was shown to his co-zealots, mounted a spare
horse, was presented with a gallon-bottle, which he received without
the usual ceremony of "I pledge you," wiped the bung-hole with the
palm of his iiand, raised it to his mouth and took a hearty swig of

Returning the bottle, the word was given, "right about face,"

move, and away they went, trotting and pacing with a quick-step,
northward, and we, the town-boys, were dismissed to go home and do
the chores.

At the time of disbanding the American army, money was scarce,
the country deeply in debt, and Daniel Shays, among others, was ow-
ing debts which he could not pay, nor get an equivalent for his ser-
vices in the army ; and discontent was prevailing all over the coun-
try. Complaints were unavailing. In Massachusetts, called the
cradle of liberty, a formidable number had selected Daniel Shays
to present their grievances for redress, which, if it could not be done
peaceably, then ''vi et armis." The latter alternative was adopted.
But previous to Shays appearing at the head of an armed mob, so
called, an attempt was made to stop the courts of justice. A court
was to be held at Springfield ; a few warm partizans had assembled
about the court-house, in plain sight of the old brick school-house,
where I attended school, and from my window saw all that was go-
ing on. JNIr. sheriff Porter, with his insignia of office and side-arms,
preceded the judges; and when the sheriff came to the door-steps,
which had been taken possession of by the mobility, he sung out at
the top of his voice, "clear the way for the court ; " but the party in
possession did not budge an inch, until the sheriff drew forth his glit-
tering sword, and made several bold and cutting thrusts upon the
naked air. At this moment a young man full of zeal stepped forward,
seized the leader b)'' the collar, drew him forth — the others gave way,
the court entered, opened and closed in due form, "O i/es!" — the two
persons clenched each other " rough and itimble" and both rolled into
the brook, which passed under the court-house. I had looked on with

Vol. 1—2 Y 33



386 Reminiscenses of Olden Time.

intense interest, but could no longer resist the impulse, but sung out
'•^master, they are at it,'^ detaching my hat from the peg, without leave
or license, rushed out of the school to see the whole fun and mingle
with the crowd. The master and whole posse of urchins soon followed.

Matters were fast hastening for rebellion, and daily becoming
more serious and alarming. A large party were collecting under a
leader, now captain Shays, with whom it was "neck or nothing.'^

It had been resolved in solemn sentence, to take possession of the
public stores, "peaceably if they could." Shays' party were assembled
about half a mile north of the court-house, and the government-party,
so called, assembled under captain Joseph Williams, in front of the
court-house, and were ordered to load with powder and ball: when or-
dered to load, one who stood near me turned his cartridge-ball down-
ward and rammed it home.

A compromise took place: Shays and party were permitted to
march upon the continental hill, unmolested, with music and colors
flying; nominally to take possession of the public ground — do no in-
jury, and in the same peaceable manner to retire.

This momentary victory or ascendency, however, only stimulated the
mobocracy to devise ways and means to come into actual possession
of the public stores and arsenal ; for which purpose, troops were col-
lected and assembled under three leaders, and a certain day and hour
to be determined upon by captain Shays, when to meet upon Conti-
nental hill. The express conveying the intelligence from captain Shays'
head-quarters to captain Parsons, commanding the troops stationed
at Chepec northerly, and to captain Luke Day and party, at West
Springfield, was intercepted. Parsons was to approach from the north,
captain Day from the west, and Shays with the main body from the
east. Not knowing that the expresses had been intercepted. Shays,
at the time appointed, came in sight of the public buildings and halted,
not knowing whether Day and Parsons were in attendance or not.
General Shepherd, who commanded the government party, had caused
a line of demarkation to be made, and sent intelligence to Shays, that
if he passed that line, it would be necessary to defend the public prop-
erty. The government troops were mostly secreted within and be-
hind the buildings, and on scouting-parties in the bushes ; but the
field-pieces were stationed in front across the road, with the general's
guard formed on the right of the pieces, the general and suite on the
left of the pieces, all in plain sight of Shays' advance-guard, consisting,
as then said, of about four hundred old continental soldiers, headed by
one captain White, with whom I afterwards became personally ac-
quainted, and who was a brave man. I was attached to general Shep-



Skai/s^ Rebellion. 387

herd's life-guard, and so situated as to have the whole field of opera-
tions in my eye.

Shays, with a number of men mounted, rode forward to the front
of his party, and were in conference nearly an hour : they might have
been puzzled that no intelligence had been received from Day and
Parsons ; but he would not now retire without testing the principle of
attack and defence. It had been reported, as the opinion of Shays'
party, that Government Puppies, meaning the cannon, would not
dare to open their mouths and bark.

My station was in the rear rank, having in front an old continental
soldier, who had seen service and was provided with a large pack-
blanket and three days' provisions.

Should Shays' party march upon us, it was expected there would
be a bloody fight, threats having been made, that before they would
give up, the town should be laid in ashes. General Tupper, one of
general Shepherd's aids, rode in front of the men stationed on the right
of the field-pieces, and told them that if any one chose to leave the
ranks, he might do it and retire without incurring disgrace or dishon-
oring himself

Only one retired, who complained of the belly-ache, and his place
"Was supplied by a youth, who came leaping and jumping towards the
ranks. I should myself have been very glad to have been out of harm's
way — but stationed as I was, had rather subject myself to the conse-
quences than retire, although I did not expect to return to the walls
of Yale College with a whole skin. To encourage me in my resolution
I had a living breast-work before me, " the old soldier and his pack,"
and made my calculations accordingly : that should the opposite party
give us a shot, and a bullet pass in the direction where I stood, that
the force of the bullet would be checked by the body and pack of my
old soldier; thus I stood directly behind him, watching for a chance to
be not hurt. — Bravo ! what a bold soldier tvas I!

Soon as Shays and his mounted council began to move again to-
wards the rear, his advance guard, of four hundred old soldiers, under
captahi White, distinguished by his blue short dress-coat, began their
march, eight deep, towards the government-party.

General Shepherd, true to his promise of defending the hill, the
pieces being elevated that the balls might pass over or aside of the
party approaching, in hopes it might check them, gave orders to fire.
The two field-pieces were discharged in quick succession, and so un-
expectedly to Shays' council-board, that it was said, no less than
twenty fell from their horses.

This discharge only hastened the step of the advancing party, and



388 Beminiscenses of Olden 7%me.

at the flash of every gun, those in the range of the shot stepped aside
into the bushes, and were instantly in place again.

General Shepherd then ordered the pieces to be leveled waist-band
high. At this time, the shot would range with a turn in the road, and
reach the advancing four hundred about mid-way; at this time also
one of the men who had sponged his piece, and supposing that his gun
was again discharged, was in the act of sponging again, when the
match was applied to the gun and the shot took off both his arms, and
I saw his hat fluttering in the air and the blood spouting from his arms.
This shot also did execution upon Shays' men, killing two and dan-
gerously wounding another, who died before the next morning ; and
now the rear began to file off" into the bushes out of the range of the
cannon-balls, and so rapid was the falling off", that captain White was
left quite alone ; he stood a moment, casting his eyes upon his own
party retreating, and then upon the government troops, with such a
disappointed, disdainful and contemptuous look, as I had never before
seen. Captain White brought the butt of his gun to rest at his feet, then
took to the bushes himself at the top of his speed. The government
cavalry were in requisition and desired to pursue the retreating party.
General Shepherd refused, but with a proviso, that should Shays re-
turn, he would then grant the request. They did not return, but ran
with all speed out of reach of the Government Puppies, and filed off
upon the road to Ludlow, or they would have encountered the troops
of general Lincoln, who came on the next day, to our inexpressible
joy, and immediately marched upon West Springfield, which was the
first notice that captain Day's party had, the guard stationed at the
ferry-place being challenged by Lincoln's troops. Although within
a mile, air-line, of the place where the cannon were discharged, never
a gun was heard, and no intelligence had reached Day's party of the
disaster. The flight was so sudden that Day's men had scarce time
to get out of the way, before their encampment was occupied by
Lincoln's troops.

General Shepherd's troops, cavalry and artillery, moved upon the
ice about one mile and then marched for the street. At the place where
we came into the street, there was a small house and barn: one poor
fellow, instead of fleeing with the rest, hid himself under the barn,
where he was discovered by his legs, which he could not hide, being
really a Longfellow. He was seized by the legs, drawn back a piece,
where he stuck fast ; and on one singing out for an axe to cut him
apart, he begged for quarters and was spared.

Yours respectfully, ^ / j/ / ,



William Nubble's Petition. 389



PETITION OF CAPTAIN WILLIAM HUBBLE.

The following petition is worthy a place as matter of history. Its pub-
lication is also right in order to do justice to a faithful soldier. Captain Hub-
ble is better known to the West as an Indian fighter. One of the battles he
was engaged in, he made the most desperate defense against perhaps the
greatest odds ever known, is related in M'Clung's Sketches of Western Ad-
venture, taken from the Western Review, and is worth an attentive perusal.

To the honorable, the Senate and House sf Repi^esentatives of
the United States.

Your memorialist, William Hubble, late oue of the soldiers and of-
ficers of the Revolutionary" war, would respectfully represent the ser-
vices which he rendered his country in that eventful and glorious
struggle for liberty and independence ; and the hardships, sufferings
and sacrifices which lie voluntarily and without a murmur, encoun-
tered, in order that your honorable body, (whilst testifying the grati-
tude and justice of the nation, in dispensing of the national funds to
those meritorious bands of patriots) may not be forgetful of the just
claims of your petitioner. In recounting the difficult scenes through
which he has passed, he may possibly subject himself to the charge of
egotism : but a plain and simple narrative of facts becomes indispens-
ably necessary, that the merits of his claim may be fairly and fully
considered, waiving that delicacy which on ordinary occasions for-
bids us to sound our own praise.

On the 20tli of April, 1775, he first entered the service as a vol-
unteer in the company commanded by captain David Demman, of
the county and town of Fairfield, in the state of Connecticut. On
the 17th the British had attacked the mihtia at Boston whilst en-
gaged in their military exercises, killing some and dispersing them.
Our company proceeded for Boston and had reached Harford, where,
by express, we halted, to await further orders. After remaininff sev-
eral days we were ordered back. During this time the legislature of
the then colony of the state was convened, and provided for raising
two brigades for the defense and support of American liberty. Be-
tween the 10th and 15th of May, 1775, he enhsted in said company
of captain Demman, which was attached to the regiment commanded
by colonel Waterbury, of Stanford in said state, to serve till the 1st
of January, 1776. The regiment rendezvoused at Stanford, where I
v/as appointed a sergeant in the company. The regiment, includnig
men and officers, was one thousand strong, and was ordered to New
York, where we lay until the latter end of June. From thence we

33*



390 William Hubble's Petition.

were ordered to Albany, and from thence to Fort Edward up the
North river, and on to Ticonderoga, on Lake Champlain.

As soon as the army collected at Ticonderoga they marched, under
command of general Schuyler to the Eiles Ox Nox, where in conse-
quence of indisposition he left us, and the command of the army des-
tined for the attack and reduction of fort St. John's devolved on the
gallant and ever-to-be-remembered general Montgomery. We were
marched, as well as 1 recollect, about the last of September or 1st of
October, towards fort St. John's. We encamped about two miles
above the fort on the bank of the river in a swamp, and the rain fell
upon us from that time until near about the 1st of November, during
which time we erected our gun and bomb-batteries within half a
mile of the fort. We kept up a continued cannonade of shots and
shells upon the fort, until about the 10th of November, when we were
compelled to change our ground and encampment, below the fort, in
order to relieve ourselves from the miserable situation in which we
were placed, the ground being almost overflowed and the mud knee
deep. We encountered a deep swamp in changing our ground, but
all difficulties vanished before a brave and gallant soldiery.

We then speedily formed a gun-battery of abatis and fascines, and
opened an entrenchment from the left bank of the river to the swamp
to guard our flanks. At the dawn of day our battery opened upon
the fort with twelve, eighteen and twenty-four pounders, and a warm
cannonade was continued on both sides until night. The next morn-
ing a white flag appeared in the fort and a parley beat on the para-
pet. A flag was borne to the American army with propositions for a
surrender. A capitulation was entered into, which surrendered the
fort, ordnance, arms and accoutrements of every description, and the
British troops were required to march out and ground their arms. So
soon as preparations could be completed, after the surrender of St.
John's, and that of Shambles, taken a few days before, our army, noth-
ing daunted by the dangers to be met, or the excessive severity of the
weather, moved on towards Montreal between the 16th and 20th of
November, encountering a horrid road, sometimes to our knees in mud,
and sometimes deeper in the swamp, which was more comfortable
than the road. We reached Cole creek without tents or shelter, and
we were compelled to occupy two barns on the north side of the creek.
And thus wet and muddy we had a most gloomy time. The next
day we arrived at Capillary and encamped in the open field, exposed
to the falling of a deep snow-storm. On the 10th of December, 1775,
we efl'ected a crossing of St. Lawrence to an island near the north
bank on the Montreal side of the river, and lay there two or three days



William HuhhWs Petition. 391

in barns, cow-houses, stables, &c. from whence we crossed to the Mon-
treal side and marched down and surrounded the town. On the next
day, the 14tti December, 1775, the town surrendered, aUhough strongly
fortified with a stone wall from ten to twelve feet thick and twelve
feet high. Our time of service having nearly expired, orders reached
colonel Samuel Elmore to raise a regiment from the disbanded troops,
for one year from the 1st of January, 1776. I then entered into said
regiment as ensign in captain Robert Waller's company, and remained
there until the 1st of May, 1776, when we were driven back by gen-
eral Burgoyne's army. On the retreat, each company was ordered to
take command of itself and to rendezvous at Albany. Were I to re-
late the hardships we underwent, and the privations we endured from
hunger, nakedness and extreme cold weather, it could scarce gain cre-
dence. A furlough was granted our regiment for one month, after we
arrived at Albany. I was then two hundred miles from home and had
been absent fourteen months without having received one cent of pay.
We rendezvoused at Albany agreeably to our furlough, and marched
up the Mohawk river to guard the frontiers of New York. In No-
vember 1776, we were ordered to relieve colonel Dayton's regiment,
then stationed at fort Schuyler, formerly called fort Stanwix, near the
head navigation of Mohawk river, where Utica is now situated. In
December, 1776, it was announced in the fort (under governmental
authority) that all those who should enter the continental army for
three years, or during the war, should be entitled to a bounty in land
proportioned to their rank. Captain Robert Walker of colonel Elmore's
regiment, received an appointment as captain, Samuel Webb as 1st
lieutenant, and myself 2nd lieutenant in a company of artillery in the
2nd regiment, commanded by colonel John Lane of New York; and on
the 1st day of September, 1777, 1 received a 1st lieutenant's commission
in 1st company. I continued in said regiment till the 1st of June,
1780, when I was taken sick and for the first time was unable to do
duty. Thus I continued until the middle of September following,
after which, with great difficulty, I reached the main army, lying at
Tappan in the state of New York. Finding myself relapsing and un-
able to attend to the duties of the office I held, according to advice of
friends, I resigned my commission on the 1st of October, 1780, and
retired. This step was considered necessary to preserve my life from
the disease which then preyed upon me. From the 20th April, 1775,
to the 1st of October, 1780, I was in the service of my country, and
went through perils and sufferings which no language can adequately
pourtray. 1 have never received any pay except in continental money,
and I provided myself with arms and clothing. I have never received
land or other bounty from the government, as other officers have.



392 William Hubble's Petition.

Your memorialist is now nearly 72 years of age and borne down
by infirmity, incapable of laboring, and having but a moderate prop-
erty. Having spent six years of the prime of his life in active, impor-
tant and perilous service in achieving the liberty which we now en-
joy; having failed to reap any reward, but that of having assisted
in the most splendid achievement that has ever been recorded in
modern or ancient times, your memorialist feels that there is some-
thing of a substantial kind due for such signal blessings as have
flowed from the effects of those gallant patriots who planted the tree
of liberty with their own hands and watered it with their blood. He
has seen some of the revolutionary heroes receiving pensions to alle-
viate their poor condition and to heal their wounds. He has seen
another class receive lands, others half pay or commutation. Within
a few years past your petitioner presented a claim for land, but for
some cause unknown it tailed. The government is now rich in lands,
in money, in commerce, in resources and in blessings.

Your petitioner cannot believe that his request can be rejected by
an American congress, when properly understood. He supposes that
land or money will be granted him in due proportion as others have
received of the nation's bounty. Your petitioner has not yet com-
plained. As his patriotism buoyed him above murmuring for six long
years of hard service for his country ; he trusts that no complaint will
be heard from him, even should that country prove ungrateful. His
dying prayers will be offered up for his country's happiness and pros-
perity. Your petitioner will conclude by expressing the hope, that as
he encountered and braved the heat, the perils, the sufferings and
hardships of the war, his claims will receive the same consideration
as those who served to its close, where little or nothing remained to
be accomplished. [Signed.]




Commonwealth of Kentucky, Scott County, ss.
Personally appeared before me, one of the justices of the peace for said
county, captain Daniel Gano, a man of truth, and made oath that he
knew the within memorialist in the continental army, and were offi-
cers together in the same regiment of artillery, and were also in the
same army under general Montgomery in Canada, and that the facts

stated are correct. [Signed.] STEVENSON HISE.

Daniel Gang.
January Sth, 1827.



Ode to Peaci. 393



The following lines, written at Fort Greenville, July 4th, 1795, on the
prospect of peace with the Indian tribes north west of the Ohio, were handed
to us by William Y. Strong, Esq., of Chillicothe. They were written by
his father, doctor Joseph Strong, then a youthful soldier and surgeon, in
Wayne's legion. The reader will be many times paid for the time and labor
of an attentive perusal. —

ODE TO PEACE.

From blood-stained fields, where ravening war
Drove wildly round the crimsoned car,

O'er heaps of hapless slain ;
O Muse of Sighs ! retire and weep,
That they are wrapt in awful sleep

While night and darkness reign.

Return with smiles which grace has shown,
And join the music of the throne,

Where peace proclaims her sway ;
Sceptered on high she rules by love,
Uplifts her olive branch and dove.

And worlds their homage pay.

The thund'ring clouds of war are blown
Beneath her gilded horizon,

Nor shade her lucid sky ;
Their madd'ning rage and deathful fire.
Far from her sacred seat retire,

Their prisoned flames to try.

Hail, charming- Peace ! before whose eye
The veteran warrior breathes a sigh,

And blushing sheds his tears ;
Contemns the weapons he has borne.
To waste the earth in dauntless scorn,

When he thy music hears.

The savage tribes, by rapine led.
Oft screaming orgies o'er the dead,

Relent before thy shrine ;
Their peaceful calumets they raise.
And od'rous smoke perfumes thy praise.

While all thy carol join.

Look, where the 'sanguined steps of war
Have stained the wilderness afar,

Witli boldest prints of death ;
Where heroes fought and sadly fell.
With fun'ral rites of savage yell.

And smoking blood their wreath.
Vol. I.— 3 Z



394 Ode to Peace.

The muse declines the sorrowing tale.
With beating sighs her numbers fail

To tell her sharp distress ;
But while blest Peace leads in her train
The murd'ring foe, who ranged the plain,

She bids her anguish cease.

In leagues of love we now unite
Around the lamp of peaceful light.

And hail the joy-clad day :
No more shall ruthless foes pervade
The vast domains of western shade,

Or warlike music play.

The Indian tomahawk and knife,
Which mirthful mocked imploring life.

Lie buried in the ground ;
The dance of war shall be forgot,
And ev'ry dark and murd'rous plot,

No more in councils found.

The bloody belt, betokening war.
Shall be consumed, and smoking far,

Will purify the ground,
Where torturing arts of savage power.
Of pastime through the midnight hour,

O'er bleeding victims bound.

The soothing lyre with warbling strain.
Shall play where battles shook the plain,

And tune her songs of peace ;
Temples will rise where warriors fell.
And heav'nly worship quick prevail.

To guide the Pagan race.

To these vast wilds will science roam,
And raise her ever-lighted dome,

To gild the shady west ;
The savage tribes her lamps shall see,
And all their ancient darkness flee.

Thus in her light be blest.

The balmy beams of heavenly light
Will break the clouds of darkest night,

And ope its dreary fold ;
Then shall the Pagan view enthroned
His God in skies, with glory crowned,

And awfully behold.

The future Muse will paint this clime.
The noblest region of its time,
In beauteous grandeur spread ;



Mr. Boyd's Letter, 395

The prairies, witli their myriad flowers,
In groves far off to distant shores,
O'er nature's richest bed.

Here Liberty at last retires,

With altars pure and hallowed fires,

Whose flame will last with time ;
Where all the oppressed can find repose ;
Where virtue want nor sorrow knows,

In all this heaven blest clime.




«S#^^^^^Jft^r^^^^rS^N^V^^



BOYD'S CONTRIBUTIONS.

We are extremely gratified that Mr. Boyd has opened his casket of rare
antiquities to the view of the public, through the pages of the American Pio-
neer. He has been at much pains to collect rare and valuable autographs,
original letters, &;c., which he has kindly proffered the privilege of copying
into the Pioneer, and for which we trust he will receive many thanks from
our readers. Such letters, &;c., as are thus furnished by him will be num-
bered, to distinguish them from others.

MR. BOYD'S LETTER.

Cincinnati, August 20, 1842.
J NO. S. Williams :

Dear Sir, — In fulfillment of a promise made to you some months
ago, I selected, this morning, from my autographic collection, the
accompanying papers, which, I believe, come within the range of
your valuable publication.

These letters constitute part of a large and valuable contribution,
recently received from a distinguished gentleman of New-Hampshire;
and in presenting them to you for publication in the Pioneer, it would
perhaps be well enough to observe, tliat they were not given with a
view to their publication, but simply as autographs. If, therefore,
any of your readers should think 1 have taken an unwarrantable lib-
erty, in making them public, my excuse is to be found in a desire to
preserve them in such a form as will ensure their future preservation,
as well as to impress upon the minds of the young and rising genera-
tion a feeling of respect and veneration for the memory of those who



396 Boyd's Contributions.

so gallantly and so nobly achieved our independence, which I think
these letters eminently calculated to do.

If desired, I will from time to time furnish you with such others as
I think worthy of preservation in the Pioneer.

I am, sir, very respectfully your obedient servant.



^^^^ ^^'^^-^^



No. I.
WILLIAM WHIPPLE'S LETTER.

Portsmouth, 15th Sept., 1776.

My dear Sir, — Being extremely anxious to know how matters are
going on, I was much disappointed by not receiving a letter from you
last post. The accounts we have from New York are very imperfect
and confused, though it seems to be settled that our troops have quit-
ted Long Island ; the consequence I fear will be, that they must also
evacuate York. 1 had a hint that congress have directed general
Washington not to destroy that city, if he should be obliged to leave
it ; is this right ? Why should we be so careful to furnish the enemy
with convenient winter quarters ? It appears to me that the conse-
quence will be that the states will be put to the expense of five, if not
ten times, the value of that cursed city, which ought to have been
destroyed long ago.

A letter from the president, requiring more men from this state, to
reinforce the army, came to hand yesterday, just after the adjourn-
ment of the general court : however, as many of the members had
not gone off, they collected, and came to a resolution to raise 1000
men ; orders were accordingly sent to the colonels of the militia, im-
mediately to draught their respective proportions, and I hope they
will in a few days be on their march. Colonel Thornton is elected
our colleague ; he has not given his answer, but I am in no doubt he
will accept ; in that case I suppose we shall set off together, about the
10th of October. In my last I informed you that Mr. Langdon was
gone to Providence, to get guns, not doubting he would succeed; but
he is returned much disappointed ; has been most shamefully trifled
with, by the naval committee, (as they call themselves.) It seems
this committee consists of twelve men, five or six of whom are own-
ers of the furnace. They (the naval committee) agreed that Mr.
Langdon should have the guns that they had provided for one of the



William Whipple's Letter. 397

ships under their direction, on condition that he would contract with
the owners of the furnace, to replace them. This he consented to ;
but when he came to talk with those gentlemen, they declined con-
tracting with him as agent, but if he would contract in his private
character, they would furnish him with the guns at £100, lawful
money, per ton ; half the money to be paid on signing the contract,
and interest on the remainder till paid. Mr. Langdon looked on their
proposals as a great indignity offered congress, and as a gross insult

to him, and quitted them, and damns them for a set of . I really

think the conduct of those gentlemen is very extraordinary. Mr.
Langdon has taken great pains to furnish them with masts, and they
gave him encouragement that they would furnish him with guns ; but
when they had got the masts they cared but little about the other
part of the bargain. I do not know what money the gentlemen have
had towards building the ships, but think as they are so scrupulous
of the honor of congress, their accounts ought to be settled before
they have any more money. I do not see how this ship is to get to
sea this winter, unless guns are sent from Philadelphia, or a positive
order from the marine committee for some of those guns at Provi-
dence, which will be lying there all winter, useless, unless ordered for
some other ship, as it is impossible both those ships should be manned
this year.

It seems there are many complaints about the maritime courts.
The court here has acquitted a vessel that ought to be condemned,
and other courts condemned vessels that ought to be acquitted.
Mr. Sheaf has had a ship condemned at Providence, as British prop-
erty ; she was bound from the West Indies for London ; his property
was transferred, to prevent her being seized by British ships. I real-
ly think his case hard. He intends to petition congress. Another
ship, belonging to captain Lyon, of this town, under the same circum-
stances, is to be tried, at Salem, to-morrow. If this ship should be
condemned, the owners of her will also apply to congress : so it is
probable you will have business enough of this sort on your hands.

Your family were well yesterday, as I was informed by major
Philbrook, by whom I sent the money. I suppose Mr. J. Adams is
by this time on his way home ; if he is still with you, present my
regards to him. I am sincerely yours,

f



Hon. Josiah Bartlett, > /w^* ^^^^^^ t



In Congress.



C



V



398 First General Court of Hamilton County.

DOCQUET

Of the First General Court, of the Territory of the United States

north-west of the river Ohio, held ivithin and for the county of

Hamilton, which commenced at Cincinnati on October the fourthy

in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety,

and of the Independence of the United States of America, the

fifteenth.

October 4th, 1790, 11 o'clock, A. M., Monday.

The Honorable Judge Turner, escorted by the sheriff and attended
by the clerk and other judicial officers of the said county, present.
Court opened agreeable to proclamation at the instance of the honor-
able the judge, above mentioned, whose commission being openly
read, and the necessary proclamations duly made for the judicial and
ministerial officers of the county to make their returns, the sheriff pre-
sented his list of grand-jurors summoned : —

Of Cincinnati — 1, Jacob Reeder; 2, James Wallace; 3, James
Cunningham; 4, Francis Kennedy; 5, John Cummings; 6, John
Vance; 7, John Terry; 8, Seth Cutter; 9, Richard Benham; 10,
James Burns; 11, Luther Kitchell ; 13, Henry Taylor; 13, Nathan
Dunnals; 14, Joseph Cutter; 15, David Logan; 16, Abijah Ward.
Of Columbia — 17, Benjamin Davis; 18, Elijah Mills; 19, Samuel
Newell ; 20, William Gerrard ; 21, Elisha Stytes; 22, Jas. Matthews;
23, John Manning ; 24, Nathaniel Stokes.

Returned to serve, the first sixteen, viz : 1, Jacob Reeder ; 2, James
Wallace ; 3, James Cunningham ; 4, Francis Kennedy ; 5, John Cum-
mings ; 6, John Vance ; 7, John Terry ; 8, Seth Cutter ; 9, Richard
Benham; 10, James Burns; 11, Luther Kitchell ; 12, Henry Taylor;
13, Nathan Dunnals; 14, Joseph Cutter; 15, David Logan; 16,
Abijah Ward.

One judge only attending, court, without proceeding to business,
was adjourned until eleven o'clock of to-morrow, A. M.

Tuesday, 5th October, 1790.

Court opened pursuant to adjournment. Present, honorable judge
Turner. Absentees, (grand-jurors) Francis Kennedy, John Cum-
mings, Luther Kitchell, David Logan.

Proclamations duly made, court was adjourned till twelve o'clock
at noon to-morrow.

fFednesday, 6th October, 1790.

Present, honorable judge Turner. Court opened pursuant to ad-
journment. Absentees of yesterday obtained a remission of their
respective fines. Necessary proclamations being made, court was
adjourned, ut supra, until twelve o'clock, at noon, to-morrow.



Discovery of America. 399

Thursday, 1th October, 1790.

Court opened agreeable to adjournment. Present, honorable judge
Turner. Absentees, (grand-jurors) Seth Cutter, Richard Benham,
Luther Kitchell, Joseph Cutter.

Court adjourned until twelve o'clock, at noon, to-morrow.

Friday, St h October, 1790.

Court opened pursuant to adjournment. Present, honorable judge
Turner. Joseph M'Henry attended to serve on the grand jury. The
same jurors absent to-day that were yesterday.

Court adjourned until twelve o'clock, at noon, to-morrow.

Saturday, 12 o'clock, 9th October, 1790.

Court opened agreeable to adjournment. Present, honorable judge
Turner. Grand Jurors absent— John Terry, Nathan Duunals, like-
wise the absentees of Thursday.

Court adjourned until five o'clock of this day. Aft.

Eodem Die, 5 o'clock, Aft.

None of the judges present, the sheriff proceeded to adjourn the
court without delay.

No business entered upon at this term by reason of there not being
present of the honorable the judges a number sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Signed,

w. McMillan,

In behalf of John S. Gano, deputy to Igrael Ludlow, clerk.



DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.

Many European nations claimed, and some of them are still claim-
ing, the honor of the discovery of the new continent now called Amer-
ica. Poland was silent, but there are some proofs that she has the
right of being in their number. The learned and well known, in
Europe, Polish historian Ioachim Lelewel, living now in Brussels,
found in the work of George Korn, bearing the title Ulisses (Leyde,
Batavia, 1671,) that John Scolnus or John of Colno,* a Polander,
being in the service of Christian, king of Denmark, discovered the
straits of Anian and the continent of Labrador in the year 1476, that
is sixteen years before the discovery of San Salvador by Christopher
Columbus.

The trifling alteration of the name of the discoverer, which is very
frequent with the foreigners unacquainted with the Polish language,
can be easily explained. In those ages many men were called by
the names of the places that gave them birth, as, Erasmus Roteroda-

*Colno, or in Polish Kolno, is a small town iu Mazovia on the confines of Prussia.



400 Discovery of Ainerica.

mus, Paulo Veronese, Gregory of Sanok, John of Colno, or Latinized,
according to the fashion of the times, Colnus, &c. The letter c never
sounds in the Pohsh language like in Latin before a, o, u, and for
such a sound is letter k. Letter s ox z before a noun is a word, and a
preposition meaning ofoxfrorn. Thence the alterations, s incorpora-
ted into the noun Kolno, having k turned into c, and with the Latin
termination us. In the Polish language his name is spelt Jan S
KoLNA, and in pronouncing s is joined to k, and sounded Skolna.

Some of the Polish names suflered more alteration, as Klonowicz,
Klo)i means, in English, maple tree, *dcer in Latin ; wicz is purely a
Polish termination. The same man, however, is known in the litera-
ture as AcERNUs, and even he himself signed it thus.

Chillicothe, June 25, 1842. Polonus.

It is with pleasure we give place to the above note from our neighbor Polo-
nus, as we would be willing thus to accommodate every thing tending to cor-
rect, strengthen, or extend American history. Our neighbor claims for Po-
land the discovery of this new world. He is right in this, if he thinks she
has claims, and as a son of her's, he will not, we hope, neglect to bring for-
ward every item of testhnony in his power. This, we believe, he expects to
do. In that case we will prevail on him to give his signature, which, if he
does, it will puzzle some to spell and others to pronounce.

We, too, set up in behalf of the Welch the priority of discovery. There
is some testimony going to show this, which we may show in favor of our
father's. We think Drake, in his Indian Biography, says that " the fact of
the Welch having discovered America is about as well established as the exis-
tence of the sea-serpent." Thus we consider that he thinks it pretty certain,
for although here, away out west, we may be allowed a few doubts in relation
to the existence of his snakeship majesty, yet in Boston, where Mr. Drake
lives, we believe no body is so incredulous. At any rate, America was dis-
covered, setded, and became an important part of the globe. Its history
ought to be carefully collected and preserved. This we aim at, and will ven-
ture to prognosticate, that if the American Pioneer should live two or three
years it will become quite an interesting work.

Our friend Polonus desires us to say to Mr. Sanduski's descendants, men-
tioned on page 199, that if they have in their possession any history either of
Poland or America in Polish, French, or Italian, which they are willing to
have translated, he would take great pleasure in translating them into good
English; and will, if desired, safely return them. He says the same to all to
whom these presents may come. We will take great pleasure in receiving
such papers to our address, and will go security that his promises will be
faithfully and well executed. We take this occasion also to say to all for-
eigners, or children of foreigners, that if they have any sketches of American
history or incidents in any language, (within the compass of western litera-
ture,) and will trust us with them, that the same shall be done for them.



Dr, Slebbins' Letter. 401



DR. STEBBINS' LETTER.
The following letter from our valued correspondent, Dr. Stebbins, of
Northampton, Mass., we are not sure was intended for the press, but it is
too valuable to be suppressed. Appropos — Is it egotism in a pioneer to tell
his own tale when no one else can do it? No, indeed; they must either
speak of their own acts or they must sink into oblivion. Is it egotism in
our fathers to say, we own these lands, they are ours, and we bequeath them
to you — no one else can ? Their history as well as their property should
be handed down to their children. We have much more valuable mattei
from Dr. Stebbins, and hope for much more yet.

Northampton, July 7, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Bear Sir — Yours of the 28th ult. is this morning received, directeQ
to David Stebbins — no such person within my knowledge. You
have asked how you could get at some things I have ? You have an
answer in part of what follows. In regard to my name and age you
have missed a figure. I am not so old as you surmise, by the legal
term of apprenticeship, yet I have lived a period of time equal or
over one-third the number of years which have elapsed since our pil-
grim fathers landed on Plymouth rock. You ask for some account
of myself and family. To gratify your enquiry, although it savors of
egotism, I present you with the following as an addition to your bun-
dle of manuscripts :

My name, Daniel Stebbins ; born at Springfield, INIass., April 2d,
1766; graduated at Yale college, September, 1788. My ancestor?
Rowland Stebbins, was among the early settlers of New Engand, and
came from the west of England with his family of two sons, Thomas
and John, and several daughters, and supposed to be all of the name
that ever came over. I suppose that they came with the eight hun-
dred and forty who arrived about the year 1630, and came to Spring-
field with Wm. Pynchon and others about 1636, and took their settle-
ment rights near the present centre of the town. The same year, in
the true spirit of the pilgrims, entered in written covenant to settle a
minister, and redeemed the pledge the next year by settling the Rev.
Mr. Monxton. At this time, Springfield Ititd tlie territory of about
twenty-five miles square, and was estimated to have capabiUties for
the accommodation of not over fifty families.

1645. — A meeting house, twenty-five by forty, was erected. On
the Sabbath were called together by the beating of the drum from
Mr. Monxton's to the house of Rowland Stebbins, a distance of one

Vol. I— 3 A 34*



402 Dr. Stebbins' Letter.

hundred rods, more or less. Each family paid the drummer four
pence worth of wampum, or a peck of Indian corn.

1653. — Northampton begun to be settled by Wm. Pynchon and
others, among whom came Rowland Stebbins and his son John (I am
the descendant of Thomas,) and took their settlement rights.

1671. — Rowland Stebbins, probably about seventy years of age,
died, and was buried in the cemetery in Northampton, in the same
yard containing the remains of David Brainard the missionary. To
the memory of my ancestor, I have recently erected a monument of
granite, commemorative of the events. Thus, at your request, I have
given you the outlines of my family, within which there might be
given much of anecdote.

Reminiscence of Three Offers in early Life. — About the year
1788-9, captain Hayden came into the county of Hampshire to pro-
cure ship timber, and took lodgings at my father's house, while I was
in the study of physic. He had been to Canton, China, in the first
American vessel that ever entered the port of Canton — had engaged to
build a ship of about eight hundred tons for consul Shaw and take
it out to him. The timber he procured at Granby and Belcherstown in
the vicinity of Springfield, which was sent by water to the vicinity of
Boston, where the ship was built. His first voyage was in a vessel
of so small burthen, that when moored alongside of the British mer-
chantmen his vessel, in comparison, was but a canoe in size. He was
in port only about two months, yet had to pay the same duties as a
ship of the largest size, say five hundred dollars. Captain Hayden
was pleased to offer me a surgeon's birth in his new ship, with a sal-
ary of one thousand dollars the voyage, and the privilege of the same
sum as a venture, if my father would consent and furnish the means,
but the offer was declined.

The second offer was about the year 1796, being then located in a
small country town with a store of goods. Having friends in Boston
who had long wished me to remove to the city, where they were
doing a profitable cash business, they having offers to change their
business, wrote me, with an offer of their whole stock, with war-
rantee of a certain amount of cash sales daily, and wait upon me
for pay until the whole value should be raised out of the sales,
and the privilege of five years unexpired rent in one of the best
stands on Cornhill. That they had offers from people in Boston who
would purchase and buy them out and pay a handsome premium on
the rent. If I accepted of their offer, it must be done on or before a
certain day. There being no post office in the town where I was



Revolutionary Incident. 403

dedXin^ owX " stay-tape and buckram,^' I did not obtain the letter
until the same day to which the offer extended at four o'clock, P. M.,
and one hundred miles distant. Thus the offer of changing my coun-
try business to the city was frustrated, and I was left to breathe the
pure mountain breeze.

The third offer occurred about the year 1800, being then in New
York after goods. Having made my purchases, proceeded to collect
my bills at the several stores — at the last store in one of the principal
streets, having paid the bill, and about leaving the store with a ^^ good-
by,^' the owner of the store invited me to stop a moment; said he
wished to retire from business on account of his health, had on hand
about forty thousand dollars, at cost, of cutlery, silver, and fancy
hardware, which he offered me at cost, with the privilege of his name
at the city banks or stores, the privilege of importing from houses
abroad, with his name and assistance in all cases, and the guar-
antee that the business should enable me the first year to pay for the
whole stock on hand, and capital left amply sufficient to prosecute the
business, &c., &c. I heard the whole with perfect astonishment. He
was urgent for an answer before I left the city. We had another in-
terview, and I stated that he had so little acquaintance with me that
he would take a great risk; the objections he met by saying that hav-
ing noticed my usual good judgment in selecting goods, prompt pay-
ment, and pleasing manners, that he could not be mistaken in my
character, with many other kind remarks, that I was more astonished
than at the first interview. He was a bachelor, and I a raw country
lad. I did not consult any one, but felt it my duty to decline the lib-
eral offer ; but had I consulted some business man, I now think he
would have said " accept.''^

Reminiscence of an Incident during the War of our Revolution.
While reading a sketch of the surrender of Cornwallis, and having
visited that section of country, brought to my recollection both that
event and the sudden death of brave captain White, of Springfield,
whom I once knew as the father of the lady of Dr. Dwight, now
(1842) residing in South Hadly, Mass. Captain White was killed at
the memorable siege of Yorktown, Va. He, with a selected band of
brave soldiers, was appointed to approach near the lines of Cornwal-
lis under the cover of night, and to secrete himself in a low place
within reach of musket-shot, and there lie close to the ground, that
the balls of the enemy could not be brought to bear upon his party,
but pass harmlessly over the Americans, and captain White ordered
to remain until by signal to execute further orders. Captain White
was a brave man, fearless of danger, cool and collected. The morn-



404 Dr. Stebbins' Letter.

ing opened with an incessant blaze and roar of cannon, but during a
momentary cessation, captain White, anxious no doubt to know the
cause and see how matters stood, gradually elevated his head to take
a peep at the British battery ; at that fatal moment the head was sev-
ered from the body by a cannon ball. Who of us, at this distant day,
can feel the poignant grief of the widowed mother of an interesting
family of children, cast upon an unfeeling world, clustering around
her to hear the sad story of a father's death and witness a mother's
grief?

Recollections of a Classmate. — In consequence of reading about
the contested inventions of Fitch, Fulton, and others, I was reminded
of my classmate, Joseph Strong, who graduated at Yale college, 1788.
He was possessed of a powerful mathematical and mechanical genius.
After leaving college he studied the medical science, and afterwards
entered the United States service in the capacity of a surgeon.
Neither his native town nor the place where he pursued his medical
studies are now recollected, but it is believed to be near the borders
of the Connecticut river, where he constructed a small boat with ma-
chinery to speed upon the water at pleasure, by manual or foot power,
applicable, however, to horse or steam power. Apprehending that
the same principles might be applied to land carriages, he was said
to have constructed a small vehicle to be urged forward by the feet
of the rider or other power which might be applied. He was so sat-
isfied of its capability that he was intending to take out a patent, and
in his way for that purpose, stopping at New Haven, concluded to
exhibit it to the faculty of the college and other literary gentlemen.
The exhibition was said to have been made in the college museum or
library, where the inspectors had opportunity to test the experiment
and coast about the room in fine style with great ease and velocity.
After which a discussion took place, " whether the principles were
applicable or adequate to propel the vehicle up an ascent with uni-
form motion, or to govern and moderate the descent at pleasure."
The reasonings and doubts of the examiners were so diverse from the
opinion of young Strong, that he withdrew his vehicle and machinery,
and in disgust destroyed the whole, and entered the United States ser-
vice as surgeon. Had Dr. Strong been suitably encouraged with
means to improve his invention, (for with him it was invention,) 07ie
kind word of encouragement might have here given his country the
benefits of internal improvement some years earlier. We have many
instances of genius in youth stifled with a single breath, and notices
of similar inventions discovered at the same time in countries remote
from each othesi Since th.3 time of Dr. Strong, the light of science



General McDougaVs Letter. 405

has shone upon us ; improvements have and are being made from
year to year. The Atlantic ocean may now be crossed in about two
weeks, and a proposition has been made to cross over the same ocean
in thirty hours by balloon conveyance. But is this more surprising
than the improvements in the printing press, to strike off sixty bibles
in an hour, equal to one every minute, and at an expense of twenty-
five to thirty cents per volume ? Compare this with the time of king
Edward the First, when the price of a bible in manuscript was Lfjual
to the wages of fifteen years' labor !

I have received by mail seven numbers of the Pioneer, and am
highly gratified with the perusal. With regard to the making use of
my name, I have no ambition or interest to have it known, but from
your remarks should think that you prefer to make it public. You
say " I have caught myself in a trap." Not exactly so, I reckon, for
you have spelt my given name David instead of Daniel, so that after
all it is some unknown person.

There is a typographical error in the fourth number of the Pioneer,
page 146 ; no such place in Connecticut as Northfork — should be
Northford; and no town in Connecticut of the name of Marshfield —
should be Mansfield.

Yours respectfully, ^^ , y/_A^



■^^S/i^^ ^^^S/Www*-



GENERAL M'DOUGAL'S LETTER.

Head Quarters, Peckskill, 2Ath March, 111 9.
My Dear Sir — I received your favor of the 20th ultimo. Although
you judged very right, as to my being pressed with unceasing busi-
ness, yet I will now devote a moment to acknowledge yours. I am
very happy to hear of your welfare, and that you are in a prosperous
way. It is a consolation to me, that my intentions respecting reli-
gious liberty is fully accomplished in this state. The seed has long
since been sowed, and the harvest has answered my expectation.
The states would not suffer congress to retain more of their respective
sovereignties than it has — the consequence might be very injurious.
The particular grievances your people labor under, in the Bay State,
will be, it must by perseverance, be redressed. The Rev. Mr. Smith,
who is one of your ministers, is chaplain to Nixon's brigade, under
my orders. I have given my opinion fully on the steps to be steadily
and prudently pursued. In this day of political light, the darkness
which overwhelms the minds of bigots will be dispelled. Let your peo-



406 Advertisement.

pie persevere in the public struggle, and not yield the palm to any of
their neighbors. This will give them a claim of merit on the commu-
nity, and by steady representations of their unequal grievances, they
will certainly obtain redress. I wish them to give the bigots no advan-
tage over them, by imprudent measures or heated publications. If we
are happy enough to have a peace in our days, all the presses on the
continent may be engaged against them. There is no truth to me more
clear, than that establishments have ruined every church for whose
benefit it was originally made. The church of Christ wants no such
props. I am glad to hear of Mr. Oglvie doing well ; but he is so
strange a mortal, I have not been able to comprehend his character or
views in life. He is the strangest mortal I ever knew, has the
strangest pride about him I ever observed in any mortal. This is all
that I can say to you at present. I shall always be glad to hear from
you, but you will not always receive ready answers.

I am, my dear sir, with great truth and regard.
Your affectionate friend and very humble servant,

To Major Wm. Gofgrth,



[late of New York, now in Philadelphia



,\



We give place to the following advertisement, as of our personal knowledge
we believe it will revive many early reminiscences in the minds of early pio-
neers, and bring back recollections of scenes of years long gone by. This is
one object we have for introducing many scraps which appear of little utility
in themselves. Many of them, however, will, after refreshing the memories
of the aged, serve to fix dates and circumstances in historical record by many
entirely unanticipated. We have, also, a most interesting communication
from our Brownsville correspondent, entitled " Red Stone Old Fort," which
we reluctantly but unavoidably defer.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The subscriber, tavern-keeper at the sign of the Kentucky Boat, in
Front street, at Redstone Old Fort, returns his most grateful acknow-
ledgements to former customers, and informs travellers to Kentucky,
and western river traders, that those who will favor him with their
custom may depend on good accommodations in his way, and at the
most reasonable rates that can be afforded. He will also engage boats
for any that may favor him with their commands in writing for that
purpose. GEORGE KINNEAR.

March 1, 1792.



A Table of the principal Indian Tribes,



407



1"}



CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.

State of Ohio, to wit.

Edward Tiffin, governor of the state of Ohio,
To all who shall see these presents, greeting :
It is hereby certified, that at an election held at the several election
districts in the state aforesaid, on the first Saturday of this month,
under the act entitled " an act to provide for the election of electors of
the President and Vice President," William Goforth, sen., esq., was
duly and legally elected an elector of President and Vice President of
the United States.

In witness whereof, 1 have hereunto affixed the great seal of the state
of Ohio ; done at Chillicothe, in the state aforesaid, the 17th day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and four, and of the independence of this state the second.
By the governor.



~^%^^^'





Secretary of State



♦*^^^^^^^^^f^><^##'^*'***'



A TABLE OF THE PRINCIPAL INDIAN TRIBES.

Continued.

Catawbas, on Catawba river, in South Carolina; had long wars

with the Iroquois; 150 warriors in 1764.
Caughiiewagas, tribes of praying Indians, in several places.
CAeroA-ees, Carolina and Tennessee ; 12,000 in 1812; 9,000 have

agreed to emigrate.
Chiens, near the source of Chien river; 200 in 1820.
Chikahominies, on Matapony river, in Virginia, in 1661 ; but 3 or

4 in 1790.
Chikasaivs, between the head branches of Mobile river in 1780 ;

once said to have been 10,000; in 1763, about 250; now vastly

increased ; in 1835, 5,600 agreed to emigrate.
Chikamaugas, on the Tennessee, 90 miles below the Cherokees ;



408 Table of the Principal Indian Tribes.

many years since broken from them, under the chief, Drago-

mono.
Chillukittequaus, next below the Narrows on the Cokimbia ; 1400,

in 32 lodges.
Chimnahpum, at Lewis' river, N. W, side of the Columbia: 1800,

in 42 lodges.
Chinnooks, north side of Columbia river ; 400, in 28 lodges.
Chippeivas, many formidable tribes about the great lakes — See

Ojibwas.
Choktaus, formerly of CaroHna; about 15,000 in 1812 ; now on a

government grant of 15,000,000 acres on the north side Red

river, and about 18,000.
Chopun7iishes, on the Kooskooskee, 2000 ; and on Lewis' river,

below Kooskooskee, to the Columbia, 2300; in all, in 1806,73

lodges,
Clakstars, beyond the Rocky Mountains ; 1200, in 28 lodges.
Clatsops, below mouth Columbia, about Point Adams ; 200, in 14

lodges.
Cohakies, nearly destroyed by the Saques and Foxes, in the time

of Pontiak ; in 1800, a few wanderers near Winnebago Lake.
Comanches. — See Camanches.
Conoies, near the east branch of the Susquehannah ; about 40 in

1780.
Congarees, on the Congaree river in South Carolina.
Copper Indians, far in the north, about Coppermine river ; numerous.
Corees, a tribe of North Carolina.
Creeks, formerly over a vast country from near the Gulf of Mexico,

north-east.
Crees, north of the Missouri, and west of the Mississippi ; 3000 in

1834.
Delawares, once numerous on the river and bay of the same name,

now chiefly beyond the Mississippi ; anciently, Lenalenape.
Dinondadies, a tribe of the Hurons ; same as the Tsononthouans

of the French.
Docotas, bands of the Sioux.

Dog Indians, or Chiens, 3460, on the heads of Chayenne river.
Dog-rib Indians, tribe of Blackfeet, to the north of them; of a

different language.
Echemins, on a river of their name, which flows into the St.

Lawrence, on the east side.
Eneshures, 2ii the Great Narrows of the Columbia; 1200, in 41

clans.
Eries, on the east of the lake of their name, entirely exterminated

by the Iroquois.
Eskeloots, on the Columbia ; 1000, in 21 lodges or clans.
Esquimaux, about Labrador and the neighboring country.
Euchees, friendly Creeks ; 200 now in service against the Seminoles.
Five Nations, anciently many thousands, on the east of the great

lakes.
Flat-heads, beyond the Rocky Mountains, on a fork of Columbia

river.




2
O

m

o

D
Z



AMEEICAN PIONEER.



JDtDot£b to i\)t 3lrutl) anb lustke of ^istorj).

VOL. I. DECEMBER, 1842^ NO. XII.

CRADLE OF LIBERTY.

[See Frontispiece.]
We give below a short sketch of two very important scenes at the com-
raenceraent of our revolutionary struggles, viz : the tirst victim sacrificed in
the cause, and the destruction of the tea in Boston harbor, from Snow's
history ; and as not being inappropriate, a view of the building in which the
first voices were heard eloquently pleading the cause of liberty, and where
the first cry of war reverberated from side to side.



FANEUIL HALL AND ADJACENT BUILDINGS.

The accompanying engraving represents that ancient " cradle of
liberty," immortal Faneuil Hall. The building was erected in 1742,
at the sole expense of Peter Fanenil, esq., and generously given to
the town ; the basement for a market, with a spacious and most
beautiful hall, and other convenient rooms above, for the accommoda-
tion of the citizens on all public occasions. The building was then
one hundred feet by forty ; and the hall capable of holding two thou-
sand people, or more. This fine and convenient building was con-
sumed by fire in 1761, excepting the brick walls : but the town voted
to rebuild it immediately. Mr, Faneuil had then been dead several
years. In 1S05, it was enlarged by the addition of another story, and
of forty feet to the width, thus making it eighty feet wide. There is
a cupola on the building, from which is a fine view of the harbor of
Boston. The hall is about eighty feet square, and twenty-eight feet
in height ; with galleries on three sides supported by Doric columns.
At the west end, the wall is ornamented with a good full-length like-
ness of Peter Faneuil, of general Washington, governor John Han-
cock, general Henry Knox, and others ; and a bust of president
John Adams. The lower part of the building is no longer used as a
market ; a large and elegant one having been erected by the city for
that purpose in 1S27. In the immediate vicinity, stands one of those
old, antiquated " many-covered, gable-ended, top-heavy, old houses,
which constituted the compact centre of Boston in the days of the
old English governors. It was long occupied by the late John K.
Simpson, and is the only one of that venerable and picturesque heap
of triangles, which has not dropped beneath the merciless hand of
improvement."

411



412 Cradle of Liberty.

FIRST BLOOD OF THE REVOLUTION.— DESTRUCTION

OF TEA.

" In January, 1770, the merchants renewed their agreement not to
import British goods. They held several meetings in Faneuil Hall,
and appointed committees ofinspection,\vho should examine into the
truth of reports, concerning the unfaithfulness of some who had signed
the articles. The names of several were reported, and ordered to be
published. Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson sent a message to one
of these meetings, by the sheriff, (whose name was Stephen Green-
leaf, 'enjoining and requiring them without delay to separate and dis-
perse, and to forbear such unlawful assemblies for the future.' After
a calm consideration of the message, it was unanimously voted to
proceed : and a written answer was sent to his honor, signifying their
opinion that the meeting was warranted by law.

"Theophilus Lillie, who kept a shop near the New Brick meeting-
house, was one of those denounced as importers. On the 22d of
February, some persons erected near Lillie's a large wooden head,
fixed on a pole, on which the faces of several importers were carved.
One Ebenezer Richardson, living in the neighborhood, (who had ac-
quired the appellation of informer,) endeavored to persuade some
teamsters from the country, to run the post down with their carts ;
but they understanding the nature of the pageantry, would have
nothing to do with it. Richardson foolishly persisted, and seized the
bridle of the horses, but failed of his intent to guide the team against
the post. On this, the boys set up a shout, which being resented by
Richardson, they pelted him with dirt till they drove him into his own
house. The noise gathered a considerable number of people. Hard
words passed between Richardson and some of the multitude ; stones
were thrown on both sides, till at length Richardson discharged a
musket at random from his door, and another from his window. One
young man was severely injured, and a boy, Christopher Snider,
about eleven years of age, received a mortal wound in his breast.
Upon this the bells were set to wringing, and a vast concourse of peo-
ple drawn together. Richardson and one Wilmot, a seaman, who had
taken his part in the affray, were secured and carried to Faneuil Hall,
where they underwent an examination and were committed for trial.

"The boy died in the course of the evening, and was removed to
his parents' house in Frog lane (Boylston street.) All the friends of
liberty were invited to attend the funeral ' of this little hero and first
martyr to the noble cause,' This innocent lad was announced as
' the first whose life had been a victim to the cruelty and rage of op-
pressors. Young as he was, he died in his country's cause, by the
hand of one, directed by others, who could not bear to see the ene-
mies of America made the ridicule of boys.' On Monday, the 26th,
his funeral took place. The little corpse was set down under the
Tree of Liberty, from which the procession began. The coffin bore
inscriptions appropriate to the times ; on the foot, ' Latet anguis in
Aer^ff ;' on each side, ^ Haeret lateri lethalis aridido :' snad on the
head, ' Innocen/ia nusquam tiita." Four or five hundred school
boys, in couples, preceded the corpse ; six of the lad's playfellows sup-
ported the pall ; the relatives and a train of thirteen hundred inhab-
itants on foot, and thirty chariots and chaises closed the procession."



Destruction of the Tea at Boston. 413

'On the first of December, 1773, captain James Bruce, in the ship
Eleanor, arrived with another portion of the tea. On the third, he
was ordered to attend the next day on a committee of the people in
Faneuil Phill, where he was commanded by Samuel Adams, and Jon-
athan Williams, assembled with John Rowe, John Hancock, William
Phillips, and John Pitts, esqrs., and a great number of others, not to
land any of the said tea, but to proceed to Griffin's wharf and there
discharge the rest of his cargo. Captain Hez. Coffin arrived in the brig
Beaver, near the same time, and was ordered to pursue the same course.

" It being perceived, that Mr. Rotch ratlier hngered in his prepara-
tions to return the Dartmouth to London, and the twenty days being
nearly expired, after which the collector might seize the ship and car-
go, Mr. Rotch was summoned before the committee, and stated to
them, that it would prove his entire ruin, if he should comply with
the resolutions of the twenty-ninth and thirtieth of November, and
therefore lie should not do it. A meeting of the people was assem-
bled at the Old South, on Tuesday, P. M., Dec. fourteenth, when Mr.
R. appeared, and was enjoined forthwith to demand a clearance. It
was ascertained, that one could not be obtained till the next day, and
therefore the meeting was adjourned to Thursday at the same place.

" On Thursday, tiiere was the fullest meeting ever known : two
thousand men at least were present from the country. Samuel Phil-
hps Savage, esq. of Weston, was appointed moderator. Mr. Rotch
reported that the collector would not give him a clearance. He was
then ordered upon his peril to get his ship ready for sea this day, en-
ter a protest ivimcdiately against the custom-house, and proceed
directly to the governor, (then at Milton, seven miles distant,) and
demand a pass for his ship to go by the castle. An adjourment to
tiuee P. M. then took place. At three having met, they waited very
patiently till five o'clock, when linding that Mr. Rotch did not return,
they began to be very uneasy, called for a dissolution of the meeting,
and finally obtained a vote lor it. But the more judicious, fearing
what would be the consc(piences, begged for a reconsideration of that
vote, ' for this reason, that they ought to do every thing in their power
to send the tea back, according to their resolves.' This touched the
pride of the assembly, and they agreed to remain together one hour.

" This interval was iiuprore'd by Josiali Quincy, jr., to apprize his
fellow-citizens of the importance of this crisis, and direct their atten-
tion to the probable results of this controversy. He succeeded in
holding them in attentive silence, till Mr. Rotch's return, at three
(juarters past five o'clock. The answer which he brought from the
governor was, ' that, for the honor of the laws, and from duty to-
wards the king, he could not grant the permit, until the vessel was
regularly cleared.' A violent commotion inmiediately ensued. A
person who was in the gallery, disguised after the manner of the In-
dians, shouted at this juncture the cry of war : it was answered by
about thirty persons, disguised in like manner, at the door. The
meeting was dissolved in the twinkling of an eye. The multitude
rushed to Griffin's wharf. The disguised Indians went'on board the
ships laden with the tea. In less than two hours, two hundred and
forty chests and one hundred half-chests were staved and emptied

into the dock. No damage was done to the vessels or other effects."

35 *



414 Louis Philippe in the United States.



LOUIS PHILIPPE IN THE UNITED STATES.

The duke of Orleans proposed to travel in the interior of the
United States. They set out on horseback, accompanied by a single
servant, named Baudoin, who had followed the duke of Orleans to
St. Gothard. They went to Baltimore, and thence into Virginia,
where they saw general Washington at Mount Vernon, who, before
the expiration of his presidency, had invited them to visit him.

After traveling through the south, they visited the falls of Niagara,
and in the month of July, 1797, they returned to Philadelphia, at the
time the yellow fever raged in that city. These three princes, who
had been born to the highest fortune, could not quit this dangerous
residence for want of money. It was not until September, that their
mother, having recovered possession of her property, supplied them
with means for a new journey. They went first to New York, and
then visited Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and
Maine. On their return to Boston the newspapers informed them of
the banishment of their mother. They then went immediately to
Philadelphia, intending to join their mother in Spain, whither they
were informed that she had been transported. But the want of funds
and the war between Spain and England, opposed their desires.
There seemed but one course left, namely, to go to Louisiana and
thence to Havana.

They left Philadelphia in December, 1797, and went down the
Ohio and the Mississippi to New Orleans, where they were kindly
received. They staid in this city five weeks, waiting for a Spanish
vessel ; but, being disappointed, they embarked in an American ship,
which was taken on the voyage by an English frigate. The duke of
Orleans discovered himself to the captain, who landed him with his
brothers at Havana, the 11th of March. They attempted in vain to
get a passage to Europe. Notwithstanding their regret at being
obliged to live out of France, they would have been contented in
obscurity, if they could have obtained the means of an honorable
subsistence.

Their reception by the Spanish authorities, and the inhabitants of
Havana, gave them some hopes ; but the court of Madrid disappointed
them, by forcing them to quit the island of Cuba. An order was
issued at Aranjuez, directing the captain-general of Havana, to send
the three brothers to New Orleans, without providing them with any
means of support. The brothers refused to go to the place designated,
but went to the English Bahamas, where they were kindly received
by the duke of Kent, who, however, did not feel authorized to give
them a passage to England in a British frigate. They were not dis-
couraged, but sailed in a small vessel to New York, whence an
English packet carried them to Falmouth, and they arrived in London
in February, ISOO. The duke still desired most earnestly to see his
mother, and the English government allowed him to take passage to
Minorca in ar frigate. The war between Spain and England threw
many obstacles in the way of the interview, and he was obliged to
return to England without seeing her. — Zodiac.



E. Whittlesey's Letter. 415



POST OFFICE FACILITIES.

Auditor's Office, Post Office Dep't., .August 8th, 1842.

Sir, — In the articles of confederation and perpetual union between
the states, signed on the ninth day of July, in the year of our Lord
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight, the power to establish
post offices, is classed among the most important powers delegated to
congress, as follows:

" The United States in congress, shall also have the sole and ex-
clusive right and power, of regulating the alloy and value of coin
struck by their own authority, or that of the respective states: — fixing
the standard of weights and measures throughout the United States —
regulating the trade, and managing all affiiirs with the Indians, not
members of any of the states ; provided that the legislative right of
any state within its own limits be not infringed or violated — estab-
lishing arid regulating post offices from one state to another, through-
out all the United States, and exacting such postage on the papers
passing through the same, as may be requisite to defray the ex-
penses of said office — appointing all officers, of the land forces in the
service of the United States, excepting regimental officers — appointing
all the officers of the naval forces, and commissioning all officers
whatever in the service of the United States — making rules for the
government and regulation of the said land and naval forces, and
directing their operations."

Before the articles of confederation were adopted, congress had, at
different times, and in various resolutions, declared the importance of
the post office establishment to the safety of the states ; and the first
ordinance for regulating the post office, after the articles of confedera-
tion were signed, passed on the ISth of October, 1782, reaffirmed its
importance in the commencement of the ordinance, by saying ; —
" whereas the communication of intelligence with regularity and dis-
patch, from one part to another, of these United States, is essentially
requisite to the safety, as well as the commercial interests thereof, &c."

The general impression is, that the post office department is rather
of private than public concernment, that its main objects and use are
to promote social intercourse, and to disseminate intelligence, with
which the government, as such, is not immediately interested nor
connected. Hence, it has generally been thrown upon its own re-
sources ; and although it has directly contributed to enrich the treasury,
at various periods, in the aggregate sum of gl, 103,063 ; and although
it transports annually free of postage, public documents, despatches,
letters, and packets, which would, if charged with the same rates that



416 Post Office Facilities.

individuals pay, amount to at least ^510,192,00; yet when embar-
rassed, the same prompt and sustaining relief has not been given to
it, that has been given to every other department of the government.

Even its respectability and dignity have been questioned, by some
of those engaged in the other departments.

The ordinance referred to, pays a merited compliment to the post
office department, in confiding to it " the safety of the country and
its commercial interests.''

And if usefulness and antiquity confer respectabiUty and rank, the
post office department will not shrink in the comparison with any
other department.

You are not too enthusiastic in your remarks, on the subject of the
post office department, in the third number of the Pioneer.

Under the confederation, the want of power in congress, to act,
regard to the post office department, independent of state authority,
was felt to be an evil ; as was the same want of power to regulate
commerce, to control our foreign and domestic relations, and to regu-
late the various matters that led the wise and patriotic men of that
day, to abandon the confederacy and to adopt the constitution.

When a mail was robbed, the state in which, and near to which
the offense was committed, were supplicated to arrest the offenders.
Hence, the following proceedings were had in congress, on the 19th
of June, 1782. "On the report of a committee consisting of Mr.
Bland, Mr. Mc Kean, and Mr. Wright, to whom was referred a letter
of the 17th, from E. Hazard, post master general, giving information
that the southern post was robbed of his mail, on Sunday, the 16th,
within five miles of Harford, in the state of Maryland ; Resolved,
that the executives of the states of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware, and Maryland, be, and they are hereby requested, to pursue
the most likely measures, by offering proper rewards, at the expense
of the United States, and otherwise, for recovering the mail and bring-
ing the robbers to due punishment.

Postages.
The rates of postages were specifically fixed by the ordinance of
congress, passed on the ISth of October, 1782, and were as follows:
" For any distance not exceeding sixty miles, one penny weight eight
grains — [seven cents and one third.,] Upwards of sixty, and not ex-
ceeding one hundred, two pennyweight — [eleven cents.] Above
one hundred, and not exceeding two hundred miles, two pennyAveight
sixteen grains — [^0,14,y^.J And so on, sixteen grains, [^0,3 /„] ad-
vance, for every hundred miles. And for all single letters, to and
from Europe, by packet or dispatch vessel, four pennyweight [^0,22,]



E. Whittlesey's Letter. 417

the above rates to be doubled, for double letters ; trebled, for treble
letters ; and a packet weighing an ounce, to be charged equal to four
single letters ; and in that proportion if of a greater weight ; and to
the foregoing rates shall be charged, a sum, not exceeding four nine-
tieths of a dollar, upon every letter, packet, or dispatch, which shall
come into the post office from beyond sea, by any other conveyance
than packets or dispatch vessels ; and every letter, packet, and dis-
patch, except dead letters, may and shall be retained in the office,
where the same shall have arrived, \vhich shall be nearest to the
place of direction, until the postage thereon shall be paid."

Each pennyweight was estimated at five ninetieths of a dollar, its
value at that time.

I have not been able to ascertain, what the rates of postages were,
at the first organization of the post office department in 1775, nor
subsequent to that period, and before the ordinance mentioned.

By an act passed by the British parliament in 1710, the rates of
postages were established to and from New York, within certain
limits, as mentioned in the Annals ; but it is not probable that they
remained unchanged until 1775, and what rates were fixed, as the
hue of posts was extended, is not within my research.

Whatever the rates were, they underwent frequent changes. By
a resolution passed on the 17th of October, 1777, they were increased
fifty per cent.

On the 16th of April, 1779, they were doubled.

December 2S, 1779, the rate of postage was fixed at twenty prices
upon the sums paid in 1775.

On the 5th of May, 1780, they were again doubled.

December 11th, 1780, they were fixed at half the rates paid at the
commencement of the war.

February 24th, 1781, — It was resolved : that the postage of letters,
in future, be double the sums paid, before the commencement of the
present war.

September 20th, 1786, a committee consisting of Mr. Pinckney,
Mr. Dane, and Mr. Carrington, to whom was referred a letter from
the post master general, of the 19th, reported, " whereas the United
States in congress assembled, are, by the articles of confederation,
intrusted with the sole and exclusive right of establishing and regu-
lating post offices, from one state to another, throughout the United
States, and exacting the postages on the papers passing through the
same, as may be requisite to defray the expenses of the said offices :
and whereas, the present situation and demands of the post office,
will on no account allow the receipt of any other money than specie :
the paper currencies of the several states, from their limited cir-
VoL. I 3 C



418 Post Office Facilities.

dilation and probable depreciation, being totally inadequate to the
purpose,

" Resolved, therefore, that the post master general be, and he is
hereby directed, to issue instructions to the post masters in the
several states, to receive no other money in payment for postages than
specie.

<• Resolved, that the post master general be, and he is hereby em-
powered, in all cases where he may conceive it necessary, to demand,
or authorize the demanding the postage, at the time the letters are
put into the post office." Nine states were represented, to wit : Mas-
sachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, and on taking the yeas
and nays on the last resolution, it passed in the affirmative by the
unanimous vote of the States, and by the unanimous vote of all the
members.

October 20th, 1787, the post master general was instructed "to
alter the rates of postage, so as to reduce them as nearly twenty-five
per centum as will consist with the present mode of calculating pen-
nyweights and grains of silver, in order to reduce them to the curren-
cies of the several states." The arrangement to take effect on the
5th of the following April.

Compensation to Deputy Post Masters.

We have seen by the resolutions establishing the post office depart-
ment, that the deputy post masters were allowed twenty per centum
on the sums they collected and paid to the general post office annu-
ally, when the whole was under or not exceeding one thousand
dollars, and ten per centum for all sums above.

This rate of compensation was continued until the ordinance of
October 18th, 1782, was passed : but on the 12th of April, 1777, the
post master general was authorized to ma.ke an additional allowance
to the deputy post masters, of any sum not exceeding two hundred
dollars per annum, when he should find the same to be absolutely
necessary.

The post master general, by the ordinance of 1782 referred to
above, was empowered to make such allowance in commissions to his
deputies as he should think their respective services might merit, not
exceeding twenty per cent.

FranJeing Privilege.
On the 8th of November, 1775, congress "resolved, that all letters
to and from the delegates of the United Colonies, during the sessions
of congress, pass and be carried free of postage ; the members having



E. Whittlesey's Letter. 419

engaged upon honor not to frank or inclose any letters but their
own."

This is the first resolution I find upon the subject, and whether post
masters were entitled to this privilege is a matter of doubt. I think
It is probable that the pledge of honor belter protected the revenue
than it is now protected by penal statutes. " Pockets" for inclosing
letters are of modern mention. (Pockets are envelopes prepared and
franked.)

Two days after the foregoing resolution was passed, the franking
privilege was extended to the commander-in-chief of the continental
army, and to the chief of the army in the northern department.
April 19th, 1776, congress "resolved, that letters which are directed
to any general in the continental service, commanding in a separate
department, be carried free of postage by the continental post." It
will be noticed, that a general thus commanding could not " send^^
although he received his letters free of postage.

December 2Sth, 1779, single letters directed to any officer of the
line, and all letters directed to general officers, or to officers command-
ing in a separate department, and all letters to and from the ministers,
commissioners, and secretaries of these United States at foreign courts,
were declared to be free. December 14th, 1782, the privilege of
franking letters was extended to the inspector general, the adjutant
general, the director of the hospitals, the quarter-master general, the
commissary of provisions, the pay-master general, and to the officers
of the army commanding separate posts. The franking privilege to
that period was confined to letters. It is reported, that at one time
the privilege of franking by members of congress was without re-
striction as to material and weight ; and that Roger Sherman, who
had opposed the privilege because it was liable to abuse, to show he
was practically correct, sent his linen and stockings in the mail to be
washed at home.

The privilege to frank was first confined, as we have seen, to the
delegates in congress during their session. Although sixty-two mem-
bers were elected or commissioned to attend congress at Philadelphia,
on the 10th of May, 1775, only forty-nine attended, and the privilege
to frank was therefore in the first instance granted for a part of the
ye.ir only \o forty-nine pennons.

On the 1st of July, 1842, fourteen thousand one hundred and
twenty-seven persons were authorized by law to frank dining the
whole year.

On the 20th of April, 1776, George Washington, commander-in-
chief of the army of the United States, was not permitted to send a
letter free of postage to a general in command of a separate post.



420 Post Office Facilities.

nor to congress, nor to the governor of a state, with all of whom he
was in the most intimate and constant intercourse : and on the 9th of
September, 1842, Mrs. Madison and Mrs. Harrison were entitled to
this privilege, from respect to their being the widows of two benefac-
tors of the country, wliom the people had delighted to honor.

The act of March 2d, 1827, gave the privilege to frank to the
commissioners of the navy board, which is composed of three naval
officers. It is a little remarkable, that from the first confederation of
the states down to 1827, no naval officer was entitled to the privilege
to send a letter on public or private business free of postage, and then
that it should be confined to three officers stationed at Washington.

The navy has fought its way to the confidence of the country —
it has asked nothing as a gratuity or favor, and her officers have
rarely been noticed in any act giving privileges to others. If the navy
board shall be abolished, as is now contemplated, no officer in the
navy will be entitled to the franking privilege without further legis-
lation.

The number of free letters sent by the delegates on mail days in
1775, is unknown ; but as the mail was carried on horse back it must
have been inconsiderable ; and probably not in the whole, the tenth
part of what a single gentleman now franks in a day. Mr. Niles, in
1840, when post master general, required that an account be taken
of the number and weight of free letters and packets during three
weeks ending the 2d of May, 2d of June, and 7th of July, 1840, and
the result was, that there were free letters and packets from the execu-
tive departments sent through the post office in the city of Washington
to the number of--- 22,038

From members of congress _._._--.- 20,363

Public documents and other franked packets - - - - 392,268



434,669
(]The Table on next page should come here, but could not be got in.-ED. ]
Who can doubt that the post office department has more than
realized the most enthusiastic anticipations of its founders, in dissem-
inating intelligence through every portion of this extensive republic,
" with regularity and dispatch" — which congress in the ordinance
passed on the 18th of October, 1782, declared "were essentially re-
quisite to the safety as well as to the commercial interests thereof."
Most sincerely and respectfully yours.



Jno. S. Williams, Esqr.




Condensed Statement of Mail Matter.



421









-t*


■*r






•^r


•*»


-«


rl


m


1— 1


OP







in


in


l-H


<


•0


C^)


rj<


<M




rH


CO


Tf<


U


^3


c


Oi^


CC


t-^




»n_


Oi


CJ


O
Eh


p
















s.


(£


0"


of




oT


w







rf;


















K








<*r






■A,^


CO


■*r


'Ot


•^


m


w


CO





•73





00


00


■<


"^


•a


Tj*


CO


l-H


a>





QD


CD




•SP


C
D


1©


■*-


10


t,


o_


Oi


■^




^^





l-H


i—t


W




a.


TlT




^'


^












*^


03




«*


H








■*








H

hJ


•?





"
















•Sp


tn


■<#









s




"*


s


i.^


•^


■^


W










CO


a!


^


3

(£


l-H


0^










co^
co'


X






OD






*






00


E£


•»^








^


«


= ■*









H .J












=








U s


.$JD


X


f-w


t^


Tt


s^^






CO


:d c




£2


10






SCO






t^


&H S


1^










-l-H








^



















Ph




o.








£IC






in






N




-w








-^N






^^





Tf


CO


«^


^







■^


oo


-<










'^


•*







I-H


B


.t/?


en
















M


.^


c

3


^H








r-t




•<*


CO


H


^


T— 1


CO


OJ


^






c


H





1— (






CO






in


►-3




C.




































>^
















1-H


M


-0




t^


l-H





lO




00


in


W







00

C5




s




l-H


b


,3




1— 1






i>






l-H






N










-rg


H«


"H'




^^





I-


00


^







<D


'*




*c;










**




I-H










.^


QD




















'O


c^


t^


«o




CO


00


QO




'i


i





lO


00




'*


'^


OJ






t-


CO


I-H








Tl*






cu
















^

^




Tj*


CO


1©




10


w







-0




IQ


Oi


t-




w


CO


CO


s




t^


I-H_


t^




CO


o_


c_


•«!


1




of


o~


oT




cf


co"


x"






■^


w










i>






















4!C



















ea


^




CO


t-


CO


05


C5


CO




H


^




pH


I-H


I-H






l-H




H


v|2


00

3


c

3


;:


-




(13

c

3
1-5


::


IK

bjD
be




u
















<


-<

B






































u




















n












CO








A












•
















*







„


■*






c^






rH




Q


'^


cS




H^


<l3

1







3





















"3




s


.9

OQ


-




a












0)




"73

CO


^




c5





bx)



C 03



£ IP

S 03

^-^

o o






(B O-C
cd S' 3

Co ^

OJ 03 S
GO '^ (>«



bjo



S 3 «



C3

*->




bx,-
CO •'-'




'?


eight is est
the session
and numbe


CO

tn

03

01




03




s

03

CO
03







■5^

03




T3


^u^ *^




03






3


a -3

^03.^






«*-i *^










cd






s






03
03 bD




3
43


* r-»






^.




GO

03




<1)










.2 c -






f ^




^ .


g
■3




tC -^




cd S

%-. 03




<o bD

.si

ti oT

3 C

03 3




3 -^-S
3 00 03 .
2 CO CO

c; 03 00









+J


03 ID C

OQ m "


J3




"^1-




2^ >

03

03 ^
*J 03


'S




03 C








^ X!










Fi:;




i^s'i






ed




03


•^^ C QJ «


*-'




C-V-




CO


3 03 ^ =0


03

.3

CO

ll



03
03

b£



CO




03 ^

Is


3

3


3 =>

■- s

tJD


S 3 £:S

•5 C3 03 -^
CJ ~ OJ


1^

03
tn
cd


03
03


>>



>


03 ^

IS


•"t^ -3 cd
OH 03


s


03


._3




3 *j ^


>


b£ 3


.t^


03^


r^ -dJ





00
00




■5 ^




CO


.2 tC t: r-

03 "i « J


03





03 ="


"^


J3




^




-3


J=



5fi



m



H H



36



422 Boyd^s Contributions.



No. II.
WILLIAM WHIPPLE'S LETTER.

Baltimore, 3\st Dec, 1776.

My Dear Sir, — Your favor of the 25th ultimo came to hand yes-
terday. I rejoice that you have recovered your health. The clouds
have thickened exceedingly this way since you left Philadelphia, but
they now begin to disperse. The enclosed* will inform you of a
successful enterprise at Trenton, and if our troops follow their foe,
as is their intention, I am in no doubt the enemy will be obliged to
leave Jersey, which will end the campaign gloriously on our part.
A number of light horse without their riders was taken at Trenton,
not mentioned in the general's letter ; and a considerable number of
prisoners brought in since the enclosed returns. There was about
two thousand five hundred crossed the river with general IVashington;
one division was commanded by Sullivan, the other by Greene — they
were composed of those troops that came from the northward, some
with Lee and others with Gates. This event will have a very good
effect ; it puts new life into the Pennsylvanians, and will add greatly
to our strength from Jersey, that people who have been treated with
such brutality by the British troops will be inspired with revenge, so
that the advantage the enemy have gained in that country will enven-
tually operate against them. Thus the wise disposer of all things
directs human affairs.

The Sandra Doria is arrived at Philadelphia with a very valuable
cargo. On her passage from the West Indies she fell in with a British
sloop of war, which after an obstinate engagement struck to the
American flag. The prize is not arrived.

By a circular letter from the president, you'll see the general is
vested with almost dictatorial power. This measure was thought
absolutely necessary for the salvation of America. There is also
measures taken (which I hope will be effectual) to prevent the abuses
suffered by the soldiers last campaign. I am in no doubt that the
grievances so justly complained of in every department will be re-
dressed so far as is possible, and the causes of them removed.

Colonel Poor is recommended by the general for a brigadier : as
there will soon be a considerable addition to the hst of general officers,
it is probable that gentleman will be promoted. I heartily wish some
method could be adopted to bring general Fulsom into the field, but

• See Washington's letter to the president of congress, giving an account of the battle
of Trenton.



William Whipple's Letter. 423

how this can be effected I don't know. I hope proper measures are
taken to complete the new levies. For heaven's sake, and for the sake
of every thing that's valuable on earth, don't rest till this business is
done. The soldiers may be assured that the causes of their complaints
will be removed. It's of the last importance that the garrison at Ticon-
deroga should immediately be reinforced.

If the proposed army (which is to be increased to one hundred and
ten battalions) should be completed, I am not in the least doubt that
the enemies of America will be completely vanquished next campaign.
The tyrant will undoubtedly summon earth and hell to his assistance
to carry his infernal plans into execution. He has made another ap-
plication to the court of Russia, but there is just reason to believe he
has been unsuccessful. Every artifice has been used to make the
court of France believe that an accommodation would take place ;
but congress have instructed their commissioners to assure that and
other European courts, that they are determined to support the inde-
pendence of the American States. Affairs in France wear a very
favorable aspect.

General Gates arrived here a few days ago very sick, but is reco-
vering. Business goes on briskly ; more has been done in one week
here than was done in two months in Philadelphia.

To perfect restoration of health, and that every happiness may be
yours, is the sincere wish of

Your affectionate friend and humble servant.



Hon. Josiah Bartlett,
In Congress. \



P. S. — January 2d. Missing the opportunity this was designed, I
have the pleasure to congratulate you on the arrival of the two brigs,
Lexington and Friendship, at this place. The former was taken as
she was going into Delaware by the Pearl frigate of thirty-two guns,
who took out all her officers and put on board seven or eight men ;
but the weather being so bad they could not change the crew — the
honest tars took possession of her and brought her safe into this port.
The vessels have both very valuable cargoes on board. W. W.

William Whipple, Josiah Bartlett, and Matthew Thornton, signed
the declaration of independence on behalf of New Hampshire.

Yours, J. B. B.




424 Statistics of Yale College.

STATISTICS OF YALE COLLEGE FOR 1841.

Collated by a Linonian of 1788.

From the year 1701 to 1841 iticlusive, a period of 140 years, there
had been 8 presidents, and 6082 graduates, of whom 3248 were hving.
Of the whole number of graduates 1527 became preachers; of whom
664 were hving. The first commencement was in 1702; from that
to 1768, a period of 66 years, all (1278) had deceased in 1841. Of
the class which graduated in 1768 only one is reported to be living ;
one of 1769 ; none of 1770 ; one of 1771 ; two of 1772 ; one of 1773;
none of 1774 ; two of 1775 ; two of 1776 ; five of 1777 ; seven of
1778 ; nine of 1779 ; seven of 1780 ; five of 1781 ; seven of 1782 ;
ten of 1783; ten of 1784; twenty-five of 1785; thirteen of 1786;
fifteen of 1787 ; nine of 1788 ; five of 1789 ; eight of 1790; ten of
1791 ; sixteen of 1792 ; twenty-one of 1793; ten of 1794; ten of
1795 ; eighteen of 1796 ; twenty-seven of 1797 ; six of 1798 ; eleven
of 1799 ; fifteen of 1800 ; — in the foregoing thirty -three years there
were 1166 graduates, of whom three hundred and ten were reported to
be living in 1841. From the year 1800 to 1811, a period often years,
529 had graduated, of whom three hundred and forty-six were alive
in 1841. During the next ten years to 1821, 606 had graduated, of
whom also three hundred and forty-six were living. In the next ten
years to 1831, 763 had graduated, of whom six hundred and forty-
nine were living. In the next ten years to 1841, 874 had graduated,
of whom eight hundred and thirty-eight were living. Of 98 graduates
in 1840, all were reported as being alive. Of 75 graduates in 1841,
none had deceased.

Private Libraries. — There are two private libraries in Yale Col-
lege, viz : the Brothers in Unity and the Linonian. The latter was
founded September 12th, 1753, "for the promotion of friendship,
social intercourse, and cultivation of literature." The constitution has
been revised by Kent, Dagget, and Sherman : many of its members
have occupied some of the most honorable stations in public and
private life.

In about fifteen years, to 1768, the library numbered about 100
volumes : in the next eleven years, the library numbered about 200
volumes : in 1790 it had 330 volumes : in 1800, 475 volumes : in
1810, 724 volumes : in 1822, 1187 volumes : in 1831, 3500 volumes :
in 1834, 4118 volumes: and in 1841, 7500 : and the last year more
than 800 volumes were added. For this rapidly increasing library,
and the other private and public libraries, a spacious building is now
being erected.



Captivity of Israel Donafson. 425

w5?n old Book. — Dr. A. S. Peck, of Hatfield, has recently shown me
a volume of the Bible, with William Tiiidal's address or preface, be-
ing now over two hundred and ninety years old: the type is the
German text ; the chapters are numbered, and not divided by verses.
The cliai)ters have marginal notes and references : it was printed in
London in 1551, by Richard Kile.

Also, Fox's Book of Martyrs, printed in 15S1, containing the history
of Bishop Bonner's criminal trials, cruel charges, sentences and exe-
cutions, in those days of cruel persecutions.

Also, a manuscript book, apparently a commissary's book ; among
other memorandums are receipts for wages dated 1757, for services
performed in captain John Stark's (the husband of Molly Stark)
company of rangers. Dr. Peck is said to have in his library several
volumes of great antiquity.

Your's respectfully.



CAPTIVITY OF ISRAEL DONALSON.
We give below an account of the captivity of Israel Donalson, Esq. as
written by himself for the American Pioneer, and as told by Col. Mc Donald,
in his Biographical Sketches, page 34. We give the last to do justice to the
memory of Mr. Donalson, in some particulars omitted by himself, as well as
to show the errors that may creep into the history of any man not told by
liimself. Being personally acquainted with Col. Mc Donald, we have no
hesitation in saying that we attach to him not the slightest intention to misstate
or exaggerate. Such is the case with much of what is told and confidently
asserted in tlie social circle respecting the noble deeds of the pioneers, and
shows to the life the necessity for a periodical in which they can have an
easy access to the public ear in a tangible and permanent form. We most
ardently wish to hear from Mr. Donalson again.

At the request of a number of friends, I attempt to give you
a brief account of my checkered life, which has been one full
of incidents, many of which it is not in my power to relate, having
kept no journal. I write entirely from memory, which is every day
growing more indistinct. 1 was born in the county of Hunterdon,
state of New Jersey, on the 2d February, 1767. While quite small, my
father moved to Cumberland county, in said state, where I was reared
up and received my education, and where we had perilous times dur-
ing the long revolutionary struggle. I was too young to take any
part in it myself, but capable of noticing passing events. I have
known two companies to leave the house of worship during the serv-
VoL. I.— 3 D 36 *



426 Captivity of Israel Donalson.

ices of one Sabbath to face the enemy. In the fall of 1 787, 1 left my
native state to seek my fortune in western wilds. My first stop was
in Ohio county, state of Virginia, where I remained until the spring
of 1790; part of the time farming, part of the time teaching school,
and a third part I was among the rangers stationed by the state of
Virginia, at the Old Mingo town, about eighteen or twenty miles
above Wheeling. In May, 1790, I took passage on board of a flat
boat for Kentucky, and arrived at Limestone on the first night of June.
I got into a public house, but was not able to procure food, fire, or
bed, or any other nourishment but whisky, and a number of us that
had landed that evening, spent the night sitting in the room, which
was a grand one for those days. [Query, what should we have done
if the temperance cause had prevailed at that time ?] There had dur-
ing the spring been a great deal of mischief done on the river, but we
saw no Indians. There were however in company, I think, nineteen
boats, Major Parker of Lexington was our admiral and pilot. Dur-
ing the summer of that year I taught school in what is now called
Maysville. During the winter of 1790-91, I became acquainted with
Nathaniel Massie, and in the spring of 1791, came to reside in his
httle fort, hi the then county of Hamilton, Northwestern territory.
At this time there was very little law or gospel in the territory, and
the usual mode of settling disputes was by a game of fisticuffs; and
at the close, sometimes a part of a nose, or ear, would be missing, but
a good stiff grog generally restored harmony and friendship.

I am not sure whether it was the last of March or first of April I
came to the territory to reside ; but on the night of the 21st of April,
1791, Mr, Massie and myself were sleeping together on our blankets,
(for beds we had none,) on the loft of our cabin, to get out of the way
of the flees and gnats. Soon after lying down, I began dreaming of
Indians, and contmued to do so through the night. Sometime in the
night, however, whether Mr. Massie waked of himself, or whether I
wakened him, I cannot now say, but I observed to him I did not know
what was to be the consequence, for I had dreamed more about In-
dians that night than in all the time I had been in the western country
before. As is common he made light of it, and we dropped again to
sleep. He asked me next morning if I would go with him up the
river, about four or five miles, to make a survey, and that William
Lytic, who was then at the fort, was going along. We were both
young surveyors, and were glad of the opportunity to practice. Ac-
cordingly we three, and a James Tittle, from Kentucky, who was
about buying the land, got on board of a canoe, and was a long time
going up, the river being very high at the time. We commenced at



Donalson captured by the Indians. 427

the mouth of a creek, which from that day has being called Donalson
creek. We meandered up the river ; Mr. Massie had the compass,
Mr. Lytle and myself carried the chain. We had progressed perhaps
one hundred and forty, or one hundred and fifty poles, when our chain
broke or parted, but with the aid of the tomahawk we soon repaired
it. We were then close to a large mound, and were standing in a
triangle, and Lytle and myself were amusing ourselves pointing out
to Tittle the great convenience he would have by building his house
on that mound, when the one standing with his face up the river,
spoke and said, boys, there are Indians ; no, replied the other, they are
Frenchmen. By this time I had caught a glimpse of them ; I said
they were Indians, and begged them to fire. I had no gun, and from
the advantage we had, did not think of running until they started.
The Indians were in two small bark canoes, and were close into shore
and discovered us just at the instant we saw them ; and before I start-
ed to run I saw one jump on shore. We took out through the bottom,
and before getting to the hill, came to a spring branch. I was in the
rear, and as I went to jump, something caught my foot, and 1 fell on
the opposite side. They were then so close, I saw there was no
chance of escape, and did not offer to rise. Three warriors first came
up, presented their guns all ready to fire, but as I made no resistance
they took them down, and one of them gave me his hand to help me
up. At this time Mr. Lytle was about a chain's length before me, and
threw away his hat ; one of the Indians went forward and picked it
up. They then took me back to the bank of the river, and set me
down while they put up their stuff, and prepared for a march. While
setting on the bank of the river, I could see the men walking about
the block-house on the Kentucky shore, but they heard nothing of it.
They went on rapidly that evening, and camped I think on the waters
of Eagle creek, started next morning early, it raining hard, and one
of them saw my hat was somewhat convenient to keep off the rain,
came up and took it off my head, and put it on his own. By this time
I had discovered some friendship in a very lusty Indian, I think the
one that first came up to me ; I made signs to him that one had taken
my hat, he went and took it off the other Indian's head, and placed
it again on mine, but had not gone far before they took it again. I
complained as before, but my friend shook his head, took down and
opened his budget, and took out a sort of blanket cap, and put it on
my head. W^e went on ; it still rained hard, and the waters were very
much swollen, and when my friend discovered that I was timorous,
he would lock his arm in mine, and lead me through, and frequendy
in open woods when I would get tired, I would do the same thing



428 Captivity of Israel Donalson.

with him, and walk for miles. They did not make me carry any
thing until Sunday or Monday. They got into a thicket of game,
and killed, I think, two bears and some deer ; they then halted and
jerked their meat, eat a large portion, peeled some bark, made a kind
of box, filled it, and put it on me to carry. I soon got tired of it and
threw it down : they raised a great laugh, examined my back, applied
some bear's oil to it, and then put on the box again. I went on some
distance and threw it down again ; my friend then took it up, threw
it over his head, and carried it. It weighed, I thought, at least fifty
pounds.

While resting one day, one of the Indians broke up little sticks and
laid them up in the form of a fence, then took out a grain of corn, as
carefully wrapped up as people used to wrap up guineas in olden
times ; this they planted and called out squaw, signifying to me that
that would be my employment with the squaws. But, notwithstand-
ing my situation at the time, I thought they would not eat much corn
of my raising. On Tuesday, as we were traveling along, there came
to us a white man and an Indian on horseback ; they had a long talk,
and when they rode oif the Indians I was with seemed considerably
alarmed; they immediately formed in Indian file, placed me in the
centre, and shook a war club over my head, and showed me by these
gestures that if I attempted to run away they would kill me. We
soon after arrived at the Shawanee camp, where we continued until
late in the afternoon of the next day. During our stay there they
trained my hair to their own fashion, put a jewel of tin in my nose,
&c., &c. The Indians met with great formality when we came to the
camp, which was very spacious. One side was entirely cleared out
for our use, and the party I was with passed the camp to my great
mortification, I thinking they were going on ; but on getting to the
further end they wheeled short round, came into the camp, sat down —
not a whisper. In a few minutes two of the oldest got up, went
round, shook hands, came and sat down again ; then the Shawanees
rising simultaneously, came and shook hands with them. A few of
the first took me by the hand ; but one refused, and I did not offer
them my hand again, not considering it any great honor. Soon after
a kettle of bear's oil and some craclins were set before us, and we
began eating, they first chewing the meat, then dipping it into the
bear's oil, which I tried to be excused from, but they compelled me
to it, which tried my stomach, although by this time hunger had com-
pelled me to eat many a dirty morsel. Early in the afternoon, an
Indian came to the camp, and was met by his party just outside,
when they formed a circle and he spoke, I thought, near an hour, and



Downing's Capture and Escape. 429

so profound was the silence, that had they been on a board floor, I
thought the fall of a pin might have been heard. I rightly judged of
the disaster, for the day before I was taken I was at Limestone, and
was solicited to join a party that was going down to the mouth of
Snag creek, where some Indian canoes were discovered hid in the
willows. The party went and divided, some came over to the Indian
shore, and some remained in Kentucky, and they succeeded in killing
nearly the whole party.

There was at this camp two white men ; one of them could swear
in English, but very imperfectly, having I suppose been taken young;
the other, who could speak good English, told me he was from South
Carolina. He then told me different names which I have forgot, ex-
cept that of Ward ; asked if I knew the Wards that lived near Wash-
ington, Kentucky. I told him I did, and wanted him to leave the In-
dians and go to his brother's, and take me with him. He told me he
preferred staying with the Indians, that he might nab the whites. He
and I had a great deal of chat, and disagreed in almost every thing.
He told me they had taken a prisoner by the name of Towns, that
had lived near Washington, Kentucky, and that he had attempted to
run away, and they killed him. But the truth was, they had taken
Timothy Downing the day before I was taken, in the neighborhood
of Blue Licks, and had got within four or five miles of that camp, and
night coming on, and it being very rainy, they concluded to camp.
There were but two Indians, an old chief and his son ; Downing
watched his opportunity, got hold of a squaw-axe and gave the fatal
blow. His object was to bring the young Indian in a prisoner ; he
said he had been so kind to him he could not think of killing him.
But the instant he struck his father, the young man sprung upon his
back and confined him so that it was with difficulty he extricated
himself from his grasp. Downing made then for his horse, and the
Indian for the camp. The horse he caught and mounted ; but not
being a woodsman, struck the Ohio a little below Scioto, just as a
boat was passing. They would not land for him until he rode sev-
eral miles and convinced them that he was no decoy, and so close was
the pursuit, that the boat had only gained the stream when the ene-
my appeared on the shore. He had severely wounded the young
Indian in the scufiie, but did not know it until I told him. But to
return to my own narrative : two of the party, viz. my friend and
another Indian, turned back from this camp to do other mischief, and
never before had I parted with a friend with the same regret. We
left the Shawanee camp about the middle of the afternoon, they
under great excitement. What detained them I know not, for they



430 Captivity of Israel Donalson.

had a number of their horses up, and their packs on, from early in
the morning. I think they had at least one hundred of the best
horses that at that time Kentucky could afford. They calculated on
' eing pursued, and they were right, for the next day, viz. the 28th of
April, major Kenton, with about ninety men, were at the camp before
the fires were extinguished ; and I have always viewed it as a provi-
dential circumstance that the enemy had departed, as a defeat on the
part of the Kentuckians would have been inevitable. I never could
get the Indians in a position to ascertain their precise number, but
concluded there were sixty or upward, as sprightly looking men as I
ever saw together, and well equipped as they could wish for. The
major himself agreed with me that it was a happy circumstance that
they were gone.

We traveled that evening I thought seven miles, and encamped in
the edge of a prairie, the water a short distance off. Our supper that
night consisted of a raccoon roasted undressed. After this meal I
became thirsty, and an old warrior, to whom my friend had given me
in charge, directed another to go with me to the water, which made
him angry ; he struck me, and my nose bled. I had a great mind to
return the stroke, but did not. I then determined, be the result what
it might, that I would go no farther with them. They tied me and
laid me down as usual, one of them lying on the rope on each side of
me ; they went to sleep, and I to work gnawing and picking the rope
(made of bark) to pieces, but did not get loose until day was breaking.
I crawled off on my hands and feet until I got into the edge of the
prairie, and sat down on a trussuck to put on my moccasins, and had
put on one and was preparing to put on the other, when they raised
the yell and took the back track, and I believe they made as much
noise as twenty white men could do. Had they been still they might
have heard me, as I was not more than two chains' length from them
at the time. But I started and ran, carrying one moccasin in my
hand ; and in order to evade them chose the poorest ridges I could
find ; and when coming to tree-logs lying crosswise, would run along
one and then along the other. I continued on that way until about
ten o'clock, then ascending a very poor ridge, crept in between two
logs, and being very weary soon dropped to sleep, and did not waken
until the sun was almost down ; I traveled on a short distance further
and took lodging for the night in a hollow tree. I think it was on
Saturday that I got to the Miami. I collected some logs, made a raft
by peeling bark and tying them together ; but I soon found that too
tedious and abandoned it. I found a turkey's nest with two eggs in
it, each one having a double yelk ; they made two delicious meals for



His Return to Fort Washington. 431

different days. I followed down the Miami, until I struck Harmar's
trace, made the previous fall, and continued on it until I came to fort
Washington, now Cincinnati. I think it was on Sabbath, the first
day of May ; I caught a horse, tied a piece of bark around his under
jaw, on which there was a large tumor like a wart. The bark rubbed
that, and he became restless and threw me, not hurting me much,
however ; I caught him again, and he again threw me, hurting me
badly. How long I lay insensible I don't know ; but when I revived
he was a considerable distance from me. I then traveled on very
slow, my feet entirely bare and full of thorns and briars. On Wednes-
day, the day that I got in, I was so far gone that I thought it entirely
useless to make any further exertion, not knowing what distance I
was from the river ; and I took my station at the root of a tree, but
soon got into a state of sleeping, and either dreamt, or thought that I
should not be loitering away my time, that I should get in that day ;
which, on reflection, I had not the most distant idea. However, the
impression was so strong that I got up and walked on some distance.
I then took my station again as before, and the same thoughts occu-
pied my mind. I got up and walked on. I had not traveled far
before I thought I could see an opening for the river ; and getting a
little further on I heard the sound of a bell. 1 then started and ran ;
(at a slow speed undoubtedly,) a little further on I began to perceive
that I was coming to the river hill ; and having got about half way
down, I heard the sound of an axe, which was the sweetest music I
had heard for many a day. It was in the extreme out lot ; when I
got to the lot I crawled over the fence with difficulty, it being very
high. I approached the person very cautiously till within about a
chain's length, undiscovered, I then stopped and spoke ; the person I
spoke to was Mr. William Woodward, (the founder of the Woodward
High School.) Mr. Woodward looked up, hastily cast his eyes round,
and saw that I had no deadly weapon ; he then spoke. " In the name
of God," said he, " who are you? " I told him I had been a prisoner
and had made my escape from the Indians. After a few more ques-
tions he told me to come to him. I did so. Seeing my situation his
fears soon subsided ; he told me to sit down on a log and he would go
and catch a horse he had in the lot, and take me in. He caught his
horse, set me on him, but kept the bridle in his own hand. When we
got into the road, people began to enquire of JNIr. Woodward, " who is
he — an Indian ? " I was not surprised nor offended at the enquiries,
for I was still in Indian uniform, bare headed, my hair cut off close,
except the scalp and foretop, which they had put up in a piece of tin,
with a bunch of turkey feathers, which I could not undo. They had



432 Captivity of Israel Donalson.

also stripped off the feathers of about two turkeys, and hung them to
the hair of the scalp ; these I had taken off the day I left them. Mr.
Woodward took me to his house, where every kindness was shown me.
They soon gave me other clothing ; coming from different persons,
they did not fit me very neatly ; but there could not be a pair of shoes
got in the place that I could get on, my feet were so much swollen.
But what surprised me most was, when a pallet was made down
before the fire, Mr. Woodward condescended to sleep with me.

The next day, soon after breakfast, general Harmer sent for me to
come to the fort. I would not go. A second messenger came : I still re-
fused. At length a captain Shambrugh came ; he pleaded with me, told
me I might take my own time, and he would wait on me. At length he
told me if I would not go with him, the next day a file of men would
be sent, and I would then be compelled to go. I went with him ; he was
as good as his word, and treated me very kindly. When I was ushered
into the quarters of the commander, I found the room full of people
waiting my arrival. I knew none of them except judge Symmes, and
he did not know me, which was not surprising, considering the fix
I was in. The general asked me a great many questions ; and when
he got through he asked me to take a glass of liquor, which was all the
aid he offered : meantime had a mind to keep me in custody as a spy,
which, when I heard, it raised my indignation to think that the com-
mander of an army should have no more judgment when his own
eyes were witnessing that I could scarce go alone. I went out by his
permission and met colonel Strong. He asked me if I was such a per-
son ; I answered in the affirmative and passed on. In going out of the
gate I met his son. He knew me at once, and after a few minutes chat
he pulled a dollar out of his pocket, offered it to me, saying it was all he
had by him, but when I wanted, to call on him. I told him I did not
think I should stand in need, people generally appeared so kind ; but he
insisted on my taking it ; and I believe I brought it home with me in the
course of that day. I got down to the river, and went into the store
of Strong and Bartle, men that I had done business for previous to the
campaign. For three or four weeks I was busy in making out ac-
counts and settlements. My office was a smoke-house, about six or
eight feet square, built of boat materials, and stood, I think, a little
above Main street.

In the course of the day Mr. Collin Campbell came in. Bartle asked
him if he knew me. He viewed me a considerable time and answered
no. He then told him ; but he could hardly believe him. But when
convinced, nothing would do but I must go home with him to North
JBend, that he might nurse me up and send me home. We got down



Extract from McDonalcTs Sketches. 433

some time in the night; he had all his family to get up, and see what
a queer man he had brought home. After some time we got to bed,
and next morning, just after daylight, he came up into my chamber, or
rather loft, and wakened me up, I begged of him to let me lay a
little : no, I must get right up, and he would have in all who passed by
to see me, and wherever he went I had to go. I staid there about
two weeks, gaining in health and strength every day.

About this time there was a contractor's boat coming up the river.
He hailed them and made the arrangement for me to go with them;
put up provision for the trip, and done every thing that a near rela-
tion could have been required to do. About the time I left the Bend,
some of the citizens professed to believe nie to be a spy, and said, that
if I did no leave there tliey would ; and that I was only waiting a fair
opportunity of bringing the enemy in upon them. As I did not want to
break their peace, I thought best to leave them. When I got on the
boat, I found two persons on board that I was well acquainted with,
and was treated very friendly. Nothing particular occurred on the
boat. When we got up to Limestone, I- was greeted by almost every
man, woman, and child, particularly those that had been under my
tuition.

The captain Bartle above mentioned was among the first settlers
of Cincinnati. I had not seen him for forty years until we met on
the 26th December, 1838, the time the pioneers were invited to the half
centennial celebration of Cincinnati. We then met, and at his request
lodged in the same room. We parted the next day, never more to meet
in this world ; he was then ninety-four years of age, and has since
paid his last debt.



^^uL.e/S ^^r?^^2^^'^::>



Manchester, Ohio, 27th June, 1S42.



Extract from McDona/d\s Biographical Sketches. — Early in the
spring of the year 1792, Massie proceeded to make some surveys
on a small creek, which empties into the Ohio four miles above Man-
chester, accom{)anied by Israel Donalson and two others. They
meandered up the river to the mouth of the creek, and sat down on a
log, not far from the bank of the river, to eat some junk. As they
were eating and amusing themselves with chit-chat, they were not a
little startled to see seven or eight Indians walk up the bank of the
river without their arms, having left them in their canoe at the mouth
of the creek. JNIassie and his party fled. The Indians, yelling hor-
ridly, pursued them. When the surveying party reached the foot of
the hill, they had a deen ravine to cross, about ten or twelve feet wide.

Vol. I.— .3 E 37



434 Captivity of Israel Donalson.

and as many in depth. Massie, and two others of his companions,
leaped the ravine ; but poor Donalson, being less active in making the
leap, plunged into the ditch. Massie and the two others, soon ran to
Manchester, and gave an account of their misfortune. He was igno-
rant whether or no Donalson was killed. Early next morning he
collected twenty men, and went to the ravine, and found that Donal-
son must have been taken. The trail of the Indians was pursued for
some distance, when it was concluded, that if the pursuit was contin-
ued, and the Indians were aware of it, they would immediately kill
Donalson ; but that if they were permitted to go off unmolested, they
would in all probability save his life. The pursuing party immedi-
ately returned to Manchester, permitting the Indians to pursue their
course.

Some time passed before the fate of Donalson was known at the
station, and that was made known by his own sudden appearance.
From his account of the affair, it appears the Indians had been trap-
ping up Big Sandy river, and were on their return to Wapatomaka
town (now Zanesfield,) on Mad river. That the Indians had passed
from the mouth of Big Sandy down the Ohio, until they reached the
mouth of the creek, where they landed with their canoes, and had
given pursuit to the party. The foremost Indian, pursuing them
closely, saw Donalson make his unfortunate plunge, and before he
could recover, leaped upon him tomahawk in hand. Donalson in-
stantly surrendered and was made a prisoner. It was late in the
evening when they took him, and they immediately loaded him with
their peltry, and made a rapid march homeward. In a few days they
reached the Chillicothe town, on the Little Miami. At this time, he
began to think about effecting his escape, although the difficulties
against which he had to contend were great, owing to the extreme
caution and watchfulness of the Indians. At night they confined him
in the following manner. They took a strong tug (a rope made of the
raw hide of the buffalo or elk,) and fastened it around his body, each
end of the tug being tied around the body of an Indian. The tug was
tied so tightly, that it could not be slipped, nor could he move to the
one side or the other without drawing the Indian after him. It was
from such a situation he had to extricate himself. One night, while
the Indians were tying him after the usual manner, he puffed up his
body to its full extent by drawing in his breath ; and when they had
completed the process, he found that there was a good deal of play in
the noose of the tug. He laid very still until the Indians were fast
asleep. Then, having partly undressed himself, he began slowly and
cautiously to slip from the noose. After a long trial he succeeded in
slipping himself out, and found himself once more a freeman. He in-
stantly rushed to the thickets. The night was clear, and he could
steer his course by the stars. Striking off in a southern direction,
he traveled all night. The next day he fell on Harmer's old trace,
and followed its course to the south. In two days he reached Fort
Washington, now Cincinnati. Here he remained a few days to
recruit himself, and then returned to his friends at Manchester,
where he was most joyfully received, as there had been with them
great anxiety as to his fate. The creek, at the mouth of which



General George Rogers Clark. 435

he was taken, was called after him, " Donalson's creek;" which name
it still retains, and will retain when the event which gave birth to its
name will be forgotten. Mr. Donalson is still living, the patriarch of
JManchester, and is, I believe, the only one of the first settlers who
lives there at this time. He held many public ofhces. He was a
member of the convention which formed the constitution for the state
of Ohio, and uniformly preserved the character of an honest and use-
ful man.



■"vs^sAys^^ ■#^v/'^v^



GENERAL GEORGE ROGERS CLARK.

We again introduce our faithful Illinois correspondent to the readers of the
Pioneer, and most interesting too, not only on account of the precious relics
enclosed and copied below, but for the errors he corrects, which would be
scarcely possible except in such a vehicle as we present to the public.

It is almost enough to draw tears from a heart of stone to contemplate the
sufferings and lukewarm treatment endured by our fathers, which drove many
of them to desperation, and none more humiliating than the case of general
Clark now before us, to whose prowess and exertions we owe the territory
north-west of the Ohio. Where shall his monument stand ?

Mount Carmel, Illinois, October 11, 1842.
Jno. S. Williams, Esq.

Dear Sir — Your tenth number has been received — as the num-
bers have been irregular, I wish you to keep a file especially for me
of the first volume. I think, with the change of times, that your
Pioneer will " go abead." It is becoming still more interesting as
you advance.

I have an original journal of the progress of general St. Clair's army
from Cincinnati until defeated at Fort Recovery, as named by general
Wayne. I have had a long look for it — it has got loose among my
three or four large trunks of papers. When I find it, it shall be for-
warded. I have the papers of several officers of Wayne's and St.
Clair's army, and send you the autograph of general George Rogers
Clark, (the Washington of the west,) of 1787 and 1791. What a fall-
ing off! but there was a cause for it. I also, aimexed, send you that
of James O'Hara of Pittsburgh. These two letters show what difficul-
ties the most meritorious officers met with — claims on congress and
Virginia legislature neglected — and both had to be dogged into a settle-
ment. After taking the two strongest British posts in the west, Kas-
kaskia and Vincennes, at the latter governor Hamilton and more pris-
oners than he had men, general Clark met with great obstacles in
getting ins accounts settled. This drove him into desperation, and he
gave way to intemperance. I was told by the family of general Jon-



436 T. S. Hinde's Letter.

athan Clark, his brother, that we were relations, distantly so, I sup-
pose, for we western pioneers lose sight of kin after the first cousin.

In lieutenant Bowyer's journal there is a misprint — general Barber
iov Barbae; there was two of them, Joshua and Elias, both distin-
guished Kentuckians. There was no general Barber in the army, as
far as I have any knowledge of facts.

Poor lieutenant Blue, who kept up a tumult in the army, was killed
in a duel at Fort Washington, I think by Bradshaw, perhaps, (though
not certain — also killed,) whose papers I have. My first wife's
father, captain James Bradford, was killed at St. Clair's defeat, 4th
November, 1791. I could tell you a good story about his monkey,
who on one occasion turned "doctor! "

I was neighbor to Whitesides, referred to by Mr. Sharp, of Mis-
souri, while living near Boonsborough, in Kentucky — I think his
name was Joseph Whitesides. His son of that name was my school-
mate at a buckeye log cabin school-house — an interesting time. I
have a particular account of this school, of the thirty or forty youths
who were educated in the buckeye cabin — doctors, lawyers, colonels,
generals, and a judge of the supreme court of the United States 1
Whitesides, as correctly stated, while tied with buffalo thongs, knocked
down the Indian, and he fell over into a sink hole, when Whitesides
fell upon him and choked him to death with his elbows ! and then
ran, choked at every jump by the thong or tug around his neck! He
was a bony and very stout man with large white eyes!

While looking for the journal of St. Clair's army, I fell on a packet
of papers, extracted from books taken from the Franklin library of
Philadelphia, in 1827, while there, adducing, from vast researches,
proof of the first discovery of America by the Welch, as heretofore
hastily sketched for you ; and, in case reference is had to that subject,
I will furnish you with these sketches also for your Pioneer. I have
autographs of George Washington, Wayne, St, Clair, and several
speeches of congress, (of old congress,) also diplomas signed at eastern
colleges and masonic lodges, among other official papers.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your's.



Pittsburgh, January 24th, 1787.
Dear Sir — I wrote you in August last respecting your accounts
with the United States, but have not received any answer. As Mr.
Campbell could not do any thing in them with the comptroller-gene-
ral, he left your power of attorney with me, which I have here. I



General Clarices Letter. 437

should be happy to have the power to serve you, and pressed for a
settlement far as I possibly could. Mr. MiUigan would not pass them,
as stated by Mr. Campbell, and I had no authority to make any alter-
ation. The charge of pay for all the intervening time between the
two treaties, I apprehend will be partly disputed. However, as you
cannot attend yourself, if you will state the whole account, and take
out a new power of attorney, and honor me with your particular in-
structions, I shall immediately attend to it and cheerfully endeavor
to execute the business myself, or assist any other whom you may
appoint.

I left a small cargo of goods with Mr. Bradshaw at the Miami last
spring, and as he has been obliged to remove, perhaps more than once,
they must be a great incumbrance to him in his other business.
Whatever may remain, I would wish you could take on your own
account and enable him to close his sales, for which you and I can
settle hereafter. I shall expect to hear from you by the first op-
portunity.

I am, dear sir, your most humble servant.




^/^^^?Z€J




General George Rogers Clark, Fails of Ohio.

Received at Louisville, April 6th, 1787, from James O'Hara, by
the hands of John Bradshaw, one hundred and sixty-four pounds five
shillings, Virginia currency, for which I am accountable to said
O'Hara or his order on demand.




Louisville, September 13, 1791.

Sir — By Mr. Lacasangn, I received a letter from you dated at

Fort Washington. I find by the contents, that I justly owe you one

hundred and some odd pounds. I doubt that captain O'Hara hath not

done me justice, but I am yet unconvinced ; but as the probability of

37*



438 Colonel Anderson's Office.

my receiving money this fall is such that I think you ought to be
easy. I hope this will make you so, for you may count yourself so
much the richer ; for if I can't get money I have plenty of property,
and your debt shall be paid : but I only wish to wait until I see the
result of my success this fall at the assembly.

I am, sir, your most humble servant,

G. R. CLARK.



COLONEL ANDERSON'S OFFICE.

The following note was thankfully received, as will both the promised and
all other communications on kindred subjects from the same source. Coming
from a son of a distinguished and active pioneer, and himself a talented writer,
they cannot fail to be highly interesting. We perhaps owe to Mr. A. an
apology for publishing his note. We have an indistinct impression that when
he handed it to us, he said he did not write it for the press. If so, we know
he will excuse us when he reflects that we are collecting facts, not only for
persons distant in space but in time, who will have good reason to call us an
unfaithful servant, if we do not present them with the best evidence for every
thing that we can procure.

Our faithful Missouri correspondent objects to the title of colonel, which
we gave him — says he never was higher than major, but that his best title is
Benjamin Sharp. He has observed, also, an error in No. IX., page 334,
where he is made to say he "preserved," instead of "pursued" his fa-
ther.

— June 11th, 1842.

INIr. Jno. Williams, Esq.

I know it will give you pleasure to receive the following statement,
as it will enable you to enlarge and correct your " Territorial Chrono
logy."

The office of the Virginia military district was opened by colonel
Richard C. Anderson, on the 20th day of July, 17S4, Entry No. 1,
in the name of Wm. Brown, was made at the mouth of Cumberland
river, Kentucky. The first location made in his office, on the north
side of the Ohio river, was recorded August 1st, 1787. This date
was given by you for the opening of the office ; hence the mistake.
This entry was made for Wace Clements, and lies at the mouth of
Eagle creek, and is No. 386, for one thousand acres.

I hope soon to send you a characteristic entry made by old Simon
Kenton. Meanwhile, I am, respectfully,



Editorial Finale. 439



PROPOSED BIRTH OF OHIO.



City of Washington, January 28th, 1801.
Dear Sir — Believing that you wish that our present colonial sys-
tem (oppressive in its nature and unjust in practice, and made more
so by the usurpation of the executive,) should be changed as soon as
propriety may dictate, and that we should be governed by principles
congenial to the feelings of freemen, and which you have supported
and helped to establish in the times which tried men's souls, I do
myself the pleasure to inform you that congress did yesterday reject the
law passed by the territorial legislature. A resolution has been moved
the object of which is to appoint a committee who shall report their
opinions on the propriety of passing a law, giving the assent of con-
gress to our assuming an independent state government. I can only
say that it is my opinion that a law will be passed to this effect; andj
as I have before stated, believing you friendly to this measure, I feel
a pleasure in communicating to you this inibrmation. You know I
have been uniformly a supporter of the measure ever since I had the
pleasure of first seeing you, and that our feelings on this subject have
been perfectly coincident. I hope to see you a member of our con-
vention, and that you may, when you bid adieu to time, have the
consolation of having given your aid in the formation of a government
which is to protect the lives, liberties, and property of thousands yet
imborn. Present me respectfully to your good lady, and accept the
assurances of my respect and esteem,



Wm. Goforth, jr., esq.




EDITORIAL FINALE.

We here close the first volume of the American Pioneer, and give the in-
dex to the whole, as promised. The work is now fairly before the public,
and it would be superfluous, if not presumptive, in us to say of what quality
the work is. You all see it — judge for yourselves, and say whether such a
work ought to be sustained and continued, or not. Some have said, and so
we think, that the interest of the work and its manifest useful tendencies, has
regularly increased from the commencement; and this we think will be the
case during the entire period of its continuance. Editors throughout the
country have noticed it most favorably, for which they have our warmest
thanks.

Many very interesting articles we have been obliged to defer to the second
volume. Several new and able contributors will then appear, who might rea-
sonably have expected their contributions to appear in this. We can neither
arrange nor notice articles agreeable to their merits, were it necessary, but



440 Editorial Finale.

we do intend in future to avoid dividing long and interesting narratives, as far
as possible. We have sometimes, very reluctantly, to do it to give the de-
served variety. Partly to enable us to carry out this resolution, but more to
accommodate subscribers, many of whom for the first volume have paid the
postage of thirty-two sheets, we intend to work on paper fifty per cent larger.
The pages, type, &c., will be the same size exactly, and issued in ten num-
bers ; there will be given four hundred and eighty pages, instead of four hun-
dred and forty-eight, on twenty sheets of paper. Each number will contain
forty-eight pages, and be but two sheets — thus the subscriber will get thirty-
two pages more of reading matter for two dollars, with but little more than
half the postage. We think this is an alteration we are bound to make, not
for our, but for their advantage.

We have given this year near sixty engraved signatures of over thirty dif-
ferent contributors, so like their own hands as not to be easily distinguished.
A number of contributions were published before we made this arrangement,
which we regret. We hope their authors will appear hereafter. — We ex-
pect that the number of engraved signatures will constantly increase.

It is for the friends of the truth and justice of history to say whether a work
devoted to it shall be sustained. All that lay in our power has been done to
promote the cause in which we are engaged. The difficulties under which
we have labored have been discouraging if not distressing. The present
patronage will not sustain him; but the editor, trusting to the support of
his friends, will stake his property on the issue. He hopes by his late re-
moval to Cincinnati, that some of the difficulties are removed, and the com-
pletion of all his professional engagements leaves him at entire liberty to
bestow all his time and energies upon the work ; and may the public respond
to his exertions in such a manner that an embarrassed state of his pecuniary
concerns, will not make heavy drafts upon those energies which should be
devoted to his enterprize. If circumstances entirely beyond his control, do
not prevent, it is his determination to make such a digest of American history
as will, by references to the Pioneer, connect the one with the other, and
enable the reader to peruse the Pioneer with double interest, by giving zest
to circumstances which, unconnected with the published histories, appear to
be without value.

In conclusion, we beg leave to mention that the Logan Historical Society
have only suspended, but not by any means abandoned, their first intention
of doing justice to the memory of the injured Logan, by the erection of a
monument inscribed with his ever-memorable speech. It has been thought
prudent not to agitate that subject in the present embarrassed state of financial
matters. It is not only justice to. departed worth, in the person of Logan, to
which we shall at a future and more propitious season call public attention,
but there are other cases which, to us, appear equally neglected. 
