Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Steuben ville 1 January 16 th 1806 
D r DG Mitchell 2 
D r Sir. 
From the information of your letter consider me as address- 
ing one closely connected to her that is as yet as dear to me as 
any on this earth. Whilst I from my inmost heart fervently 
desire that you both may enjoy every comfort and heartfelt 
satisfaction, this world can afford, suffer me to transmit you 
a few desultory thoughts and selfmade observations. 
And first my dear and only Sister, it is a position too plain 
to admit of proof, that your sex enter into matrimonial con- 
tracts, and take upon [themselves] the connubial banns in order 
to be happy. But remember in every condition in life lively 
hopes of futurity, and chilling blasts of adversity rise in thick 
succession ; Thus at one time we are borne through all the 
enchanting scenes of the unknown mazes of fruitful imagina- 
tion : anon we are by some trifling and unknown contingency 
enveloped in clouds of black disappointment. The only pre- 
ventitive to corroding cares that I have found is not to set too 
high an estimate on any prospect nor repine at the blessings 
of the day. By this means prosperity cannot cause you to 
exalt, nor adversity with all its concomitants shall have power 
to disturb your peace. Let me assure, to be happy, is to be 
contented ; by every laudable means render your partner happy, 
as well as give happiness to your domestics. If your domestics 
do not respect you, they never will reverence you, and if they 
reverence you not they are the worst you can have. Ever pre- 
serve that dignity and respect due to you and your sex, and 
cultivate equanimity the grand criteria of an exalted mind. 
Next Sir you call my attention, and although we are con- 
nected, you cannot suppose I can use the same liberality of 
expression on a point so delicat, and still more so does it 
appear the more I contemplate the subject. Think not that 
that I have taken upon me the business of a preceptor, but view 
me as a friend as a connection, making free with the same. 
Mitchell you as well as myself know that human nature is 
prone to err, that persons of nice feelings, are generally persons 
of warm passions. That the marriage state frees no one from 
the bonds of nature. In the circle of my acquaintance there 
lives a young married couple, for some time after wedlock they 
seldom had any cause of contention, but now when anything 
ruffles the temper of the wife, she immediately finds fault with 
her husband, he impatient of being chid when conscious of no 
fault, retorts, and now by long custom, every month or two I 
am informed they will scarcely speak to each other for a week. 
Thus have I known those who after marriage have lived 
years together, as happy as happy could be, afterward lived 
miserably all their lives. Let me offer this one thing to you as 
being the most able to affect it, [that] is, be sure the first 
[time] any coolness takes place, as there always does sooner or 
later between man and wife, remove the cause instantly and 
instead of having bad effects, it will tend rather to cement 
your affections. Now, Sir, to your care friend and husband I 
commit from henceforth, my only my beloved sister, the dearest 
relict of a once tender though departed mother, whom had she 
lived to bless her and myself with maternal [care], our 
[progress] in this life would have been more advan[ced]. 
I subscribe myself a most sincere [ms. torn] to you and 
your partner, who has ever [been] the object of my fraternal 
care and affection. 
Jonatii Jennings 
 
$10 
Pay Adam Blair $3.00 
Ditto Sam 1 Rodger $4.70 [Four sums and items crossed off] 
and keep 2.30 Give the note to the owners as 
James [ ?] Dunlap is gone to Butler County 
My black silk handkerchief at Mrs. Elliotts let Anna get 
without the knowledge of Papa, or Mama, and keep. 
Jonath Jennings 
[Addressed:] Dr. D G Mitchell Fayette Co Pa 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Steuben ville 18 th February 1806 
Dr David G. Mitchell 
Dear Sir 
Yours per mail came duly to hand, but let me inform you 
that if in my former I wrote any thing unpleasant to the feel- 
ings of either of you, I assure you that it was not intentionally. 
Believe me, that I desire your happiness as well, and equally 
with my own. You are dear to me Sir, not only because you 
possess a generous and independant mind, but likewise that you 
are dear to her who has always been the tender object of my 
heart. 
I should be glad [if] you would inform me if Miss Mahan 
has written to Mama, and what Miss Nancy [Breading] thinks 
of my deserting her. I expect that reasoning from the catalouge 
you sent me all the children in your neighborhood will be mar- 
ried shortly. 
I intended as you saw by the crosses in a former to have 
sent that money, but Obadiah was so engaged in stockjobbing 
that he could not do it without injuring himself more than those 
to whom it is due. You may expect it shortly. I left the 
writing of your letter to the last knowing I had time sufficient, 
but the bearer sets out a day sooner than I expected, therefore 
you must excuse the present, under promise of one the next 
opportunity as long as the hundred and nineteenth Psalm 
I am Sir, sincerely the friend of D. G Mitchell 
Jonathan Jennings 
 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Steuben ville August 18 th 1806 
Dr David G. Mitchell 
Dear Sir 
To bury in oblivion the defects of a friend is the best ensign 
of friendship ; and to neglect the bagatelles of a summer is the 
only remedy either of us can obtain for the past. I have been 
down the river almost all summer, and since my return I could 
hardly afford time to write to though notwithstand- 
ing I wrote you once by private conveyance, I also had one 
partly prepared when M r Noble was here, but he seemed so 
much in a hurry that I could not detain him. 
To justify the conduct of Kennedy, would beggar all de- 
scription, to justify the harsh treatment of his nearest relations, 
I shall not pretend ; but this much may be said with justice, that 
he is a great villain, that he is a great liar, that he is very artful 
and designing, that he may yet be brought to observe the path 
of rectitude, if the goading hand of severity was held over him 
with sternness, and a proper line of conduct prescribed for him 
to walk by. Thus my dear Sir, may we observe in this too 
affecting, too near and too fatal [in] stance, the great curse to 
society and to families, that beings so ferocious so inhuman and 
tyger like as unprincipled men should have so great and im- 
portant trusts delivered to their charge as the bringing up, and 
education of children. We have done all we can for that profli- 
gate and above all the worst of boys — yet my heart often feels 
a tender emotion for the only child of my departed Sister, yet 
would I were I in circumstances that would admit make one 
trial more, to regain the disconsolate, the unfortunate, the 
abandoned S. K. Simonson. And if that will not prove 
effectual, if so many offers will be by him rejected, let him take 
his dernier resort, the enfi[l]ade of every of every rascal, the 
gallows. 
I am determined that he shall never more disturb my peace. 
It is uncertain when I shall visit Delaps creek, as our Supreme 
Court is not yet past. I have some intention of going to 
 
Virginia to reside as Brother S. K. insists very hard, and gives 
me great encouragement. 
To you and yours I shall ever be a sincere friend and ever 
Affectionate Brother 
Jonathan Jennings 
P. S. Say nothing to any of my letter to any person for reasons 
which are obvious, I cannot at this time write to all. 
J. J. . . . GS 
[Addressed:] Dr. David G. Mitchell Brownsville, Fayette 
County, Pennsylvania. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Vincennes, Indian Territory 
June 27, 1807 
D r David G. Mitchell 
Dear Sir 
I expected a line from you by Ewing, 1 but none arrived, — 
what can be the cause — have I offended — how — in what man- 
ner? not intentionally I am certain — I cannot charge you with 
neglect, lest you retort — Indeed I have been so closely confined 
to my writing desk, excepting a few days after my arrival, that 
I have written but little else, than "Sundries D r ," at which time 
no paper could be had. My prospects meet my expectations, 
but the place is full of rascals and &c I have been very 
near fighting a duel with the Clerk of the General Court, but 
he thought proper to make concessions 2 I must trouble you 
to know of each of the merchants in Brownsville what quantity 
of cotton they would purchase and at what rate — likewise what 
it sells at in trade such as country linnen, whiskey &c, and at 
what for cash — when you know what each would purchase you 
can inform me what quantity might readily be disposed of, and 
at what rate. If the quantity and price please, perhaps I may 
stay a few days with you this fall. You will mention the de- 
livery to be on the last of November or first of December — 
should the quantity and price warrant — I will write upon the 
receipt of your answer, and inform you what will be my deter- 
mination Upon your receiving knowledge of my going to 
your country I will consider myself bound to deliver and they 
to receive. This knowledge you shall receive befor the mer- 
chants set out for Philadelphia. Inform me what prospect you 
have for fruit of different kinds. 
Remember me to Sister, Pa, Ma, David, Uncle & each of his 
family I am Sir your friend & Brother 
Jonathan Jennings 
P. S. Dont suffer one mail to pass before you write an answer, 
and remember me to Cunningham. 
[Addressed :] Doc. David G. Mitchell Brownsville, Fayette 
County, Pennsylvania. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Vincennes September 19. 1807 
D r D. G. Mitchell 
My very dear Sir : 
Your second favour was received last evening, which has 
determined the fate of my adventure to the well know, the well 
known spot. To me your letters were too short, on many 
accounts. You never informed me of Miss Breading, Miss 
Bowman. And more than that, your promise to give me in- 
formation concerning Miss Mahan, has never been fulfilled. 
God only knows when we shall meet again, as life is but a 
lottery, duelling and principles of honour are ever more re- 
garded the fa[r]ther you go to the Southard. If we should 
have a British war I am determined to risque all I can scrape 
in the world, and run a Contraband cargo to the neutral isles. 
We have to a man, been warned to be ready at a minutes warn- 
ing, to march against the Indians. 
I worked my way so well, that, I was very near being Clerk 
 
to the House of Representatives of the Territory, and I be- 
lieve I might have been elected, had I played a double part, but 
being under promise on certain conditions not to offer ; I could 
not reconcile it to myself to offer, and thereby wound my 
promise. 
The Clerk of our General Court, views me with a jealous 
eye on account of his Office; I fear I shall have to kill him 
before he will be at rest. I challenged him, he made concessions, 
as I wrote you, but since I have understood, has been insinu- 
ating something, I know not what to my disadvantage. 
Some description of this place, with it manners and customs, 
would fill an Octavo volume. The situation is highly pic- 
turesque, situated on the East side of the Wabash almost 
surrounded by a beautiful Prairie, nearly one mile wide, and 
about three in length, on the East of, and adjoining the Prairie, 
are what is called the barrens which are generally covered with 
shrubs five or six feet in height, and which barrens are ten 
or fifteen feet generally higher than the Prairie. Just on the 
borders of the Prairie where it adjoins the barrens, are three 
Sugar loaves, or curious mounds regularly formed; they are 
from twenty to thirty feet above the level of the Prairie and 
of gentle ascent from the East. From the summit of which 
you have a prospect of animate and inanimate nature for several 
miles. 2 From their summit you can behold numerous herds of 
Cattle, some on account of their distance appear not larger 
than yearlings. You may behold at one and the same time a 
hundred plows going, under one inclosure, which belongs to 
the French, who cultivate in Common. Their Customs are 
often very ridiculous and grating to the feelings of an American. 
A short time ago a Frenchman's wife died, in fifteen days 
after he married a second wife, the French on account thereof, 
together with the cause, of his having married a young girl, 
convened around the house of the new couple, with bells, death's 
heads, and a coffin, singing blackguard verses, and ringing 
cow bells, striking on old kettles, playing on horse fiddles, night 
after night, until they got hold of him, they then put two 
large bells on him, one hanging behind and the other before 
and marched him two or three hours around town, so ended 
the farce. Money may be made next spring at the publick 
sales, you will know, when and where they will take place, 
as it will require a law of Congress therefor. I intend exploring 
the Country that will first be offered for sale, and should you 
be disposed and it be convenient for to remit me money I will 
speculate with the same for a certain part of the profits, — for 
all immediate profits one half — [when] I shall not make return 
under nine or twelve months one fourth, and if the lands do 
not sell within twelve or fourteen months — I will take nothing 
unless the profits should be so great as to equal Cent per Cent 
per annum, or overrun, in such case what I shall have will be 
left entirely with you. Brother Sam K. has promised to remit 
me more or [ms. torn] to the amount of $1000 against the 
sales. If [I] had been in possession of 500 dollars last spring 
without information or personall traversing the lands, I could 
have made $1000 clear by this time as others have I think 
that Jeffersonville in a year or two will be a very good place 
for you, it is very probable it may yet be the seat of Govern- 
ment for a new state It is surrounded by a fine Country, 
populating very rapidly, and immediately at the falls of Ohio. 
I could wish to be near my sister and you, think of it, in 
my Opinion it will do very well, write me 
I am sincerely yours affectily 
Jonathan Jennings 
Remember me to Pa and Ma, Uncle and family, Cunningham 
and give my sister the warmest expressions of my tender 
regard. Remember me to David, inform me what you may 
know concerning him and his views, adieu. J. J . . . gs 
[Addressed:] Doc David G. Mitchell Brownsville, Pa. 
 
Jennings To David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Jefferson ville Decern. 1 st 1808 
D r David G. Mitchell 
My very D r Sir 
Yours of the 28 th of October ult° was received by last mail, 
but its contents were not very grateful, although it afforded 
me much satisfaction. 
The unfavourable news of the event of my mercantile 
project was of little account, compared with the melancholy 
intelligence of Brother E. Jennings's irrevocable fate. 1 
It brings afresh to memory the scenes, when he stood over 
my expected Death Bed, with an unremitted attention would 
to God that I could watch his declining days, his departing 
moments, and take his last assurance of the friendship of 
which his heart was so susceptable. 
Tell him if he yet lives, tell him for me, that my circum- 
stances are such that I cannot again see him, until we shall 
meet at the Bar of Almighty God! 
Tell him a long farewell ; bid a long, a sad & last adieu 
for a Brother who holds him near his heart. 
Your request my dear Sir shall now be answered as to 
the place where the seat of Government will be fixed upon the 
division of the Territory I cannot precisely tell. 
This County, to wit, the County of Clark will most un- 
doubtedly contain the Seat of Government before two years, 
nay, perhaps before one, as resolutions were sent to the General 
Government from the House of Representatives of the Terri- 
tory requesting Congress to divide same. 2 
The County of Clark is without a Physician except a miserable Quack and it will be the Centre of the Territory upon the 
division without doubt. 
In the next place it is a tolerably well watered Country, soil 
generally rich, and level and will after a few years, afford fine 
roads for Carriages, and land is quite cheap. 
Jeffersonville is situated about 70 miles from Lexington and 
is the seat of Justice for the County of Clark, in fine 
Sir I think the Country better adapted to a rising family, and 
another consideration Sir which you will prize equally with 
myself is, that I can assure you that an instance of the con- 
sumption has not been known in the Territory. 
By settling in this County you will not find yourself out 
of business, you will become acquainted and known & I dare 
to say that you will be pleased. 
This County was the most populous of any in the Territory 
until last Session when the Legislature divided the same. 1 
I can assure you Sir, that you will meet a favourable recep- 
tion and there are several characters in the County who know 
my father and yours in Law, and on account of which I am 
as well received as I could expect as my residince in Clark 
County only began one month since. 
Come on and settle or see the Country and we shall be 
near each other. It has been a long time since we had an 
interview, now going on three years. It is my desire and 
determination to be near my sister and you. 
Sickness and disappointment have been the cause of my 
making some sacrifice in so much that I am embarrassed — 
otherwise I should have been up this fall to see you, but could 
not. I am rather of opinion that I shall not be able to visit you 
next spring unless Papa will assist me to 50 or 60 dollars. 
I have to request that you will see Papa on my behalf and 
request him to assist me. I am in want, for I know not the 
time I may be pushed for the money, the name of which will 
be an injury to me in my profession ; as I am settled where I 
may yet be called a stranger. The Summer after I went to 
Vincennes my attention was occupied in the Land Office; the 
following fall and winter I was sick and unable to attend to 
business of any kind which was the cause of my leaving Vin- 
cennes. 
I laid out all the money I could raise upon land and was 
obliged to sell at a great disc[oun]t in order to pay some of 
my debts, as my sickness & disappointments rendered me 
unable [to] meet the payments. Insist upon Papa to help me. 
Give my compliments to M[iss] Nancy Breading and &C 
[ms. torn] and give me an [ms. torn] answer whether Papa 
will do anything for me or not, as I can [ms. torn] M r John 
Work who will be with Pa next [ms. torn] 1 
I cannot tell when I shall visit you if [ms. torn] assist me. 
If you do not settle in this County s[ome] Physician will. 
Where is David give my respects [to] friend Cunningham. 
I am fully determined to [ms. torn] Ladies of my acquaintance 
had better look sharp. 
My love to Pa & Ma. Adieu my friefnd. Believe] me to 
be forever your friend Sincerely 
Jonath [an Jennings] 
P. S. Preserve me a lock of Brothers hair if he should die. 
j.j. 
[Addressed:] Doc David G. Mitchell Brownsville, Penna. 
Jennings to Ann Jennings Mitchell 
[Copy in Indiana State Library] 
Jefferson ville Dec : 5 th 1808 
Dear Sister. 
Your first letter since my long absence came to hand last 
mail. You confess you have been negligent; You know my 
[o]nly Sister that I have never been unwilling to forgive any 
person much less yourself. 
I long to live near you and enjoy your society I have been 
advizing the Doctor to move hether, it is a fine Country and as 
I informed him, I can assure you that there has never been an 
instance of the consumption proving fatal. Brother Ebennezzer 
will never see me more I would give great satisfaction to 
once more converse with him before he leaves the world but 1 
cannot. 
I am [rjather unhappy at such a distance from my friends 
and I am very anxious to See Pa & Ma 
I am determined to marry so soon as I can please myself. 
The young ladies will look sharp when I come up to see you, 
or else I will come around them. 
Prevail upon the Doctor to live in this Country and then 1 
shall be contented. I will marry and we can enjoy the sweets 
of reciprocal friendship. 
Rest assured Dear Sister, that you claim and possess a 
place in my heart which time can never supplant until I shall 
go the way of all the earth. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Mrs. Anne Mitchell Brownsville Pa. 
Bond for Payment to Parmenas Beckes 1 
[English Collection] 
[July 18, 18091 
Know all men by these presents that we Jonathan Jennings 
and James Lemon are held and firmly bound unto Willis W. 
Goodwin Sheriff of Clark his certain attorney his heires &C 
in the full Sum of three hundred and twenty four dollars 
and Six and one fourth Cents Lawful Money for which pay- 
ment well and truly to be made to Said Goodwin his heires 
&C We bind ourselves and Each of our heires jointly & 
Severally by their presents Sealed with our Seals and dated 
this the 18 th day of July 1809. The condition of this obli- 
gation is Such that if the Said Jonathan Jennings do appeare 
before the judges of the General Court for the Indiana Terri- 
tory at the Court house in Vincennes on the first tuesday in 
Parmenas Beckes was sheriff of Knox County, 1807-09, and pro- 
prietor of a tavern in Vincennes. Burns, Lee, Life in Old Vincennes, 
p. 454 {Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 8, No. 9, Indian- 
apolis, 1929); History of Knox and Daviess Counties, Indiana, p. 173 
(Chicago, 1886). 
 
September next to answer parmenas P>eckes of a plea of debt 
cf one hundred and twenty four dollars six and one fourth 
cents then this obligation to be void else remain in full force 
and Virtue 
attest Jonathan Jennings (Seal) 
John Vawter 1 Ja s Lemon 2 (Seal) 
deputy for 
W W Goodwin Stiff C C 
Jennings to 
[English Collection] 
City Washington 27 th Decem b 1809 
My dear Sir 
My seat will be vacated in a few days, and in a few days 
after I shall be with you on my way to Indiana to again enter 
the lists of Candidates as we must try it over again as Paddy 
said when he got a drubbing. We are to have another election. 3 
The detail I will give you when I see you, till then you must 
excuse. God knows I have had hardly time to eat with every- 
thing hurrying. I am preparing a detailed account for the 
Pres of the Proceeding in my contested election. 
Health, happiness & prosperity attend you adieu 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to William Duane 
[English Collection] 
[December, 1809] 
Mr. Duane 
Having lately observed in the National Intelligencer, a 
lengthy memorial from the Legislature of the Indiana Terri- 
tory, praying for the reappointment of their present Govenor 
William Henry Harrison, I therefore, as a friend to the honour 
and interest of the United States, and as a foe to all speculating 
and intriguing men in office, request the insertion of the 
following interrogatories, at least once or twice in your impar- 
tial Advertiser. 1 
1st Did Govenor Harrison, when acting as a Commis- 
sioner for the United States, in exam[in]ing titles to land and 
granting permissions to make locations thereof in the County 
of Knox in said Territory, promise, Toussaint Dubois of Vin- 
cennes, that he would give him a permission to locate a quantity 
of land in said County, which should include the Grand rapids 
of the River Wabash (being a valuable mill seat) and did 
Govenor Harrison after so promising Dubois, enter into part- 
nership with William M c Intosh of Vincennes, and did M c Intosh 
furnish a claim of 1,200 acres of land, and locate by the special 
permission of the Govenor, the Grand Rapids of the Wabash, 
before promised to Dubois — and did Govenor Harrison receive 
400 acres of land from M c Intosh for granting the permission 
to him instead of Dubois ? 
2d Did Govenor Harrison when acting as a Superin- 
tendant of the Sales of the United State's lands at Vincennes 
and receiving from the U. S. at the rate of six dollars per day 
for his services as a Superintendant give, in partnership with 
others, $150, to hire and prevent men from bidding for those 
lands, over which, he, with others, was placed as an agent of 
the United States, and whose duty it was, to see that the United 
State's lands were sold for the best price possible? 
3d Did Govenor Harrison, when acting as a Superin- 
tendant of the sales of the United State's lands at Vincennes 
as aforesaid, for and in behalf of Thomas Jones of Vincennes, 
of[fer] Nathaniel Ewing of the same place $500 dollars, if 
Ewing would not bid against said Jones for the fractional sec- 
tions of land at the mouth of the Wabash River — and did 
Govenor Harrison say afterwards, that his reason for so doing 
was, that Jones came to him apparently in great distress on 
account of Ewing's intention to bid for said fractional sections, 
and that Jones had frequently obliged him by lending him con- 
siderable sums of money and he wished to do him a favour 
in return? 
4th Did Govenor Harrison, after he issued his procla- 
mation for, and before the election of the Delegate to represent 
the Indiana Territory in Congress, on the 22 d of May 1809 ; 
write electioneering letters to officers of the militia and others, 
tending to prejudice the minds of the people against the after- 
wards successful candidate, and did Govenor Harrison in 
one or more of those electioneering letters at the same time, 
pledge himself for his friend? 
5th Did Govenor Harrison in person, at the distance of 
eighty miles from the place of his residence in the Territory, 
address the voters when assembled at the Polls, in favour of 
his friend M r Thomas Randolph? 
6th Did Govenor Harrison, after the people of the Terri- 
tory had solemnly given their votes and elected a Delegate to 
represent them in Congress, subscribe twenty five dollars, 
to a subscription paper on the 4 th of July 1809 and promise 
to give an hundred, for the purpose of sending on an agent 
to the seat of Government of the United States, to represent 
the Town of Vincennes or the County of Knox in Congress? 
Can His Excellency the Govenor of the Indiana Territory 
 
answer the foregoing interrogatories in the negative? The 
first can be proved by the Honorable Henry Vanderburgh, 
William M c Intosh and John Rice Jones who wrote the Con- 
veyance or conveyances — all of whom are at, or near Vincennes. 
The second can be proved by The Honorable Waller Taylor 
of Jeffersonville. 
The third can be proved by Doctor Elias M c Namee, and 
likewise by Nathaniel Ewing of Vincennes. 
The fourth can be proved by Major John Harberson, John 
G. Pfrimmer and Moses Hoggatt of Harrison County and 
Colonel Joseph Bartholomew of Clark County in the Indiana 
Territory. 
The fifth can be proved by almost any person who was at 
the Polls in the District where the Govenor was in Harrison 
County upon the day of the election. 
The sixth can be proved by the Hon ble Henry Vander- 
burgh who was present. 
Are these interrogatories worthy of the notice of the Presi- 
dent and Heads of Department of the United States or not? 
I let the Publick 1 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
City Washington 16 th Jan y 1810 
Doc 1 D. G. Mitchell 
With great anxiety and attention to business my time has 
been spent since my arrival here. If I had not been very 
negligent myself I should be disposed to ask why I have not 
received a line from you since our last interview, but this is [a] 
matter of form, I only [hope] to draw a line from you if possible. News, we have little of importance, except what is given 
more in detail than the limits of a letter would contain. My 
contested election has been to me a matter of considerable 
concern. Embarrassed in pecuniary matters, and pushed by 
my creditors, having little or no resort but to my own exertions, 
what could be my sensations under every apprehension that my 
seat would be vacated. The Committee of elections unani- 
mously concurred in opinion that our Govenor had no authority 
to order the election at which I was elected. This Report of 
the committee of Elections was concurred in when in Committee 
of the whole House. 
Upon this my competitor, entertaining no doubt that it 
would pass in the same manner upon its final passage, left the 
City for the Territory to the end that he might take the advan- 
tage of me in electioneering. Not only so, it was circulated 
among the members through my ingenuity, that I should not 
pretend to oppose the Report because I feared it was too just. 
After my rival had left the City about four days, the Report 
of the Committee of Elections was brought up in order of the 
day & the question was shall the Report & Resolution, which 
was subjoined & which went to declare my seat to be vacant, 
pass. 
I had previously prepared the minds of some of the mem- 
bers both Republicans & Federalists to receive my attempts, 
and when the question was called for, I rose & in a lengthy 
argument opposed the final passage by remarking in my onset, 
that I thus did, because I conceived it a duty due from me to 
the citizens of the Territory. This awakened and brought forth 
arguments for & against. The debate upon the subject lasted 
part of three days which cost the U. S. not less than $2,000 
and when the vote was taken the yeas & nays were called, & 
to the surprize of all, only 30 voted in favour of the Report 
of a standing Committee, viz the Committee of Elections with 
W m Findley of Pa. as their Chairman, not only so, the Report 
of the last mentioned Committee was unanimous, & their Report 
was concurred with in the Committee of the whole House 
nemine contradicente & 83 voted against the Report making 
nearly 3 votes to one in my favour. 1 Such a circumstance 
was never known before in the House & every member almost 
is expressing their surprize. Thus you see Sir, that I have 
exposed the conduct of my great enemy the Govenor, & have 
also been able to retain my seat in spite of all the sanguin expec- 
tations of my rivals & Enemies. 
Three several times I spoke upon the subject in the Hfouse] 
occupying in the whole not less than 5 hours, and old Findley 
acknowledged to me that, although he was certain he was in 
the right, he found that that I had too much ingenuity for him at 
least in the present day, & this I effected without irritating one 
of the members of the Comm : of Elections against me, but 
on the contrary they appear at least more friendly. Such are 
men, & human nature will ever be found to be the same in every 
station. My competitor under full impressions that my election 
would be set aside, will have made interest throughout the 
whole Territory before he learns his disappointment. Little 
indeed will he feel when he finds, that he has made interest 
for an election which will not take place for 16 months ; when 
he thought & will declare will take place in the term of a few 
weeks. Probably I shall visit Sam 1 K. Jennings on my return. 
If you will exchange saddles write me & tell me what difference 
you judge there is between the saddles & if I should think it 
not too much I will pay it as I return. Write me any how, 
confound it — write if it is only to tell me that you & family 
are well. 
Give my tender love to my dear Sister, who very frequently 
occupies my most tender reflections. The days we have spent 
together from the days of childhood to riper years, have been 
spent with as much real tenderness & affection as ever was 
realized by Brother & Sister. She, whose affection I have long 
appreciated with yourself, after presenting my compliments to 
your father & family, will please to accept the many considerations, with which I am your Brother affectionately & very 
sincere friend 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
City Washington 18 th Jany 1810 
My dear Sir 
I have to request of you to encourage Mr. Cooper to com- 
mence Editor at Vincennes. 1 He will receive much encourage- 
ment at once, one man I am informed by letter will for the 
first year subscribe for 50 copies to any independant Pres. He 
will receive encouragement from both Indiana & Illinois 
Territory. By going there now he can at once take the lead 
and ever after keep it, when every year his establishment will 
become more valuable. 
I wish him to be there before the next meeting of the 
Territorial Legislature that he may obtain the Public printing 
My love to Sister & believe me to be very truly yours — I 
expect to visit Bro Sam : K. Jennings on my return 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
City Washington 19 th of February 1810 
What can be the reason I cannot hear from you. I have 
been expecting every Mail or two to receive a line from you, 
but am as often disappointed. Surely Sister has no excuse, 
whatever may be yours. I had determined not to write you 
again until you at least alamode sent me your name. 
When I sat down to write this letter it was my full intention 
to have went within one step of cursing a little, but I supposed 
you might retort. But still you might scratch me a line or two, 
confound it. I had very near written confound you — faith I 
have wrote it — well then, confound you for a — why dont you 
write me. 
Have you heard from Miss N B g since my de- 
parture. I did intend to have written to her but you are so far 
off from my old walks that I suppose it would be inconvenient 
for you to transmit it and you alone would I entrust with such 
an embassy. If however you could so far conveniently oblige 
me I would yet do it. 
In a few days we expect to hear the result of the dismission 
of F. J. Jackson when you may again hear from me for the 
last time until you shall have sent me your Bonjeur. 1 
I am yours affectionately & sincerely 
Jonathan Jennings 
P. S. Tell Sis I must try and be even with by trying to forget 
her. Colonel Billy has not published the interrogatories. 2 
Jennings to Albert Gallatin 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., 499] 
Jeffersonville I. T. 6 th of August 1810 
The HoN ble Albert Gallatin Esquire 
In the District of Jeffersonville, is a Salt Spring which 
which was not noticed by the Deputy Surveyors, but the quarter 
section in which the Spring was discovered, was reserved 
by the Land Officers, or has not been offered for sale either 
in a publick or private manner, of which you must have been 
advised. 
By a permission or Grant of Govenor Harrison, the Spring 
is now in the possession of a person or persons, who are 
incapable of making such a use of it, as will be of any publick 
advantage, even not so much, as to furnish the country adjacent 
with necessary salt, but it has been assigned and reassigned 
for speculative purposes without any known contract on the 
part of the United States, or the individuals who are, or have 
been in the possession of the same. 
If the Spring was leased to a person of character, from 
whose exertions and capability to manage it in a proper manner, 
might be expected whatever of Publick utility it may probably 
afford, it would be a matter, of no small consideration to those 
parts of the Territory at least, which lie in any measure con- 
tiguous thereto, and also, in all probability, a matter of interest 
to the United States, at a period not very far distant. 
It would seem as if the Govenor has considered it as a 
matter of small importance indeed, seeing he has placed it in 
the hands of men, without any kind of security for the use 
they should make of it who, by the naked possession, without 
any kind of contract, claim to themselves the right of disposing 
of it at pleasure, at least for a term of years. James Lemon 
Esquire of this place, will take the Spring if it can be gotten 
for any term of years that will warrant his making any sub- 
stantial improvements. It is uncertain what may be the product 
of spending money upon the Spring, as the water is weak 
though in some measure plentiful, but how durable it may be, 
remains to be known. 
Promise of Office in the Territory is not so uncommon, 
as that too before the existence of such office, that M r Lemon 
iear[ing] his application to Govenor Harrison, should he make 
one on that score, might not meet an impartial decision, & has 
therefore pre [vailed] upon me to make an application for him, 
to the Secretary of the Treasury directly, and he will be very 
thankful to know as soon as may be convenient the fruits of 
his application. 
The character of M r Lemon as a man of business and 
probity, is unexceptionable. With sentiments of the high [est] 
esteem, I have the honor to subscribe myself most respect- 
fully your very Humble Servant 
Jonathan Jennings 
[First Indorsement:] Jeffersonville Aug 1 6, 1810. rec d 
Aug 1 23 d Jonathan Jennings Esq r respect [in] g salt-spring in 
Jeffersonville district, recommends that it be leased to James 
Lemon. 
[Second Indorsement:] Has any & what instruction been 
given on that subject to Gov r Harrison? A.G. 
[Third Indorsement:] No instructions have been given. 
Two letters of Gov. Harrison supposed to refer to this saline, 
are herewith sent. D.L. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Jeffersonville I. T. 4 th June 1811 
My dear Sir 
If Miss W. has reached the Western parts of Pennsylvania 
be particular in placing in her hand the enclosed letter. If 
she has not crosed the mountains, forward the letter by the 
first mail not forgetting to pay the postage for me. 
I wrote you some time since informing you that I was 
elected by a majority of 2 to one almost. 1 I wish it could 
find a place in your paper and pas from thence into the Demo- 
cratick Pres, it will have a desired effect with the General 
Government. 
If Miss W. has, or should cros the mountains I shall expect 
you to advise me of it immediately. 
We go on well here and prosperity fills the sails of our 
Political Bark. 
With my love to Sister I Subscribe myself your affection- 
ately 
Jonathan Jennings 
J In this second election for territorial delegate, Jennings was again 
opposed by Thomas Randolph. 
 
Jennings to Albert Gallatin 
[General Land Office, 166] 
Jeffersonville I. T. 29 th of June 1811 
The Honb 16 Albert Gallatin Esquire 
D r Sir. 
The situation of the United States surveys contiguous to 
the lines of Clark's (or the Illinois) Grant, you doubtlessly are 
apprized, are such, as not only prevent their being sold, but 
likewise, may in all probability, give rise to much litigation in 
future. 1 
The lines which were run by Clark and his Associates, are 
in many parts obliterated, and will be rendered more and more 
obscure by time and incautious persons. 
There are many who have settled near the Grant on the 
Publick Land and who are anxious to purchase, if they can 
procure the lands on which they have settled. 
The original field Notes of the Grant line, I am told, can 
be procured, to direct in resurveying the lines. 
Gen 1 Mansfield has informed me, that he has not vouchers 
sufficient to warrant him in directing a resurvey. 2 If the origi- 
nal Notes, or the instrument by which the State of Virginia 
conveyed the land to the Illinois Regiment, will not form 
vouchers sufficient to warrant an order for the resurvey in 
an official manner, the inconveniencies arising in consequence 
thereof will continually increase 
I should be glad if you could turn your attention to the 
subject, if were only on account of those individuals who at 
present are prevented from purchasing. Most respectfully 
I am yours 
Jonathan Jennings 
[First Indorsement:] Enquire at departm[en]t of State 
whetther a patent has ever been issued for this grant which was 
reserved by Virginia in her act of session. See land laws page 
31. A.G. 
[Second Indorsement:] It appears that no grant has ever 
issued from the Executive for the above mentioned tract of 
land. 
(S.P.) M r Moore 
[Third Indorsement:] Answ d 
Jennings to Ann Jennings Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
JEFFERSONVILLE 15 th of August 1811 
Dear Sister 
More than once I have written to the Doctor, but he has 
as usual neglected to let me hear from him. I have got news 
to tell you and except that I have little to write you. What think 
you, is the news? It is important and such as you never knew 
before. Yes ! I am married and have a wife, a little black eyed 
wife, and you another sister and a namesake, I wish you were 
acquainted with her I am sure you would love her, not only 
for herself, but likewise for my sake. 1 Her disposition is very 
simular to yours & what can I say more. In the course of 
another year I expect to take her with me to see you, and in 
the mean time I will bring you a lock of her hair, which will 
serve you as a memento of her who is near to the bosom of 
your Brother, and will of course, be near to yours. She is 
anxious to see you and have your friendship, and I am sure 
you have hers. 
I will see you about the middle of October next and till 
then, and eternally, be assured of the fraternal affection of 
your Brother. 
Jonathan Jennings 
make my respects to the Doc 1 and tell [him] I did expect to 
have heard from him ere now 
Jennings to Ann Jennings Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 12 th of January 1812 
My dear Sister 
I received your letter by the last Mail and was very glad 
to hear from you, although your letter was very short indeed. 
War with England, my Sister, is not only probabl[e but] almost 
certain, and widows & Orphans, are among the minor evils 
attendant upon a state of war and consequent bloodshed. Many 
of those events, which have happened in almost every age, will 
soon transpire in our Country, unless our warlike disposition 
should commence and terminate, like the wars which wives & 
old women too generally wage, viz, with loud scolding & many 
threats. 
Do not understand me that I rank you among that class of 
female heroines to which I have alluded, but nevertheless be 
careful for I know you share a portion of the Scotch blood, 
and moreover many wives get into the scowling habit very 
imperceptably, by the invariable good nature of their hus- 
bands — but rely upon it that spectators or your servants will 
notice, even if your husbands do not. 
Some good wives say, for excuse, that they mean no harm 
by it, and perhaps they are candid in such declarations. Ha 
ha ha ! ! ! ! ! For my part, I am determined, that my wife shall 
never act such a part, as to render it necessary, for her to excuse 
herself by saying "that she means no harm by it." You need 
not shew this letter to any of the good matrons of your Town, 
I know that they generally in every part of the world, dislike 
criticism as much as the critics. But as they know nothing of 
my wife, they cannot act towards me according to their usual 
custom, by exclaiming with a pithy sentence, emphasised with 
a frown, look at home. The City presents a very great variety 
of character this winter, yet notwithstanding the mirth & gaiety 
which the American Metropolis presents, I could spend my 
winters much more contentedly & happy with my little Ann at 
home. She is very well, and expresses frequently her desire 
to be acquainted with you. As yet it is not my power to say 
when I shall return, but in the course of six or eight weeks I 
shall be able to inform you probably. Remember me to the Doc 1 
and our friends, and believe me to [be] your Brother with 
much affection. 
Jonathan Jennings 
P. S. In your next describe more particularly the coulor you 
wish for your dress, or send me a sample Fawn Coulor is too 
indefinite for me Show the exact coulour you wish Enclose 
me a small piece such as you wish J. J. 
[Addressed:] Mrs. Ann Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to William Eustis 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1153] 
7 th of February 1812 
Sir. 
Hereto I subjoin an extract of a letter written by Govenor 
Harrison to a gentleman in Clark County I. T. dated 18 th of 
March 1811 to which letter is annexed a clause expressing a 
wish that it might be shewn to any person. The Secretary at 
War, will be enabled from the papers and &c in the possession 
of the Government, whether or not the Government will mark 
the adherents of Burr with attention under any circumstances. 
"You probably know that Prince was employed by 
Burr. This was the fact, but he came immediately to 
me* and communicated to me the circumstance and everv 
thing relative to Burr's expedition which he knew, all of 
which was immediately transmitted to the President and 
 
was perhaps amongst the first, if not the very first cor- 
rect information that he received upon the subject. Far 
from thinking that his conduct with regard to that affair 
has been inimical, I have always believed that he meritted 
attention for this circumstance alone, and I have reason 
to believe that the Government do not think the worse 
of him on that account. 
Upon Floyd'sf return from Burr's expedition, know- 
ing that the Government were grooping in the [dark] 
after testimony to develope the extent of Burr's designs 
and believing that Floyd might give much useful infor- 
mation, I wrote to him and engaged on the part of the 
Government that if he would come forward and disclose 
what he knew I would procure him a complete pardon 
and that I would moreover use my personal influence, to 
reinstate him in the good opinion of his constituents. He 
declined the pardon but accepted the other conditions. 
His two statements together with my obligations to him 
were communicated to the then Secretary of State (M r 
Madison). I have from the Secretary of War (who 
saw my communications) a letter in which my conduct 
in this affair is mentioned with approbation. Agreeably 
to my promise, Floyd was continued in office, although 
much abuse was poured out upon me in the publick 
papers on account of it. After this clamour had entirely 
subsided, I had some reason to believe from information 
that I then received, that Floyd had not acted candidly 
with me in the confession he made and I therefore im- 
mediately dismissed him from his appointments" 
*Quere, whether the information alledged to have been 
given, was given before the appearance of the Proclamation of 
M r Jefferson in the Western Country? 1 
a The president's proclamation here referred to was issued November 
27, 1806. It warned all those engaged or concerned in conspiring to set 
on foot a military expedition against Spain to withdraw, and enjoined 
all civil and military officers in the western territories to be vigilant in 
searching out and bringing to punishment all persons engaged or con- 
cerned in such enterprise. Ford, Paul L. (ed.), The Works of Thomas 
Jefferson, Vol. 10, pp. 301-2 (New York and London, 1905). 
 
fFloyd was indicted and convicted before Waller Taylor 
& Thomas T. Davis, sitting as Judges of the General Court of 
the Indiana Territory, for a misdemeanor in having been associ- 
ated in Burr's conspiracy. 
Both Prince & Floyd are qualified for the Office of Cap* 
if their concern with A. Burr forms no objection. 1 
I am respectfully 
Jonathan Jennings 
The SEC y of War 
[Indorsed:] 7 th Feb. 1812 J. Jennings relative to Prince 
and Floyd — applicants for a commission Rec d Feb 8 th 1812 
Jennings to James Madison 
[War Department, L. R., S. W., 554] 
The President of the United States 
Sir. 
In compliance with the request of several citizens of the 
Territory which I represent, I have to suggest, that there exists 
apprehensions of a want [of] a sufficient number of arms and 
a sufficient quantity of ammunition for the defence of that 
portion of the country from the apprehended attacks of the 
Indians. 
With much respect I am obediently 
Jonathan Jennings 
4 th of May '12 
Jennings to William Eustis 
[War Department, L. R., S. W., 553] 
The HoNB le William Eustis 
Sir 
I feel it my duty to inform the Government through you, 
that the Indians have very lately, killed a man by the name 
of Hinton, about 50 miles northwest of the Falls of Ohio — 
They have also burned the House of a certain M r Huston, 
together with his wife and children, about 15 miles North of 
Vincennes and murdered a man belonging to Huston's family, 
in a manner shocking to humanity — These facts admit of no 
doubt whatever. I have them from a scourse that cannot be 
questioned. The people are alarmed and fleeing from the fron- 
tiers. You will best know what attention these facts merit and 
require from the Government. 
I am most respectfully yours &c. 
Jonathan Jennings 
8 th of May '12 
[Addressed:] The Secretary for the Department of War 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 27 th of May 1812 
My dear Sir 
Your letter of the 17 th ins 1 I have the pleasure now to 
answer. Louisiana Territory in the neighbourhood of St. Louis 
is generally healthy. The land generally fertile and upon the 
whole desirable, but the Indians at present are very trouble- 
some and will be more so. Whether they have any Ministers 
 
of the Gospel I am at this time unable to say, I shall see you 
in the course of four or five weeks after this reaches you and 
can satisfy you more particularly. I cannot say where the seat 
of Government of our Territory will be placed as yet, but it 
will not be far from where I now live until the interior of the 
country becomes populated. I wish you would have my horse 
taken to Washington and fed plentifully with oats, from about 
the tenth of next month until I see you. He would not be the 
worse of being rode a few miles occasionally. Your oversight 
to his keeping will much oblige me indeed. 
We are going on to the long talked of Ulterior measures 
one of which I believe will be war. Two weeks or less will 
give a clue better calculated to determine. 
The Indians have done considerable injury in Indiana by 
murders. Love to all our friends. 
Yours most Sincerely 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed :] Doc. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to Elihu Stout 
[Western Sim, July 14, 181 2] 
[June, 1812] 
Mr. Stout, 
Understanding that a report has been circulated in the 
territory that I have been wanting in my endeavors to obtain 
from congress an adequate compensation for the volunteers 
and militia who served on the expedition to Tippecanoe, that 
I did everything in my power to have those brave men fully 
compensated for the toils and hardships which they were 
obliged to suffer, I hope the following letters which passed 
between colonel Samuel M'Kee. (the chairman of the committee 
to whom the memorial of the legislature of the territory, and 
others on the subject were referred) and myself will fully prove 
to every unprejudiced mind. 
Jonathan Jennings 
 
[First Inclosure] 
Representatives Chamber, 16th of June, 1812. 
Sir, 
It has been asserted in the territory which I represent, that 
I am to blame because the volunteers and militia were not more 
liberally compensated for their services in the expedition to 
Tippecanoe. As you sir, were the chairman of the committee 
to whom the memorials on that subject were referred, permit 
me to ask of you the favor to give me a short statement bv 
way of reply, whether or not, I endeavored to obtain the prayer 
of those memorials to their full extent. 
With much respect, 
I am yours obediently, 
Jonathan Jennings 
Col. Samuel M'Kee. 
[Second Inclosure] 
Washington City, June 17, 1812, 
Sir, 
Your note of yesterday is now before me. In answer 
thereto, I can say, from my personal knowledge, that every 
constitutional means within your power was exerted in order 
to obtain the additional months' pay, and a compensation in 
land, in behalf of the officers and soldiers who served in the 
Wabash campaign. If any blame should attach to you in this 
respect [or in any other, in which the interest of the territory 
was concerned] it will be unmerited on your part. 
I am, sir, respectfully your obedient, 
Samuel M'Kee. 
Jonathan Jennings, Esq. 
 
Jennings to Ann Jennings Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 20 th of Nov 1 " 1812 
My dear Sister. 
Shortly after this reaches you, I expect my little Ann will 
be with you. I wish and shall expect that you will exercise all 
that care and attention towards her which you as an elder Sister 
shall think proper. I do not wish her to visit any one con- 
nected with the connections of the Scott and Hogge family 
not even M rs Browne. She is entirely unsuspicious of the 
world and innocently artless and such I wish her to remain. 
The Society of the Doc 1 and yourself will be the only part of 
your family at any time with which she will desire, or I 
wish her to be entertained. I have often regretted that neces- 
sity compels me to be so much absent from her. It leaves her 
but too often an unprotected woman whose situation at all times 
is unpleasant. Be tender of her, she is tender and I need not 
tell you very dear to me. Your Town I know is but too much 
disposed to ill natured remarks and censuring, and I wish my 
Ann to continue as she is, far out of the reach of their ill nature 
or that of any person to which she may be otherwise liable, 
being as she is, very little of a citizen of the world. I am in 
tolerable health and am your affectionate Brother. 
Jonathan Jennings 
P. S. This letter is only for your own and if you choose the 
Doc 1 ' 8 perusal ; burn it. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 12th of Dec. 1812 
My dear Sir, 
Your letter of the 4 th ins 1 I have received this evening. The 
noble Secretary has resigned and saved himself the best way 
he could. Before this reaches you, it will be publickly an- 
nounced in the Gazettes. Rumor says also that P. Hamilton is 
 
to give place to another. Reports are varient, as to the person 
who probably will be placed at the Head of the War Depart- 
ment. For myself I believe Gen 1 Armstrong will be the man. 
It is whispered that James Monroe is to command the Army 
in chief. That Gallatin is to be Secretary of State and Richard 
Rush, the present Comptroller, is to be Secretary of the Treas- 
ury. 
William H. Harrison is no longer to be Governor of 
Indiana, This I have from the most confidential and positive 
authority. This will be like a jubilee to many in the Territory, 
while others will care nothing about it and others, will be ready 
to bite their fingers for disappointment. 
I will see Lyle at a proper time, before I leave the City, on 
the subject of which we conversed. 3 Whatever may be the 
result I would try to conceal every feeling, no matter how un- 
pleas[an]t. It is the first Principle of political philosophy. 
Your attention to the health of my little Ann will be highly 
gratifying, to your faithful friend & Humble Servant. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to James Monroe, Acting Secretary of War 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1154-55] 
Representatives Chamber 29 th Dec : 1812 
I enclose for the perusal of the President of the United 
States, a letter addressed to me by Joseph Bartholomew, who 
acted as Colonel on the Tippicanoe expedition. He has long 
been accustomed to Indian fighting in former times and I do 
think his opinion on Indian affairs worthy of attention. 
With much esteem I am very respectfully, 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Inclosure] 
Charlestown 11 th December 1812 
Dear Sir 
I have some time since intended to write to you concerning 
our situation as to the Dilaware Indians, but have hetherto 
omited it for several reasons. Whether the dilaware Indians 
do commit murders on our frontiers or not is matter of con- 
siderable doubt. But that the Indians who does the mischief 
do return to or through the dilaware towns can not be doubted 
It is also worthy of remark that the frontiers that lies near 
the dilawares and who it was exspected was covered by them 
from the other tribes have suffered most. Since you left this 
county there has bin two men killed on the frontiers of Har- 
rison County and twenty-five horses stolen by the Indians. I 
trust that government will take measures of some kind to have 
the dilawares removed. Numbers of them it is said has Joind 
the hor stile tribes. I learn by the public prints that Congress 
is about to autherise a winter campaign. I hope it may be 
carried into affect, the more so because it is ascerted that a 
considerable number of Indians have collected between the 
wabash and whiteriver and intends making a stand there. A 
scouting party (of General Hopkens army) of sixty three 
men have lately bin defeated on the wabash near the Prophets 
 
town and lost sixteen men. 1 I have no doubt but you will lay 
matters in a proper light before government as to the dilaware 
Indians, please to write frequently perticlarly upon Indian 
affairs. I am very respectfully 
Sir your Humble servant 
Joseph Bartholomew 
The Honorable 
J. Jennings Esq 1 " 
Jennings to Ann Jennings Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 12 th of January 1813 
My dear Sister 
Your letter of the 1 st instant and the first I have received 
from you for a long time, I received by the last mail. I am 
very glad that you will be more punctual in writing. Since 
you have made the promise I hope you will be mindful to 
perform. It will give me a considerable pleasure to answer your 
scrolls (as you are pleased to term it) as often as you will give 
me the opportunity. 
Do my Sister, afford every means reasonably within your 
power to make my little Ann happy as possible, till my return. 
I suspect you do not fully know her yet. She is generally 
reserved and very affectionate, and you will find her quick in 
observation although she says very little of what passes. She 
is indeed a good girl, and if she does not render me happy, no 
other woman could. You know I am not so very easily pleased. 
I have not received any thing from the Doc 1 for a month 
nearly. He is very reserved this winter, but I can excuse him 
if he can excuse himself. Tell him so, & tell him not to laugh 
x Major General Samuel Hopkins, of the Kentucky volunteers, led 
a force of about two thousand men to the aid of the frightened settlers 
of Indiana and Illinois. An expedition directed toward Peoria in 
October, and the expedition up the Wabash, from which the scouting 
party, mentioned by Bartholomew, w r as sent out, both failed. See Esarey 
(ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, Vol. 2, pp. 192, 
231-32; Goebel, William Henry Harrison, pp. 152-53. 
 
on the occasion. If he will laugh notwithstanding tell me of 
it & I will give him a drubbing in my next letter. 
I am now commencing a reprimand for you, because of 
your asking of me a new-years gift. Could you suppose you 
would get a new-years gift of me after having so long neglected 
to write me. Would I not be justifiable in saying you would 
not have written to me yet, had it not been for the purpose of 
demand a new years gift. Oh you lazy Ann you have not 
caught me yet, but I have caught you I suspect. But what do 
you want as a new years gift. For a new years gift, accept 
for the present, the sincerity with which I am your Brother 
most affectionately. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Mrs. Ann Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to James Monroe 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1524] 
27 th of January 1813 
The HoNB le James Monroe 
Sir 
I have been requested by M r Badollet of Vincennes I. T. to 
ascertain whether he can have one of his sons placed in the 
military Accademy at West Point. His son I believe is about 
twelve or fourteen years of age, and his education confined 
to writing and reading the English language with a knowledge 
of arithmetic. 1 
I have likewise to suggest that there are two vacancies in 
the company which was allotted to the Indiana Territory, from 
the additional military force authorised by an act of the last 
Session of Congress, viz, those of first Lieutenant and Ensign. 
I am desirous to know whether it is the object of the War 
Department to have those vacancies supplied. 
Another subject of still greater importance to the Terri- 
tory is, the quantum and description of force, intended by the 
government to be allotted for the protection of its frontier. 
On this subject, permit me to remark, that if the protecting 
force is to be composed of Light Infantry, it will require a 
greater force than would be necessary, if that protection were 
afforded by mounted Rangers, because it is self evident, that 
men on foot, cannot in equal times, range an equal portion of 
the country with men on horseback. 
But as the desired protectection, will be chiefly had from 
Infantry, and that force yet to be raised, I am fully authorised 
to assure you, that nearly the whole, if not the whole, of the 
force necessary to the defence of the frontiers of Indiana, 
might be obtained by enlistment of its citizens, if they could 
be assured, that they will not be taken from the Territory 
when enlisted, and if proper persons are selected as officers. 
If my views on this subject should meet the approbation of 
the Government, I have no doubt that my representations will 
prove themselves to have been well founded. There are many, 
who for the purposes of defence, will not hesitate to enlist, 
but who at the same time could not be induced to enter the 
ranks as soldiers and leave their families and property at the 
mercy of the savages. 
With sentiments of unfeigned respect, 
I am obediently your Humble St. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to James Monroe 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1525] 
[January 27-February 5, 1813] 
The Honb 16 James Monroe 
Sir. 
In my note of the 27 th ins 1 I suggested the idea of rasing 
several companies for the defence of the frontiers of the Indi- 
 
ana Territory, by the enlistment of some of its able bodied 
citizens. In addition to my former communication on this 
subject, I give it as my decided opinion, that a sufficient force 
may be raised for the purpose above mentioned, provided they 
be assured, that the government will not require of them any 
other service, than that which may be inseperable from the 
defence and protection of the frontiers of the said Territory. 
The necessary protecting force can be raised in less time, in 
the manner proposed, than any other, because many are already 
waiting for an opportunity, such as will occur, if the govern- 
ment shall think proper to adopt the proposed plan. Every 
tie which renders their homes and possessions worth defending, 
will conspire to produce, dispositions and actions, calculated 
to repel the attacks of the savages, whenever the means shall 
be afforded them so to do, without making sacrifices on their 
part, not within the power of individuals to sustain, who have 
settled themselves in a country quite new, and who have, with 
limitted funds, to maintain their families and exonerate them- 
selves as debtors to the United States for purchases of the 
Publick Lands. 
Should the government direct the raising of four companies 
of Infantry, with the assurance suggested, in addition to the 
one company of Rangers already allotted for the protection of 
the Indiana Territory, I believe they will compose under the 
immediate direction of a field officer, a force sufficient to 
protect our frontiers and prevent the citizens from fleeing to 
the adjoining States. 1 
As a man of bravery and integrity, qualified for the exe- 
cution of the object designed, and one of our most esteemed 
and distinguished militia officers, I recommend James Bigger 
who is now a Colonel of one of the Regiments of the Indiana 
militia. 
If my views should meet those of the Government, I hope 
a On February 27, 1813, Jennings issued a circular letter to his con- 
stituents announcing that four additional companies of Rangers might 
be raised in the Territory. Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of Wil- 
liam Henry Harrison, Vol. 2, pp. 376-77. 
 
the earliest opportunity will be embraced, that public con- 
venience will admit, to carry them into operation. If however, 
another mode shall be deemed more expedient, to provide for 
our frontier, a protecting force, so necessary and desirable, I 
beg leave to assure you, that in providing that force, the least 
possible delay on the part of the Government, will be highly 
appreciated by the citizens of Indiana. 
Permit me to offer another assurance of the esteem and 
respect with which I am, Sir, 
Very obediently your Humble Serv* 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] M r Monroe Acting Secretary of War . . . 
[Indorsed] . . . Rec d Feb 5, 1813 
Jennings to James Monroe 
[State Department, M. L., 245] 
Washington City 27 th of Feb y 1813 
The Honb 16 James Monroe 
Sir. 
An act of Congress having passed, authorising the President 
of the United States to appoint an Attorney and Marshal in 
each of the Territories of the United States ; permit me to 
suggest, that an early appointment of a Marshal for the Terri- 
tory of Indiana, may save the trouble of numerous applications 
for that office, as it is one, to which many will very probably 
aspire. 
Permit me to recommend for the appointment of Marshal 
of Indiana, Doc 1 Andrew P. Hay, of Charleston, Clark County, 
who is a man of education. 
I pledge myself, that his discharge of the duties of the said 
office should he be appointed, will be such, as will give general 
satisfaction. 
I am with great respect, very obediently 
Your Humble St: 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to John Armstrong 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1526] 
Brownsville P a 22 d April 1813 
The Secretary of War 
D r Sir. 
Enclosed I transmit you a letter addressed to me by one of 
the Judges of the Gen 1 Court of the Territory of Indiana on 
the subject of the Rangers authorised to be raised within and 
for the protection of its frontier. 
In consequence of the decision of the Department of the 
Government over which you preside, I made a publick declara- 
tion to the citizens of Indiana, that four additional companies 
of Rangers, were authorised to be raised by the Gen 1 Govern- 
ment within that Territory by the acceptance of Volunteers. 
Under that declaration Co 10 Bigger, one of the best militia offi- 
cers, raised a company and is refused upon a tender of their 
services with his own. Why Gen 1 Gibson should so act, is to 
me a matter of surprize. I refrain from any further comment 
upon the Gen ps conduct at least until I shall have the pleasure 
to see you in person. 
The citizens of the Territory have sustained greater loses 
than than any other portion of the United State's frontier, 
except the little Territory of Michigan. Shall not the citizens 
of Indiana have as well the profit as the honor of defending 
themselves? After they have sustained damages essential, and 
after a portion of its citizens shall have rendered considerable 
service for considerations in no shape pecuniary, shall they be 
rejected for the services of those who have but a partial claim 
to the emoluments. 
Let me request your attention to the affair. The Gen 1 ' 3 
promises can have no important claims upon the Gen 1 Govern- 
ment for for fulfilment. My declarations were made upon, 
and expressly according to your own assurances. 
I am with great Esteem your friend & Humble S 1 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Inclosure] 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1527] 
Vincennes 7 th April 1813 
Dear Sir 
According to your information on the subject of rangers 
for this Territory Col. Bigger has taken great pains and has 
incurred considerable expence in raising a company and has 
succeeded. The company is full and have elected their officers 
all meritorious citizens. Col. Bigger is elected captain and 
has come on to this place to tender the services of the company 
(through Gen 1 Gibson now acting gov r ) to the president but has 
been refused because Gen 1 Gibson has promised M r Payton 
from Kentucky that if he can raise a company he will be 
accepted and under the impression that Payton will raise a 
company Col. Bigger who is now ready for service is rejected 
there being only a vacancy for one 1 — Why conditional promises 
should be made to exclude actual applicants or why a resident 
should be postponed to a Kentuckian I can hardly tell. There 
is certainly as much to be expected from Col. Bigger as from 
any Kentuckian of them all and without detracting from the 
merit of Capt Payton I might say more. — Honor, interest, and 
the attachment he must be supposed to have to the place of 
his resedence all combine to impel him to diligence and activity ; 
and in fact, I believe nothing but the love of his country could 
have induced him to quit his domestic employments and give 
up the society of his family for rough and toilsome exercises 
of the champ de mars. If you can render any assistance in 
this matter it will be an acceptable service to all your friends 
in this country. 
The Col. has determined to send on his application immedi- 
ately to the president & your interest perhaps may be useful 
to him. 
I need not prescribe the tract you had best pursue, but will 
only suggest that no time is to be lost as the other company 
will in all probability be offered very soon. 
With sentiments of respect I have the honour to be, 
sir Your ob 1 Ser* 
James Wood 
Hon,ble Jonathan Jennings Esquire 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington 31 st of May 1813 
My dear Sir 
Your letter of the 22 d I have received. It is the first for 
a long time but I hope it will not be the last for a long time 
I have the pleasure to unite with you in your congratulations 
upon the advantage derived & deriving to our Ann's by the 
journey. 
I do not feel as if I deserved any gratitude from you for 
my attention & trouble as you are pleased to term it. If there 
be any gratitude due from either it is from me. My little Ann, 
with her native simplicity and candor, often has told me, in 
expressive terms, of your goodness towards her, and without 
formality, I never had a proper opportunity before to render 
you my acknowledgments. 
 
That warm glow of feeling and perhaps of vanity does not 
now so much as formerly dictate to my pen or my actions. 
Although I feel the same fond affection for my relations & 
friends, I do not often indulge my fancy in describing it on 
paper. 
I am happily married and can rejoice in reality that my 
judgment was able to controul natural disposition in the impor- 
tant measure of matrimony. I might have married a name, 
a fortune, but I have married a woman, a very woman. A 
woman of great goodness of disposition, of common sense and 
prudent. Lovely enough for me. 
I shall be happy soon to enjoy the ballance of my time in 
a retirement where neither poverty or riches, good or bad fame 
shall be able to disturb, improperly, my retreat. 
A patriot. What a great yet empty name ? ! ! A Dives, 
How pleasing and yet how sub[t]le the idea & pursuit to 
equal ? ! ! ! An honest man. None more nobly good and none 
more really great. Except the Paul like christian. 
To be happy in this world is far beyond my expectations, 
so much so that I scarcely wish it. To be contented is my 
greatest ambition 
I have often wished and sometimes determined to become 
a christian or at least to try. 1 Perplexities on the onset assail 
& I have as often forgot my wishes and the past determinations. 
I have thought that when I shall gain my retirement I shall 
then be more able at least to fulfil my intentions. But poor 
human nature, prone to err, and too often forgetful of its duty 
to God and itself, follows the reflected rainbow to the loss of 
its substantial good. Remember me with much affection to 
our friends and remember, always to rank me with those who 
wish to be substantially and unfeignedly yours affectionately 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
 
Jennings to John Armstrong 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. W., 1529] 
Representatives Chamber 1 st of June 1813 
The Secretary of War. 
Sir. 
I beg leave, to call your attention, in a manner more formal, 
to the subject upon which, I had a short conversation with you 
this morning. 
I find by enquiries answered me from the Adjutant Gen- 
eral's office, that the Rangers allowed to be raised in the 
Indiana Territory are not as yet obtained. Owing to local 
circumstances, the eastern part of the Territory have not par- 
ticipated in raising any portion of the Rangers and now 
complain, of being exposed to the Indians, under the idea that 
the companies are completed. To give them an opportunity 
with others to protect themselves, I propose the plan of appoint- 
ing a Captain and let the other officers of the company be 
chosen by the members of it, under the inspection of the 
Captain, in such manner as the Secretary of [War] shall 
prescribe. 
Frederick Shoults, whom I recommend for that Captaincy, 
is a man, who as a Maj r of two Volunteer companies for their 
own peculiar defence, acquited himself to the satisfaction 
entirely of the three Eastern Counties of the Territory. 1 He 
has been recommended by almost all the militia officers, as 
well as other citizens of the Territory, upon whom I can rely. 
I am most respectfully yours very obediently 
Jonathan Jennings 
iDuring a recess of the Senate, Shoults (Shoultz, Shultz), of Frank- 
lin County, was appointed captain of a company of Rangers, ranking 
from May 20, 1813. The nomination was received by the Senate on June 
18, 1813, and accepted on July I. No subordinate officers were named. 
Whether the appointment was made by the president as a result of 
earlier recommendation by Jennings or through other influences does 
not appear. Apparently Jennings, on June 1, did not know the appoint- 
ment had been made. U. S. Senate, Executive Journal, Vol. 2, pp. 370, 
380; Reifel, August J., History of Franklin County, Indiana . . ..p. 278 
(Indianapolis, TQ15). 
 
Jennings to John Armstrong 
[Supplementary Calendar, War Department, L. R., S. \\\, 153°! 
15 th of June 1813 
The Secretary of War. 
Sir 
I have this morning received a letter from Captain Dunn of 
the Rangers, who informs me that by the same mail he has 
forwarded a report of his company to the War Department. 1 
He informs me that his company is much in need of money, 
and wishes if convenient, that they may receive their pay at 
Madison in the County of Jefferson, Indiana Territory. 
I have likewise received a letter from a gentleman of re- 
spectability and known to M r Griffin & M r Finley of the 
House, informing me that Gen Harrison has ordered a Lieu- 
tenants command, from the western frontier of the Territory, 
of the Rangers, to convey some of his personal property from 
Vincennes to Cincinnati, which he had left at the first men- 
tioned place since last August. 
How well such services may comport with the duty of a 
soldier I am not to decide, but when depradations are daily 
committed on that frontier by the savages, I cannot reconcile 
the alledged facts, to that protection intended to be afforded us 
by the general government, and to me they are irreconcileable to 
the high duties of a commanding general. 
I hope that my duty to the Territory which I am here to 
represent, will furnish a justification for my interference, while 
I must express my confidence, that the Secretary for the 
Department of War, will not suffer a transaction of the char- 
acter I have described, to pass, by him unnoticed. 
I am, with the highest respect 
Yours very obedently 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Genl John Armstrong Secretary of War 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington 19 th of June 1813 
D r Sir. 
I have received your of the 15 th instant and enclosed the 
letters as desired instantly. They will reach Lynchburgh on 
the 24 th instant. I told sister before I left Lynchburgh, that I 
would furnish her with money if she wanted any. She then 
gave me to understand that she did not expect to want any 
before she commenced her journey to Washington P a . 
Her expected journey to Richmond had caused her to want 
money, but by a letter I yesterday received, they have declined 
their journey to Richmond. 
Rest assured I will furnish her with what sums she may 
want, and will enclose her by the next mail and from time to 
[time to] satisfy her wants. 
If an oppertunity offers, it would oblige me if you would 
pay ten dollars to our step-mother. I had not money to leave 
her for the purpose of harvesting and I expect she will want 
before I can return. 
I am in tolerable health and must conclude else my letter 
will be delayed until next mail. I am yours very sincerely 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to Ann Jennings Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 4 th of July 1813 
D r Sister. 
I received your friendly letter of the 23 d of last month. 
I would advise you to summons all possible fortitude under 
your afflictions. If you despond, you may prevent the success 
of the means used for your recovery. 
I am sure my only sister does not require of her brother 
any invitation to address him by letter. She must be well 
convinced that I am at all times happy to hear from her. 
I will attend to your several requests in due time. I have 
nothing to relate that could interest you, only to urge you to 
lay up a sufficient stock of spirits, to bear you again over the 
mountain. 
More will be required, and more you must have to stand 
the heat and fatigue which we shall have to undergo. 
To endeavour to be reconciled, to our own situation, is not 
only a christian grace, but the advice of one of the greatest 
men of his day. 
I am your Brother affectionately 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Mrs. Ann Mitchell Lynchburgh, Virginia. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 10 th of January 1814 
D r Sir 
I am much obliged to you for your attention to my Ann and 
for your good service, I consider myself under an obligation. 
I have made the application for the information you desired 
with respect to applicants for revenue officers from your 
County, but was answered that such information cannot be 
given. 
Lyle does not say much about the appointment of Morgan 
and I have no doubt he will pass the Senate. 1 I have not even 
read Giles statements and therefore cannot give you any 
opinion having not formed one for myself. 2 
We have no news bad unpleasant, but you I trust will not 
let Armstrong go too soon 
Every thing interesting you can have in detail from the 
News Papers, more correctly than I can give you. 
I am yours sincerely 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Dr. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to Robert Brent 
[Western Sun, April 16, 1814] 
Washington City, 15th March, 1814. 
House of representatives of the U. S. 
The Paymaster General of the U. S. Army, 
Sir — The committee appointed by this house on the militia 
laws, to whom was referred the memorial of the legislature of 
the Indiana territory, praying compensation for the militia who 
have been called into the service of the U. States, for the pro- 
tection of the frontiers of said territory, have reported — "that 
the existing laws authorise payment to be made in every case, 
where the service shall have been recognized and sanctioned 
by the president of the U. States. That no evidence is sub- 
mitted of the persormance of any service which has not been 
so recognized and sanctioned ; and that legislative provision is 
not necessary on the subject of the said memorial." 
This being the case, I beg leave to address you on the sub- 
ject, in behalf of those citizens of Indiana, who, I am confident, 
have not as yet received any compensation, for services long 
since rendered, Whatever may be the difference of opinion 
with regard to the time for which they are entitled to compen- 
sation, I conceive that one leading principle should govern, viz. 
that they are entitled to receive pay from the time when they 
were called into service by the acting governor, to the time 
when they were by him discharged. The militia, when called 
into actual service, are subject to the same rules and discipline 
with the regular army. It would be therefore, an extreme 
hard case to decide, that the militia man, when called into 
actual service, entirely subject to military law, shall not be paid 
 
when absent on furlough, merely because he is a militia-man 
altho' the soldier in the regular army, invariably receives his 
pay, without regard to the circumstance of his having been 
furloughed for one day or 30 days. If the acting governor of 
Indiana, or any person under him, has negligently or other- 
wise, exercised their power with regard to the late calls upon 
the militia, surely the citizens of the territory should not become 
the sufferers. If the citizens of Indiana have at any time, 
been unnecessarily called into actual service, or unnecessarily 
detained after being thus called into service, in either case, it 
was the act of the immediate agent of the general government, 
and of course the government should be responsible. The citi- 
zens were bound to attend the call of the territorial executive, 
and in their behalf I do most earnestly solicit, that they may 
be fully compensated, and that you will not permit so many 
innocent men to suffer, by refusing to pay them, on account 
of the misconduct or incapacity of those individuals who exer- 
cised the power. 
The memorial of the legislature which has been before you, 
will suf ficiantly assure you, of the loss they have very generally 
sustained, by being prevented, by the calls to perform militia 
duty, from attending to their agricultural pursuits, at those 
seasons of the year, when the attention of the farmer is indis- 
pensible. 
I feel confident of the justice of their claim, and while I 
am their representative, I cannot cease my exertions, until it 
shall be fully satisfied. Believing, however, that you are dis- 
posed to do justice to individuals as well as the government, 
I cannot but expect, that you will issue an order for their 
payment, as speedily as the pressure of your official duties will 
permit. 1 — With very great respect, I am, &c. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 24 th of March 1814 
My dear Sir. 
I have just received a letter from Brookville I. T. in which 
my correspondent states that, they are from $150. to $25. per 
lot, but rising in value. Lands near the Town are high and 
some adjoining it is selling at $50 per acre. What say you 
will you go thither? 
When I inform M rs Jennings of the time to send my horses 
to Somerset P a I shall write by the way of your Town, and 
I wish you to be particular for me to have her letters forward 
by the earliest and first possible mail to Mirrits Town. Dont 
forget, do you hear me? 
What shall [I] write you more? I have got nothing to 
write and if I had you hardly deserve to hear from me. Can 
you recollect when you last wrote me? 
The great ABNER LACOCK 1 in capital letters is no much 
nor do I believe him to be an honest man. If you will remind 
me when I see you I will give you of him, the relation of a 
curious fact. No news. My love to Sister & friend and for 
yourself accept my regard & esteem. Adieu. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Dr. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to Thomas Posey 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 22 d of Sep r 1814 
D r Sir. 
I have to trouble you to inform me whether any muster Roll 
has been forwarded to the Executive Department of the Terri- 
torial Government, of services rendered by Cap 1 William Hole- 
man and his company of Wayne County, during the Autumn 
previous to your appointment as Govenor. 
General Gibson may be able to say whether or not. 
The City presents a gloomy spectacle. The splendid edifices 
which lately, so highly adorned this place, now present the most 
melancholy aspect. 
We have no recent news, later than our triumph on Lake 
Champlain. Report says, that dispatches are on their way from 
the Prince Regent to the President of the U. S. 
Very respectfully yours obediently 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] His Excellency Thomas Posey Esq. Jeffer- 
sonville, Ind. Territory 
Jennings to James Monroe 
[Copy in Indiana State Library] 
House of Representatives, 
11th of October 1814. 
Sir 
Under the provisions of an Act of Congress entitled "An 
"Anct authorising the President of the United States to raise 
certain companies of Rangers for the protection of the frontiers 
of the United States," Approved the 2d of January 1812, and 
other acts of similar character ; four of those companies of 
Rangers were raised in the Territory of Indiana. 
During the Spring of 1813 they were brought into publick 
service as mounted men, and as such continued therein, until 
last winter, when they were ordered to be dismounted and serve 
on foot, The effects of this order on those men were pecu- 
liarly hard, many had purchased horses upon the faith of 
receiving pay as mounted men to enable them to enter into the 
ranging service, But on being dismounted their wages were 
curtailed, their horses became items of expence, without the 
possibility of disposing of them, but with a loss equal or nearly 
so, to the expences incured in their sustenance, 
The act above recited, provides for their serving either as 
mounted men or infantry, but to me it appears, that as they 
were raised as mounted men, it was not intended by the act 
of Congress alluded to, or by the executive government after 
having made its selection that they should be raised as mounted 
men; that they should be harrassed with orders so injurious to 
them as were those which dismounted them, 
To another circumstance connected with this subject, I 
beg leave to call your early attention, Col. Russell of the 7th 
Regiment, 1 in February or March last, by order of General 
Harrison, suspended several of those companies of Rangers 
from service, Shortly after this order was carried into effect 
information was received that the Indians had attacked the 
frontiers, for the protection of which, those Rangers were 
more particularly intended, The order was therefore counter- 
manded and those companies were again brought into the 
service of the U. States, If those men had been actually 
discharged, they could not again have been called into service 
without their renewed consent or reinlistment, indeed not a 
solitary man of them received any written evidence of their 
discharge from the publick service. 
Under these circumstances, the District Paymaster, has not 
felt himself entirely at liberty to pay those men for the time 
elapsed, from their being suspended from, to the time when 
they were again ordered into the publick service, In conse- 
quence of the obedience of those men to the countermanding 
order, which recaled them into the publick service, many were 
prevented, measurably or entirely, from making their spring 
Colonel William Russell commanded the Seventh United States 
Regiment. During July of 1813 he led an expedition against the Indians 
in and around the mouth of the Mississinewa River. Heitman (ed.), 
Historical Register, Vol. 1, p. 854; Dillon, John B., A History of In- 
diana from its Earliest Exploration by Europeans to the Close of the 
Territorial Government, in 1816 . . ., pp. 520-27 (Indianapolis, 1850). 
 
crops, upon which, generally, they depended for support for 
themselves & families. 
I must therefore urge that those men may obtain that re- 
dress to which they are so justly entitled as soon as may be, — 
I am Sir with very great respect, 
Yours obediently, 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed :] The Honble James Monroe Secretary of 
War, 
[Indorsed:] 
Docketed, — 
11. Oct. 1814, — J. Jennings, Esq. complains that certain 
Comps of rangers after being mounted were directed to be 
dismounted & paid as infantry — and that others were suspended 
from service, afterwards called on & cannot get paid for inter- 
mediate time, 
(answered) 
Reed Oct 1814 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City Dec 1 " 12 th 1814 
My dear Sir. 
Your letter of the first inst : I have received and with you 
I agree that it is a long time since I have heard from you ere 
this. The miseries of my friends I like to know and feel 
although the effects are entirely negative so far as happiness 
or enjoyment is to be derived from that scourse. 
I never will suffer myself to believe that you measure me 
by your letters either in length or numbers. I have myself 
hardly time to write a line to a friend and I have been a very 
ill with the Jaundice of which I am but partially recovered. 
Politicks are noisy deceptive subjects, yet every man for himself 
at least ought to consider himself the guardian of his political 
safety, having a common share in the great fund of national 
prosperity or its reverse. 
 
We are in a shameful wretched state. What more could 
I say, more I ought not to say. 
My love to Sister and believe me every yours affectionately. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to Editor of Western Eagle 
[Reprinted in Western Sun, January 6, 1816] 
Washington City, Dec. 5 1815. 
Dear Sir. 
For the gratification of those who are interested, in par- 
ticular, I wish to inform those Rangers who have not been 
paid for their services, that the Paymaster General of the 
United States army, has this morning assured me, that means 
will be taken to pay them, without delay so soon as Congress 
can by law appropriaet monies for that purpose, which will 
shortly take place. 
I am very respectfully yours, 
J. Jennings 
Jennings to Stephen Pleasonton 
[State Department, M. L., 245] 
House Rep s 26 th Dec r 1815 
M r Pleasonton 
Sir. 
I enclose you an account of the Editor of the Western 
Eagle, of Indiana Territory, for publishing the laws of the 
U. States, passed at the Session of Congress in the years 1814 
& 1815. 
Will you be so good as to put it in the proper medium for 
payment. 
Yours very respectfully &c 
Jonathan Jennings 
ace 1 sent to the Treasury 28 Dec r 1815 
S P 
Jennings to Editor of Western Sin 
[Western Sun, March 2, 1816] 
City of Washington, Feb. 5, 1816 
Permit me through the medium of your paper to state, that 
I have now the pleasure to inform those citizens of Indiana 
who have rendered services in the militia of the territory, that 
those services have been recognized by the secretary of war 
in behalf of the president of the U. States, and that they will 
be paid as soon as practicable. 
The demands upon the government of the U. States which 
remain unsatisfied are numerous. The citizens of Indiana, with 
others, will necessarily have to add a little further patience to 
that which they have heretofore exercised towards the U. 
States government. They will be paid through the hands of 
capt. Whitlock, 1 of Vincennes, so soon as the pay master 
general shall have it in his power to put the requisite funds 
under the controul of the former. The pay master general, 
directs that capt. Whitlock, when he shall have funds with 
which to make payment to the militia of Indiana, "to measure 
all claims by the laws, the rules and regulations which were in 
force at the time the service was performed; and in all cases 
where the certificate on honor of an officer was requisite to 
substantiate a claim, to have his oath substituted in lieu thereof." 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington City March 26 th 1816 
D. Sir. 
I have necociated the two hundred & twenty five dollars 
and sent the sum to O. Jennings and have forwarded the letter 
to him. I expect in a day or two [to] get the money from 
Cap 1 Morrow which when re[cei]ved shall be properly disposed 
of. 
Some time since I sent you a volume in the form of a 
Pamphlet, by a gentleman who travelled from here to Ohio 
and stoped with you in Washington and as I directed him, left 
the pamphlet with you. Can you tell me where it is? It con- 
sists of letters from different generals in the U. S. army to the 
then Secretary of War, and from the Secretary of War to those 
Generals. 
I have but little time to write and am yours sincerely. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Norfolk Virginia 
Jennings to His Constituents 
[Western Sim, May n, 1816] 
Washington City, April 16th 1816 
Fellow Citizens, 
The present session of Congress will shortly be closed. The 
subjects of its deliberations have been as interesting, as they 
were various. The whole system of the revenue of the United 
States has been modified to suit the present situation of the 
country. The tax on domestic manufactories has been entirely 
repealed, except on the distillation of spirituous liquors, which 
has been very much reduced. The direct tax has been reduced 
from six to three millions of dollars, in the U. States, and in 
all probability, at the next session of Congress, will be still more 
reduced, if not entirely repealed. 
The act for the relief of certain settlers on the public lands 
from the orders of a late proclamation of the President of the 
U. States, has passed some time since.
The act to enable the people of Indiana to form a constitution 
and state government has passed both Houses of Congress, and 
will undoubted] ly receive the President's signature. The act 
fixes the second Monday of May next, for the election of 
members of the convention in the several counties. Each county 
has the number of members to elect, as were allotted to each 
by the Territorial Legislature except the county of Harrison. 1 
— Every citizen qualified to vote for members of the Territorial 
Legislature is qualified to vote for members of the convention, 
and the second Monday of June next is fixed by the act for 
the meeting of the convention when elected at the seat of Gov- 
ernment. The times fixed for the election and meeting of the 
convention, are as well suited to every interest and circumstance 
connected with the proposed important change of our form of 
government as I was enabled to select when every consideration 
was duly weighed, and I trust will be so considered when the 
convention shall act officially on the subject. 2 With regard to 
the grants and conditions contained in this act, the convention 
when met will be able to form a correct estimate. Allow me, 
however to state that they are at least as advantageous if not 
more so, than those granted to any other Territory on similar 
occasions. 
A Bill has passed the House of Representatives and will 
no doubt pass the Senate confirming the titles of those persons 
who purchased lands from the board of trustees for the Vin- 
cennes University. 
An act has passed allowing claimants to land in the District 
of Vincennes a further time to locate their claims. 
The claims for militia services, rendered by citizens of the 
Territory have been recognized by the Secretary of War, on 
the part of the U. States and will be paid with as little delay 
as possible, when the extent of those services shall be legally 
established, The extraordinary circumstances which have 
transpired in relation to those claims have very much em- 
barrassed and delayed their final adjustment. In the first 
place the muster rolls for these services were not forwarded 
for payment until nearly one year had elapsed after the services 
were rendered. In the next place, Cols. McFarland & Evans,' 
when mustering their field & staff officers mustered them- 
selves for payment as Colonels in actual service when 28 days 
of the same time they were actually sitting members of the 
Territorial Legislature and received their pay as such ; and they 
severally on the face of their muster rolls, respectively certify 
these muster Rolls of their field & staff, on honour, to be 
correct. 
This conduct on the part of those officers, has been repro- 
bated by every officer of the General government whose duty 
it has been to act on those muster Rolls; and the Paymaster- 
general has directed Captain Whitlock, when paying these 
militia, "to measure all claims by the laws, the rules and the 
regulations which were in force at the time the service was 
performed; and in all cases where the certificate on honour of 
any officer was requisite to substantiate a claim, to have his 
oath substituted in lieu thereof. 
Some new Post routes will be established and one so altered 
as to pass by way of Harmony from Vincennes to Shawnee- 
Town. 
Very respectfully, 
I am very obediently yours, 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to James Madison 
[State Department, M. L., 253] 
Charleston I. T. July 6 th 1816 
His Excellency James Madison. 
Sir. 
I am directed to forward to you, the enclosed ordinance, 
lately ordained by the Convention of Indiana, which is con- 
formable to the provisions of an act of Congress entitled "An 
act to enable the people of the Indiana Territory, to form a 
constitution and state government, and for the admission of 
such state into the Union, on an equal footing with the original 
states." 1 
With sentiments of very great respect. 
I have the honour to be, 
Yours obediently 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Robert A. New 2 
[English Collection] 
Near Charleston 7 th of Feby 1817 
D r Sir. 
The laws lately printed, in relation to the militia, are the 
only ones, which I am dericted to see to their distribution so 
far as I can recollect. Be so good as to distribute them to the 
Cols, of the several Regiments of the state, directed to them 
or to the Clerks of the circuit Courts in their respective Coun- 
ties. They may be mailed as sheets. Please to receive and 
distribute them as equally as possible. As to the pay I shall be 
in Corydon shortly, but it strikes me that the subject of Pay, is 
to be decided on by yourself, the Auditor & Treasurer- 
Be so good as to make out and sign and forward by the 
bearer, a Commission for William Prince as President of the 
first judicial Circuit, to hold his office until the next Session 
of the General Assembly and until his Successor be appointed 
& qualified. 
A Commission also for John Meek, of Jefferson C° as 
Notary Publick. For this last an application has been made, 
1 believe the Territorial Statute yet in force authorizes the 
appointment by me though I have not the law 
Please send me one Copy of the Militia law by the bearer, 
S. K. Jennings my nephew. 
Commissions may be printed blank for, Judges, Clerks and 
Recorders. Would not one form answer for all. The form 
may be simple viz, "Govenor &C hand and do by the[se] pres- 
ents, Commission you the said A. B. (Clerk of the Circuit 
Court for the County of ) or Recorder of the County 
of or associate judge of the Circuit Court for the 
County of ") to hold thier offices, respectively for seven 
years if they shall so long behaved well. The Constitution 
requires simply, that I shall as Govenor Commission &C any 
reference to election &C may be viewed as wholly unnecessary, 
The record being in the Office of State, in case of an election. 
Let me know how soon after the day of return to the Office 
of State, which will be on the 17 th inst : you will have those 
commissions ready for signing 
I am with respect & esteem your friend 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Robert A. New, sect, of State, Corydon, 
Ind. 
 
Jennings to Robert A. New 
[English Collection] 
Near Charleston Feb y 10 lh 1817 
D r Sir. 
Yours of the 8 th I have received by my nephew, to whom 
I read part of your, who replied "that apology was not neces- 
sary & that he could not expect any thing, as your circumstances 
then were. 
The residue of the militia laws, you may send in such way 
and in such manner and at such time as shall be thought most 
clegible by you. 
In relation to the Seal, I thought I had written, but allow 
me to ask of you the favour to procure a new one, or cause the 
old one to be defaced & beatin down and re-engraved, if the 
old one will not suit ; with such device as you may deem proper, 
which I am willing to trust to your judgment & taste. 1 
Ask Doc r Lilley, if he has not forwarded for me, a check 
from the Treasurer, on the Cashier of the Bank of Vincennes, 
to do so by the next mail, with a request, that he would give 
in return a draft on the Louisville Bank. 2 Ask the Doc r to 
pay the postage and I will return it him on my arrival. 
I am D Sir, your friend. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Robert A. New Esq. Corydon, Ind. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Near Charleston March 17 th 1817 
D r Sir. 
I received a few days ago your letter making enquiry with 
regard to the prospect of Bookselling in this State and the 
Territory of Illinois. It cannot be good in Illinois, and I am 
disposed to think it would not be a good business in this State, 
though probably some would sell at Vincennes and the sur- 
rounding country. In Vincennes however there are several 
physicians, some only, as I understand, of them, are regularly 
bred. 
I hardly know what to advise, as you, like Brother S. K. 
Jennings, are very variant in your determinations. Books is 
generally, I believe wanted in the State, but we are not many 
of us ready to buy, and I am not a competent judge to say 
whether or not bookselling may be profitable. It would very 
much depend on the price as there are in Louisville Ky, and 
Cincinnati O, establishments to whence most merchants resort 
for the small quantities] which they purchase periodically. 
... and pleasing are prospects which youthfful 
... us; but rugged and difficult are the p[aths] through 
which our phantoms lead us in the mazes of life and its turmoils 
and disappointments. 
I hold an office, considered honourable, but I know it to be 
capable of yielding but little satisfaction. 
I will endeavour to make enquiry and write you again, at 
least, if favourable information should be received. 
The woods of Indiana, would in retirement, be pleasant to 
me even in an hut, but not so to every man Tell Sister Ann, 
that unless you remove to this country I never more shall 
 
expect to see her. An unpleasant thought. She was the con- 
stant companion of my childhood for many years, and to me, 
is, very, very dear. 
How mysterious are the events of time under the guidance 
of an all wise beneficent providence. The great empheron 
of creation, man, expects much and realizes little in this life 
but anxiety, pain and fatigue. 
Farewell ; and tell Sister that Ann joins me in much to her, 
and for yourself accept our best wishes and kindest remem- 
brance. 
Jacob is quite hearty and is to be remembered to his Sister. 1 
I am your friend 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Harrisburgh, Penna. 
Jennings to Robert A. New 
[English Collection] 
Vincennes July 1 st 1817 
D r Sir. 
Be so good as to as to issue a Proclamation, directed to the 
Sheriff of the County of Jefferson, directing him to cause to 
be holden on the first Monday of August next (the day of the 
next general election) an election for Clerk and Recorder of 
the said County of Jefferson. To which Proclamation you 
will please sign my name. 
Col : Vawter wishes the commissions forwarded for militia 
officers for the County of Jennings, if they are executed. 
Send them to Madison. 
If there are any commissions for the West which require 
my signature, please forward them by the return mail, directed 
to me, and the care of Doc. Elias M c Namee. You may send 
them by the Post rider unsealed which will save the Postage. 
It you do not send them by the return mail of the 13 th or 14 
inst : you will please not send them as I shall as soon as pos- 
sible thereafter be at Corydon. 
I am your friend & Humble St. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Col. R. A. New 
[Addressed:] Col. Robert A. New Corydon, Ind. 
Jennings to Robert A. New 
[English Collection] 
Vincennes July 17 th 1817 
D r Sir. 
I am detained here, contrary to my expectations, by the 
sickness of M rs Jennings, and have therefore to solicit you to 
forward to me at this place, in the mode you did lately, all 
commissions for the West, which are or should be executed on 
your part. 
Permit me to mention those of two magistrates in the County 
of Sullivan. One named Thompson and the other not recol- 
lected. Each had ten votes each. Also the returns of General 
Officers have went on some time since and some further returns 
cf militia elections from Gibson County. 
The bearer, M r Beatty, a gentleman of the Bar, is worthy 
of any attention you may render him. 
Yours Sincerely, 
Jonathan Jennings 
Col. R. A. New 
Jennings to John Quincy Adams 
[Senate File Cases, 16th Congress, 439, 440] 
Corydon, Sept r 9 th 1817 
The HoNB le 
The Secretary of State 
Sir 
I have herewith the honor of submitting a report from 
the Secretary of State for Indiana relative to the regulations 
and Standards for weights and measures in this state in con- 
formity to a Resolution of the Senate of the U. States of the 
3 d of March last. 
Absence from the seat of Government of our state pre- 
vented an earlier compliance with your request. 
I have the honor to be with great respect 
Your ob 1 S 1 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Inclosure] 
Secretary of States Office 
Corydon 
The Secretary of State to whom was referred the resolu- 
tion of the Senate of the United States of March 3 d 1817 re- 
quiring a statement relative to the regulations and standards for 
weights and measures in the several states &c. has the honor to 
submit the following Report containing the regulations and 
standards for weights and measures, as used and now in force 
in the State of Indiana. 
One measure of one foot, or twelve inches. English meas- 
ure so called, also one measure of three feet or thirty six Inches 
English measure as aforesaid Also one half bushel measure 
for dry measure which shall contain one thousand seventy five 
and one fifth solid inches, also one gallon measure which shall 
contain two hundred and thirty one solid inches, which meas- 
ures are to be of wood or any metal the court may think proper 
Also one set of weights commonly called Avoirdupoise weight 
R A. New Secy 
 
Jennings to John C. Calhoun 
[War Department, Mails and Files Division, L. R., 195] 
Executive office 
Corydon January 21 st 1818 
Honb 16 John C. Calhoun 
Sir. 
I have the honour, herewith to transmit to the Department 
of War, a report from the Adjutant General's office, relative 
to the militia force of the State of Indiana. 
Circumstances, unavoidable, have rendered it impracticable 
to afford the information required by the department of War 
at an earlier period. 
With great respect, Sir, 
Yours &C 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Inclosure] 
Adj 1 Genls Office 
Corydon Jan^ 20 th 1818 
Sir, 
I have the honor to hand to your Excellency a consolidated 
Return of the Militia, prepared from the Reports of the several 
Brigades, which shews its strength and its organization under 
the existing laws, in pursuance of a requisition from the Dep 1 
of War and in compliance with a resolution of the U. S. Senate, 
at the last Session. No Report has been received from the first 
Brigade which may be estimated at 2000 men. Two Regi- 
ments of at least 500 each have not been reported besides several 
companies in various sections of the State amounting to 500 
and upwards. The Total of the Return is 11,671 which to- 
gether with the Brigade Reg ts and companies not heard from 
and which are estimated from correct data makes the whole 
number of Militia in this State on the 1 st Oct r 1817 more than 
15,000. This calculation it is believed falls short of the actual 
number at that date. 
 
The late period at which the laws of the last General Assem- 
bly were published, the election of so many officers, the making 
new Regiments, Brigades and Devisions & commissioning per- 
sons elected have contributed to delay this Return, to which 
causes may also be added, the limited arrangement of the mails 
during the last year which very much retarded the forwarding 
commissions and orders from this office and the circulation of 
forms &c among the several Regiments. 
All which is respectfully submitted. 
E. Macdonald Ass 1 a. g. 
for S. Ranney 
acf g l T. M. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Corydon May 28 th 1818 
Dr. D. G. Mitchell 
Dr. Sir. 
Your letter by M r Kintner I have received, and give you an 
immediate answer. I am generally in the habit of giving a 
reply to every communication I receive, though sometimes busi- 
ness may prevent, and often the mail fails to deliver them. 
I have not forgotten you, notwithstanding your complaint 
of long silence. I have [illegible] opinion [illegible] for the 
purpose of procuring for you the [position] of Registrar] of 
the Land office at St Genevieve in the Missouri Ty some forty 
or fifty miles below St. Louis. Should you deem it expedient 
to accept it, provided it may be procured, you will please inform 
me some time this summer. This [There is] some opening for 
a Lawyer in this State and also at St. Genevieve. Deliberate 
and decide for yourself. The most certain means of a com- 
petency in life is by sure, even it be also by tardy income, 
acquired only by perseverance and well timed enterprize. 
My situation is not very pleasant. I am too young for the 
situation I occupy. It excites too much jealousy. Ann has 
enjoyed very imperfect health and also suffered considerable 
 
pain. She is at present tolerable and joins me in kind remem- 
brances of you and love to Sister Ann 
Jacob is going to grammar school and learns aptly. 
Yours Sincerely 
[Signature mutilated] 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Washington, Penna. 
Jennings to Josiah Meigs 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., Vol. i, p. 170] 
Corydon, Dec r 28 th 1818 
The HoNB le Josiah Meigs 
Sir 
I have been informed, that the surveys in the fourth Range 
West, and Township Nine North in the Vincennes District have 
run across the West Branch of White river, and thus the bed 
of the river will be sold to individuals and the navigation im- 
peded. 
It must have been through ignorance or carelessness of the 
Surveyor as the stream is one of those which are declared to 
be highways, and purchasers will with great reluctance yield 
up that for which they may or have paid their money. 
I beg your early attention to this subject, as it is not un- 
likely that our permanent seat of Government will be situated 
ere long on this stream. With great respect Sir, 
your obt: Servt. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] The Honb le Josiah Meigs Esquire Commis- 
sioner of the General L. Office Washington City 
[Indorsed:] Gov 1- Jennings re navigable waters in Ind a 
Ans d wrote to Regis 1 " at Vincennes 14 Jan 1819 
Jennings to Ethan A. Brown 
[Jennings Collection, Indiana State Library] 
Brookville lND a May 31 st 1819 
His Excellency Ethan A. Brown 
Sir. 
An occasional visit to this place, will be an apology for mak- 
 
ing a request, though unofficial, for the delivery to Gen 1 Robert 
Hanna, Sheriff of Franklin County Ind a , a certain Green B. 
League, alias William Jackson, who has been indicted for 
Bigamy in the Franklin Circuit Court in this state, who is said 
to be confined in the jail of Hamilton County Ohio. 
The circumstances attending the case, are of a character, the 
most delicate and interesting to one of our most respectable 
and best citizens, and it will be very gratefully received if you 
will give the necessary authority to remove him to this county 
for trial. For the particulars, if necessary, I beg leave to refer 
you to Gen 1 Hanna the bearer, whose statements may be relied 
on most implicity. 1 
Most respectfully your 
obedient St. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] His Excellency Ethan A. Brown Govenor 
of the State of Ohio 
Jennings to John Quincy Adams 
[State Department, M. L., 374] 
Corydon March 10 th 1820 
The HoNB le John Q. Adams 
Sir 
Herewith I transmit a copy of a correspondence between 
the Govenor of Kentucky and myself, in relation to a demand 
made for certain persons, fugitives from the justice of this 
state, together with an authenticated copy of the indictment 
upon which those citizens of Kentucky were demanded. 
From the documents it will be perceived that His Excel- 
lency the Acting Govenor of Kentucky has declined a com- 
pliance with a request so entirely reasonable and equally indis- 
pensible to the execution of the laws of this state. 
 
Permit me to request that the documents may be submitted 
for the consideration of the President of the United. 1 
Copies of the laws of this state, of a general nature, I have 
directed to be forwarded according to your request 
I have the honour to be most respectfully 
Your obt: Servant 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Edward Tiffin 
[General Land Office, S. G., L. R., Vol. 9, p. 215] 
Corydon April 25 th 1820 
The HoNB le Edward Tiffin 
D r Sir. 
Your favour of the 12 th inst: has just been received, and 
for which I sincerely thank you. Your proposition to designate 
two of your deputies will answer every desirable object on this 
point and will greatly oblige the state. The 22 of next month 
the Commissioners appointed meet at William Conners on 
White River to select the contemplated scite for our govern- 
ment. Would you feel yourself at liberty to allow the 2560 
acres granted for this purpose to the state to be surveyed by 
any other lines than those directed to the Cardinal points if so, 
you can make it known to your deputies. 2 
Yours with great respect & esteem 
Jonathan Jennings 
Governor's Proclamation : Presidential Electors 
[Senate File Cases, 16th Congress, 432] 
[December 5, 1820] 
JONATHAN JENNINGS 
Governor and Commander in Chief of the State of Indiana ; 
To Nathaniel Ewing, Daniel J. Caswell, and John H. 
Thompson Esquires Greeting ; Know ye ; that by a Joint ballot 
of both Houses of the General Assembly, you have been elected 
the Electors of President and Vice President of the United 
States for the State of Indiana. 
You are therefore requested to attend at the Office of the 
Secretary of State, on Wednesday the 6 th Ins 1 at the hour of 2 
oclock P. M. for the purpose of discharging said duty. 
Given from under my hand and the seal of state 
L j this 5 th day of December 1820 
By the Governor 
R. A. New 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to John Quincy Adams 
[State Department, M. L., 433] 
Corydon Novem. 9 th 1821 
The HoNB le John Q. Adams 
Sir. 
The death of Alexander A. Meek Esq r has produced a 
vacancy in the office of District Attorney for this state. To fill 
that vacancy, I take the liberty to present to your notice, Charles 
Dewey Esquire as an applicant. The character of Major Dewey 
as a man of legal talents and probity, is not surpassed by any 
gentleman who presents himself at the bar of this state as a 
practitioner, and but few will consider him equalled. 
Some of his connexions have been conspicuous in Massa- 
chusetts especially an Uncle, who has been connected with the 
judiciary of that state. The applicant is at present, a member 
 
of the Legislature of this state, and possesses considerable 
popularity and still more with the Bar. Other applicants will 
probably be presented, but I feel confident, that Maj 1 * Dewey's 
appointment would be generally approved, and I have little 
doubt but M r Hendricks, who has much more popularity than 
either of our Representatives, will not be dissatisfied at his 
appointment at least, whatever may be his situation in relation 
to other applicants, believing however, that he has not given 
assurances to any. On this subject I shall address General 
Hendricks Allow me to add, that the appointment of Major 
Dewey, will be received as a favour done me, while on his part, 
he is quite deserving the office. 
With sentiments of unfeigned respect, I have the honour 
to be your 
Obt: Humble Ser 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Robert A. New 
[English Collection] 
Corydon Nov. 16, 1821 
R A New Esq. 
Sir 
Inconvenience as well as delay has been experienced in the 
execution of civil commissions in consequence of communi- 
cations of a public character directed to the Secretary of State 
not having been taken from the Post Office. 
You are well aware the law requires that the returns of 
elections of civil officers be made to you Officially and you 
will therefore be so good as to communicate to me in writing 
the causes which have produced the circumstances alluded to, 
 
that the Legislature may be informed and make such provision 
as may be deemed necessary for the future 1 
Respectfully Yours 
J. Jennings 
Special Message : Governor's Dwelling House at Corydon 
[English Collection] 
To the HoNB le House of Representatives. 
Under the provisions of a joint Resolution of the last Gen- 
eral Assembly, the tenement which is now occupied by the 
undersigned, was rented for the term of one year and which 
term is nearly expired. For the occupancy of the property, one 
hundred and fifty dollars have been paid to the owner, with 
the understanding that a further compensation for the use of 
said property should be submitted to the Legislature. 
By reference to the said Resolution, it will be found that I 
was not authorised to make any contract, for a longer period 
than one year. 2 
Respectfully &C. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Decem. 31 st 1821 
 
Jennings to John Quincy Adams 
[State Department, M. L., 440] 
House of Representatives 
Jany 14 th 1822 
J. Jennings presents to the Secretary for the Department of 
State, and encloses the documents connected with the unfor- 
tunate situation of the son of M r Huffman of Indiana. 1 
If the President of the U. States, should not deem it ex- 
pedient to relieve the Petitioner by a resort to the Diplomatic 
fund, J. Jennings will [be] glad to have the enclosed papers 
returned to the House. 
[Addressed:] The Honb le John Q. Adams 
[Indorsed:] Jennings J. House of Rep. 14 Jan y 1823 
Pec 18 th Benj. Hoffman Feb y 23. Delivered the papers in 
this case to M r Jennings of the H. of R. 
Jennings to John Quincy Adams 
[State Department, M. L., 450] 
Corydon April 2 d 1822 
The Honb 1g John Q. Adams 
Sir. Your letter of the 1 st Ult: from the Department of 
State, has been regularly received, together with the printed 
copy of the Marshal's Returns of the 4 th census. The copy of 
balance of the compensation due Moore for his house in Corydon. An 
agreement had been made during the meeting of the constitutional con- 
vention whereby the town of Corydon was to provide a suitable residence 
for the governor in turn for being permitted to remain the capital until 
1825, but this provision was never carried out. The house of Harbin 
Moore was built of brick made on the lot where it stood and the in- 
terior was finished in hand-carved hardwood. Although it was long- 
known as the "Governor's Mansion," Jennings was the only governor 
who occupied it. Laws of Indiana, 1821-22, pp. 176-77; Dunn, Indiana 
and Indianans, Vol. 1, pp. 308-9; Roose, Indiana's Birthplace, p. 24. 
the Secrect journal of the Old Congress, has not yet arrived, 
but will no doubt in due time. 
The only incorporated institutions for the promotion of 
education in Indiana, are, "The University of Indiana," Bloom- 
ington, Monroe County, its geographical situation ; and the 
documents may be forwarded to Doc. David H. Maxwell, one 
of the Trustees of the University. The second, is "The Madi- 
son Academy" situated at Madison, Jefferson County. The 
principal officer of this institution, lately deceas d but the 
documents might be directed to the care of Col : John Paul. 
The third and last, is the "Vincennes University" situated in 
Vincennes Ind. The Rev d Samuel Scott was lately its prin- 
cipal. 
With very great respect, I have the honour to be your very 
humble Servant. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Isaac Kimberlin 1 
[English Collection] 
Charleston April 13 th 1822 
M r Kimberlin 
Sir. 
The proper course for your father to take in relation to your 
land, will be, to have a Sheriff's Deed written and presented 
to Weathers the late Sheriff, and if he refuses to sign and seal 
it, your only course will be either to apply to the Circuit Court 
of this County for a Mandamus to compel him to Sign and 
Seal it ; Or otherwise, to bring Suit on the Bond executed by 
Weathers and his securities for the faithful performance of 
the duties of the office of Sheriff. 1 
Very respectfully yours &C 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Mr. Isaac Kimberlin, Scott County, Ind. 
c/o Doc. A. P. Hay. 
Jennings to His Constituents 
[Western Clarion, June 19, 1822] 
Fellow Citizens, 
The period will soon arrive, when by the provisions of the 
constitution, it will devolve on you to elect, by your suffrages, 
an individual other than myself, to act as Governor of the state. 
During the time I have discharged the duties required of the 
Executive of Indiana, it has been my anxious wish to promote 
that harmony of feeling, which is so essential to public and 
private happineess ; and in the exercise of my official duties, 
to deserve the confidence of the people of the state by a con- 
scientious discharge of the important trust, which must shortly 
be committed to a successor of your own selection. 
In the official situation which I am shortly to leave, it 
became my duty to enter upon a scene before untried in Indiana. 
The constitution of the state, had necessarily to be brought into 
operation under the conflicting influence of the various opin- 
ions, which always attend every important change in the form 
of any government. Under such circumstances I must have 
erred. It must be admitted that all men, whatever may be the 
progress of experience, are subject in common to errors of the 
judgement. But whatever may have been the errors on my 
part, I feel a conscious pride that I have never erred in the exer- 
cise of a public trust, in any manner which has resulted to my 
private advantage. In the exercise of a public trust, I have 
always made my personal interest yield to the paramount con- 
sideration of the public welfare, and in soliciting the suffrages 
of the people, I seek that only to which other citizens of the 
state are eligible. 
I have been a candidate for some time past, to represent 
the second Congressional District in the eighteenth Congress. 
If elected my services as such will not be required at the city 
of Washington until December 1823 nearly eighteen months 
hence. In consequence of which, and the expectation that Gen. 
Hendricks would create a vacancy in the next winter's session of 
the 17th Congress, and in as much as the state can have but 
one representative until after the expiration of the next Session 
of Congress ; I have been frequently solicited, from different 
parts of the state, to consent to serve, if elected, to fill the 
vacancy, which Gen. Hendricks has lately created by [paper 
torn] 1 My replies have been in substance, [paper torn] 
was as willing to represent the people of the state, during 
the vacancy of next winter, as they might be to elect me, but 
that it was more immediately my wish, to represent the District 
in which I reside; if congenial with the interest and wishes of 
a majority of its citizens. Having sometime since, made such 
declarations when enquired of, it is not for me to contradict 
them, especially as there exists no incompatibility, nor any 
other objection to the course, either legal or constitutional, 
except that preference which every elector has an undeniable 
right to exercise between candidates for the same office. When 
solicited on the subject of the vacancy of next winter, for me 
to have said that I was unwilling to serve if, the people were 
disposed to elect me, would have been uncandid, and for me 
to have refused would have been ungrateful on my part and 
qualified to disappoint many of my friends. 
My object in this address is to prevent my views from being 
mis-represented, as well as to prevent any deception from being 
practised upon those who have not made the subject of the 
approaching election an object of enquiry, in relation to the 
circumstance of the election taking place for the eighteenth 
•William Hendricks was a candidate for governor. He had served 
as representative in Congress since 1817. 
 
Congress on the same day with the election for the vacancy 
of next winter in the seventeenth Congress. To prevent any 
confusion growing out of the circumstance of both elections 
taking place on the first Monday of August next, it will only 
be necessary for a voter, to give in a ticket for that person 
whom he may wish as his representative next winter "To repre- 
sent the state in the vacancy of the 17th Congress," and another 
ticket for the person whom he may wish to represent him winter 
after next "To represent the district in the 18th Congress," 
If elected, fellow citizens, I have only to assure you that 
I shall discharge my duty with fidelity and as much to your 
advantage as my abilities will enable me. 
Very respectfully. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Corydon, June 8th 1822. 
Proclamation : Offering Reward for Capture of Convicts 
[Western Clarion, July 24, 1822] 
By the Governor of the State of Indiana. 
Whereas it has been represented to me, that on the fourth 
day of the present month, three of the convicts in the State 
prison, effected their escape, viz : Robert Townsend, Abial 
Townsend and John Gibson — Robert Townsend is about 5 feet 
3 inches high, dark eyes and hair, dark complexion, and about 
25 years of age. Abial Townsend is about five feet seven or 
eight inches high, grey eyes, light complexion, light hair and 
about thirty one years of age, these two are brothers, and are 
round, fleshy, active men, sent to the State prison from the 
county of Ripley. — John Gibson is a tall, lean fellow, six feet 
high, eyes rather deep, and dark, light brown hair, light com- 
plexion, long slim face, and bad countenance. 
Now therefore, I, Jonathan Jennings, Governor and com- 
mander in chief, of the State of Indiana, have issued this 
proclamation, hereby offering a reward of $150 for the appre- 
hension and delivery of the said convicts, at the State prison 
in Jeffersonville, or in the Jail of any County in this State: 
or $50 for either of them. 
 
Given from under my hand and the seal of 
State, at Carodon, this 9th day of July 1822, the 
' 6th year of the State, and of the Independence of 
the United States the forty seventh. 
Jonathan Jennings 
By the Governor : 
R. A. New, Sec'ty. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Columbus July 13 th '22 
Doc. D. G. Mitchell, 
D r Sir 
I am do[ing] pretty well, but they are making great exer- 
tions. Ross went from Charleston to Salem and published 
those interrogatories, sent them to Charleston and Madison to 
be republished and he Ross made himself responsible for pay- 
ment, expecting that I would not see them in time to answer, 
at least soon enough to circulate them, but I have made great 
exertion and succe[ss] fully. 1 I hope my friends will attend to 
Harrison and Crawford Counties. I sent through Col. Ranney 2 
to you or to the Post office a number of Handbills to be dis- 
tributed in Harrison and Clark Counties. I hope that my 
friends will attend to the management of my enemies in Craw- 
ford & Harrison Counties 
Yours &C. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Corydon, Ind. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Charleston July 15 th 22 
Doc. D. G. Mitchell 
I send you by B. Ferguson Esq r 150 copies of handbills, 
which you will distribute if you find it necessary, and where 
you may think they may be most needed. 1 
Some of my friends must keep a good look out. Could not 
some one go to Crawford. In haste. 
J. Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Corydon, Ind. 
Jennings to His Constituents 
[Western Clarion, July 24, 1822] 
Fellow Citizens, 
Upon my arrival at this place on my way to Columbus 
Court, where I had been summoned to attend as a witness, I 
was presented with the " Indiana Farmer" printed at Salem, 
containing a list of interrogatories which the writer presumes 
will be answered by myself or friends. 
It has been my determination not to appear in Pamphlets 
or News papers whilst continuing in office as Governor of the 
state, to justify my official acts, if for no other reasons than 
because such a course is unknown in other states, and because 
if every question which the malevolence of enemies might put 
to me through the press, should be answered through the same 
medium, more time would be consumed than my public and 
private concerns could possibly admit. 
The inquisition, as an appendage to Roman religion, in its 
practice required if any one was suspected of not duly rever- 
encing the Holy Catholic faith, that he should be-put to the 
rack and compelled to furnish evidence for his own condemnation, or be tortured even to death for his refusal. My 
tellow citizens will judge whether in the annals of political 
persecution, a more ungenerous attack has ever come within 
their knowledge. 
If ''An Old Resident" were known, 1 it might appear that 
he is a citizen of this place ; that those questions were manu- 
factured here, and sent to Salem for publication : — that the 
writer has been a disappointed office seeker, or that he belongs 
to a combination of men composed of the slave party, well 
known a few years past ; or a certain other set of men who 
have united with them for the purpose of destroying my politi- 
cal character, if no more. 
That such a combination exists and has existed for some 
time, I pledge myself to my fellow citizens to make appear in 
due time, and at a more proper season than is selected to attack 
me. Just at the eve of the election, after various solicitations 
and attempts at arrangement since February last, among a 
certain number of gentlemen to whom the secret was to have 
been confided, with regard to who could be got out as a candi- 
date most likely to out poll me ; and after consenting and then 
declining to become candidates — and after becoming candidates 
and withdrawing from the list, they have completed their 
arrangements a little more than a month previous to the election : 
a part of which plan appears through the columns of the Salem 
paper, leaving scarcely time for a reply to reach the different 
portions of the District, and much less the different parts of 
the state. I ask my fellow citizens if in all these things there 
were no arrangements, no little caucuses in the rounds of the 
Circuit Courts, and whether all this exertion was purely to 
promote the public good ? 
The questions which are put to me for answers, are con- 
nected with transactions, some of which transpired nearly 
twelve years ago, and all except three of them have been passed 
upon by my fellow citizens by large majorities in my favor. 
Those questions are framed with all the ingenuity of a lawyer, 
in order to give the public as unfavorable views of the subjects 
to which they refer as possible, and would require pages to 
afford the people a fair and full view of the facts and cir- 
cumstances. But notwithstanding my present disadvantage I 
am required to reply to them: that reply must therefore be 
hastily done, or my answers will not reach many to whom this 
insiduous attack will be carried. 
The first question is insidious, inasmuch as it is, and has 
been usual to deposit public monies that were not required for 
immediate use, and if I had kept the money in my private 
possession these same characters would have charged me with 
speculating on it, or something worse. 1 If the State should 
sustain a loss, which I do not as yet admit, (as the State has 
lately obtained a judgement on a Quo Warranto against the 
Bank) am I more to be censured than the Secretary of the 
Treasury of the United States, who had at that same time a 
deposit in the same Bank of two hundred thousand dollars, and 
not one word heard against that high officer? I used every 
diligence in that trust and when that deposit was made, not 
only was the State indebted to the Bank nearly 30,000 dol- 
lars, but the notes of the Bank were Land Office money, 
and the Bank was a Bank of deposit for the United States. 
The next, regards the pre-emption given by Congress to 
Canadian Refugees. To their obtaining their pick and choice 
of lands either in this state or any other — and to their obtaining 
lands in any way, except by the mode of purchasing as others, 
I was opposed, and no man can with truth speak a different 
language ; and if I as a Delegate, had not been denied the right 
of voting in the House, the charge could not be made. 
The question with regard to the Tippecanoe campaign, 
speaks the same feelings, and is directed to the same objects 
with regard to me, which at that time were entertained and 
exerted by the slave party, and is untrue in point of fact. 1 
I had my opinions with regard to the circumstances which 
brought about the campaign, and those I still entertain. Who 
in this state has done more than myself for the widows and 
orphans of those who fell in that battle? but these patriotic 
writers tell you of no such facts. 
With regard to fixing the temporary seat of government, 
it will be recollected that it was done by ballot. Before the 
ballot was taken I was asked by a member from Harrison 
county, whether I had any particular interest as to where the 
temporary seat should be fixed : My reply was, that I had not, 
except as it regarded the County of Clark, which I in part 
represented. I then consented to decline balloting, except for 
Clark County, upon the agreement of others. I was afterwards 
called on to vote, when I rose and stated the circumstances : 
upon which, Judge Parke, a member from Knox, moved that I 
should be excused from voting. 2 
As to my withholding a commission from Mr. M'Farland, 
it must be recllected that at the time of the first election of 
County and Township officers under the State Government, 
no authority had been given by law to the county commissioners 
to hear and decide contested elections. The election of Col. 
M'Farland (and others) was contested; and from the circum- 
stances, and after consulting with, and upon the advice of a 
majority of the Supreme Court, the commissions were withheld 
for adjudication. 
With respect to the commission to treat with the Indians, 
acted according to my best judgment, and if I had not been 
called on in this singular manner, just before the election, and 
not having the time to investigate the subject, I would enter 
upon it with pleasure. 1 As to my monopolizing two offices, 
and receiving the salaries and emoluments thereof, it is basely 
false. The Senior Editor of the "Indiana Farmer" must recol- 
lect, and his files ought to shew, that the Auditor of the State 
granted a certificate that I neither asked nor received any pay 
from the State, while I was negociating with the Indians for 
the body of land which is now termed the New Purchase. And 
as regards the commission itself, upon my return from the 
negociation, and after learning the course taken against me in 
my absence, on examining the papers brought with me from 
St. Marys, the commission so much handled to my prejudice 
met my view, and reflecting that the Governors of other States, 
under constitutions like ours, had acted in like situations; and 
that nothing dissatisfactory was produced, either in the State 
of Ohio or Tennessee, by their undertaking similar negociations. 
I destroyed it in disgust. Upon Judge Park's arrival some days 
afterwards, which was about the first of November 1818, I 
called on him and told him the circumstances, and at the same 
time informed him that I should not act any further in per- 
fecting a conditional treaty for lands lying north west of the 
Wabash. Judge Parke sometime afterwards, told the circum- 
stances confidentially as he informed me, to a third person, and 
through him to other confidential hands to "an old resident" I 
presume of Clark County. 
With regard to representing the state and the 2nd Con- 
gressional District, I have asked to represent the District, and 
as to representing the State, I have been asked by many of my 
fellow citizens. It restrains not the right of choice, and the 
people have the right to choose or refuse. As to the idea of 
monopoly, it commenced with those who expected to gain some- 
thing by the hue and cry, and by some of those who were 
knowing to a plan formed in anticipation to keep me out of 
Congress, by forming Congressional Districts in a particular 
manner, and which plan was attempted to be affected in the 
Senate during the last session of the General Assembly. But 
General Harrison was elected a few years since, to fill a vacancy 
in Congress occasioned by the resignation of the Hon. John 
M'Clean, 1 and at the same election was elected for the next 
succeeding Congress ; yet there was no monopoly spoken of in 
that event. 
Relative to the appointment of Judge Blake, it is true he 
was indicted for duelling, but it is equally true he was found 
not guilty. 2 He was strongly recommended for the appoint- 
ment and if he did not take the oath required by law, it is with 
the judge or justice of the peace who administered the oath, & 
whose imperious duty it was to make return thereof to the 
clerk of the Circuit Court in which the same was administered, 
to account for the omission. But I have never heard that "an 
old resident," or any of his party has made any enquiry on 
this point ! No ! it does not suit their present views ! — It might 
prove rather injurious to their present arrangements ! 
With regard to my having been a director of the Corodon 
branch bank, nothing was said until the bank failed to pay 
specie; and if the state bank and the other branches had been 
as honestly managed as the Corodon Branch, "An Old Resi- 
dent" would have no ground to calculate upon rousing the 
prejudices of the people. Everything that concerns the bank, 
answers the purposes of this "Old Resident;" but if he and 
some of his particular friends were as clear of our State Bank, 
&c. as I am, it might be well for them. Not long since, every 
little town wanted a bank, Salem, Charlestown, and others ; 
and were not General Bartholomew, Dr. Hay, Judge Shelby, 
Judge Scott, Captain Beggs 1 and others, elected Directors of a 
bank to be located at Charlestown? and was not application 
made to the Corodon branch bank to procure money to aid in 
getting it into operation? Was not Judge Floyd 2 a Director 
also? What reason can then be assigned why no notice has 
been taken of banking concerns, except for the purpose of a 
secret attack on myself ? 
Whatever the gross amount of fines remitted may be, the 
instances are few where remissions have taken place, without 
the recommendation of the courts before whom the fines were 
assessed, or of a majority of the representatives of the county 
in which fines were imposed. 3 The documents in the office of 
the Secretary of State will speak for themselves. 
More than two months since some of my enemies reported 
in this place (Charlestown) that the night preceding the fast 
day in April, I was gambling and intoxicated : For this report no 
person could be found to acknowledge himself responsible, and 
thus it remained until judge Scott became a candidate, 4 and then, 
and not till then, it makes an appearance in the Salem news- 
paper, in a different dress. Why should it have remained to 
make its appearance in the public prints so shortly before the 
election ? Had it not been for circumstances, I should not have 
had it in my power to have answered it, even two weeks before 
the election. It is false and infamously false. I gambled not, 
nor was I intoxicated. This "Old Resident" wishes too, to 
give me the credit of recommending the fast day, in order to 
seize the more easily on the religious feelings of the com- 
munity. The truth is however, I was solicited from a highly 
respectable source to bring the subject before the General As- 
sembly, and the following is an extract of my communication on 
the subject. 
"To the Senate and House of Representatives — 
"Pursuant to an application, respectable and consonant in 
its character, I submit to the General Assembly, in conformity 
to the request, the propriety of appointing a day of fasting &c." 
I am not hypocrite enough to assume the appearance of a 
character I do not sustain ; and not being a professer of religion, 
I deemed it proper for me to introduce the subject in the cau- 
tious manner I have done, following the language of the 
request, after the extract given ; see page 264 of the Journal of 
the House of Representatives. But how does the charge of 
"gambling and intoxication" as was first circulated now stand? 
It comes in a rather more imposing form, with not quite so 
harsh an appearance. This "Old Resident" comes out and 
enquires whether I "did not spend the night in the fashionable 
vice of drinking and card playing, &c. &c." Mark the phrase- 
ology ! Not gambling and intoxication as at first reported. It 
is true I was, on the evening alluded to invited to a room at 
Judge Shelby's, where were several gentlemen already assem- 
bled, some of whom were playing, but for amusement only. 
The next morning some of my enemies, as I am well informed, 
instituted an enquiry, to ascertain who were in the room the 
night preceding, and what was done ; and finding from what 
was drawn from a gentleman, that I was there, they gave 
existence to the report that I was gambling and intoxicated. 
The fact of my being in the room, was obtained by mean and 
contemptible pimping, for the sole purpose of aiding the com- 
bined arrangements which had been formed against me. But 
if the transactions of every house and of some of these particular characters were publickly known, some one or more of 
them have presented scenes of impropriety, which would place 
this charge with which they wish to injure me, far in the back 
ground. My political and personal integrity is beyond the 
reach of their malignity, but my personal character and feelings 
must be assailed in this insidious manner to save themselves 
from being defeated in their plot to put me down. 
In relation to my conduct the night before the fast day, I 
subjoin a certificate which would have been sworn to if the 
laws of the state on the subject of voluntary oaths, did not 
prohibit it. 
"We certify that we were present when Gov. Jennings came 
into the room in the house of Judge Shelby, referred to in his 
communication of the 15th inst. and that during his and our 
remaining in the house, neither his deportment nor any of his 
conduct were in violation of the moral law or any law of this 
state. 
Samuel Stafford, 
woodbridge parker. 
Wm. H. Moore. 
July 13th, 1822." 
The artful and unfair manner, in which they couple together 
the circumstance of my being in company the night preceding 
the fast, with the fact of my not being at sermon the next day, 
deserves some attention. "An Old Resident" basely and 
falsely states, that I refused to join my fellow citizens in their 
devotion, and that I spent the day in slumbers at a private 
house. This assertion is intended to infuse an idea, that I had 
by intemperance disqualified myself for attending church : 
but the following cirtificate will show how far my enemies, 
with their devotional feelings will adhere to truth. 
"I certify that Mr. Jennings came into my house on the 
morning of the fast day, in April, about six o'clock in the 
morning, and remained with me one or two hours in conver- 
sation. I discovered no difference in his appearance nor any 
evidence of dissipation. Given under my hand this 15th day 
of July, 1822. John Douthitt." 
 
As to slumbering in a private house, I was not on that day 
at any private house, except Squire Douthit's Mr. Simonson's 1 
and Doct. Hay's ; the latter gentleman's house is my home when 
in Charlestown. — The last certificate which I shall subjoin will 
shew how much truth is in this last charge, as well as the cir- 
cumstances which attended my not being at Church on that 
day: 
"I certify that on the morning of the last fast day, being 
the same week of the Clerk Circuit Court, I met Mr. Jennings 
and after learning from him that he should leave town the same 
evening or the next morning, I solicited him to walk to my 
house, that I had some communications of a family and private 
concern to make to him as a particular friend ; observing to him 
at the same time, that the sickness of my child, and the press 
cf business which devolved on me during court, as assistant 
sheriff of the county prevented me until that morning from 
an opportunity of showing him some letters and conversing on 
subjects very interesting to me. He then walked to my house, 
and after he had read some letters, and conversed with me some 
time, Mr. Jennings asked if it were not time to go to preaching. 
I examined my watch and observed to him, that the sermon 
must have commenced a considerable time before. He replied, 
that he never went out of church before sermon was ended, 
and that he did not like to go at so late an hour. He then 
remained in conversation with me until three or four o'clock 
in the afternoon, when he left me. 
John Simonson." 
July 15. 
I leave my fellow citizens to estimate how far I have for- 
feited their good opinion as a citizen or as a candidate for office. 
Respectfully, 
Jonathan Jennings 
Charlestown, July 15th, 1822. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Madison July 17 th [1822] 
Doc. D. G. Mitchell 
D r Sir. 
Ross set off to Salem and there published the abusive ques- 
tions against me and if I had not happened to be at Charleston 
I should not have had it in my power to answer in any time 
to reach the people. He would not publish at Charleston, 
when if I had remained at Cory don I should not have seen 
them until this evening. You will [see] the questions in the 
Madison papers, but I send you this lest they, as papers might 
not arrive. I think they had better (the questions and answers) 
be published. I sent to you a number of Handbills. I wish 
you to enquire at the printing office for them and be particular 
to address them on the back to particular individuals not for- 
geting the proper persons in town 
Yours 
J. Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. David G. Mitchell Corydon, Ind. 
Jennings to His Constituents 
[Western Clarion, July 24, 1822] 
Fellow Citizens, 
Permit me to ask your attention to the following statement. 
The fast day was in April last, Judge Scott became a can- 
didate the latter part of June, the publication came out against 
me in Salem, the 12th day of July, and the election takes place 
 
on the first Monday in August. I ask why this publication 
was so long delayed, and why it was made so shortly before 
the election? — Does it not assume the appearance of a design 
to take an advantage? 
Respectfully, 
Jonathan Jennings 
July 17th, 1822. 
Jennings to John McLean 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., 526] 
House of Representatives 1 
10 th of Dec. 1822 
HoNB le John McClean 
Sir 
I enclose you nine final certificates for which I would be 
gratified to receive the Patents as likewise three patents for 
three several tracts purchased by Obadiah Jennings in the 
Jeffersonville District. 
I enclosed you likewise an account for printing and would 
be glad if a Draft in favour of M r Brandon could be had upon 
the Land office at Jeffersonville. 2 
I shall do myself the pleasure of calling on you very shortly 
and am 
most respectfully your obt: St. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Dec r 11. I wish these patents as soon as possible 
[Indorsed:] enclose 9 Certificate for Patents & requires 3 
Patents for Obadiah Jenings The first are sent to him & the 
latter cannot be referrd to for want of description. — has been 
written to by the Commissioner 11 Dec. 1822 1 Pat. in the 
name of O. Jenn has been sent to J. J. to other have not been 
paid as pr. ledger. 
Jennings to John Quincy Adams 1 
[State Department, M. L., 486] 
House of Representatives 
Decern. 20th 1822 
The Honb 16 John Q. Adams 
Sir. 
As chairman of a Select committee, to whom has been re- 
ferred a petition of Benjamin Huffman, whose son of five 
years of age, was taken a prisoner by the Indians in 1813, from 
the County of Clark, Ind a ; I am directed to request of you, 
a copy of a report, made by Governor Cass of Michigan to, 
and at the requisition of, the Department of state, in relation 
to this case. In addition, if convenient, to afford the Com- 
mittee, such information as may enable it to determine, what 
course, if any be adviseable, should be preferred, to enable the 
unfortunate father to reclaim his lost child. 
The committee will again meet, on Monday morning next, 
within which time, it would be very acceptable to have your 
reply. With great respect, Sir, 
Your obt: Humble St: 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to the "Citizens of Indianapolis" 
[Western Censor, & Emigrants Guide, March 7, 1823] 
Washington City, Feb. 5, 1823. 
To the Citizens of Indianapolis. 
The enclosed letter from the Post Master General will fur- 
nish an answer to your memorial on the subject of Post Roads, 
and I hope it will be found satisfactory. Yours, &c. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Inclosure] 
General Post Office, Feb. 5 
Sir — I beg leave to remark, in answer to the memorial from 
sundry citizens of Indianapolis, which you have transmitted to 
this Department, that I believe no place of the size and present 
importance of Indianapolis, has greater mail advantages, which 
may be called exclusively their own, as all present mails that go 
there are sent on account of Indianapolis. A direct weekly 
mail will pass from Brookville to that place in a few weeks, 
and a regular weekly mail now passes between Brookville and 
Columbus, Ohio. We have had no advice of a road being cut 
from Indianapolis to Vandalia. If there be a direct road, the 
mail will be sent between those places as soon as suitable 
arrangements can be made. 
I have the honour to be, sir, 
Your obedient servant. 
R. J. Meigs, Jr. 
Hon. J. Jennings 
Jennings to George Graham 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., Vol. i, p. 3$z] 
Dec r 6 th 1823 
The Hon: George Graham 
Sir. 
Your favour of this day I acknowledge, and in return, have 
to solicit a Duplicate of the Patent to Enoch Parr. 1 
M r Parr called on me, about one month since having been 
at the Land Office at Jeffersonville, the day preceding, for the 
sole purpose of obtaining his patent ; at which time, it had not 
arrived. 
He will soon be subjected to the expence of legal process, 
on account of failure to make title according to his contract of 
bargain and sale, unless you will furnish me for his use a duplicate of the Patent issued as it certainly has miscarried. Yours 
with great respect 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Indorsed:] Patent sent 
Jennings to the Editors of the Western Censor 
[Western Censor, & Emigrants Guide, March 8, 1824] 
Washington City, Feb. 14th, 1824 
Gentlemen, 
Enclosed you have a copy of a bill, reported by a committee 
of which I am a member, which contemplates the examination 
and survey of the great western road so as to pass through the 
seats of government of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. 
During the last session of Congress, I brought up the subject 
of issuing a scrip or Treasury notes and making such notes 
receivable in payment for public lands, to effect the extension 
of this road. The proposition was new and not so well received 
as I had hoped it would have been, but I think it is gaining 
friends. The treasury of the U. States has no funds to spare 
at present, as is urged by many, from the wants of the govern- 
ment to reimburse the public debt as it falls due, and meet the 
other national demands upon it ; to lend or advance money, 
upon the faith of the two per cent, fund of Indiana and Illinois, 
to make this road ; and the fund itself, so far as it has accrued, 
are inadequate to the great object, and its consequent expendi- 
ture. The proposition to issue bills of credit to extend this 
road, therefore, does not create a direct demand upon the U. S. 
Treasury, and was intended to avoid objections that might 
arise on that ground ; what shall be the ultimate success of the 
bill during the present session cannot be foretold ; though it is 
certain that every exertion will be made to effect its final 
passage. It is of much importance that the road should be 
finally laid out and established, not only with a view to the 
enhancement of the state's property at Indianapolis, but also as 
it regards the relative situation and comparative value of private 
property. I am confident that the members from Indiana, at 
least, concur in this view of the subject. 
I am respectfully, your ob't serv't. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to His Constituents 
[Western Censor, & Emigrants Guide, June 29, 1824] 
To the Citizens of the Second Congressional District. 
The present session of Congress will soon close, after hav- 
ing been protracted by the debates principally on the subject 
of revising the rates of impost duties, on the importation of 
foreign goods into the United States. 
I have been severely afflicted with a violent attack of a 
bilious rheumatism, of which however, I am recovering, but 
v/hich has disenabled me for a considerable time to attend to 
business, and even yet I write with pain, owing to the effect 
which the rheumatism has left upon my arms and shoulders. I 
hope soon to be able however to write with less difficulty, 
when I shall submit to you my views in relation to such subjects 
as have been under the deliberation of congress, and calculated 
from their character to claim an interest -in your attention. 
In relation to office, I have always chose to pursue that 
course which public opinion seemed to direct ; and although 
my enemies have endeavoured to fix ambitious views upon me, 
as a pretext for their unwearied persecution ; yet it must be 
admitted, that I have not been a candidate for an office, for 
which a prior incumbent was also on the list. 
With the will of the people, when constitutionally expressed, 
every republican must acquiesce ; and with that expressed will 
of the people, I shall always be satisfied, when made known, 
unbiassed by the influence of over-heated party zeal, or the 
secret managements of personal combination. 
 
To the unprejudiced portion of my fellow-citizens and to 
my friends, I leave my pretentions to office ; while my personal 
enemies, and those who knowingly subserve their views, will 
indulge as they have done, in all the gratification, which mis- 
representations of my public and private transactions, may 
afford to their understandings of right and wrong. 
I am, fellow citizens with much respect, your obedient 
servant, 
Jonathan Jennings 
Washington, May 20th, 1824. 
The editors within the second congressional district, will 
please insert the foregoing and oblige 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Columbus Ohio Nov r 18 th 1824 
Doc. David G. Mitchell 
D r Sir. 
I find in the Eastern part of the state, that if Hendricks 
were out of the way, my election would be almost certain. 1 
What is he doing and what does he intend to do. Deal with 
him quite mildly and let me hear from you without delay, 
embracing such view as may be useful to me. 
Some certain gentlemen, in the East, talk of my residence 
as being not sufficiently West, and attempts will therefore be 
made to unite, in political concert the East and West part of 
the State. This is to be guarded against prudently, but I believe 
a majority of the Eastern members will not join in such course 
however they may vote. 
Clay has the vote of this state by a majority of nearly 700 
votes. 2 Do not let me hear from you without delay. Tell me all ; 
 
and what the Governor says about "not being a Candidate if 
1 am" 
I am in health, save Rheumatism in my knees — not much 
pain but stiff and sore when [I] get up from a chair or sit 
down; can walk when on foot pretty [well] and ride when 
mounted. A word about my Rheumatism as well as politics. 
I am your friend &C &C 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Doc. D. G. Mitchell Corydon Harrison 
County, Ind. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Funks Town Md: Decern 1, 1 st 1824 
Doc r David G. Mitchell 
D r Sir. 
Thus far with much fatiguge I have made my way to the 
City. No doubt remains, that Crawford has lost N. Carolina, 
and has got only four votes in N. York, & the probability is 
that he will be left out, and his hopes and those of his friends 
at an end. 1 
Will you oblige me so much as to, make out and forward 
to me at Washington City, the votes as given in each and every 
County in Indiana, for President shewing the votes distinctly, 
which were given for each candidate in each and every County. 
Be so good likewise, as to urge R. A. New Esquire, from 
day to day, until he complies with his promise to me when at 
Corydon ; viz, To make me out, a copy of the papers, in the 
case of the contested election in Jefferson County, in February 
1817 when Col: William M c Farland was elected Clerk and 
Recorder in said County. 2 
No news of any importance. Our friends were all well. 
My love to sister & Ann Maria. 
With esteem & regard your friend &C &C 
Jonathan Jennings 
The Gov r acknowledged to Gen 1 Hanna that he ought to have 
told me the object of his electionering tour in the Eastern part 
of the state, before he went 
[Addressed :] Doc. David G. Mitchell Cory don Harrison 
County, Ind. 
Jennings to George Graham 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., Vol. I, p. 506] 
House of Rep s Dec r 21 st 1824 
Hon : George Graham 
Sir. 
As chairman of a select Committee, I have to request of you 
to inform as early as your duties will allow ; the amount of the 
three per Cent which has accrued to the state of Ohio; and 
the amount of said fund which has been paid to the state of 
Indiana. 1 
With great respect your obt : St : 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] The Commissioner of the Gen 1 Land Office 
Treasury Department 
[Indorsed:] Jno. Jennings. Wants the am of 3 pr ct fund 
for Ohio & Indiana Ans d 22 d Decm r 1824 Gave the 
amtts of the Statement rendered under the Resolution of 
Congress of 17 th Dec 1 " 1823, and the continuous State- 
ments up to 31 Dec r 1823 & 30 June 1824 respectively 
Jennings to John C. Calhoun 
[Indian Office, L. R., Fort Wayne, 451] 
House of Rep s Dec r 21 st 1824 
The Hon: John C. Calhoun 
Sir. 
My friend Gen 1 Tipton of Fort Wayne, informs me, that 
in consequence of seizures made by him as Indian Agent ; he is 
informed that exertions are to be made to his injury, by those 
who are interested and their friends. 1 
So far as is proper, I should be glad to be informed of what 
is doing and by whom ; at least if any representations shall be 
made touching his integrity. 
With great respect, I have the honour to be your 
Obt: Humble St 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Editors of Indiana Journal 
[Indiana Journal, February 8, T825] 
Washington, Jan. 15, 1825 
Gentlemen — We have but little news here but such as the 
newspapers of the day contain. The great question which so 
much interests the whole country, and is so frequently asked, 
viz : who is to be President after the 3d of March next ? is as 
frequently asked here, perhaps, as in Indiana. Although Gen- 
eral Jackson has a greater number Of votes than any other 
candidate, yet some consider it very doubtful, but for myself 
I am of opinion he will be successful. 
Hints and conjectures are to be heard, that a conjunction 
of interest among the friends of the other candidates may ulti- 
mately defeat the success of General Jackson, and elect one of 
the other two candidates. But all is uncertain, and it is there- 
fore difficult to give any certain information, in relation to the 
result. All that can be given is but a matter of opinion, as the 
course of several states on this subject, is entirely unknown to 
myself. 1 
I enclose you a paper, containing a discussion which involves 
our interest in the great western road In the winter of 1819 
Congress appropriated $250,000 to complete the Cumberland 
road to Wheeling, and pledged the two per cent, fund of Indiana 
and Illinois to repay the amount into the United States Treas- 
ury. The bill now before Congress contemplates another large 
appropriation to construct a road, in continuation of the road 
to Wheeling, from the bank of the Ohio river opposite Wheel- 
ing, to Zanesville, on a like scale of probable expenditure; and 
this bill contains a like pledge upon our two per cent, fund 
without any provision ever to complete the location of the road 
On Monday next, when the bill will again be under considera- 
tion, Judge Call or myself, will propose an amendment, 
providing at least for the appropriation of so much money as 
will complete the location of the road; and if the amendment 
shall not be adopted, I, for one, will vote against the bill. 2 If 
the bill shall finally pass with its present provisions, the two 
per cent, fund of Indiana will never be of any value to our 
state, and the money necessary to the completion of the location, 
opening &c. &c. of this road, will have to be obtained as a bounty 
from Congress, whenever it shall be obtained instead of receiv- 
ing it as a matter of right. The pledge of 1819 is used as a 
precedent, and if the bill passes, the time when that fund will 
advantage us, if ever, is uncertain. 
I am yours &c. &c. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to George Graham 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., 529, Vol. i, p. 447] 
House Rep s 20 th JarF 1825 
The Hon : George Graham 
Sir. 
When I addressed you a note, a few days since and to which 
the enclosed was received in reply: I forgot to ask for the 
aggregate number of acres, riot yet relinquished, and for which 
individuals are indebted to the U. States within the state of 
Ind al 
Be so good as to give that aggregate amount of acres like- 
wise ; as soon as may be be convenient 
I have been waiting to receive the Patent for Asa Smith, for 
a Quarter section in the Jeffersonville District. 
I am very respectfully 
Your obt: St: 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Editor of Public Ledger 
[Public Ledger (Richmond), February 12, 1825] 
Washington, January 21. [1825] 
Sir — We have succeeded in amending the Cumberland Road 
bill, by getting an appropriation of $10,000 to locate the great 
Western road from Zanesville, thro' the seat of government of 
Ohio, by Indianapolis and Vandalia to the Mississippi river ; 
and the bill as amended, has passed the House of Represen- 
tatives. The bill will pass the Senate no doubt, and the road 
of course will soon be located. 
In haste, your friend, &c. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to Editors of Public Ledger 
[Public Ledger (Richmond), March 5, 1825] 
Washington, Feb. 3, 1825. 
Gentlemen — Enclosed I send you a copy of a communi- 
cation to the President of the United States, on the subject of 
removing the Land Office from Brookville to Indianapolis, 
which I drafted, and to which the Indiana delegation here have 
subscribed with one exception. 1 
Towards the close of the last session of Congress, the reso- 
lution which was adopted by the house of representatives, at 
my instance, directing the committee on public lands to inquire 
into the expediency of establishing a new land district and 
establishing a land office at Indianapolis, was, by the com- 
mittee referred to the secretary of the treasury, requesting 
him to report to the present session of Congress, which he 
has lately done, his opinions relative to my resolution, as 
also other resolutions of a similar nature ; and also into the 
expediency of consolidating land offices and land districts 
which were in existence. He has reported in favor of consoli- 
dating several of the land districts now established, and he has 
not reported in favor of establishing a new district in any case 
whatever. In consequence of this report, I am satisfied that 
no new district will be established for years ; I have therefore 
taken measures to have a removal of the Brookville office to 
Indianapolis. I have had a personal interview with the presi- 
dent on the subject, and pressed his attention to the subject, and 
he assured me, he would see and consult Mr. Crawford, the 
secretary of the treasury, on the subject. I am yours, &c. &c. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Inclosure] 
To the President of the United States 
Sir. — By the fourth section of the act of congress, entitled, 
"An act to designate the boundaries of districts, and establish 
land offices for the disposal of the public lands, not heretofore 
 
offered for sale in the states of Ohio and Indiana, approved 
the 3d of March, 1819," the president is empowered to remove 
any of the said land offices to suitable places within the respec- 
tive districts. The land office established at Terrehaute, by the 
aforesaid act, has since been moved to the interior of that 
district, while the land office at Brookville is now located 
v/ithin the Cincinnati land district, about fourteen miles from 
the eastern boundary of the Brookville district. 
The undersigned therefore request that the Brookville land 
cffice may be removed to Indianapolis, situated within the said 
district, and which is the seat of the government of Indiana. 
This measure would better accommodate the purchasers of the 
public lands, and tend to advance also the interest of the state, 
as the state owns a very considerable real estate in and sur- 
rounding the plat of the town, and we have good authority to 
assure you that the officers of the Brookville land office have 
no objection to such removal. 1 
With great respect, &c. &c. 
Feb. 2d, 1825. 
Jonathan Jennings 
James Noble 
Waller Taylor 
J. Call 
Daniel P. Cook and Jennings to John Ouincy Adams 
[State Department, M. L., 542] 
Sir 
By an act passed at the present Session of Congress a com- 
missioner is required to be appointed to survey & Locate a road 
from Zanesville in Ohio through Indiana & Illinois to the seat 
of government in Missouri. We desire that you will not act on 
this subject until we shall have the honor of seeing you in 
reference to it. 
 
We have the honor to be with the highest respect 
Your ob ser* 
Dan 1 P. Cook 1 
Jonathan Jennings 
H Rep s U. S. 
March 3 rd 1825 
[Addressed :] Hon John Quincy Adams 
Jennings to John Kimberlin 2 
[English Collection] 
Washington January 11th, 1826 
M r John Kimberlin 
Dear Sir. 
The enclosed letter will present to you two or three ques- 
tions, which you will be pleased to turn your attention to, and 
give me such information as you possess, as soon as you can 
conveniently. 
We have no news of particular character except, that we 
have a good prospect of doing something for those who are yet 
in debt for Lands purchased. We shall do the best we can for 
them. In haste, I am with great respect 
Your friend & Humble Servant 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed :] Mr. John Kimberlin New Lexington Scott 
County, Ind. 
Jennings to John Kimberlin 3 
[English Collection] 
Washington City 3 d March 1826 
Mr. John Kimberlin 
D r Sir. 
Enclosed is a written statement by William Selden, Register 
of the Virginia Land office, which will show you that a second 
search has [been] unsuccessful 
It is in my opinion useless to petition Congress, as your 
claim is and was upon the state of Virginia, and the U. States 
is not bound for the acts and doings of any state, nor do I be- 
lieve, indeed I am confident that Congress has no single 
instance, made good the difficulties, between any individual 
and a state, wherein land or other consideration was involved. 
We have no particular news, and am in haste 
very respectfully your friend & Servant 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] Mr. John Kimberlin New Lexington, Ind. 
Jennings to Lemuel Ford 
[Jennings Collection, Indiana State Library] 
Washington May 9th. 1826 
Col: L. Ford 
Dear Sir. 
I shall forward under my frank papers and documents, 
directed to J. Jennings which you will please to retain in your 
office until I shall return to ask for them in person. With my 
best wishes for your welfare I am your friend &C. 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] The Postmaster Charleston Indiana 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington May, 13 th 1826 
Doc. David G. Mitchell 
Dear Sir :- 
Enclosed is a letter from a cousin of yours who is now in 
Congress from Penn 1 
I have suffered, not a little this winter. 
John Mitchell. 
 
The death of my wife in my absence, 1 The wretched con- 
duct of David, who after taking his seat as a member from 
Ohio, has thrown himself away completely, and debased himself 
withal. 2 
The last I heard of him, was that he was in Baltimore, but 
concealed wrote to his Bh. to borrow money, but would not 
reveal his hiding place. 
I have been mortified enough 
Your friend &C. &C. 
Jonathan Jennnings 
Jennings to Editors of Indiana Journal 
[Indiana Journal, June 20, 1826] 
Washington, May 19th, 1826 
Gentlemen — 
We have succeeded, after a very considerable exertion in 
the House of Representatives, in the passage of an act, appro- 
priating fifteen thousand dollars, to enable the President of the 
United States to negotiate with the Miami or other Indian 
tribes, for the extinguishment of Indian title to lands in Indi- 
ana. 3 Your friend, &c. 
Jonathan Jennnings 
Jennings to James B. Ray 4 
[English Collection] 
July 13 th 1826 
His Excellency 
James B. Ray 
D r Sir. 
On my way to Indianapolis, I have met M r Kingsbury who 
 
is an applicant for a renewal of his appointment as District 
prosecuting attorney ; and at his request address you a hasty 
line. 1 
Relative to the qualifications of the applicants I presume to 
spend no opinions ; but I am fully satisfied that several of the 
counties in the Circuit, are quite satisfied with the manner, in 
which M r Kingsbury has discharged his official duties ; and 
under present circumstances, a very considerable dissatisfaction 
will be the result of a change ; and for myself, I have no hesi- 
tation, in giving it as my firm and decided opinion, that no 
change should take place in favour of any individual, under 
present circumstances, unless by such change, the duties of the 
office would be better discharged and more ably; and the public 
interest thereby promoted & advanced. 
With great respect I have the honour 
to be your ob 1 St : 
Jonathan Jennnings 
[Addressed :] His Excellency James B. Ray, Indianapolis, 
Ind. 
Jennings to John Tipton 
[Tipton Papers, Indiana State Library] 
Vernon Aug: 16 th 1826 
Gen 1 Jn° Tipton 
D r Sir 
John H. Scott Esq r contemplates being an applicant for ass 1 
Secretary to the Treaty. 2 He is a young gentleman of re- 
spectabil[it]y, both as to talents, character and qualification 
for the trust he solicits. 
M r Scott however, understands me very distinctly, as taking 
no part, to prefer any one of the applicants for the appointment. 
Any personal civilities you may shew him, will be gratifying 
to your friend & Humble St 
Jonathan Jennings 
I Concur with Gov. Jennings as relates to the quallifications 
of John H. Scott & Should be pleased to See him Succeed. If 
you can give him any assurance direct your line to Madison 
John Vawter 
[Addressed:] General John Tipton J. H. Scott Esq. 
Jennings to David G. Mitchell 
[English Collection] 
Washington Dec r 28 th 1827 
Doc r D. G. Mitchell 
Dear Sir 
Your letter of the 24th. of last month, did not reach [me] 
until this morning. The tidings it brings is painful enough, 
though not altogether unexpected. 
I expect she is now happy, and this is the only consolation 
left to you and her friends, Indeed I have no doubt of it. I 
deeply condole with you and sincerely agree with you that re- 
ligion is no chimera, and wish that I were a subject of its 
influence. I still hope to be. 
I should have been greatly gratified if I could have been 
near my dear Sister. But never more in this world. 
Adieu, your friend sincerely. My love to Ann Mariah. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to William Russell 
[Senate File Cases, 20th Congress, 553] 
House of Rep s Feb y 28 th 1828 
The Hon M r Russell 
Sir. 
The petition that was referred, at my instance, to the Comm : 
on Post offices and Post roads, prayed for the establishment 
 
of a Post Route, from Rushville in the County of Rush, to 
Edinburgh in the County of Johnson ; via Shelbyville in the 
County of Shelby, in the State of Indiana. 
If any doubt shall arise, as to the fact, of any portion of the 
proposed route, being alredy established as a mail route — a 
reference to the Post Master General, will easily remove any 
uncertainty upon the subject. 1 
Very respectfully &c &c 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings, Thomas H. Blake, O. H. Smith, et al. 
to Levi Woodbury 
[Senate Files, 20th Congress, 1775I 
To the Hon. Mr. Woodbury of the Senate 
Chairman of the CoM ee on Commerce, 
The undersigned being informed that the subject has been 
referred to the Committee of which you are the chairman, of 
enquiring into the expediency of appropriating money for the 
improvement of the navigation of the Wabash at the Grand 
Rapids of that river, take the liberty of submitting to the 
Committee for their consideration the following remarks ; — 
The Grand Rapids of the Wabash are below Vincennes 
and something more than a hundred miles from the mouth of 
that river. The navigation is good for steam boats below the 
rapids, and above them for nearly three hundred miles, during 
the greater part of the year, and the Country throughout this 
extent is very fertile and productive, in many places already 
very populous, and generally the inhabitants are rapidly encreas- 
ing. The Town of Terre Haute (one of the flourishing towns 
on this river) lies about 140 miles above Vincennes, is a town 
extensively engaged in mercantile pursuits and in the trade of 
the Country, and its merchants depend almost entirely on the 
river for intercourse with a southern depot or with any point 
on the Ohio to which their merchandize may have been brought 
'An act establishing post roads provided for the one referred to 
here by Jennings. Annals of Congress, 20 Congress, 1 session, p. xli 
(Appendix). 
 
from the Eastern markets. Hundreds of arks or "Kentucky 
boats" annually descend the river from this point loaded with 
pork, corn and whisky, and the undersigned much regret that 
they can not at this time state with precision the amount of the 
exports from this place and its vicinity, as the fact would 
demonstrate the necessity of opening the navigation at this 
point, either with a view to the prosperity of the Country or 
to make the public lands desirable to emigrants. 
When the waters are high, steam boats pass over the rapids 
and ascend the river to Terre Haute and even to the mouth 
of Tippecanoe river, but their officers are always under some 
degree of alarm lest the river should suddenly fall so as to 
prevent their recrossing the rapids and returning to the Ohio. 
The character of this obstruction frightens from us in a great 
measure all descriptions of craft which navigate our waters, and 
it is unquestionably a formidable and ruinous barrier to the 
commerce and improvement of the Country. That the obstruc- 
tion might be removed easily, so far as to give a good and 
sufficient channel for the passage of steam and other boats, 
there can be no doubt. The subject has been under the con- 
sideration of the Legislatures of Indiana and Illinois (for at 
this point the river is the boundary between the two states), 
and Commissioners were once appointed by them, jointly to 
examine and report on the practicability of opening the navi- 
gation at these rapids. This duty was discharged by them, 
and so far as their report is recollected by the undersigned, it 
affords an additional inducement for inviting the attention of 
the government to the important object. The obstruction is 
occasioned by soft, crustaceous rocks extending across and for 
a short distance along the river, and it is believed that the 
judicious expenditure of three or four thousand dollars, if it 
would not fully effect the object, would at least so far improve 
the navigation as to render an important and desirable service 
to the Country at large. 
The undersigned need not advert to the condition of Indiana 
and Illinois when they were admitted into the Union as sov- 
ereign states, — that they were very limited in population, that 
 
their citizens had but little money to contribute for any purpose 
however called for by circumstances, that since that time the 
embarrassment in the Western and North Western Country 
has been general and most sensibly felt, — that these causes have 
precluded those young states from participating in the honor 
of internal improvements upon their own resources. 
The undersigned would most respectfully urge the Com- 
mittee to take this matter into serious consideration, and will 
indulge the hope that their final determination will not be at 
variance with the wishes of the undersigned and of those whom 
they have the honor to represent. 1 
Feby 28 th 1828 
Tho H Blake 
O H Smith 
Jonathan Jennings 
J. B. Thomas 
William Hendricks 
Joseph Duncan 
E K Kane 
Jennings to John Tipton 
[Tipton Papers] 
Washington Feby 6 th 1829 
Gen 1 John Tipton. 
D r Sir. 
I have just received your letter relative to Cass declining, 2 
and the letter from Linton. 3 I will attend to it in due time. 
I enclose you a copy of charges made against you under 
date of the 8 th of December last. At that time, the author 
could not have known who was elected President ; and may- 
have a connexion with the threats, of which you apprized me 
from Indianapolis. They cannot, they will not dismiss you 
without a hearing, and of course the affair will be under the 
new administration. 1 
As you have done, rely on yourself, and as one friend will 
guard against machinery. We have no news, except Gen 1 
Jackson will be here in 6 or 8 days. Your friend sincerely 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to His Constituents 
[Indiana Journal, April 16, 1829] 
To the Citizens of the second Congressional District. 
The third day of the last month terminated the twentieth 
Congress. A very considerable portion of the business of a 
former session was left undisposed of and devolved, as un- 
finished business, upon the deliberations of the session which 
has been lately closed. 
Although the time of the late session was much less occupied 
by protracted and heated debates, than was that of the session 
immediately preceding; yet much business, even of that which 
was arranged as unfinished, was necessarily left undecided for 
want of time. 
Among the subjects which more immediately interest you, 
and which have to await, under the above circumstances, the 
future attention of Congress, are the propositions to give pre- 
emption rights to those who have relinquished lands under 
former relief laws; to graduate and reduce the price of the 
public lands ; to authorize the sale of the lands reserved for the 
use of salt springs, and to vest the same under the direction 
of the legislature, for the sole use and purpose of education ; 
and likewise, the proposition relative to the right of the state 
to the unappropriated lands within its limits. 
 
Although I have never encouraged the belief that any 
further provision would be made, for the relief of those who 
were debtors to the United States for lands purchased after the 
last act passed on this subject, and which expires on the fourth 
day of July next, I am of opinion that after the late message 
of the late president of the United States, that a further time 
ought to be given at the next session of Congress. This, in 
all probability, would have been done at the last session, but 
for the opposition of Mr. Vinton of Ohio, a member of the 
committee on the public lands, against the passage of a bill 
which had passed the Senate for that purpose. But in the 
mean time, every individual debtor to the United States, had 
better use every exertion to adjust and close his account at the 
proper Land Office. 
Those subjects, I trust will meet the early attention of 
Congress at the ensuing session, though the graduation and 
reduction of the price of the public lands, and the right of the 
state to the soil within her limits, cannot be said as yet to have 
met the most gracious reception. 
These last mentioned subjects, so far interfere with each 
other, that if the right of the state, to the soil in question were 
recognized by Congress, the graduation and reduction of the 
price would of course belong to the state and not to Congress. 
On the other hand, the graduation and reduction of price, by 
Congress, and that too as asked for by a memorial of the Legis- 
lature during the pendancy of the claim on the part of the 
state, to the eminent domain, would present, a negative admis- 
sion of the right and power on the part of Congress, to the 
soil itself and to regulate and dispose of the same. These 
subjects will afford matter for much debate in future, on more 
points than one ; while some are of opinion, that the claim of 
soil should not be pressed, until the public debt is extinguished. 
During the last session, besides 100,000 dollars, for the 
extension of the Cumberland road, west of Zanesville Ohio, 
$50,000 were likewise appropriated, for the purpose of taking 
off the timber, eighty feet wide across our state, beginning at 
Indianapolis and proceeding east and west, and further to 
 
improve the road by digging down the banks, and erecting 
bridges, so far as the amount may warrant. The appropriation 
will afford three hundred and thirty-three dollars, thirty-three 
cents per mile, calculating one hundred and fifty miles, as the 
length of the road within our state. 
Thus far Indiana has obtained, a much greater proportion 
of the public resources, in comparison to her population, than 
a large majority of the other states of the Union. Decidedly 
in favor of internal improvement myself, yet some settled sys- 
tem should be adopted, calculated to do equal justice, or we 
may have to meet, conflicts and jealousies among the states, 
calculated to retard a regular progress of the work, and 
operate most injuriously to the harmony and unison of action 
which should be cherished, each towards each other, by the 
states of the Union. 
At another and more leisure time not far distant, I may 
add more on the subject of internal improvement, which has 
heretofore attracted public attention within the limits of 
Indiana. In the mean time, I am most respectfully 
Your obedient servant. 
Jonathan Jennings 
Jennings to John Tipton 
[Tipton Papers] 
Charleston July 25 th 1829 
Dear Sir 
Your letter by M r Gray I received on yesterday, and write 
with the hope that you will receive this before the 13 of next 
month. I cannot visit you this year. I am making arrange- 
ments to move into the country and moreover am short of spare 
cash, having unexpectedly to meet $400. — which I had borrowed 
for Doc r Hay two years ago. 1 
I now detail to you what I give to your confidence and 
alone to your confidence. Soon after the Supreme Court in 
May last, I was asked if I knew of any measures in contem- 
plation to defeat Hendricks in the next election to the Senate, 
and whether I thought of being a candidate To this I replied 
I knew of none, and as to myself I had neither written nor 
made any calculations of being a candidate nor did I intend 
so to do. I was then asked, if I knew whether you did not 
intend to be a candidate. I replied that I had no information 
on that subject whatever. 
Just before M r Gray left here for your Town, I was told 
that Sweetzer said to Howk, 1 that he wanted to put Hendricks 
down. Howk has long disliked Hendricks. Howk replied by 
assenting, if he could elect in the place of Hendricks some 
person to please him, and named me. Sweetzer observed I 
would not do — that the same objection lay to me as to Hen- 
dricks, viz, we were not Jackson-men, and said it must be a 
Jackson man, who with some votes from members of the 
Legislature that were Adams men would defeat Hendricks. 
Sweetzer had just returned from Brookville. I did not intend 
to make this communication so soon, but seeing you are to 
Have the great men of the state with you, my object is that you 
may know, before they arrive. 2 
Take your own course. I have no desire but to remain for 
a time in my present station, and rid myself of pecuniary 
obligations as soon as I can. 
Appearances would indicate, that Noble intends to give 
Hendricks a back-handed blow. 3 
Howk says he has no objections to favour your Canal, so 
far as the lands donated can effect it, but that it would be 
political death to go farther. Morrison the Editor wrote 
against the Canal measure last winter, which I never knew 
until last winter. 1 
In haste your friend sincerely 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] General John Tipton Logansport Indiana 
Via Vincennes and Terre Haute 
Jennings to George Graham 
[General Land Office, M. L. R., Vol. i, p. 910] 
Charleston lN da August 10 th 183 [0] 
Hon George Graham 
Sir. 
I enclose a letter from the Commissioners of the Wabash 
& Erie Canal. It will readily be perceived that, the sales of the 
Canal Lands, in point of time, is fixed by a law of the state, 
and cannot be changed, only by an extra Session of the Legis- 
lature. The sales of the U. States Lands, can be deferred 
without legislative interposition. 
The Department, did not know that the same day, the U. S. 
lands were ordered to be sold, was the same, that the law of 
the state had fixed on for the Sale of the Canal lands. 
I am conscious that the interest of the U. S. and this state, 
would be materially advantaged by deferring the sales of the 
U. S. ; and the former much the more. 
Very respectfully, your Obt: St: 
Jonathan Jennings 
[Addressed:] The Hon: George Graham Commissioner 
of the G. L. Office Washington City 
[Indorsed:] Charleston Ind a 10 th Aug 1830. Hon Jon a 
Jennings. Req. that the sale of the U. S. lands at Crawfords- 
ville may be postponed to Novem r on ace 1 of conflicting with 
the sale of the Wabash & Erie canal lands & enclosing a letter 
from Sam 1 Lewis, Commiss* Sale postponed 
January 4th 1832 
D r Sir 
I reached my Cabin in safety, though quite a disagreeable 
travel. My home business, Mills & Co, not doing well ; and 
have been neccessarily much engaged. 1 
I have not as yet been able to get my Niece from Corydon, 
but will as soon as possible. 
Say to William Graham, that a state Road, or a connection 
of County roads, from Sages Ferry, would best comport with 
his interest of Jackson ; to lead by Carr's and by Bottorf f s mills, 
from the latter is a road to New Albany from the former to 
Jeffersonville. Let it come by Jebulon Collings and Bazil 
Bowells, and then by Established County roads to Carr's, then 
the interest of the Country would be subserved, and individual 
interests preserved. 2 A State that affords not, charts of its 
o[w]n geograph must legislate "as through a glass darkly" 
My respects to Mr. Daniel, with which I charge you — 1 
and am yours &C. &C. &C. 
Jonathan Jennings 
ask Ferguson on his return to get my boots at the Camp Tavern, 
leave at Simonson. 
Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume 
to Lewis Cass 
[Senate File Cases, 23d Congress, 1157] 
Treaty Ground Forks of the Wabash 
Sep r 15, 1832 
The Hon, 
The Secy, of War 
Sir, 
We have received a requistion in our favour for five thou- 
sand dollars on account of the appropriation to carry into effect 
the Act of July 9, 1832 pursuant to requisition No. 2976 of 
the Acting Secretary of War, dated 13 August 1832 counter- 
signed by the second Comptroller of the Treasury, and Reg- 
istered by the second Auditor, and dated the 15. of August 1832 
very Respectfully your 
Obt. sevts. 
Jonathan Jennings 
John W. Davis 
Marks Crume 
Commissioners &c 2 
Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume 
to Lewis Cass 
[By courtesy of Carl A. Ploch] 
Treaty Ground Sept. 15, 1832 
Dlls 15000. 
Sir, 
At sight pay to the order of I. T. Canby, Fifteen Thousand 
dollars under an Act "to enable the President to extinguish 
Indian title within the States of Indiana, Illinois and the Terri- 
tory of Michigan" approved July 9 th 1832, and charge as per 
advice of this date. 
(Original) 
Jonathan Jennings 
John W. Davis 
Marks Crume 
Commissioners &c 
To The Hon. Lewis Cass 
Secty of War 
Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume to 
Lewis Cass 
[Senate File Cases, 23d Congress, 1158] 
Treaty Ground Forks of the Wabash 
Sept 15 th 1832 
Tee Hon Secretary of War 
Sir 
Your letter of the 10 th ult° was this day received, My 
appointment and instructions reached me not until the 30 th of 
July last at Charlestown, and a blank appointment for Anthony. 
L. Davis as Special Commissary signed by John. W. Davis to 
which I affixed my signature, understanding the appointment 
negotiating treaties with the Potawatomi on the Tippecanoe River where 
the Michigan Road crossed it near the present town of Rochester. These 
treaties were signed October 20, 26, and 2j, 1832. The total amount 
appropriated was $20,000. Annals of Congress, 22 Congress, 1 Session, 
pt. 3, p. xxxii (Appendix) ; Barnhart, Henry A. (ed.), An Account of 
Fulton County from its Organization, p. 23 (Dayton, Ohio, 1923). 
 
of A. L. Davis would meet M r Crooms aprobation, We met 
on the 16 th ult. at Indianap s — And then M r Croom being pres- 
ant united in the appointment of A. L. Davis as likewise in the 
Draft drawn in his favour as Commissary for $20,000 and were 
each of them at that time dated accordingly. 
It was not the intention of either of the Commissioners to 
transcend the instructions of the Department but to meet its 
wishes as far as possible in limiting our expenditures. 
The Miame's are nearly assembled and the time for meeting 
the Pottawatomies is fixed. By Drawing for $20,000 we in- 
tended to anticipate the difficulties of realizing the Appro- 
priation, which might occur in our proceedings when money 
might [be] absolutely necessary. Having thus explained the 
previous occurrence relative to our mission, permit the sug- 
gestion that some measure may be taken by the Department to 
arrange the discrepancy that has occured between our course 
and the Department. 
The intention of the Commissioners and their instructions 
to their Commissary were to deposit ten thousand to the credit 
of U. S. to be drawn on as our duty from time to time require. 
And what ever residue of the appropriation might remain to 
advise the Department of the Amount unexpended and subject 
to its orders. 
We expect to consumate both Treaties before the close of 
the next month, and may require the whole appropriation, but 
if not, any ballance that shall be left will be deposited in such 
Bank as the Department shall advise, There is no Bank in this 
State nor are we advised of any in Illinois or Michigan whose 
paper is current in Indiana To avail ourselves of the necessary 
funds therefor and prevent an unavoidable and not less dis- 
agreeable suspension of our duties, we have all ready procured 
money from Doc t I. T. Canby of Crawfordsville Ind a and 
assigned him the drafts for $5,000 drawn by the Secretary of 
the Treasury upon the Cashier of the Bank of the United States 
at Louisville, dated August 16 th and under this date have drawn 
duplicate Drafts on the Department for $15000 in his favour. 
Any advise will be best Rec d Via Fort Wayne to Logansport 
 
Cass County, as the dates the receipts of past communications 
will show. 
With much respect 
Your Obedient Servts 
Jonathan Jennings 
John W. Davis 
Marks Crume 
Commissioners &c 
Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume 
to Lewis Cass 
[Senate File Cases, 23d Congress, 1172] 
Treaty Ground Tippecanoe river 
Oct. 22, 1832 
The Hon : Secy War. 
Sir, Your letter of the 3 rd inst. is before us. Circumstances 
not within our controul have required, and will demand, the 
whole or nearly so, of the appropriation. If possible we will 
reserve a part of the appropriation, and we can say with some 
confidence, have regarded our instructions, and have been 
economical. The whole sum, will we hope be placed subject 
to our drafts, under the assurance of our letter of the 15. ult. 
We are respectfully, 
Sir, your Obt Servt's 
Jonathan Jennings 
J W Davis 
Marks Crume 
Comm rs 
&c &c 
Hon. Lewis Cass 
 
Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume 
to Lewis Cass 
[Senate File Cases. 23d Congress, 1179] 
Treaty Ground Tippecanoe river 
Oct. 22. 1832 
Sir 
We have this day drawn drafts duplicate, upon the Depart- 
ment for ten Thousand dollars, the residue of the appropriation, 
under the Act "9 July 1832" for holding treaties with the 
Indian Tribes, in favour of I. T. Canby 
With great respect 
Your obt Serv'ts 
Jonathan Jennings 
J W Davis 
Marks Crume 
Com TS &c 
The Hon. 
The Secretary of War 