



      


From the New York Spectator.

GENERAL SCOTT'S COMMAND- The visitation which has arrested the efficient movements of a large portion of our little army, under a commander crowned with laurels, won in nobler fields than Indian warfare affords, is melancholy indeed. We shall not say that the settlement of the whites in some parts of the Lead Mine District and other places, where they had no business to intrude, justified Black Hawk and his warriors in their bloody retaliation. Nor will we say that the atrocious policy of our Executive,--tacitly sanctioned by the acquiescence of the nation, and clamorously applauded by the ignorant and the interested, of setting treaties and the solemn decision of the highest tribunal at defiance because it was only

Indians who were to suffer may make the premature discomfiture of our forces, by pestilence, seem in the eyes of the religious a manifest judicial punishment.  We will not say these things, because it would be called cant.  It is however, with sorrow that we state the facts, which we find for the first time, accurately condensed in the Courier and Enquirer of this morning. We quote from that paper.

We are happy to announce the return yesterday of Col. Twiggs to this city, in a state of convalescence. The account which he gives of the ravages of the cholera among the troops and the consequent dispersion of Gen Scott's command, is lamentable.

Col Twiggs' detachment consisted of 203 recruits, and Payne's, Whiting's and Brooks' companies of artillery, making in all 350 rank and file. These men embarked at Detroit on board the steamboat Henry Clay for Chicago, but in consequence of the ravages of the Cholera were landed at Fort Gratiot, which is situated at the outlet of Lake Huron, 80 miles from Detroit. In less that ten days, Dr. Everett, Lieut. Clay, and fourteen of the recruits, died at the Fort. One hundred and fifty-five deserted, of whom it is estimated that at least thirty have died-leaving of the 208 but 39 at the time Col. Twiggs left. Of the three companies of artillery, twenty-six died and twenty deserted. Thus were the 350 of which this command consisted on its arrival at Detroit, reduced to 135 in about 12 days!

Col. Cumming of the 2d Infantry, with Ransom and Hoffman's companies 80 men from Fort Niagara, encamped at Spring Wells, four miles south of Detroit. Of this number twenty-one died and four deserted reducing this detachment to fifty-five.

Col. Crane's detachment of artillery, consisting of 220 men, accompanied by Gen. Scott and his staff, embarked on board the steamboat Shelden Thompson and arrived at Chicago with eighty cases of cholera on board, having lost several soldiers on the passage. At the last accounts nearly all the officers and men had been attacked more or less with the disease, and Lieuts. McDuffie and Gustavus Brown (a graduate from West Point in June last, and not the son of the late Gen. Brown) together with fifty-five privates had fallen victims to the disease.

Capt. Lyon's detachment, consisting of his and Captain Frazer's companies of artillery, (ninety men) left Detroit on board of the steamboat William Penn and had arrived in safety at Machinac.

Major Thompson's detachment, consisting of his and Capt. Cubb's companies of the second infantry eighty men had marched across the country from Detroit, and would probably arrive at Chicago in twelve days.

By a letter which we published on Monday, dated Galena, July 14th, we learn that it was Gen. Scott's intention to march with his command across the country to Fort Armstrong on Rock Island but it will be perceived by the forgoing particulars, that of the 850 men with whom he left here, not to exceed 200 will be in a situation to take the field about 300 having been lost by death and desertions, and more than that number unfitted by disease for active service for months to come. This has terminated the expedition and Black Hawk having in the meantime dispersed his Indians and probably crossed the Mississippi, there is but little reason to believe that he will receive the punishment he merits.




      


DEFEAT OF THE INDIANS.

St. Louis, Aug. 1---By the arrival, last night, of the Steamboat Enterprise, from Galena, letters were received in town giving an account of a battle that was fought by the Mounted Troops under the command of Gen. Dodge and the main body of the Indians, after a close pursuit of one hundred miles. The Indians it appears were making their way towards the Mississippi with the intention of crossing, but being closely pursued they were compelled to incline in the direction of the Wisconsin, with a view of taking refuge on an island in that river, or of crossing first the Wisconsin, and thus gain time sufficient to make a safe retreat across the Mississippi. They were however overtaken at Wisconsin, and after and hour's fighting were completely defeated, and no doubt would have been cut to pieces had not the darkness of night enabled them to escape.- The army is still in pursuit; and from the starved condition of the Indians, they will doubtless be overtaken.

The following letter from Gen. Dodge to Captain Loomis will give particulars of the fight.

CAMP WISCONSIN.

July 22d, 1832.

'We met the enemy yesterday near the Wisconsin river, and opposite the Sac village after a close pursuit for near 100 miles.  Our loss was one killed and eight wounded; from the scalps taken by the Winnebagoes, as well as those taken by the whites, and the Indians carried from the field of battle, we must have killed about 40 of them. The number of wounded is not known; we can only judge from the number killed that many were wounded. From their crippled situation, I think we must overtake them, unless they descend the Wisconsin by water. If you could place a field piece immediately on the Wisconsin that would command the river, you might prevent their escape by water. Gen. Atkinson will arrive at the Blue Mounds on the 24th with the regulars and a brigade of mounted men. I will cross the Wisconsin to-morrow, and should the enemy retreat by land, he will probably attempt crossing some twenty miles above Prairie du Chien; in that event, the mounted men would want some boats for the transportation of their arms, ammunition, and provisions. If you could procure for us some Mackinaw boats, in that event, as well as some provision supplies, it would greatly facilitate our views. Excuse great haste. I am, with great respect, your obedient servant.

(signed) H. DODGE

Col. Comd'g Mich. Mount. Vol.

________________

GALENIAN EXTRA. July 25

News from the Army-a battle has been fought.

Extract of a letter from Dr. Phillico to the Editor pro tem dated Wisconsin Heights, July 22d, 1832.

'The army, including Gen. Henry's brigade of mounted Volunteers, and those from Jo Daviess (sic) and lower counties under Gen. Dodge, arrived here late last evening after a forced march of several days, in close pursuit of the whole band of hostile Indians. Here we overtook them as willing to fight as ourselves. They first endeavored to charge us in front. A line of battle was immediately formed, and the Indians repulsed. About sunset they returned re-enforced and made a most desperate effort to break our lines. But our men stood firmly and compelled the enemy to retreat. They then took possession of a ravine where the grass was so high as to conceal them. As soon as their position was ascertained the order 'CHARGE' was given, and executed with such promptitude and effect, as to again compel them to retire from their stronghold.

'The battle continued for more than one hour.  The heads of the Indians above the grass resembled stumps in a new cleared forest.  We killed three Indians in the pursuit, and we suppose not less than FORTY in battle. I am very happy to state, that we lost but one killed, and eight wounded.

We have been politely favored with the following additional particulars, contained in a letter from Gen. Street, Sub Indian Agent to William Clark, Sup. of Indian Affairs.

'So soon as Gen. Atkinson found the Indians had again eluded his pursuit, ' that they had emerged from the great swamps in which he had been chasing them for several days, and were making their way to the Ouisconsin, he detached Genl's. Dodge and Henry, with 800 picked men, upon their trail; following himself by forced marches with the remainder of his troops. The detachment had the good fortune to come up with the main body of the enemy, armed in order of battle, having selected their ground on the evening of the 21st July, and notwithstanding the troops had made a march of 40 miles that day, it was determined to attack them immediately. Gen. D. with a detachment of mounted men under cover of a ravine, turned the enemy's flank, and, at concerted signal from the flanking party, charged them with his remaining forces in front. The enemy immediately gave way, and fled in great confusion, carrying off many wounded from the ground. Their retreat led through a bottom of high grass, loaded with wet,(it having rained hard nearly six hours) which, with the closing in of night, rendered it prudent to draw off the pursuit. It is believed, that two hours more of daylight would have enabled Gen. Dodge to have completely cut up the enemy. Gen. D. encamped near the field, and moved in search of the enemy early on the 22d; in going about one mile, he came upon their camp, which had been deserted the previous night.- He pursued the trail to the Ouisconsin, about 40 miles west of the portage, where he discovered that the whole body of the hostile Indians had crossed to the north bank.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA,Aug. 25, 1832

CHEROKEE NATION

22d August, 1832

MR. ELIAS BOUDINOT,- Having understood that your successor in the editorial department is not yet appointed, and that consequently you have yet a claim to publish any communication upon the affairs of our common country that a citizen may write, I hope you will excuse the liberty I take in addressing this to you. Having no claim to wisdom or learning; and no pretension to wealth, this comes from an humble individual who resides in a little log hut daubed with mud, covered with clapboards, and having no other flooring, where I write than the solid earth, for which our ancestors have fought and bled in days past, and for which our chiefs have recently maintained a long and expensive controversy with the Georgians in their own courts and the S. Court of the United States, where their labors have been crowned with the greatest intellectual victory ever recorded in the annals of the aborigines of America!

Poor as I am in the world, the attachment I feel for my natal spot, for the forest shades under which I played in boyhood, and the springs of water where I have quenched my thirst, and the crystal streams in which I have bathed my limbs, for my patch of corn and little orchard I have planted,- and above all the right of having my own chiefs, and my own color to pass laws for me in my own language (the Cherokee) is very great. It is therefore with feelings of great distress that I have read your letter of resignation, in which you state there is now no hope of relief, and that the people of America are now silent about us poor Indians. My children often, in their innocence and ignorance, ask me, who the Georgians are and whether they would kill us for our lands, and what I wept for? O gracious Father in heaven, has it come to this? Are we left to the mercy of a haughty people who rob us every day? Has the broad shield of the United States been withdrawn, and will not Gen. Jackson pity us and execute the laws not declared to be constitutional by the S. Court? Will not Congress make him do it? Where is the eloquence of our friends and have they also despaired? Have a number of them addressed a letter directed to Maj. Ross, on this subject, and has one of the associate judges of the Supreme Court done the same?

I believe that you are the friend of the poor and ignorant, and that you have told us the truth--harshly as that sounds in my  ears I respect you for it. You are indeed our friend-your acts have shown it and we know it. I am one of those who love the chiefs and believe that they are good men and true, and that sooner than submit the freedom of our people into the hands of whites, they would walk and carry us through a fiery furnace to a place where our people may be free. It is for that we live and are wiling yet to live in this cruel world.

I have not yet seen in print Mr. Ross' message to the council at Red Clay, and I do not know what are his views and hopes of the re-adjustment of our rights, if he has any, and the reasons of his hopes, and upon what they are founded? Why do you not publish this message, if it is conciliatory-the people ought to have it.  But if I may judge from his proclamation of the 3d July on the subject of a fast, humiliation and prayer upon the crisis of our affairs, I should presume he too had no comfort. He says in that message, 'Where as, the crisis in the affairs of this nation exhibits the day of tribulation and sorrow, and the time appears to be fast hastening when the destiny of this people must be healed,' 'c. Then indeed if it would do good I could weep tears of fire, because my heart is in a flame!

The deep foundations of this U. States have been laid upon the anti-human policy of Europe, which issued charters to cover our lands in usurpation.--The Anglo-Americans have carried out this usurpation and have cherished their Republicanism and Christianity upon the blood ' smoking ruins of the Indians! To satisfy the avidity of these pale faces what have we not done? We have relinquished province after province in vain. Has the tomahawk saved us? No. Has the pipe of peace smoked with them in council saved us?  No. Have civilized and Christianity (for we have tried them) saved us? Let the slaughtered Indians at Muskingum rise from their ashes and answer. Let our own dear Missionaries in the walls of the Penitentiary, Yes, let the whole Cherokee Nation answer, NO!

It has been said by some that the chiefs care not for us, and that when the Nation falls to pieces they will save themselves upon choice reservations and become citizens of the U. S. and let us common Indians shift for ourselves, to die like the wounded deer in the wilderness of the West. I do not believe it. For patriotism they may well stand by the ancient sages of Greece and Rome, because they have all along resisted temptation, ably thrown in the path at various times and ways.

When we have tested the U. S. all we can when we are ready, I trust and believe we will take our women and children and go to the verge of the globe, on the shores of the Pacific, and there raised up our own standard, kindle up our own council fire ' leap out of this accursed state of pupilage under such guardians, and make of ourselves a foreign Nation, or gloriously die in the attempt.

ROCKY MOUNTAIN.

_______

* We have not yet been favored with a copy of the Message to which our correspondent alludes.-- We shall publish it whenever it comes our way, although we believe, it contains no assurances or statements which will carry gladness into the hearts of our afflicted people.--Ed.

_____________________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

RIGHTS OF THE CHEROKEES

Liberty in its most general signification is said to be a power to do as one thinks fit unless restrained by the laws of the land: and that the right in this liberty, being so invariably advocated by human nature it must be assumed, to be the grandest gift of God to all mankind at their creation. The liberty emanating as it does from the first cause of all things is to be termed the great law of nature. Man considered as aa free agent, the right is absolute; it is inherent; it being the gift of God at his creation. The common conceived opinions that mankind throughout the world in similar circumstances are alike, is true; but it consists chiefly in the pursuit of happiness, the progress of the mind; and the cultivation of science. But that it is also alike, in the decreped and in all the intermediate to the transcendent circumstances of mankind is likewise conspicuously true. The love of country and liberty in the mind of the savage is as strong as it is in that of Henry Clay or John Randolph. I must not philosophize in this debatable question but advert to the circumstances of the Cherokees as an instance to show where the love of country and liberty continue as sacred now, although not enjoyed, situated as they are under the wretched thraldom of Georgia, as it was before Columbus saw his first day, and appreciated not less than King George to his throne, or the British to his crown.  The natural rights of mankind when they form themselves into a community, for the mutual benefit, consists first, in a liberty to ordain such rules for the conduct of its members, as will conduce to their happiness. Secondly, a right to a country on which to exercise this liberty. They are reciprocal rights, one cannot exist without the other.- This I conceive to be the primary rights of man, and to which all mankind are justly and naturally entitled to. These rights the Cherokees have from time immemorial enjoyed, and when the arm of the United States in its rapid growth, reached and came in contact with these natural rights of the Cherokees, it wisely stayed its hand, and the bravest and the wisest recognized these rights and guarantied them by compacts.  But in the year 1828 a new government of the United States found itself in the hands of President Jackson, whose former compacts were considered as mist in the wind, and its plighted faith as putrid air. The Intercourse Law too, enacted to sustain these very rights was discovered by the President to mean nothing so long as he thought proper, and that the states had all the rights and the Indians had none. The Cherokees have been denationalized in Georgia, not by the supreme law of the land, but by the new casuistry which has induced Georgia to proceed into measures prepared for the destruction of our rights, and to consummate a Spanish act, if not rescinded, will be recorded by the future historian with a trembling hand. The rights of the Cherokees have been recognized by the Supreme Court of the United States, it is the supreme law of the land, and when the President finds himself again possessed of sufficient power to destroy this law he will on the other hand be preparing a gulf of anarchy into which his own government will fall.

Let us then continue to rely on the virtue of the American institutions, and as we have in all our calamities sustained our national virtues, let us anticipate that the virtues of the Americans as a nation, and at which we have looked to for our welfare, will finally prevail and relieve the Cherokees from their protracted and suffering condition.

CHEROKEE.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Sept. 1, 1832

'Lo the poor Indian!' In our first remarks on the Indian War now raging at the North West we said the sentence had gone out, and destruction and utter extermination must follow those poor people, who had taken arms in desperation, to defend, what they no doubt considered to be their rights. We founded our remarks upon the feeling existing in the community towards the Indians-the deep rooted hostility, which needs only a single pretext to arouse it to action. Although he knew that one Indian after another has been murdered with impunity, and such murders are considered by not a few as doing God's service, yet we also knew it was sufficient that only one white man was taken off in retaliation to arouse the whole country in arms, and cut off the accursed race from the face of the earth.

When we spoke of the sentence having gone out, we little thought that it had actually gone forth formally, and from the highest officer of the Government. We do hope and trust Gen. Street, the Indian Agent, has misrepresented the feelings of the President.- But if he has not, and he certainly meant his Indian hearers should believe what he said, then Gen. Jackson 'loves his red children' with a vengeance. Read the following, and weep and blush, ye who admire the mild precepts of your blessed religion, and religion acknowledged by your rulers and agents who will kill the Indians if they cannot reclaim them!

_______________________

An Indian talk was held at Prairie du Chien on the 22d June, by Gen. Street, Indian Agent, with the Sioux, who declined going any further in pursuit of the Sacs and Foxes and turned back, but leaving Col. Hamilton and his detachment with whom they started.

It appears that General Street demanded the reason of their leaving the army, and not receiving satisfactory answers, sharply reproves them. But that part of the 'talk' to which I wish particularly to call our attention is continued in the following extract.* *   *   * *   *  * *  *   * *  *  * *  * * * *

After telling the Indians how much Gen. Jackson loves them, and how much he has tried to reclaim them, he says-

'He will now forbear no longer. He has tried to reclaim them, and they grow worse. He is resolved to sweep them from the face of the earth. They shall no longer trouble his children. If they cannot be made good, they must be killed. They are now separated from their friends and country, and he does not intend to let one return to trouble him again. He directed me no longer to restrain you from war.

'It was not that your Great Father wanted help from you that I told you to go to war. It was to give you an opportunity to revenge your slaughtered friends. Your Father has penned those Indians up, and means to kill them all; and had you remained, you would have seen how his white children rush upon and kill their enemies. He does not ask you to help him, but if you want revenge go and take it.  This is what I said to you. And I now repeat, it you want to kill the murderers of your friends and families, go now and do it; for your Great Father has devoted these Indians to death. He cannot reclaim, and he will kill them.'

Let the people of this civilized and Christian land read the above. May they not tremble for our country, when such language is held by an authorized agent of the President of the United States?




      


From the Philadelphian.

Volume 1, SIT TO THE CHEROKEES ON THE ARKANSAS

Extract of a letter to the Rev. E. S. Ely, dated

LITTLE ROCK, July 3d 1832

Dear Brother, I have just returned from a visit to the Cherokees on the Arkansas, the circumstances of which have been so novel and interesting that while writing to you I cannot but communicate a few of them. That part of the road which passes south of the Arkansas River, leads through a country in many places exceedingly delightful. It is intersected with numerous prairies, some of which are about the size of an ordinary plantation, while others are several miles in extent. The beauty of these great natural meadows of the west far exceeds description.  Instead of presenting to the eye a monstrous plain of unknown extent, like some I have seen, these are undulating and diversified. Hills rise and valleys intervene. At this season they are all covered with a mantle of the richest green, while flowers, countless in variety and most beautiful in their color are scattered in endless profusion. Here and there at unequal distances is frequently seen a low and branching tree covered with a dark foliage, planted by the God of nature, to refresh for a season the weary traveller, and protect him from the burning rays of a summer's sun. At other times you see a beautiful, small grove, with intertwining branches covering a small spot of ground, and no others growing near. Again you see a row of trees extending for many a mile, generally following the meanderings of some narrow brook. And from the midst of this enchanting scenery you often descry at an unknown distance, the summit of some lofty mountain rising half viewless, above the dim horizon.

But like every other part of our sinful world, these lovely spots have their inconveniences and annoyances. The rose is not without surrounding thorns. One of the greatest annoyances in the prairies at this season is occasioned by an insect call the prairie fly. This insect is nearly as large as common bee. Some have black ' some green heads. In some of the larger prairies as soon as a horse enters, they rise like a swarm of bees and alight on the animal as if famished for his blood. The most gentle horse becomes frantic, and either makes his way to the nearest wood, or falls and rolls and rages until overcome by exertions and loss of blood he dies. To prevent this, travellers when they come near the edge of a prairie, at particular seasons are obliged to encamp during the day, and wait until the shades of night have reposed these merciless assailants when they can proceed with safety.

Another inconvenience arises from the vacancy of surrounding objects. The eye stretches onward and all around, but in some places, for many miles, all is empty space. an occasional tree at a distance affords but little satisfaction to the craving vision. It is like being on the vast ocean in an open boat. The eye at last becomes languid, and wearied for want of some object on which to rest. I have sometimes after riding in them for several hours, experienced most painful sensations from the cause now mentioned. And it is asserted that there have been many instances of Indians having irrecoverably lost their eye sight while attempting to cross the great western prairie reaching towards the Rocky mountains, which is several hundred miles across. How little do we think of the wisdom of the great Creator, even in the irregularities of his works.

After I had left these timberless regions, and had travelled many a lonely mile in the deep forest on the north side of Arkansas, I came to a spot still more interesting. On the eastern side of a hill and near its base, there is a level of several acres in a semicircular form bounded by a steep descent. It seems, as if formed for no ordinary purpose. On this level are two rows of neatly constructed log buildings. And in these reside the devoted and zealous missionaries to the Cherokees.

The state of the mission is at this time peculiarly prosperous. For a number of months there has been a glorious work of the Holy Spirit in progress, both in the schools and among the natives in various parts of the Nation.  More than fifty are already hopeful subjects of grace, and a still greater number are inquiring the way to Zion with their faces thitherward. The day after I arrived, I accompanied the Rev. Mr. Washburn to an appointment for preaching a few miles distant from New Dwight. The meeting was held in a new house neatly built by a Cherokee for a dwelling. Here in a little while a respectable congregation assembled for Divine service.  All were Cherokees excepting one or two.  They were decently and neatly dressed; they seated and conducted themselves with the utmost propriety and respect. A more interesting assembly I never saw. Here sat the hoary headed warrior, not to deliberate on schemes of cruelty and deeds of blood, here sat the little child, not to hear the traditions of savage forefathers but to listen to the story of the cross. Before service commenced, they were asked to sing a hymn in their own language, which they without hesitation commenced, each one holding a hymn book printed in the Cherokee characters. I can say with the strictest truth, I never listened to vocal music more melodious or so much adapted to effect the heart. The tones were delightful, while association of ideas no doubt did much.  Some of their voices had no distant period aided in raising the horrid whoop of war, or contributed to encourage the dance of revelry; now they swell with the names of a Savior in songs of salvation. After they had sung, I preached to them through an interpreter. All were attentive and solemn, and some affected to tears.  After sermon, Br. Washburn called on one of them to pray, which he did in his own language apparently with great solemnity and propriety




      


Among the Oneida Indians. A letter from a gentleman, whose correspondents in Albany, dated Vernon, August 2, 1832 says:'The cholera has made its appearance among our Oneida Indians. Two cases; pronounced cholera by our Health Officer, terminated fatally in one day.  There had been three deaths previously that are believed to have been cholera, but at the time the Health Officer was first called, there was no sickness among the Indians. He reported that the previous deaths were occasioned by  intemperance and exposure. These Indians held a council today, and will probably petition the state for relief by way of an advance of their annuity. In the meantime, contributions for them are going on by the citizens, the most most forward of whom is Mr. Gerrit Spaith, of Peterborn.'




      


Among the Oneida Indians. A letter from a gentleman, whose correspondents in Albany, dated Vernon, August 2, 1832 says: 'The cholera has made its appearance among our Oneida Indians. Two cases; pronounced cholera by our Health Officer, terminated fatally in one day.  There had been three deaths previously that are believed to have been cholera, but at the time the Health Officer was first called, there was no sickness among the Indians. He reported that the previous deaths were occasioned by intemperance and exposure. These Indians held a council today, and will probably petition the state for relief by way of an advance of their annuity. In the meantime, contributions for them are going on by the citizens, the most most forward of whom is Mr. Gerrit Spaith, of Peterborn.'




      


Battle with the Indians.- The St. Louis Times of the 11th inst. contains a detailed account of a battle, between the United States troops, under the immediate command of Gen. Atkinson and the Indians, in which the latter were completely defeated, with the loss of 160. Our loss in killed and wounded was 27. The battle lasted onwards of three hours. About 50 Indians, women and children were taken prisoners, and many were killed by accident.

________________

An officer now on the expedition against the Indians after describing the awful effect of the Cholera among the troops observes- 'Thus we see that this part of the expedition is strewed like chaff, by a blast of the pestilence. It is an illustration of the displeasure of the Almighty at our treatment of that poor starved race of beings, whom our injustice drives to madness.'




      


MISCELLANEOUS.

INDIAN TALK.

The substance of a Talk held at Prairie du Chien, 22 June, 1832 by Gen. STREET, Indian Agent, with the SIOUX, who turned back after starting with Colonel Hamilton to join the army commanded by General Atkinson.

GEN. STREET- I wish to know why you have left the army? Heretofore, under the instructions of your Great Father, the President, I have endeavored to keep peace between all his red children. When your friends were killed by the Sacs and Foxes, I advised you not to revenge: your Great Father would see justice done. That all the Indians were alike under his protection; who, as the Father of all, desired to see them live in peace and harmony. The Sacs and Foxes had behaved bad (sic); they had killed several Indians of different nations; but the President was desirous to keep peace, and urged them to wait, and he would have justice done.  H wished to show the Indians how much better and happier they would be if they could live in peace as brothers, than in a state of war, one revenging his friend today, and the other retaliating the next. This would be an endless war, where the nations could feel no security. Your Great Father wanted you to learn to seek justice and not revenge. When a murder was committed, to give up the murderer, and let him be punished as an example to deter other Indians from like offenses.

Your Great Father feels towards his red children as you feel towards yours. He does not want to kill, but reclaim them, and make them good. When they ever and are bad, he chastises them; and if they can be he will make them good. But when you revenge the innocent are more frequently killed than the guilty. You make no distinction between virtue and crime and good and bad. This is not right. And your father wants to save you from the horrors attending upon retaliation; unite you in love and restrain you from retaliation, or revenge.

This is the reason I was directed to restrain you from war, that he might interpose and bring about a lasting peace between all his red children. If that was once the case you would be much happier and in security. Now you are in danger when you lie down at night of being murdered before the morning or rising to see your families butchered around you. As yet, the unruly and vengeful passions of the Indians have defeated these humane intentions from effecting the desired object, and saving the effusion of blood amongst his red children. Still you Great Father has forborne to use force, until the Sacs and Foxes have dared to kill some of his white children. He will now forbear no longer. He has tried to reclaim them, and they grow worse. He is resolved to sweep them from the face of the earth. They shall no longer trouble his children. If they cannot be made good they must be killed.  They are now separated from their friends and country and he does not intend to let one return to trouble him again.  And he directed me no longer to restrain you from war. And I said go and be revenged of the murderers of your friends, if you wish it.  If you desire revenge, you have permission to take it. I will furnish you arms, ammunition and provisions, and here is the man who is sent to conduct you to the enemy. Follow him. (Colonel Hamilton) and he will lead you to the murders of the Winnebagoes. the Minominies and the Sioux. With one accord you desired to go to war, and appeared bent on full satisfaction for your accumulated wrongs and injuries.  You raised the war song and were borne on your way upon the bosom of the Father of waters, under the conduct of Colonel Hamilton. He led you into the country infested by Sacs and Foxes and when in striking distance of your enemy, you mangled the dead bodies of eleven Sacs killed by the warriors of your Great Father, the day before your arrival, and you turned about and came back to this place. You have neither seen or made an effort to see the Sacs and Foxes. After coming two or three hundred miles for revenge your murdered friends and relations and the murderers are before you, you turn and come home without striking a blow. Why is this.  To me your conduct is strange. I cannot comprehend it and want you to explain the reasons that have influenced you to so disgraceful of course. Your own, and the reputation of your nation are at stake.  Consider what you have done, and what you now ought to do, to redeem the honor of your tribe. Answer me truly; why have you returned and what do you intend to do?

The Sioux chief Lare, (a half Winnebago) said-

My Father. We had a little piece of land over there (pointing west of the Mississippi,) which we wanted to keep for hunting. But you gave us a great deal of trouble about it. We live by our Father there, (pointing to Mr. Rolette, the trader,) and he told us he wanted Rats, and not Scalps. The Sacs and Foxes would not let us hunt on this land, and killed our people. You told us to let them alone, and leave it to our Great Father, and he would settle the quarrel. We wanted to go to war, but you would not let us. and now the land is not ours, and what have we got for it?

The Sacs and Foxes have now begun to kill white people, and you say, go to war, and take your revenge. We came to do so, and you sent us with a little man, (Col. Hamilton) and said he will conduct you to a great Chief, who has many men, and some on horses; he will show you the Sacs and Foxes. We followed him a great way over large wagon roads that were very hard, and our moccasins are worn out, and our feet sore; we can walk no further. Yet we have seen but very few men and horses. The people were not there.- We saw desolated houses, and some places where houses had been burned, and white people killed and left, but no large body of people to help us fight. We were led to a fort (Fort Hamilton) where there were not many people, and we had served until we were tired-we did not want to go any further.  We have seen no large army as you said we would.- The man (Col. Hamilton) whom you sent with us did not use us well, and we turned and came back to you.

Father. We saw a man with much beard, (Gen. Dodge) who had killed eleven Sacs-he is a brave man, and there are brave men along with him, but they are very few. The Sacs and Foxes have killed a great many white men, and are still killing them.  More than a hundred have been killed already, and there are not many more.

Gen. Street. You have now answered the principal inquiry I made of you. What brought you back and do you mean to return? If you are tired, some can ride, as these white men (Cpts. Estes nd James) are going to take horses for Gen. Dodge. He will show you the large army I told you was on Rock River. You did not go far enough to see it. I know of all the white people that have been killed. Some person has told you lies about the numbers.  This though makes no difference with your Great Father; he has a great many white children and when some are killed he sends more.

It was not that your Great Father wanted help from you, that I told you to go to war. It was to give you an opportunity to revenge your slaughtered friends.  Your Father has penned these Indians up, and he means to kill them all; and had you remained you would have seen how his white children rush upon and kill their enemies. He does not ask you to help him; but if you want revenge go and take it. This is what I said to you. And now repeat-if you want to kill the murderers of your friends and families go now and do it; for your Great Father has devoted these Indians to death. He cannot reclaim, and he will kill them.

What I said, was to explain to you how you came to go down, and to remind you of your great anxiety to go against the Sacs and Foxes. I do not mean to take any notice of any part of what you have said, except what related to this business. I want a direct answer. What brought you back and what do you intend to do?

Lare. Our feet are sore, and our moccasins worn out; we want to see our families. We have come thus far, and I think we shall continue on home. Six of our people have remained with the little man (Col. H.), some went by Galena for our canoes, three of these who went to Galena have just arrived. They say the white people will not let them have the canoes and have detained the rest of the Indians.

Father. We want you to write to the white people to let our friends come back, and give us our canoes.

General Street. When I first sent to you, I thought you were men, and wanted to revenge your murdered friends. You had complained of the Sacs and Foxes murdering your friends and being prevented by me from retaliating, and I was willing to give you an opportunity to take your revenge. I gave you liberty to go, and showed you a man to conduct you. I put arms in your hands, and gave you provisions and ammunition, and you have gone within striking distance, and come back, and say you are on your way home.

Your stay is not true. These gentlemen who sent by me, are some of General Dodge's men, they were at the place when you arrived, and came down since you left.  You were kindly treated, and provisions are plenty and were issued to you freely. They also add that you said you came to get new moccasins and would return in a few days. Your complaints are untrue-they are made to excuse your coming. You have not hearts to look at the Indians who murdered your friends and families. Go home to your squaws, and hoe corn- you are not fit to go to war. You have not courage to revenge your wrongs. Your Great Father knows how to right his wrongs, and is able to do it without your help. I gave you an opportunity to revenge yourselves, but you are afraid.

Yesterday one of you gave me his left hand and said-'my other hand is stained with the blood of the Sacs and Foxes.'-  It was untrue; yours was a bloodless campaign. Some of you may have mangled the dead bodies of the Sacs killed by General Dodge and his brave men with him (who know how to kill Indians,) the day before you reached the army. You have not seen or endeavored to see a live Sac or Fox.

Your Great Father gives you some flour and pork to eat-you have no stomachs for war. Go home to your squaws and hoe corn, and never again trouble your Great Father with your anxiety to go to war.

Your canoes shall be returned. Leave here as soon as possible, and if any of you are found drunk, you will be put into confinement.

__________

Note In justice to Mr. Rollette, the Trader alluded to by the Indians, he immediately explained to me, that he did use such language to the Indians; but it was several months previous, when he knew I was endeavoring to prevent the Indians from going to war.

JOS. M. STREET.




      


On last June 7th Michael Waters and Johnson Foreman were appointed as executors of the estate of George Waters, deceased in Ahmohee District, after giving necessary bonds, required by law of the executor.

Therefore all persons indebted to the said estate are required by law to come froward and make payments within 12 months from the 16th of June. Also all persons having claims against the estate are required to come forward and present their claims with the above mentioned time.

MICHAEL WATERS

JOHNSON FOREMAN




      


INDIANS

FROM THE SEAT OF WAR.

General Atkinson and Black Hawk

The following account is from the Calentan and is verified by the passengers on board the boat.

AUGUST 6- Having just returned from the war, we have it in our power to report some cheering intelligence.

The whole army under Gen. Atkinson, embracing the brigades commanded by Gen'ls Henry, Posey, and Alexander; and squadron under command of General Dodge, all crossed over to the north side of the Ouisconsin at Helena on the 28th and 29th ult. They took up a line of march in a northerly direction, in order to intersect the Indian trail. At the distance of about five miles the great trail was discovered, leading in a direction N. of W. towards the Mississippi, and supposed to be about four days old.

Gen. Atkinson seeing the direction of the enemy, knew well that it would require all diligence and expedition to overtake them before they would cross the Mississippi, and hence commenced from that time a forced march; leaving all baggage wagons, and everything else which was calculated to retard the pursuit.

The country through which the enemy's trail led our army, between the Ouisconsin Bluffs and the Kickapoo River, was one continued series of mountains. No sooner had they reached the summit of one high and almost perpendicular hill than they had to descend on the other side equally steep to the base of another.  Nothing but a deep ravine with muddy banks, separated these mountains. The woods, both upon the top of the highest mountains, and at the bottom of the deepest hollows, was of the heaviest growth. The under bushes were chiefly thorn, and prickly ash. This is a short description of the route, and shows the difficulties of the pursuit. Notwithstanding all this, our army gained on the enemy daily as appeared from their encampments. The tedious march thus continued was met by our brave troops without murmur; and as the Indian signs appeared more recent, the officers and men appeared more anxious to push on. On the fourth night of our march from Helena, and at an encampment of the enemy, was discovered an old Sac Indian by our spies, who informed them that the main body of the enemy had on that day gone to the Mississippi, and intended to cross on the next morning Aug. 2d. The horses being nearly broke down, and the men nearly exhausted from fatigue, Gen. Atkinson ordered a halt for a few hours (it being after 8 o'clock) with a determination to start at 2 o'clock for the Mississippi about ten miles distant. At the precise hour, the bugles sounded, and in a short time all were ready to march.

Gen. Dodge's squadron was honored with being placed in front, the infantry followed next, Gen. Henry's brigade next; Gen. Alexander's next, and Gen. Posey's formed the rear guard.

Gen. Dodge called for and soon received 20 volunteer spies to go ahead of the whole army.

In this order the march commenced. They had not, however gone more than 5 miles, before one of our spies came back announcing their having come in sight of the enemy's picket guard. He went back and the intelligence was quickly conveyed to Gen. Atkinson then to all  commanders of the brigades and the celerity of the march was instantly increased. In a few minutes more the firing commenced at about 500 yards ahead of the front of the army, between our spies and the Indian picket guard.

The Indians were driven by our spies from hill to hill, and kept up a tolerably brisk firing from every situation commanding the ground over which our spies had to march, but being charged upon and routed from their hiding places, they sought safety by retreating to the main body on the bank of the river and joining in one general effort to defend themselves there or die on the ground.

Lest some might escape by retreating up or down the river, Gen. Atkinson very judiciously ordered Gen. Alexander and Gen. Posey to form the right wing of the army, and march down to the river above the Indian encampment on the bank, and then move down. Gen. Henry formed the left wing and marched into the trail of the enemy. The U. S. infantry and Gen. Dodge's squadron of the mining troops marched in the center.

With this order our whole force descended the almost perpendicular bluff, and came into a low valley heavily timbered, with a large growth of under brush, weeds and grass. Sloughs, deep ravines, old logs, 'c. were so plentiful as to afford every facility for the enemy to make a strong defence.

Gen. Henry first came upon them and commenced a heavy fire, which was returned by the enemy. The enemy being routed from their first hiding places, sought others.  Gen. Dodge's squadron and the U. States troops soon came into action, and with Gen. Henry's men, rushed into the strong defiles of the enemy, and killed all in their way, except a few who succeeded in swimming a slough of the Mississippi, 150 yards wide. During this time, the brigades of Gen. Alexander and Posey were marching down the river, when they fell in with another part of the enemy's army and killed and routed all that opposed them.

The battle lasted upwards of 3 hours. About 50 of the enemy's women and children were taken prisoner and many by accident were killed in battle.

When the Indians were driven to the edge of the Mississippi, some hundreds of them, women and children, plunged into the river, and hoped by diving, 'c. to escape the bullets of our guns; very few, however, escaped our sharpshooters.

The loss on the side of the enemy never can be exactly ascertained, but according to the best computation, they must have lost in killed upwards of 160. Our loss in killed and wounded was 27.

Some had crossed the river before our arrival, and we learn by a prisoner, that Black Hawk, while the battle waxed warm, had stolen off, and gone up the river on this side. If he did, he took nothing with him, for his valuables, many of them, together with certificates of good character and of his having fought bravely against the United States during the last war, 'c. signed by British officers, were found on the battle ground.

It is the general impression in the army and at this place, that the Sacs would be glad to conclude a peace on almost any terms we might propose.

On the morning of the 4th inst, a party of Sioux came to our camp and begged permission to go on the back trail and have a fight with them. On the same day our whole army started to go down to Prairie du Chien (about 40 miles) and wait further orders.

Gen. Atkinson, accompanied by Gens. Dodge and Posey, with a U. States infantry arrived at the Prairie on the evening of the 4th on board the steamboat Warrior, and will remain until the mounted volunteers arrive.

The Winnebagoes of Prairie du Chien are daily bringing in Sac prisoners and scalps.

On the same day; a party of 15 men from Casville, under command of Capt. Price were reconnoitering the country between that place and the Wisconsin, and fell upon a fresh Sac trail making towards the Mississippi. They rushed with full speed of horses and soon came upon them, and killing and taking prisoners to the number of 12.

Gen. Scott and staff left here this morning for Prairie du Chien on the steamboat Warrior, to join Gen. Atkinson.




      


Indian Emigration.-- We publish below the law of the United States for the appointment of Commissioners to superintend the emigration of Indians, 'c.  The power granted by this act to the Commissioners are very large. The gentlemen appointed by the President are, Mr. Roberts Vaux of Philadelphia, well known in every philanthropic undertaking; Mr. Carrol, formerly Governor of Tennessee, and Mr. Stokes formerly Governor of North Carolina.

An act to provide for the appointment of three Commissioners to treat with the Indians, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled; That the President shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint three Commissioners, who shall visit and examine the country set apart for the emigrating Indians, west of the Mississippi River; and shall when it is necessary, enter into negotiations with them for the adjustment of any difficulties which may exist in the location of the lands of the emigrating Indians in the boundaries thereof. Such commissioners shall also ascertain and report the proper places of location of such of the tribes and portions of tribes, as may yet wish to remove to that country, and shall transmit to the War Department all the information they can procure respecting its climate, soil, and capacity to support the number of Indians who will probably remove to and reside in it.

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, that the said commissioners shall be authorized to convene together such of the tribes as may be in a state of hostility, or as may be apparently disposed to commit, or may have committed depredations or aggressions against others, and to endeavor to arrange the difficulties between them so that the protection promised to the emigrating Indians by the sixth section of the act of May twenty-eighth, one thousand eight hundred and thirty, may be secured to them

Sec. 3. And be it further enacted. That the said Commissioners shall also report to the War Department a plan for the improvement; government and security of the Indians.

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the said Commissioners shall inquire into the mode in which the business of emigration has been conducted, and report any changes which would render the same more economical or better adapted to the comfort and condition of the Indians.

Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That in the discharge of their duties, the said Commissioners shall be regulated by such instructions as they may receive from the War Department.

Sec. 6. And be it further enacted. That twenty thousand dollars be appropriated for the purpose of carrying the provisions of this act into effect, and the same is appropriated to be paid out of the money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That this act shall be in force for the term of two years, and no longer.

Approved July 14, 1832

Henry L. Ellsworth of Connecticut has been appointed one of the Commissioners to superintend the removal of emigrating Indians, in the place of Roberts Vaux, who declines the appointment.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, Sept. 8, 1832

The Editorial department of the Cherokee Phoenix having been relinquished by the resignation of Mr. Elias Boudinot, the authorities of the Nation have authorized and appointed the undersigned to perform that delicate and responsible trust as the future Editor of this paper.

In entering upon the duties assigned by this appointment, it is due to the public to state that in succeeding the former respectable and highly gifted Editor, ' having discharged his duties with the ability, and firmness which have sustained the great rights of the Cherokee people, sanctioned by the approval of an intelligent public, it is with no ordinary feeling of diffidence and incompetency that I enter upon the arduous duties of conducting the Editorial department, which shall have for its primary object the maintenance of the rights of the Cherokees, the diffusion of knowledge and science, that will meet with a similar approbation of the public mind.

The literary acquirements which is essentially requisite at all times to enable an Editor to furnish subjects written to a style of language that shall meet the taste of its readers, the undersigned would make no pretensions.

The principles by which I shall be governed in the publication of this paper shall be that contained in the prospectus, issued by the former Editor, at the commencement of this paper.

To our home readers it is necessary to inform them, that the former Editor together with his assistant found it impossible to comply with the prospectus, ' after repeated and laborious efforts made for furnishing the requisite quantum of matter in the Cherokee language, the labor of these men were inadequate to prepare materials sufficient for that part of the paper so anxiously looked for by our Cherokee readers.  To this deficiency the present Editor can promise no improvement. However, difficult as the labor may be in this part of the paper, the Editor promises to publish as much Cherokee as he can prepare, apart from his other labors.

In assuming the duties as Editor of the paper, no efforts on my part shall be withheld to maintain the merit at which it had arrived during the labor of its former Editor. The undersigned would therefore desire of those friendly persons who have patronized the Cherokee Phoenix to continue their subscriptions, and to the public generally he would respectfully solicit an increased patronage.

ELIJAH HICKS.

We publish in another part of this paper an act passed by the late Congress of the United States for the appointment of three Commissioners to visit the Western Indians, together with those who have emigrated thereto in order to the establishment of certain boundary lines that may remain unadjusted, and to report a plan for the government of the Indians. The right of the United States to dictate a code of laws for the government of the Indians who have emigrated west of the Mississippi cannot now be doubted. Preliminary to the exercise of this power, we do not hesitate to pronounce this law to be its ostensible object. The Constitution of the United States does not give the power to Congress to create independent communities of Indians west of the Mississippi; and to relinquish their right of jurisdiction to the same; but it is on the other hand provided that new states should be admitted into the Union, and consequently on the vacant territories of the United States. The binding obligations of one treaty with each of these small emigrant tribe of Indians, fled from the very furnace of oppression; will be construed by the government as nugatory and not made in accordance with the spirit of the federal Constitution. If the President of the U. States cannot falter, as he has done, to refuse the execution of every article of 16 of the most solemn treaties with the Cherokees recognized by his own government to be constitutional and binding, and destroy all the rights and benefits arising from them; will it not be a mockery of reason to say that such a President would be bound by a compact at least doubtful of it legality, when the high demands of justice, and constitutional law have not forced him to regard the former?  We predict that the cases which compelled some of the Southern Indians to emigrate west of the Mississippi, in order to participate in the enjoyment and blessings of liberty inherited from our fathers will sooner or later reach them, when they will be constrained to abide by such laws and regulations as the government will give them.

________________________

We publish below the letter of Lewis Cass Secretary of War to the Cherokees, containing the general basis on which he proposes to enter a treaty for the removal of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi; and the answer of the Cherokee Council held at Red Clay signed by all the members of the Council, which we have necessarily omitted to annex.  Mr. Chester who was appointed by the Secretary to be the bearer of this letter, we understand was instructed to deliver it to those who may be authorized to receive it, and in accordance with his instructions delivered the letter to the principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, and by him submitted to the Council. These proceedings of the U. S. messenger seem to us to recognize in the aplmost (sic) manner the sovereignty of the Cherokee Nation over which the President have so unceasingly connive at and in his various messages surrendered to the legislation of the States. Altho' the Cherokees have suffered much under the administration of President Jackson, it will be seen that no change has taken place in the determination of the Cherokees to maintain their rights as secured to them by treaties. To abolish these treaties as a measure by which to enable the President to acquire the Cherokee country we presume must now soon be abandoned. The decision of the Supreme Court having been made fully to sustain all the rights of the Cherokees and withal the supreme law of the land; must consequently supersede all other conflicting measures or else the United States will as soon cease to exist as a government of regular law.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

April 17th, 1832

MY FRIENDS,

Your great father the President of the United States, has recently been informed, that a change was probably taken place in the sentiments you have heretofore entertained on the subject of a removal to the Country west of the Mississippi and that propositions from the government, having that object in view, would be favorably received by you. Satisfied as the President is, that this measure can alone secure to you permanent prosperity, and lay the solid foundations of your future improvement and civilization, and prepared as he ever has been to make you offers, which shall be not only just, but liberal, he has instructed me to address you upon the subject, and to make known to you the stipulations he is willing to grant; so far as his authority extends. I have therefore to request that you will take the matter into your serious consideration and communicate to me your ultimate decision.

The President is willing to enter into an arrangement for your removal west of the Mississippi upon the following general principles.

1. That a country, sufficiently extensive and fertile, shall be distinctly marked out, west of the Territory of Arkansas, for you and your brethren, where they now are.

2. That this country shall be surveyed by you by patent, under the provisions of the Act, 1830, and that it shall be forever without the boundaries of any State or Territory.

3. That you shall have all the powers of self government, so far as may be compatible with that general supervisory authority, which it is necessary Congress should exercise over you.

4. That you shall have the privilege of appointing an agent, who shall reside at Washington, to communicate your claims and wishes to the government; and who shall be paid by the United States.

5. That if Congress assent to the measure you shall be allowed a delegate to that body, and shall also when your improvement and other circumstances will permit, and when Congress think proper, be placed in the relation of a Territory.

6. That all white persons, unless specially authorized by the laws of the United States shall be excluded from your country.

7. That you shall remove to your new country at the expense of the United States, in either of the following modes you may prefer.

1. By a commutation to be allowed to individuals or families.

2. By persons to be appointed and paid by the United States.

3. By arrangement to be made among yourselves, by which some of those who are competent to the undertaking, may remove all your people at a rate to be fixed.

8. That subsistence shall be provided by the United States for the term of one year, after you reach your destination.

9. That an annuity, proportioned to the value of the cession you may make, be secured to you.

10. That all the improvements upon the ceded territory which add real value to the land be appraised and paid for.

11. That ample provision be made for the support of schools and teachers and of blacksmiths 'c. for the supply of steel and iron, and for the erection of mills, school houses, Cherokees council houses, and houses for a few of the principal chiefs.

12. That a rifle and equipments be given to each male adult; that a quantity of blankets be allowed to your families; together with axes, hoes, wheels, cards, and looms.

13. That your stock be valued and paid for by the United States.

14. That the annuities due to you by former treaties, be paid to you west of the Mississippi.

15. That provision be made for your orphan children.

16. That protection be guaranteed to you against the hostile effect of any other Indians.

17 It is the wish of the President, that all your people should remove, and he is therefore unwilling that any reservations of land should be made in the ceded territory. Still he would not make this an indispensable condition, but would agree should it be found necessary, that reservations should be made for a few of your people, in situations and under circumstances rendering such a measure proper, and within the scope of this legal authority. But your people must distinctly understand that those who remain will become citizens of the state in which they may reside, and that all the relations between them and the United States, founded upon previous circumstances, as Indians must cease.

These are the general terms I have been directed by the President to offer to you. They form an outline of an arrangement, which can be filed up when you are prepared to enter into a negotiation. The details and any other stipulations you may ask, will more properly be discussed and determined, when your views of the matter are known, and the ultimate mode of proceedings adopted.

If you are prepared to assume these propositions as the basis of a negotiation, can appoint your agents to come on to this place clothed with authority to act, or the President will appoint commissioners to meet with you in Council and conclude the affair.

I cannot but hope that your will see in this frank and liberal offer full evidence of the desire of the President that the difficulties of your present situation may be removed, and your future destinies place beyond the reach of those causes which have occasioned such misery to the Indian race.

Shut your ears I entreat you to bad counsels, if any such should be offered to you. Whatever may be told of you, it is impossible you can remain where you now are and prosper. And if you persist in the effort the time of regret will come. I am afraid after the most injury to yourselves.

Your friend

(Signed) LEWIS CASS .

To the CHEROKEE east of the Mississippi

_______________________

In General Council Convened at Red Clay, Cherokee Nation August 6th 1832.

The Honorable L. Cass, Secretary of War.

Sir:- Your letter bearing date the 17th of April last, containing certain propositions as the genl. terms upon which the President is willing to treat with this Nation, has been received through the hands of Elisha W. Chester, Esq. It is with much astonishment we learn from this letter the President has been informed, that a change had probably taken place in the sentiment, this Nation heretofore entertained on the subject of a removal to the country west of the Mississippi, and that propositions from the Government having that object in view would be favorably received.

The subject matter has been fully considered together with the peculiar embarrassments that now surround us; and in compliance with your request we proceed to our reply. In the first place we wish to call your attention to the decisions of the Nation on former occasions on this subject, and to inform the President that the true sentiments of the Cherokee people remains the same.- That the basis of his propositions is objectionable, and that the Nation is placed in duress. From the  illegal proceedings of Georgia in assuming to exercise jurisdiction over a large portion of our Territory, and by placing a military force with other officers of her own creating in our country for the purpose of oppressing our citizens. She has also introduced a great many many of her citizens among us, to intrude on our lands and in her chief magistrate the discretionary power of drawing a lottery for the occupation of them. And in the peculiar state of things, the protecting arm of the President is withheld from the enforcement of the treaties and laws of the United States made for the protection of our national rights. And moreover divers agents of the General Government have been commissioned for the purpose of enlisting our citizens as emigrants for the country west of the Mississippi, and in the prosecuting of this business some of them have been seduced under circumstances calculated to create disquietude and disagreeable feelings. But let the President remove all the difficulties arising from unjust measures and afford us that necessary protection which is solemnly guaranteed to us by treaties; and then the exercise of that privilege which is so essential to the enjoyment of freedom would place us at liberty to reflect, speak, and act freely on the subject of our national interest and welfare.--In conclusion we would respectfully call your attention to the frequent complaints which have been made to the Department against the numerous intrusions on our lands bordering on the boundaries of the several adjoining States; and to urge the removal of the intruders.

Very respectfully your friend and Ob't Servants

(Signed; by all the members of the General Council.)




      


The Detroit Journal contains a letter from Dr. Houghton dated La Pointe, Lake Superior, June 21st, when mention that during the past winter a band of Muskegons or Mountaineers, speaking a dialect of the Chippewa language, fell upon a trading post situated on the Napagon River, belonging to the Hon. Hudson Bay Company, and murdered, indiscriminately all the traders occupying the post. This induced the Company to collect their forces from different posts, and to send them against the band of Indians. An action took place, in which twenty traders and Indians were killed. The difficulties still remain unsettled.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA Sept. 8, 1832 (Note this is the date printed. It should be 15)

General Jackson's accession to the presidency produced a revolution of their relations with the Indian tribes, who were at that time considered to exist within the limits of the several states. He announced to Congress the cessation of the guardian care of the government, on the legislation of the states over these Indian tribes.- With the Cherokees the United States had entered into the most formal treaties known and authorized by the Constitution of the United States for the protection of their Nation and their landed property. The President seemed to believe that the exercise of state jurisdiction over these Indians, would abrogate the treaties, to which the states themselves were a party;and consequently the federal power could not be interposed in the proceedings of the states in this case. How this could be done and accomplished, without the grossest violation of our treaties,and the exercise of arbitrary power, our limited capacities could not comprehend. But strange as this policy of the President would appear to be, coming into conflict as it did, with the treaties declared by every President of the United States, should be obligatory, and to be the law of the land; this policy has nevertheless proved efficient to suspend the operation of our treaties, and enabled the State of Georgia to invade our territory and take forcibly possession of our gold mines. A redress

from this administration has from time to time been sought in the most becoming and respectful manner, for the restoration of the rights of which they had deprived us, but as yet the President has refused to exercise his protecting care over those rights which had been placed exclusively under the protection of the United States. The Cherokee people are a part of the great family of mankind, their rights to the great property claimed, and which is now attempted to be wrested from them by usurpation are equally as strong and as valid as if it was the property of England or of France. The Cherokee question was a plain question, prior to the existence of the present executive; the government from its commencement throughout its different administrations had firmly and honorably sustained them to the extent demanded by the Cherokees. But the President with numberless sophisms invented for the express purpose of weakening the claims of the Cherokees, have encouraged the States the exercise of their unconstitutional and extremely oppressive laws over the Cherokee; to depress them, and then enable the President to conclude a treaty and acquire their property.- This course have been regarded we believe, by the President as the only one by which the Cherokee property could be obtained.  But the late trial to effect a treaty under this system with the suffering victims of his perfidy has totally failed. What is the consequence? The prospect of relief from the present administration is not to be anticipated, and the Cherokees must peaceably, and firmly however great our sufferings may continue to be, under the policy of President Jackson, look to a change of his administration, for the restoration of our rights to their original foundation. It is therefore necessary to inform our home reader of the extent the President has exercised this unbridled power, in suspending the operation of our treaties, on questions of great importance, in his own government of a local nature. On a late occasion the two houses of Congress passed a bill for rechartering the bank of the United States by large majorities; when the bill came before the President for his approval, he refused his assent to it, chiefly on the ground that Congress had not consulted him before proceeding to pass the bill, and seemed to impute a blame on that supreme department of the government for the liberty it had exercised in creating that bill. On a recurrence to the Constitution of the United States the powers of Congress in certain cases are so transcendent and absolute, that it can pass a law that will virtually bind the President, notwithstanding he may have objections. In  ordinary cases the President possesses the constitutional power of approving or rejecting a bill. If the President can object to an act of Congress, because he was not consulted previously to its passage, then the principles of the federal government is subverted, and the power of the several departments of the government is assumed by the President. These are the kindred principles which have been exercised over our persons and our Nation for three years past, and when the people of the United States have to submit to the exercise of a power over them, by the President, which have not been granted to him, there can be no impropriety, however painful it may be, in anticipating the continuance of our difficulties under the present administration. Georgia and the lottery in the meantime, is in a course of preparation for the drawing of the Cherokee lands, an act if suffered to be consummated, by the enlightened state or the general government, ' the lands possessed it will be a deed that the wicked themselves will scarcely exult; all the gold that will be dug out of the Cherokee country, will be no indemnity to the loss of the American reputation, that will descend to the coming annals of this great ' once noble nation ' a mournful commentary on the justice of free governments.  To avert the calamity is within the competency of the general government, and for the preservation of its sacred honor, we hope will yet be regarded.

____________________________

CONTINUATION OF OPPRESSION

When the United States troops were station ed at the Sixes Gold mines some Georgia officers from Carrol County entered the Nation for the purpose of serving writs on some Cherokees at Hightower.- Lieut. Fowler who was commandant at that place, authorized Captain Old Fields to arrest the officers and deliver them over to him. Capt. Old Fields, and with a small company of Cherokees, arrested these men and delivered them over to the United States officers, who subsequently released them. An action was instituted by one of the officers in the Georgia courts against Captain Old Fields to recover damages, for false imprisonment, and as justice belong, exclusively to Georgians, judgment was obtained, and executed recently, to the loss of all Capt. Old Fields' property. If there was ever a hard case occurred since the commencement of our oppressions, none have come to pass that would bear a comparison to the present one. The United States troops authorized this arrest, and the poor honest Indian had to suffer all.

______________________

THE GEORGIA MILITIA.

General Coffee commander of the Georgia Guard sent a detachment of the Guard, on an expedition we understand to arrest the Principal of the Cherokee Nation at the Head of Coosa on a charge of passing some laws at the late council, appointing some sheriffs and constables in Ahmohee and Aquohee Districts. However, we are unable to state that the mansion of the Chief was not besieged, but put a few interrogatories, and responded to as often by the chief, and guard came off without a prisoner.

___________________

The Federal Union, a Georgia paper, while enlightening his readers on the desperate efforts that are making to defeat the re-election of President Jackson, he tells them 'never give up Jackson till he descends to his grave.' If we lose Jackson, our whole domestic difficulties come down a fresh upon us ' way go our Cherokee lands, our gold mines to the Indians.'!! There is not a little disquisition at the bottom of the Union on this point; if he will suffer the highest moral principle that the human mind is susceptible-justice- to govern the question of rights, he would not say`our gold mines' but the gold mines of the Cherokee Nation.

_________________

What has become of the boasted free men of the United States, that have shed oceans of blood for the recovery of the lost rights of man?

____________________

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

There is one sentence in your introductory remarks of last week which may be misapprehended by some of your readers, and which requires corruption. It is this- 'To our home readers it is necessary to inform them, that the former Editor together with his assistant' 'c.

During the time I have acted as editor of the Phoenix, which has been more than four years, I have had no assistant but Mr. S. Foreman, who acted in that capacity only six months. When he resigned, which he did on account of ill health, the vacancy was not filled, because the Council had made no provision for the appointment of another person.

Very respectfully,

ELIAS BOUDINOT.

New Echota, Sept. 10th 1832

__________________________

September 7th 1832

Mr. Editor--Having read and considered a piece on the Phoenix published Aug 25th signed Rocky Mountain, in which says he feels a very great attachment to his native land and also to be governed by his own chiefs and by laws in his own language (the Cherokee) 'c. He also says 'he is one who loves the chiefs and believes that they are good men and true.' He next inquires why Mr. Ross' Message to the Council at Red Clay was not published and what was his views and hopes of readjustment of our rights 'c.

Now if it be so that Rocky Mountain is as much attached to his country, his chiefs and language (the Cherokee) and also believes in their goodness and integrity as he says he does, and also having no pretention to learning; methinks he would not have made a public inquiry in English in order to find out the views and hopes of his chiefs, me thinks he would have gone to his chiefs and lawmakers, and if they are the men he takes them to be, they would tell him their views and hopes in his own language, the Cherokee, and no doubt would give him any satisfaction on any point and he could not doubt or disbelieve. If he has or will read the principal Chief's Message to the Council at Red Clay accompanying the letter of resignation of the Editor of the Phoenix. He may then satisfy himself in respect to the views and hopes of the principal Chief and on what founded which was published in the Phoenix of the 11th Aug.

He also presumes that the principal Chief also had no comfort. We all know and feel that we are not in a comfortable situation but yet we have hope.  This was the feelings of our principal Chief.

In reading in the first part of the Book of Job (which will nearly bear comparing the present trying times of us poor Cherokee, to that passage as related in said Book.* 'That there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord,and Satan also came among them, and the Lord said unto Satan hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil? Then Satan answered the Lord, and said, doth Job fear God for nought? Hast thou not made an hedge about him, and about his house and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land; But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face, and the Lord said unto Satan, behold, all that he hath is in thy power, only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord.' Now when Satan had obtained liberty from the Lord to scourge Job as he pleased, (as Georgia has liberty from the President to scourge us Cherokees) it appears he had all the property and substance belonging to Job destroyed and taken away together. And in process of time finding that would not do he again asks leave of the Lord to afflict Job's body and it was granted; and he smote him with sores and boils from the sole of his foot to his crown. ' But in all this Job sinned not nor charged God foolishly.'  Now, sir, if Rocky Mountain is sincere and believes as he says in his chiefs and legislators, let us now encourage them and all our people to hold fast to their integrity and be steadfast in the faith, and let us try to comfort them and show ourselves friends to them and lovers of our country; and let them act as Job did of old forever after all his earthly substance was gone and his body full of sores and boils which is not quite the case with us yet, he still was true and firm and retained his integrity.

But let us not say unto them at this time of trouble and sorrow as Job's wife said unto him, 'Curse God and die.'  Let us yet hold up our heads and with our hearts lifted up, and not say there is no hope because the people of the United States are silent about us, and because we are given over to a haughty people to rob us every day, because Gen. Jackson will not execute the laws of the United States, and because our friends also have despaired. Why does Georgia rob us every day? Because the people of the United States happened in an unlucky hour to place a man at the head of their government who has declared that he cannot, that he is not able to execute the laws of the United States; after their being placed in his hands and having also all the assistance and power that Congress and all the people of the United States can give him (who is the first President who has cried out weakness when he had all the power requisite in his hands) I cannot see why our friends should yet despair. If they have any confidence in their own and in the virtue of the people of the United States, they would not yet despair because a virtuous magnanimous and patriotic people as the people of the United States profess to be, will not have a man at their head who can as he says do nothing, when Congress have already passed laws sufficient.

'As for the broad shield of the United States being withdrawn', I cannot think so, it would only seem so from the conduct of our palsied and powerless Father the President, for all laws passed by Congress for our protection are yet unrepealed.

Rocky Mountain goes on to ask 'has the tomahawk saved us?' I answer, we have raised the tomahawk by the request of the pale faces and assisted them, and it has saved us for the time, when we had such a father who was able and willing to acknowledge and protect us for it. He asks, 'has the pipe of peace smoked in councils saved us?'  I answer, I believe, it has so far and will eventually be the means of saving us, if we are wise and continue it as we have done heretofore, and can get a Father the President who is healthy, strong and willing.

He also asks,'has Civilization and Christianity saved us?' I answer they have; it is those very things which have led us along and brought us on to what we now are and call not on our dear missionaries to say that Civilization and Christianity have not or will not save us, for if their faith and hope of salvation was not in those things, they would not be where they now are in the walls of the Penitentiary and suffering for Christianity's sake, and us poor Cherokees. Have we tried them sufficiently to know if they will save us?

And lastly he says, he trusts and believes that we will take our women and children and go to the shores of the Pacific, and leap out of this accursed state of Pupillage. I cannot call it accursed, but perhaps become so, if we are doomed to have such guardians always. But it has been under the fostering care of the government of the United States that we are what we are, and would still be improving and flourishing if it were not for the present guardian,and who we have to call our Father the President.  But if the people of the United States, the boasted sons of liberty, will be imposed upon so far and have their liberties wrested from them by a man of their own choice as is in the case of the missionaries now in the penitentiary, then I say that people must fall and we will be obliged also to fall with them.

LONE MOUNTAIN.

_______

*I will for distinction sake call our Father the President the Lord, Georgia Satan, and the Cherokees Job.

_____________________________

THE LAND ' GOLD LOTTERIES

We are often asked when the Lotteries will commence. We answer, so soon as necessary preparations are completed, which are now progressing as rapidly as possible. It is expected that the drawing will commence early in October. And we assure the public that there will be no delay on the part of the public authorities at Milledgeville. A few of the surveyors have not yet completed their work. We are at a loss to account for their delay.  Nothing but the absence of their returns to the proper office will delay the Commissioners of the Lottery in the progress of their arduous labors.

_____________________________

THE INDIAN WAR

We have not been an attentive observer of the progress of the Indian War though we have made little remark on the subject.  We cannot help being in it one of the bloody consequences to be expected from the coercive and iniquitous policy adopted by Gen. Jackson in his treatment of the Indians. They have been driven by petty persecution and crafty negotiation from the broad hunting grounds and fertile savannahs east of the Mississippi, to the barren plains destitute of game on the west of the river.  Their request to hunt on their old grounds has been denied; and they have, driven by hunger, ventured to pursue game within the State of Illinois, in disregard of prohibitions. This is their offence; and by this offence they are involved in a war, which Gen. Jackson so far as we can learn, means to make a war of extermination, thus far conducted with much cruelty, but with little success.

It does indeed at most seem as if the hand of God was stretched forth to protect the Indians. As yet they have sustained but little harm; while the army prepared to destroy them, has been scattered by the pestilence. Where is the gallant hand which but now, confident in spirits, went from among us to the savage! The sword, of an unseen enemy has fallen upon them, and they have fallen in highways and in the dim forests, fleeing from the hand of the Almighty. Oh! that our country might loan justice.




      


MISCELLANEOUS.

From Atwater's remarks on a Tour to Prairie du Chien.

MINERAL REGION-GALENA.

The region contains the richest lead mines in the known world.- When I was there, these mines had been worked only about 3 years, by comparatively but a few persons, who were ignorant of the business they followed, and they labored under almost every disadvantage, yet they had manufactured in that time more than thirty millions of pounds of lead.  This had been carried to the Atlantic cities, and had reduced the price of lead, in all its forms, one half. In the mineral country it was selling at the mines for one cent a pound; at Philadelphia, for three and a half cents a pound.

Though I brought away from the mines specimens of every sort of lead ore, accompanied by statements given where, and how procured; the quantity made at each smelting establishment, and other information relating to it, and all thrown, too, into a tabular form; yet in a popular little book like this, it might not be interesting to the general reader, such as read what I am now writing, and I pass it by.

The lead region in the U. States, has nearly paralell with the Atlantic Ocean, from the north east towards the south west.  Or in other words, this region occupies the same space that the Alleghanies do. It begins in the same latitude these mountains do in the same latitude north, and ends in the same latitude. From the Wisconsin in the north, to Red River of Arkansas in the north, ' in breadth, from east to west, the lead region occupies about one hundred and fifty miles of longitude. In some places it has very deep in the earth, and it lies the deepest, about half way between its extreme ends. At its northern and southern terminations, it ascends to the very surface of the earth, and is there found, even on the surface other on the highest grounds (except the mounds) or in the rivers. On the little _______ I could have filled our little wagon, often as we passed over them with beautiful specimens of the phosphate of lead.

The Mississippi passes through the region from latitude 43 degrees 30 minutes north to latitude 38 degrees north.

On the western shore of the Mississippi, opposite Rock Island, and extending north one hundred miles from indubitable appearances every where as I passed along, all that country must contain exhaustless lead mines.

From the vast region where this mineral exists extending through ten degrees of latitude, in width, too, in places, three degrees of longitude-from its richness, (it being in many places nearly pure lead) considering also the ease with which it is obtained, and its vast abundance, we may sagely conclude that we have lead ore enough for all mankind for ever within our own territory.

Copper ore is found in the mineral region, and one hundred and seventy tons of it, (a sulfurate) had been dug at Mineral Point, before I left the country. Its richness had not been sufficiently tested at that time.

Fossil coal exists, near the head of Rock Island, on the western side of the hill, where I saw it in place, and my information enables me to say, without doubt that great bodies of this coal exist on a branch of Rock River, rising south west of the main river, more than one hundred miles from its mouth. This coal may be reached by boats, and easily floated down the river to rocky Island.

On the west side of the Mississippi, above the State of Missouri, there is territory sufficient for two states, each larger than Virginia. If the upper country should be formed states, they would eventually be the most populous and powerful states in the whole confederacy. Nature has intended that a vast region for thirty millions of human beings at some not very remote period of time. For purity of air and of water-for mineral wealth, fertility of soil, healthiness of climate and almost every other thing valuable to man, the whole country is equal to any portion of the earth's surface.

The future population of this vast region, dwelling as they will on the highest table land in the United States, can easily descend the water courses, either Northwardly down Red River, to Hudson's Bay; or southwardly down the Mississippi to N. Orleans-eastwardly down our northern Lakes to N. York, or down the St. Lawrence to Quebec. Nature has opened these roads to and from this region, and man is now using them.  During the next hundred years, Ohio, as a state, will take the lead in wealth and business, and in the number of her people, compared with any state west of the Alleghanies; but eventually Missouri, and any one of the states to be formed on the upper Mississippi may surpass us in numbers, wealth, and political power. Should not one of the states I have referred to eventually become the most powerful, than Ohio must be at the very head of our confederacy forever.

Should our people never settle the country west of the Rocky Mountains, (though I fell assured of a row of states on the Pacific equaling our Atlantic ones, within a century to come) yet there will be at no distant day, a tier of States, north-north west and west of Illinois, Missouri and Arkansas, which will eventually become populous, wealthy, and powerful States.

To all human appearance the census of 1840 will place the national government in the hands of the people in the valley of the Mississippi. To resist this event, would involve the necessity of preventing the revolution of the earth around the sun and upon its axis, and the whole course of nature. To mourn over it, involves the extreme folly of repining at the happy lot of a majority of the nation-and our posterity forever. From the growth of this nation, the lover of liberty- has nothing to fear, because our people from the cradles are taught to be republicans. They are such, as if by instinct, and these principles, which tend to make them MEN are taught them from the first moment they see the light, breath American air, and taste their mother's milk.

In resuming my personal narrative, I have little to say about Edwardsville, where the reader left me. Its location is nine miles east of Alton on the Mississippi, and twenty miles north of St. Louis.

The same remarks might be made of all the country west of the Wabash, extending from the Mexican Gulf to the Frozen Ocean, parts of Louisiana, where the pine woods are and also where some persons wish to locate all the Indians, excepted. With the exceptions already made from the Wabash directly westward-and from the Mississippi below lat. 37 degrees north, that whole region is one vast meadow. Its soil is as fertile as any land can be, and when planted with trees and cultivated by good husbandmen, it will furnish food enough for three hundred millions of people.-

Grass enough now grows there for all the tame animals, whose food is grass now, in the world.

This vast region, in its present state, is of little value, but the time will certainly arrive when it will be covered by farms and animated with countless millions of domestic animals. Their golden harvests will wave before every breath of air that moves over its surface--the great and splendid cities will rear their tall and glittering spires, and the countless millions of happy human beings will live and move, and display talents that will enable man, and virtues that will adorn and render him happy.

The longest, the most durable and best rivers in the world, intersect and pass through this country, standing on whose banks there will yet be some of the largest cities in the world.  Comparatively speaking, but few persons in the world have ever beheld this country. No tongue and no author have described it; but it is there--it will be seen--it will be described, and it will be settled, improved and occupied by countless millions of the human race. Its rivers will be cleared of the impediments to navigation, all the way to the Rocky Mountains; the roaring of the guns of the steamers, the stage driver's horn and the loud huzzahs of happy thoughts will soon be heard along all these rivers and at the very foot of these mountains.

Infinite wisdom and infinite goodness never created on this earth so fine a country as this, and to suppose for a moment that it will not be thickly settle, used and improved by unnumbered millions of men, involves so poor-so contemptuous an opinion of men, that I instantly and indignantly discard it from my mind.




      


BLACK HAWK'S INVASION.- This bold fellow, who has occasioned so much distress on the North Western Frontier, for some months past, has at length paid pretty dearly for his temerity. His whole loss down to the 3rd August, is estimated at 400 killed and 150 prisoners.  About 150 were slain in the engagement of the 2d inst. particulars of which were given in our last,-33 to 25 in the affair of the steamboat Warrior, on the 1st inst., 68 in the action with Gen. Dodge and Henry on the Ouisconsin,-and about 200 in various skirmishes previously. The 70 prisoners taken on the engagement of the 2d inst. About 100 horses were also taken. In the affair with the steamboat Warrior, it is estimated that the Indians fired from (sic) 1500 balls. They however proved themselves very bad marksmen, unless the boat was too distant for the range of their muskets, as only 50 of their shots struck her, and only one man on board was wounded. Nothing certain is known of the fate of Black Hawk. A prisoner reports, that the man who stood next to him was killed by the first discharge of the six pounder on board the boat, and that in the midst of the action, he himself retreated up the river.




      


MR. VAUX of Philadelphia, was lately appointed to an office by the President. It appears that he declined accepting for the following reason, among others:

'The appointment of a military force to attend the commissioners, might, he thought impose obligations which, as a member of the Religious Society of Friends, he could not consistently assume.'

The same reason may induce him to forbear to support the General for President.




      


JACKSON AND THE SUPREME COURT.

At the next session of the Supreme Court, application will no doubt be made on behalf of the imprisoned Georgia Missionaries for further process out of that court, to enforce the decision by which their imprisonment has been declared illegal. The court will no doubt order the Marshal for the District of Georgia, to release the prisoners, or take some active step towards their deliverance.  Nothing, however, can be done without force. Force on the part of the United States, will be forcibly resisted by the authorities of Georgia; and nothing can carry into effect the decision and sustain the dignity of the court, except the active and immediate support of the Supreme Executive.

But General Jackson has great gifts in the legal way. He construes the Constitution for himself, and scorns to take the interpretation of the court. In his opinion are wrong and Georgia is right. What support than can be expected from General Jackson? What aid to a tribunal which he abhors? What assistance towards enforcing a sentence, which he in his wisdom pronounces unjust and unconstitutional? None-we may safely answer-none.

And we might pray (sic) are ourselves to lament the disgrace, and the destruction of the Supreme Court; and this regulator, this balance wheel of the Constitution laid aside, we might anticipate that the Constitution itself would run to ruin-were it not for one consideration of no little importance-viz: General Jackson will not be re-elected.

General Jackson will not be re-elected. The Supreme Court then is safe. The Constitution is safe, the country safe.  With an able, trustworthy President we shall be able to weather any storm. It is only when our pilot is inefficient, and false to his duty, that our ship is in danger.  It is only when the management of the vessel is usurped by a gang of piratical plunderers, whose object is to complete the voyage, but to enrich themselves, that shipwreck is probable.  With Clay for our commander, we need not fear any tempest.

Boston Atlas.




      


Penebscot Indians:- A party of these Indians, about forty or fifty in number, have lately made a visit and pitched their temporary wigwams at Belfast, Me.  Considerable improvement is visible, it is said, in their character and condition. They are no longer victims to the vice of intemperance. They attribute their reformation to the influence of their priest. A white house with green door, is now the delight and pride of the young chiefs.

The Workingmen's Advocate relates an interesting story told by Capt. Stanislaus, one of the above mentioned visitors, and which is in substance this:- John Neptune, his brother, Capt. Paul Tomer and his son Louis Tomer, left Old Town last autumn with their canoes and took with them provisions and apparatus suitable for a hunting expedition. They ascended as far as the head waters of the Penebscot River, travelled the unbroken wilderness until they struck the St. Lawrence about forty miles below Quebec;- here they hired a chebacco boat and were carried to the outlet of Salmon River where again took their own canoes and went up far beyond the traces of civilized or savage life. They found plenty of game and they spent the winter trapping the beaver, otter, sable, and musk-rat, in which employment they were successful, having taken furs to the amount of $1500.

Thus far they were fortunate; but they had intruded upon the hunting ground of his MAJESTY who had reserved this very spot for a tribe in the vicinity, whose furs they monopolized by the Government. John Neptune and his party knew of this, and in ascending and descending the river, they secreted themselves and their canoes by day, and silently pursued their way by night, lest they should be discovered by those jealous sentinels who had been appointed to seize any who should venture to intrude upon the dominions of the King.

On returning homeward and when near the Salmon river the hunting party began to feel themselves in less danger and neglected to secrets their guns, and the consequence was that they were discovered by a custom house officer, while encamped with their guns lying round them, who immediately demanded them as the property of the King. The Penebscots refused to give them up. The officer then dispatched his son for a reinforcement who soon returned with 20 Canadians and 10 Indians. The furs were again demanded and on forcibly attempting to remove them a fight ensued with continued for sometime. The Penebscots were by far the weaker party. Captain Stanislaus says:

'John Neptune he seize them two English; he hold him still, when a third English he came up behind and strike John between he's shoulders hard with the pole of an ax-John let go-drop down-give up. The British then took all the furs, canoes, traps, provisions, and everything else they possessed, and left our poor fellows entirely destitute.

The next day John and his party went to see the officer. He told them as they were American Indians and not supposed accounted with the law, he would give them up everything but their furs; but should they ever again be caught hunting upon the King's lands, they would be imprisoned at Quebec.

This occurrence happened five weeks ago.




      


From the New York Spectator.

SARATOGA SPRINGS, Aug. 14, 1832

Sir, I perceive by the latest accounts from the remote west, that the Indian War is at end. Black Hawk and his three or four hundred miserable followers have been dispersed, after an apology for a battle of less importance than a respectable skirmish, and the whites are in full pursuit o'er brakes and bogs and fens, of a foe whom they are destined not to overtake. Gen. Scott can now return to his quarters in N. Y. while his subordinate officers are left to collect the remains of their scattered battalions-scattered by disease, or slain by the Destroying Angel-and bring back the remains in the best manner they can. Neither General Scott, nor any portion of his ill fated expedition, despatched under such a flourish of trumpets, has seen an Indian. But that was no fault of the commander, or of those under him. No one doubted that, under such conduct, all that bravery and skill could accomplish, would be achieved. But the campaign was completely broken up by the direct interposition of Heaven. And even had it been otherwise, this boasted expedition would have had nothing to do.  They would never have seen an Indian; and so I have said from the first moment that the war blast of the bugle was wound at Governor's Island.

When Messrs. Editors, will the American people open their eyes to the deceptions practiced upon them by those enjoying their misplaced confidence! The fact is, in the first place, that these troubles with the Sacs and Foxes, under Black Hawk, had their origin in the injustice of the whites, combined with the ignorance of the Indians; and, secondly, as will presently be seen, in the boasted system of Jackson Reform. And as for the war, it has been one of the sheerest humbugs ever played off upon a credulous people. I have just risen from a full and highly interesting conversation with a distinguished gentleman from Illinois, who is intimately acquainted with the whole matter, and who has not only a personal knowledge of Black Hawk, but has conversed with him upon the very subject of the existing difficulties.

It was, I believe, in 1825 that the last treaty was negotiated with Black Hawk and his fellow chiefs, for a cession of territory to the United S. It was the desire of the Commissioners on the part of the latter, to have the line of purchase drawn from the head of Lake Michigan directly across to a given point on the Mississippi. To this arrangement Black Hawk for a long time objected- alleging his apprehensions that the line proposed would include his own village.  But after strong assurances that the said line would yet leave his village some thirty or more miles north of it, the Hawk consented to the sale, and the new boundary. In due time, however, it appeared that the fears of the chief were well founded, and the line was ascertained to run some two or three miles north of the favorite village of the Hawk. The chief and his tribe were dissatisfied, insisting that the equity they ought not to be deprived of their village, the site of which they had positively refused to sell. Meantime, well knowing where the line would strike, on an actual survey, several determined border men from Ohio penetrated farther into the wilderness, and planted themselves upon several tracts of fertile land in the neighborhood of the village, at different points, on a semi-circular line, as it were with the intention of completely surrounding the lodges of the wild-men. The Indians remonstrated against this inroad upon territory considered yet to be their own, and threatened frequently to drive the intruders away. But to no purpose. The squatters obstinately remained, and commenced cultivating the land.  After the line had been ascertained by actual survey, an act was passed by congress, giving to the squatters upon the newly acquired territory the pre-emptive right to the lands in their immediate occupation-of which indulgence the troublesome neighbors of the Black Hawk lost no time in availing themselves, and took the necessary measures to secure their titles.

But the Indians understood not this proceeding.  The intruders exhibited their certificates under the new laws, but the Indians knew nothing of the nature of pre-emptive rights, and continued to threaten them as before. It was sometime previous to this stage of controversy that a serious obstacle was thrown in the way of a good understanding by Gen. Jackson himself, in the application of his miserable system of REFORM to the Indian agencies. The Indian Agent for this station, (Major Forsyth) was removed, to make a place for some partizan favorite--and this place was filled by the appointment of somebody from Virginia, who had probably never even looked upon a wild Indian. At any rate, he was wholly unacquainted with the language of the Indians among whom he was to reside, and knew nothing of their manners, habits, customs, disposition.  He of course, could not possess the confidence of these children of nature, and the removal of their former friend, Major Forsyth, who was in all respects an excellent officer, only served further to annoy them with further suspicions of mediated wrong.--But for his untimely and unnecessary change, such explanations would doubtless have been made as would have prevented mischief, although they might not have been perfectly satisfactory at first to the Indians. Such, however, was not the case; the new agent, although probably a good electioneerer in Virginia, knew nothing of his duties among the Sacs and Foxes.  The fund between the Indians and their before mentioned instructive neighbors, continued, and became more aggravated. The former, in the night time, would go and throw down the fences of the white men; and the latter in turn threatened to shoot the trespassers. Thus matters stood for months. The intruders armed themselves and watched the Indians by night; but when thus on the watch, their fences were not molested. No sooner, however, were their backs turned, than their fences were again overthrown. But the Indians committed no further hostilities than these. They drew not a drop of blood until several of their own number had been killed by the white men.

Meantime, however, on a complaint to the repeated outrages of the Indians upon the aforesaid fences, and before any other act of hostility had been committed, Governor Reynolds of Illinois, whose political situation rendered action of some description necessary to sustain a waning popularity, ordered out two thousand militiamen to take the field; or rather the forest, against the Indians. this was the signal for the accounts of Indian hostilities-of massacres and murders which forthwith resounded throughout the whole nation. And of course it was the signal for the Indians to take up the tomahawk, and raise the war whoop. The subsequent incidents of this eventful history are pretty well known; and I am sorry to add my conviction that the whole affair will redound little to the credit of the United States, or to the parties more immediately concerned. The whole western country has been kept in a state of confusion, and sometimes of positive alarm, by the exaggerated stories spread abroad, of murders, and scalpings, and burnings of the most startling description, few of which ever took place. Countless hundreds, and even thousands of Indians, have been represented as prowling along the frontier settlements, committing such enormities as would 'freeze the young blood, and make each individual hair to stand erect like quills upon the fretful porcupine;' while in fact, the whole armed forces of Black Hawk has never, at any one time, exceeded about four hundred and fifty or five hundred warriors. And it is to conquer these poor hungry, ignorant, nay injured natives that the militia forces of the West have been so frequently dragged into the field by thousands; and at length the whole disposable force of our little army, with the gallant Scott at their head, collected at all points of the Union, and dispatched fifteen hundred miles up the Great Lakes, at an expense of one or two millions of the revenue! O! 'tis painful, 'tis wondrous pitiful! But we must submit, and the glories of this contest-for no doubt the results will be claimed as such-will all be poured into the 'measure' of the 'HERO'S' popularity!

The immediate cause of the great alarm in the Spring, in consequence of which the army was put in motion, was ludicrous enough.  You recollect the bloody accounts which reached us of Major Stillman's defeat, with the reported loss of about two hundred and fifty men. Now, we have already been unformed of the fact, that less than a dozen of the two hundred and fifty were killed, and the supposed loss of the residue arose from the fact that they all ran away! These fugitives reported that they had encountered fifteen hundred Indians. But the ascertained facts are that this valiant battalion encountered only a scouting party of thirty Indian warriors, who, after one whoop and a fire, ran as fast from the whites as the whites did from them! The whites magnified each of these thirty into fifty, thus making up fifteen hundred; while the terrified Indians told Black Hawk that the whites on their trail were as numerous as the leaves on the trees!  So much for the mighty Indian War.  But there are no historians among the Indians.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Sept. 22, 1832

The President of the United States we understand has instructed Col. Montgomery to deposit the annuities due the Cherokee Nation, and now in his hands, in the branch bank of the United States at Nashville.  It will be recollected by our readers, that during the administration of Secretary Eaton over the War Department, he instructed the agent to pay the annuities to the individuals of the Nation, and not to the Nation, and in no instance to depart from this rule. The Cherokees have with some exceptions refused to receive the money under that regulation, until two years annuity have become due, or $13,839 $3 1-8 is to be safely locked up in the vetoed bank.  Will the government return back to the Cherokee Nation the lands ceded for this money?

________________________

We refer our readers to a paragraph in an article headed removal of the Indians, published in the Commercial Register of Mobile, in which he informs his readers that a large portion of the Cherokees have been happily settled north of Arkansas River, and those of them remaining within the limits of the States, it is presumed will be soon convinced that it is to their interest to join their brethren, to enjoy their own laws without the interference of State regulations! The portion of Cherokees settled on the Arkansas (which the Register represents to be large, and enjoying the rights of freemen out of the limits of States) are as yet comparatively small to those east of the Mississippi. The indefatigable efforts which have been made by the Government to induce the Cherokees to emigrate, comprising the principal part of twenty four years, have as yet but partially succeeded. The portion of Cherokees that remain in this Nation and opposed to a removal can safely be set down without the hazard of truth at three fourths more than the Cherokees of Arkansas.- The condition of the Cherokees are neither so agreeable as the register would seem to state, for the reason that President Jackson has already assumed the right of legislating for them. The treaty of 1828 by the government with the Cherokees, embraced a tract of country of which the poor sons of Tustunnaggree Tlucco had been located, the late delegation at Washington claimed of the President the right to this tract of country to the exclusion of the Creeks; the President told them the claim could not be admitted, that the line would be run by commissioners so as to sustain the Creeks in the occupancy of it. This circumstance was contained in a letter written by the delegation, to a gentleman in this place, expressive of the dissatisfaction of the delegation. Therefore we would state to the respectable register, that wisdom would be baffled, for an Indian of this Nation to look first to the west, proceeding the leap from state thraldom, and then leap into the same element without the prospect of relief. On what ground then can the register predict the enjoyment of the Cherokees to their own laws if they should remove to the Arkansas? The Cherokee Nation was out of the limits of the States until the State of Alabama and others run lines through it and passed laws over the Indians in opposition to the treaties with them-the existence of this Nation was secured to us by the strongest guaranty that the wisdom of their good Americans could invent-but all these compacts we presume is known to the Register to have been annulled by the President in conjunction with the States, and in our feeble opinion, to the loss of their public virtue. If the States which have arisen around as here, can run boundary lines through our Nation in opposition to treaties to define the extent of their limits, cannot new States which will doubtless arise on the Arkansas do the same?  The removal of all the Indians west of the Mississippi can never regenerate the loss of that virtue consequent upon the violation of all the treaties with the Indians. In this unpleasant but certain prospects of the treatment of the Indians west of Mississippi, the Cherokees of this Nation are strongly disposed, of the lesser evil, to remain here, and look forward to see, the rise of a just ruler, that will fulfill in good faith all the treaties with us.

_____________________

We are informed from a source that can be relied on as authentic, that Governor Carrol of Tennessee will attend at the Council that will convene at Red Clay on the second Monday of Oct. The object of his visit is not yet known, but it is not unlikely, that in conjunction with two other commissioners, a treaty with the Cherokees may be proposed. We are not a little suppressed at the object of his excellency, if we correctly anticipate it, when it is known at the late Council the propositions from the President to the Cherokees to enter into a treaty was met with the most unqualified refusal.

The letter of the acting Secretary of War will be found below; which we have translated for our Cherokee readers. If this communication had not accidently fallen into the hands of a respectable gentleman of this place, as it did and handed over to us, we should never have known of it; for we presume directed as it is, the agent on his reception of it, delivered it over to the first Indian that was willing to hear its contents.

_______

WAR DEPARTMENT

August 24, 1832

FRIENDS AND BROTHERS.- I have received the letter of the 6th inst. signed by the members of the Council, communicating the decision of the Cherokees upon the propositions submitted to them by order of the President.

This letter has been forwarded to the Secretary of War at Detroit, from whom you will no doubt receive a reply.

Meantime permit me to express my regret, that propositions considered by your best friends here,those who have most constantly and earnestly advocated your interests, to be most liberal and advantageous, should and have met a different reception. I will yet hope that after calm deliberation, you may be sensible of the wisdom of the friends who advise you to accept them, and resolved to adopt the only course by which your permanent prosperity can be ensured.

I remain,

Respectfully:

Your Friend ' Brother,

JOHN ROBB.

Act. Sec. WAr.

To the CHEROKEES East of the Mississippi.

_________________

From the Mobile Commercial Register.

Removal of the Indians.-- This work, so necessary it the preservation of the Aborigines of the country, and commenced we believe, under the administration of Mr. Monroe, appears to be advancing to a successful termination. About 6,000 Choctaws were removed during the past fall and winter to the country allotted to them west of the Territory of Arkansas, between Red River and the Canadian forks of the Arkansas and about double that number will be removed during the present year. The Chickasaws having likewise disposed of their claim to lands in Alabama and Mississippi, are, we are told, anxious to be settled permanently in the country west of the Arkansas, and will probably be removed as soon as a suitable tract can be selected for them by the United States. The Creeks have also disposed of their possession s in Georgia and Alabama, and will, it si presumed, be removed in the course of the present and succeeding year. The country allotted to them, it will be recollected lies to the north of the Choctaw tract; and is also west of the Arkansas Territory.-

A large portion of the Cherokees have been for several years happily settled north of the Arkansas river, and those remaining within the limits of the States, will it is presumed soon be convinced that it is to their interest to join their brethren where they may enjoy their own laws and customs without interference from State regulations.

It will not be denied that the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Cherokees, have made considerable advances in the civil arts, and with the continued and increased aids which the General Government will afford them in their new settlements, may we not in a few years expect to find them, and indeed the Indian tribes generally, enjoying a large portion of the blessings of civilized life, and living happily under the fostering care of the government unannoyed by State legislation.

The removal itself, properly conducted, will have a happy effect on such Indians as may have given themselves up to indolence and intemperance and their settlement in a new and delightful country, will under the care and advice of their better informed and more industrious brethren, most probably lead them to the adoption of agricultural pursuits and habits of industry.

This work has become a serious one with the Government, and we understand that the Secretary of War, with the approbation of the President,is about to adopt arrangements entirely new by which the officers of the army will control and superintend the removals. By this plan, the valuable services of our townsman Geo. S. Gaines, Esq which have been rendered much to his inconvenience will be dispensed with. It will be the policy of the Government ___ waiver, to select an able and discreet officer to supply his place. This will be no easy task. Mr. Gaines' long acquaintance with the Indians and the unlimited confidence they repose in him, enabled him to exercise a salutary influence over their conduct and opinions,and although the new arrangement will be a relief to him, we fear the loss of his counsels and personal attention may furnish cause of regret to the Government.




      


INDIANS

From the Journal of Humanity

THE INDIANS.

In looking over the accounts respecting the Indian wars for a few months past, I have been deeply impressed with the thought that these difficulties have come upon us in consequence of bad policy on our part. How far the Indians have had provocation to warrant their present measures, I know not.  It may be, perhaps, that some individuals have been wronged by the class of the whites residing near, whose motto is, 'get money--by all the means in your power.'

I believe our policy towards the Indians has been wrong in this respect, viz. in neglecting their education.--Having come into the country and to be in (?) possession of the soil, political economy, philanthropy and religion require that we as a Christian nation, should civilize and Christianize the aborigines.

It may be denied, and doubtless will be, that it would be expedient in a political point of view to instruct the Indians.  But on what does that strength and importance of a nation depend, if not in the number, intelligence, and virtue of its inhabitants? The Indians are human beings endowed by nature with strong minds capable of most improvement. In a savage state, their minds, like a barren waste yield no valuable harvest. They are of little or no benefit to us. But they are not only useless, merely in a pecuniary point of view, but are restrained from injury at a great expense. Several thousand soldiers are deemed necessary for the present season, to protect the property and lives of our western brethren.  The expense will not probably be less than four or five hundred thousand dollars, besides a great waste of property and many valuable lives.

Let us suppose that a dozen missionaries and school teachers had gone among them five years since, and instructed them in the principles of our holy religion, would they not in all probability have prevented this waste of human life? Allowing each of the twelve teachers 500 dollars a year, the expense for five years past, would be only 30,000 dollars.

If it is true that the effect of a mission would have been to prevent the present unhappy war, we see that more than nine tenths of the expense might have been saved. I need not spend time to prove that the gospel has a tendency to make mankind humane, peaceable and friendly, or that the tribes would certainly have become so, had the proper means been taken with them. It is sufficient to point any one who doubts what would have been the result, to those tribes of Indians where the gospel has been sent. There is scarcely room in the mind of a candid man for a doubt but ten men with the Bible in their hands, and the message of salvation on their tongues, would effect more in protecting us from the attacks of savages than a thousand with their instruments of death. But the missionary must be sent while the savage is in a state of quiet,when his mind is accessible to the language of kindness and friendship. What he does he must do by way of prevention and not of remedy. Why may we not as well pay our thousands and hundreds of thousands in saving the lives of the Indians and blessing them with peace and happiness, as to pay it for the work of devestation and death?

It is wise in a political point of view (to say nothing of religion) for us to instruct the Indians in the great principles of right and wrong. When ever the motives of the gospel can be brought to bear on the minds of savages, their barbarous customs cease. Why do we not hear that the Cherokees, the Choctaws, the Senecas, and others who enjoy religious instruction, are employed in rapine and murder? Because the gospel teaches them not to retaliate nor to avenge themselves, but to forgive. Let the same gospel be understood and felt through the land, and wars will come to a perpetual end. I am confident therefore that it will be altogether cheaper in the end to civilize the Indians, than to endure their vices and protect them from their fury while they remain in the savage state. And not only so, but could such a work of humanity and benevolence be done, it would be eminently honorable to our national character. It would be setting an example worthy of imitation to others, and bring the blessing of thousands on our heads.

_____________________________

West Choctaw Nation.-- The Rev. L. S. Williams, who accompanied the emigrating Choctaws west of the Mississippi, writes to the Editor of the Philadelphian, that they arrived at the borders of their new home, about the 12th of March-their journey was a long and fatiguing route of a thousand miles, 400 by land-about 5000 Choctaws have reached that new country-12 or 13 thousand more are to follow them. The emigrants appear favorable to civilization-the Christian part of them have settled on the Red River, but even in those distant wilds they are not removed from the influence of bad white men who flock about this poor people, getting either among them, or as near them as possible, in order to make a spoil of them and their little all. Such is the testimony of an eye-witness.

Mr. W. also speaks of great solemnity witnessed among some of the emigrants--increased attention to religious services, more fervency in prayer, and the return of backsliders. There is an open door for missionaries. He had been at a Camp-meeting appointed by the Methodist, and attended by 7 or 8 of their preachers, who not having been authorized to administer the Lord's supper, invited him to officiate in that ordinance. A pleasing commentary on sectarianism.

______________________

From the New York Advertiser.

The Evening Post notices in the next place-

'The Indians and the Missionaries.- The propriety of the removal of the Indians, (says the Post) was two years ago a disputed question. Gen. Jackson was in favor of the measure. Mr. Clay opposed it. The House of Representatives supported the President, and by appropriating funds for the purpose, reconciled justice to Georgia, with humanity to the Aborigines. If Mr. Clay were now in the chair there might be some difficulty in securing future appropriations for this object. Of late years he has shown no great skill or temper in adapting himself to the decision of the people.

But the missionaries! the imprudent and deluded men, who have brought not peace but a sword.'

The propriety of the removal of the Indians is still a disputed question, and since the acts of Georgia have been declared by the Supreme Court of the United States unconstitutional, and of course null and void, the propriety of suffering them to be enforced, for the purpose of driving off the Indians, receives ten fold force in the minds of all people who wish to uphold the judiciary branch of the government, support the execution of the laws, secure the administration of justice and preserve the constitution. 'General Jackson' says the Post, 'was in favor of the measure. Mr. Clay opposed it.' Here is a strong reason for opposing the election of the former, and for supporting that of the latter. By the election of General Jackson, the people of the United States will sanction a course of policy towards the Indians in itself unjust, inhuman, oppressive, and tyrannical, and by the determination of the Court, illegal and unconstitutional; General Jackson was, and still is, in favor of this policy; and the nation will soon be called upon to condemn or approve it. In deciding upon it, they must necessarily determine another question of the highest importance to the government and country, and that is--whether the Judiciary of the nation is to be protected in the enjoyment of its constitutional powers and prerogatives, or is to be prostrated at the will of another branch of the government merely because it stands in his way, and obstructs him in the assumption and exercise of arbitrary power.  In what way justice to Georgia has been reconciled with humanity to the Aborigines, we are not able to see.  Georgia had no just demand upon the Government; no injustice had been done to that state in relation to the Cherokees; and nothing but the most gross injustice, as well as inhumanity, has been practiced by Georgia towards that people;-and General Jackson has countenanced, connived at, and encouraged both.- We leave the tack of reconciling these things to the Evening Post.

'But,' says the Post, 'the Missionaries! the imprudent and deluded men, who have brought no peace but a sword.' It seems probable that they will be released by the legislature of Georgia but if not, and the worst come, shall we be safer in the hands of a rigid constructionist, one accustomed narrowly to define his own powers and those of the co-ordinate branches of the government, or shall we put ourselves under the guidance of one who, forgetful of the principles of his early education seems tempted to stretch to the widest the already vast embrace of the General Government?  One thing, seems certain--'The President's course will probably occasion delay. Congress will then have time to legislate on the subject: and what matters it if six months or even another year expire before this question be settled. On the other hand, the temper manifested by Mr. Clay before the Convention of Young Men, would embroil the United States with Georgia within twenty four hours after the truncheon came into his hand.'

We should like to know on what evidence the Post pronounces that these 'impudent and deluded men will probably be released by the legislature of Georgia.' Not the slightest appearance of any such disposition, on the part of that dignified body, has ever fallen within our observation. On the contrary, everything that we have seen, whether in the form of reports, resolutions, or more formal legislative acts, has been unrelenting, vindictive, and tyrannical. But these men have been 'imprudent and deluded.' Were they impudent and deluded, in undertaking with the express sanction and approbation of the President of the United States by a residence among the Cherokees, to assist in carrying into effect the benevolent and charitable policy of the government, by introducing among them the arts of civilization, and the knowledge of the Christian Religion? So entirely was the residence of the Missionaries approved by the administration, that considerable expenses for their comfort and accommodation were incurred under the sanction of the government and one of them was actually appointed a postmaster under the authority of the United States--an office from which he has under General Jackson's administration been removed for the express purpose of exposing him to punishment, and under the unconstitutional acts of the legislature of Georgia. This, we presume, is a specimen of the reconciliation 'of justice to Georgia with humanity to the Aborigines.'

But with a cold blooded insensibility which is peculiarly characteristic of those who feel bound to vindicate the policy and the measures of the Jackson administration, the Post very coolly and calmly remarks--'One thing seems certain. The President's course will probably occasion delay. Congress will then have time to legislate on the subject; and what matters it if six months or even another year expire before this question be settled.'--Without stopping to notice this certain probability we will remark, that these Missionaries, without having violated any law, or committed any offence, have been most unjustly and wickedly confined in a state prison, among felons and villains, for about one year-the authority under which this injustice and iniquity has been perpetrated has been solemnly adjudged by the highest judicial tribunal under the government unconstitutional, null and void; --they are still confined to hard labor, in this cruel and ignominious manner; and yet we are gravely asked by the Evening Post, 'what matters it if six months or even another year expire before this question be settled?' The inquiry would well become a Turkish Pasha, or a Dey of Algiers. Had such an unjust and illegal imprisonment as this occurred in Great Britain, or France under a constitutional government, or any other well regulated European nation the feelings of the nation would have been aroused, and the government would have been forced by fear of public opinion and private feeling to open their prison doors, and discharge them from their unjust, vindictive, disgraceful confinement. Are the community gravely to be asked 'what matters it if six months or even an other year shall expire' before these excellent men are relieved from an endurance of injustice, and illegal punishment, that would have disgraced the Bastille of France, or the Inquisition of Spain?  This stain upon the character of our government and country, if there were no other objection to General Jackson's re-election, ought to prevent him form ever having another opportunity to gratify his lawless disposition, or to manifest the contempt which he feels for the laws and Constitution, the authority of the Courts, and the rights and liberty of the citizens.

________________________

From the New York Spectator.

Cherokee Phoenix.-- Elias Boudinot has resigned his station as editor of the Cherokee Phoenix. In a  letter to John Ross, Principal Chief of the Nation, he states as his reasons for adopting this measure, that he believes his connection with the paper has answered all the purposes that could be expected from it hereafter. The rights of the Indians have been sustained by the highest judicial tribunal. Their wrongs, at the hands of an impeachable and tyrannical Executive, have been exposed to the people. The Nation now wants all its funds. A different view of what the Nation should adapt in the last alternative,--and threatened as it is with annihilation by the President, at the head of the Georgia Nullifiers,- from that entertained by others, would also place Mr. B., he says, in a delicate ' disagreeable position, ' paralyze his usefulness. Having been for four years in the performance of a duty, which nothing but the holiness of the cause could render tolerable, he also deems himself at liberty to consult his personal inclinations, by endeavoring to do good in a pleasanter(sic) and more hopeful way. Should he continue, his salary, which was only $300 would be insufficient to support him.  He will continue to conduct the paper; to the close of the present volume.

The principle Chief, in communicating this resignation to the Council, expresses his opinion that it is essential that the paper should still be kept up; that it has done much good in diffusion knowledge among the Cherokees, as well as in making their grievances known abroad; and that the pecuniary embarrassments of the Nation should in no wise lead to its discontinuance. He thinks that the money collected by the Editor on his tour, which was undertaken at the request of the Nation, should be appropriated to this and not to other purposes.

On this point, Mr. B. expresses in a comment on the message, a difference of opinion; as the money was not given exclusively for that object. He thinks also that the columns of the Phoenix should be open to free discussion among the Cherokees themselves, in order that the will of the people may be clearly understood, ' their hopes and fears made known. And he asks in a tone, which, while we are sorry to see it is of so desponding a character, is but too well justified by the crisis:

'What say our friends in Congress? Have they not fully apprised us that they cannot effect any substantial good for us? Have not a number of them, whose motives are above suspicion, communicated their views in writing, for our information? And has not an Hon. Judge of the Supreme Court made a similar communication, stating that the operation of the late decision of the Supreme Court cannot extend to our relief, unless the executive felt itself bound to enforce the treaties?  And does President Jackson feel himself bound to obey the Supreme Court, and execute the treaties?'

Mr. Boudinot should remember, however, that in General Jackson, Natures's Copy is not eternal; and if it were, for the sins of mankind, and against the laws of nature there is no intention on the part of a majority of the people to let him play any more fantastic tricks before high heaven, after the 4th of March, 1832. This can now scarcely be deemed one of these 'contingencies,' to which he considers it not wise in the Nation, whose lands are already half overrun by the feculent dregs of the white population of Georgia, to look or hope.  We hope soon to hail it as a moral certainty. Otherwise, as the epitaph of the Constitution is written, it may be hung upon some of the old mound that remain in the Indian lands, mysterious remembrances of a departed and forgotten nation; forgotten even as the dream of liberty which the brief success of our experiment had produced. To the words, 'The Constitution of the United States was.' --let it be added, WASHINGTON FECIT, JACKSON INTERFECIT.

_________________________

THE CHEROKEES.

There was nothing of great interest transacted at the General Council which commenced its session on the 23d inst. E. W. Chester, Esq. bearer of certain propositions from the Government, addressed to the Cherokees, inviting them to a negotiation and general arrangement of the difficulties existing between them; communicated the object of his mission. The propositions were read and interpreted, and by a vote of the two houses it was resolved that the Principal Chief be authorized to reply to them through the Agent, Col. Montgomery.

From the Columbus Enquirer.

The above article is extracted from the Cherokee Phoenix. From other matter, contained in the same paper, we are induced to believe that the Cherokee Nation is seriously disposed to treat. Mr. Boudinot, the Editor of the Phoenix, has tendered his resignation as Editor, to the Principal Chief, John Ross. We gather from this letter of resignation, that the Editor and the authorities of the Nation are at variance, the former adverse and the latter favorable, to cession, and removal. Mr. Boudinot says:

*        * *       *       * *       *       * *         Here we think are strong indications of the intention of the Cherokees to remove west.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA,Sept. 22, 1832

The letter of resignation by the late editor of this paper, and published by him, setting forth his indisposition to sustain the cause of the Cherokees, we perceive has taken a wide range in the prints of the United States. It has been eagerly and conspicuously held up by the southern papers who are immediately interested in the acquisition of Indian lands, as a breach in the patriotic ranks of the Cherokees, by which a treaty of cession may be accomplished.  Of the contents of this letter, we hoped, had passed us forever, like some fleeting wind, to be heard of no more.  But the avidity with which the people of the interested states have received this letter with which to revive their despondency of legally acquiring the Cherokee country, constrains us to submit a few remarks on the merits of this letter together with his subsequent comments on the message of the Principal Chief. The right of the late editor to change his opinions, on questions involving the dearest rights of the Cherokees-questions of expedience, or on any other whatsoever, we feel ourselves bound not to question. The change of sentiment of the editor which this letter would seem to indicate, as departing of a redress of our wrongs, from the present administration, is no doubt the result of the continued oppression of the Cherokees, and an honest conviction, that the Cherokees would be safer, could they be removed from the cruel government of the Georgians. However valuable the services of this once devoted patriot to our cause might have been, we must bear the loss, with the consideration that the safety of any cause are not exempt from the dangers of human nature ' the change of opinions. The revolutions of nations ' change of opinions are occurrences of every day and every year. The change of the present one is quite immaterial to us, the loss is but a drop from the bucket, it cannot move the Cherokees from the stand they have taken; the body politic, and the great body of the Cherokees remains united, ' a treaty, let who will favor it, will find it as certainly premature, as it is revolting to the feelings of the Cherokees.  Therefore, the Columbus Enquirer may substitute 'no treaty' to that inscribed under his banner, and not until then will the Enquirer render justice to his readers.- The joint letter of the members of Congress to the Principal Chief, are also referred to in this letter, to prove the hopelessness of redressing the wrongs of the Cherokees under the present administration. While we would feel grateful for the services of these highly enlightened and benevolent men in advocating the rights of the Cherokees and their relief, we must be permitted to point out the reasons, why the friends of the Cherokees in Congress deemed it necessary to advise the Chief, of the difficulties existing, as calculated to defeat any exertion on their part, of obtaining from Congress relief for the Cherokees.- The decision of the Supreme Court in the Missionary case preceded the letter from the members of Congress to the Principal Chief; this decision embraced all the rights which the Cherokees claimed under their treaties, ' is by the Constitution of the U. S. binding on the President, members of Congress, and the United States. The President is sworn to have the laws faithfully executed, so are the members of Congress to support the Constitution. This decision is made by virtue of this Constitution ' consequently is the supreme law of the land. It appears that the President claims to be the Judge of that decision and will refuse to be bound by it. The refusal of the President to execute this decision is under the Constitution an impeachable offence, these members then as men of integrity and virtue are bound at the next Congress to know the cause of the non-execution of this decision.  If the President continues to refuse to be bound by it, the alternative of impeachment is presented, and what a spectacle will this be to the world! Congress arrayed against its President for the violation of the laws of the land. A different course of the members would not be in accordance with their oath, knowing as they do the infringement of their Constitution would seem to us to amount to perjury; and in order to avert this calamitous state of things we must believe was the object of our friends in Congress in addressing the Principal Chief, and if possible to induce the Cherokees to change their situation, ' restore that tranquility ' harmony that are so essentially necessary at this time, to secure the happiness of all parties.- If we are correct in the motives; that gave rise to his letter by the members of Congress, they never intended to convey the opinion that the rights of the Cherokees were irrecoverably lost.

The letter of the Judge of the S. Court to the Principal Chief we understand also only enumerates the difficulties that are existing in the way of our relief, ' believes it to be the safer course for the Cherokees to remove west of the Mississippi.

___________________

The subjoined extract from the address of the National Republicans of Vermont to their party in that State, alleges against President Jackson, as their objections to his reelection, the violation of government pledges for the protection of the Indians-his opposition to the decision of the Supreme Court, for the release of the imprisoned missionaries in the penitentiary of Georgia, and abetting that State in the practical nullification of that decision. If the assertion of facts were ever founded in truth, they are of such a character as if the defendant had admitted them in open court. The Cherokees have suffered much, and it is only by the election of another president that they can expect to receive rest.

'The vindictive and persecuting spirit manifested by the present administration towards the Aborigines of our country, demands a strong expression of universal reprehension.- Without discussing the question of the political expediency of the removal of the Indians, it is enough to know that the United States more than thirty years ago in solemn treaty as well as in treaties since made, recognized their exclusive right to their lands, and their own mode of government; that they pledged the sacred faith of the nation to protect them in the unmolested enjoyment of these rights, to defend them from the encroachments of the surrounding whites, and from subjection to the state authorities; and in fulfillment of these purposes armed troops had been stationed upon their borders. Justice and humanity must pronounce upon this administration the charge of a flagrant violation of the pledged fidelity of the nation, in the withdrawal of these forces; in permitting the whites to invade the Indian territory, and to pillage their gold and flocks ' herds; in permitting them even to burn their dwellings upon their heads and to subject them to the most cruel and unconstitutional enactments of state legislation. Even the messengers of religion who had gone among them with their approbation, and by the authority and encouragement of the National Executive, to impart to them the blessings of civil and Christian life, were cast into prison, the associates of common felons, for no higher offence than for not leaving the country at the unauthorized bidding of the State of Georgia. And when they had applied for relief to the Supreme Judicial tribunal of the land, and when that tribunal had pronounced these proceedings unconstitutional and void, and directed the release of the prisoners, is it not true that the President, wholly disregarding this decision, arrayed himself on the side of Georgia against the Federal Judiciary? Is it not true that his friends in Congress, under his countenance and sanction, made the bold attempt to strike from the National Statute Book, the entire section from which the Supreme Court of the United States derives its jurisdiction, and thus at one fell blow to demolish this strong bulwark of our National safety? While he has specisomly (sic) disclaimed the theoretical nullification of one state, has he not thus only abated the more treasonable practical nullification of another?




      


NULLIFICATION vs.BAYONET

From the Montgomery, Ala. Gazette.

RESISTANCE,- Mr. Crawford the Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama was a short time since resisted by a portion of the white settlers in the Creek Nation, while attempting to carry into effect the Proclamation of the President of the United States, ordering an immediate removal of intruders out of the limits of the same. It appears that certain citizens formerly residents of the lower part of this State, under the impression that they would be shielded by the 'Sovereignty of the State,' made it convenient to build a town on Indian lands, and to name it Erwinton. Upon the Marshal arriving at the spot, he distinctly informed them that they had acted in direct violation of the instructions he had received from the executive, and requested them peaceably to leave. They refused to comply with his request, and threatened him with their vengeance.

In a short time after, a detachment of the Federal troops under the command of a Lieutenant were marched from Fort Mitchell to the spot, and the town consumed by fire. Upon the news of the conflagration, a process was issued against the Lieutenant who commanded on the occasion, for the purpose of bringing him before the civil authorities of Pike County, for a violation of the laws of the State. The Deputy Sheriff attempted to execute the precess, and in the attempt was pierced by a federal bayonet to such an extent that his life-life is despaired of-and so ended the matter. A few days ago the Marshal left Wetumpkie for the white settlements in the upper part of the Creek territory. What has there been done we know not. So much for the doctrine of Nullification when put into practice.




      


From the (Lexington, Ky.) Observer and Reporter

On the 23d the Courier and Enquirer, announced, the withdrawal of Mr. NOAH from that establishment, Mr. WEBB having purchased his interest. An address of some length to the public by mr. Webb also appears in the Courier and Enquirer of this date, in which the writer, after explaining the causes which have induced him to adopt this course, denounces Gen. Jackson, and avows a determination to oppose his re-election to the Presidency. We regret that we have not room in our columns for the address. It is well written, and deeply interesting. The following are the closing paragraphs.

'I cannot conclude this paper, long as it is already, without again calling upon the honest patriots of the country to pause and reflect upon the value of our constitution, and the certain destruction that awaits that sacred instrument if ANDREW JACKSON should be re-elected and the government fall into the hands of a faction in Albany by reason of their coadjutors about the person of the President. Let them rally for the preservation of what is justly and admiration of the world-let them preserve unimpaired the rich legacy won by the valor of our fathers and consecrated to the sacred cause of restoring to mankind their natural and unalienable rights. To the PEOPLE to the DEMOCRACY of the Union generally I would say--look to the currency of the country--Of the Farmers , the Mechanics, the Manufacturers and Merchants of the Union, I would ask--are you prepared to see our currency destroyed,and one general scene of distress pervade every quarter of our flourishing country? Of the DEMOCRACY of New York, I would enquire-are you prepared by voting for the re-election of ANDREW JACKSON to place for years, the destinies of this great state in the hands of a few leaders in Albany, who speculate upon your wants, deride your complaints; and govern you with a rod or iron through a chain of local Banks and the application to party purposes of the Finances of the State?

'It may abe asked, and with propriety, why I have delayed this declaration of my principles and my future course. The answer if a plain one. Mr. Noah was equally interested with myself in the proprietorship of the Courier ' Enquirer,and differing as we do in our relations to General Jackson, I could not act through the columns of our paper until his interest was extinguished; but on the day that the Veto Message was received, I openly declared my determination never to advocate the re-election of Andrew Jackson to the Presidency. On this subject, therefore, there has been no concealment, and having succeeded in purchasing Mr. Noah's moiety of the establishment, I have frankly, fearlessly and honestly devoted it to the cause of principle and to the preservation of the constitution of the country.

 JAS. WATSON WEBB.'




      


FROM THE HISTORY OF THE DELAWARE AND IROQUOIS INDIANS.

The most dangerous pretenders among them are the sorcerers who not only impose upon and frighten the superstitious, but, with the foul spirit of Satan, they commit horrid murders, and are generally cunning enough to conceal their wickedness. The following anecdote, related, by Mr. Hockewelder, in which one of these impostors was brought to the test of truth, will also show how deeply rooted is the belief of the Indians in these fancied supernatural powers.  Sometime about the year 1786, a Quaker trader, of the name of Anderson, who, among the Indians, was called the honest Quaker trader, after vainly endeavoring to convince them of the folly of witchcraft, defied their sorcerers to produce any effect upon him. He desired that two of them might be brought to him successively on different days, for the purpose of trying their art.  The first conjurer, however, declared that Anderson was so good a man, and so much the friend of Indians, that he would not injure him. The other was a different stamp. He was an arch sorcerer, whose fame was extended far and wide, and was much dreaded by the Indians, who dissuaded Anderson from exposing himself to what they deemed certain destruction. It was only stipulated before hand that the magician should not be armed, nor carry poison, or anything of a destructive nature about him, and that he should not approach nearer than twelve feet. The spectators being assembled, the sorcerer took his seat, arrayed in the most frightful manner that he could devise. The wizard began the murmury(sic) by working with his fingers on a blanket, plucking now and then a little wool, and breathing on it, then rolling it together in small rolls of the size of a bean, and went through a number antic tricks. Anderson remained cool and composed, now and then calling to his antagonist not to be sparing of his exertions. The conjurer now began to make the most horrid gesticulations. At last, while the eyes of the spectators were all fixed on this brave man, to observe the effect of the sorcerers craft, the terrible conjurer, finding that all his efforts were vain, gave up the point; alleging, as an excuse 'that the quantity of salt  which the Americans used with their food was what preserved them from the effects of sorcery.' Though it was easy to see through this miserable pretence, yet the Indians are so infatuated on this subject, that they gave to the impostor's lame excuse the most implicit belief.




      


 Nullification Doctrine

Extract of Judge Clayton's letter written on a call made upon him. on the subject of nullification. We know that its great length is objectionable, but as the opinion advocates the right of a state to nullify the laws of the United States sustaining the Indian rights, we have thought it important to publish an extract.

'As your meeting, doubtless, in a spirit of what it conceived to be its rights, has subjected me to a political catechism, under a menace, will it be offended, if I, in my turn, without such rigor, seek to know 'what are their sentiments in regard' to Mr. Jefferson as a statesman? He has merited, and justly received, the title of an Apostle of Freedom. He is the great oracle of southern politics, in his opinions every statesman is safe who has the true and proper veneration for civil liberty. Will anything he has said be good authority with your meeting? If so, then mark his own words, uttered in opposition to the Sedition Law, one, not more unconstitutional than the tariff act.  'When (said this great man) powers are assumed, which have not been delegated, A NULLIFICATION of the ACT is the RIGHTFUL REMEDY: THAT EVERY STATE has a NATURAL RIGHT, to NULLIFY, of their OWN AUTHORITY, all assumptions of power by others, WITHIN THEIR LIMITS: that without this right, they would be under the dominion, absolute and unlimited, of whomsoever might exercise this right of judgment for them.'

Here, then, you have my opinion in full. Of Mr. Jefferson's political creed, I shall never be afraid or ashamed. Whenever his doctrines cease to be considered orthodox by the southern people, for they never were in order in the north, I feel entirely confident I am unfit to be their representative, and the execution of the threat of your meeting can never come too soon for my own inclination.

It is true that Mr. Jefferson has not pointed out the mode and manner of nullifying a law; but this must be left to the wisdom and discretion of the state whose rights are invaded by the assumed power, and must be as various as the acts are varied that violate the Constitution. Any plan, I care not what it is, that rids the state of the oppressive measure, is a nullification of that measure. To nullify is simply nothing more nor less than to render  null and void. All unconstitutional laws are null and void. Is this objected to? I presume not.- Than your meeting, in its very first resolution, has declared that the tariff act is 'unjust and inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution.' Is it too much to say that an unjust law, one inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution ought to be NULL and VOID? As much as this doctrine is now derided, I affirm, without the fear of contradiction, that it is the very doctrine upon which Georgia has acted from the foundation of her government. And I will prove it.- I lay down these positions:

1st. That an unconstitutional law is NO LAW, and no man or community is bound to obey it, nay, they are bound to resist it, for every man is sworn to support the Constitution.

2d A law 'unjust and inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution,' is a violation of the Constitution, because it is a perversion of that instrument, a perversion is a breach of its intention, and according to all rules of construction, legal or moral, the intention must govern.

3d. That the general government can pass no law for which it does not find an authority in the Constitution, and that if it does, it is no more binding upon the states than if passed by a foreign nation, for as to all ungranted powers it is to these states a completely foreign government!

The two first positions need no commentary, the last suggests these reflections. Suppose Great Britain should pass an act for the benefit of her manufacturers, to operate in Georgia, what would the state do? I care not what, but whatever was done, precisely that ought to be done in relation to the same act passed by the federal government, for the right is wholly and absolutely usurped in both cases. If South Carolina, our neighboring state, were to pass such a law, everybody would see its absurdity, and Georgia would nullify it in an instant; then where is the difference between one state and twenty-three states?  Where is the difference between the northern states doing this thing, in their separate state legislatures, or, under the pretence of constitutional authority, combining and meeting in the halls of Congress for the same purpose, if both methods be equally out of the pale of the Constitution? Why should we not as readily resist an usurped act of the general government as that of any other government? There is no reason for it, and four distinct cases has the state of Georgia applied, as Mr. Jefferson call it, this RIGHTFUL REMEDY.

May I again respectfully ask your meeting, 'what are its sentiments in regard' to Governor Troup's political principles? He says, 'whatever a state does in its sovereign capacity, will be right.

Acting upon this principle, in 1825, when the general government attempted to annul the old by what was called the new treaty, he solemnly declared it should not be done, stating boldly that he 'would employ all the limited means in his power to prevent it,' and ordered the Hancock troop of horse to hold themselves in readiness. What stronger revolutionary tendency could any measure exhibit? But this was not all, the Secretary of War ordered troops into the nation to overawe the state, listen, while perhaps the blood will curdle with indignation, at Gen. Gaine's despatch to that officer: 'Col. Chambers (said he) with five companies of the first, and Major Doneho, with four companies of the fourth regiment of infantry, have taken the positions assigned them, viz: the former at Marshall's Ferry, Flint River, and the latter at Princeton, Chattahoochee, with instructions corresponding with yours of the 21st of last month.' Did this alarm Governor Troup? Let me bring to your recollection that patriot's reply to Mr. Adams: 'The legislature of Georgia, will, at its first meeting, be advised TO RESIST any effort which may be made to wrest from the state the territory acquired by that treaty, and no matter by what authority the effort be made. If the legislature fail to vindicate that right, the responsibility will be theirs, not mine.' What became of the new treaty? Georgia nullified it. She resisted the authority of the general government because its act was unconstitutional and being in the right, through force was not only threatened, but arrayed, she triumphed, and the old treaty was sustained. So, the federal troops marched to Flint River, and then--marched back again. This is one act of nullification. I understand that the only objection to nullification is it has a tendency to revolution and bloodshed, and to bring the federal government into contempt.  What could so effectually produce all these events as the case I have just mentioned?

The second instance was the case of Tassels.  A mandate was sent from the Supreme Court of the United States to suspend his execution until he could be heard before that Court as a writ of error. What said the legislature?

'Resolved, That the Governor and every other officer of this state disregard any and every mandate and process that has been or shall be served upon him or them, proceeding from the Supreme Court of the United States, for the purpose of arresting any of the criminal laws of this state.'

'Resolved, That the Governor with all the forceful means placed at his command re__ and repel any and every invasion from whatever quarter, upon the administration of the criminal laws of this state.'

What language can be stronger? And do not the resolutions imply the probability of a conflict, that the state might have to battle it with the general government?  But when the constitutional rights of a state are violated, what other alternative is left? We read from the lessons of the Revolution, that the motto of our forefathers was liberty or death, and so far, I am proud to say, the conduct of Georgia has evinced to the world a noble vindication of the maxim.

In reference to the third instance, I must beg leave again to reiterate the enquiry of your meeting, 'what are its sentiments, in regard' to the political course of Governor Lumpkin?  For whatever may be their objections to that of Governor Troup, so far as related to these doctrines, he has been fully supported by the present Governor. At the last session of the legislature, Governor Lumpkin communicated to that body, that he had received two citations commanding the state of Georgia to appear in the Supreme Court, to show cause why the judgment rendered in our state court against Worcester and Butler, should not be set aside. What said the Governor on that occasion? That which ought to command admiration of every friend of state rights. 'Any attempt (said he) to infringe the evident right of the state to govern the entire population within its territorial limits, and to punish all offenses committed against its laws, within these limits, (due regard owing had to the cases expressly exacted by the constitution of the United States) would be the usurpation of the power never granted by the states.' And what was to be the remedy in such cases of usurpation? Harken to the Governor:-'Such an attempt, whenever made will challenge the most determined resistance ' if persevered in will evidently eventuate in the annihilation of our beloved country.' But was this all he said? No!  The best evidence of his principles yet remains, and is in fact in accordance with that of Gove. Troup: 'In exercising (continued he) the authority of that department of the Government which devolves on me, I will DISREGARD ALL UNCONSTITUTIONAL REQUISITIONS OF WHATEVER CHARACTER OR ORIGIN THEY MAY BE, and to the best of my ability , will protect and defend the rights of the State, and use the means afforded me, to maintain its laws and constitution.' These are principles every way worthy of a statesman, and such as every man should be proud, much less afraid, to avow. But let us mark the issue of this missionary case, and here I must ask again, 'what are the sentiments of your meeting in regard' to the Missionaries? When I affirmed in Congress that 'before the Missionaries would be taken from the Penitentiary by virtue of the decision of the Supreme Court, Georgia would become a howling wilderness.' A LETTER from the city of Augusta, the place where your meeting was held, informed the Editor of the National Intelligencer, that I did not speak the sentiments of the people of Georgia. Now I had every reason to suppose he firmed his opinion upon the views of his neighbors, if he spoke the truth; and if so the political opinions of that city are at variance with the rest of the good people of Georgia, for the information thus given by the Augusta letter has, in all its parts, been wholly unconfirmed. And this induced me to fear that there might be an interest in that flourishing city, not altogether in unison with the good southern feeling of the rest of the state. Be this as it may, the decision of the Supreme Court has been nullified, or the matter is now thrown upon the general government to take its course. If it yields the authority of that Government has been held in perfect contempt and rendered null and void. If it proceeds, than all the consequences of revolutionary action and the effusion of blood so much dreaded in relation to the tariff, must be the inevitable result.

The decision purports to be founded upon the Intercourse Law passed by Congress in 1802, to regulate trade with the Indians, and also upon the solemn Treaties of the United States declared by the Constitution to be the supreme law of the land.- Now it is resisted by the State of Georgia, upon the ground that the Treaties are unconstitutional.

What is the planned fair inference to be drawn from this case? If a state can rightfully resist a law which has not only gone through the usual forms of legislation, sanctioned by the Executive and Legislative branches of government, but has been pronounced constitutional by the highest Judicial power, than is, passed all the guards that can give the stamp and authority of law, surely there can be but little cause to dread a similar opposition to the tariff act founded open and equally flagrant usurpation. But we are told they are not similar cases. Let us examine this point. The Intercourse Law is founded upon that power in the Constitution, which give to Congress the right to regulate commerce with the Indian Tribes. The tariff act is said to rest upon the right to regulate commerce with foreign nations. Now mark, both of these powers are found side by side, in the 8th section of the 1st article of the Federal Constitution. Suppose both laws, for the first time had been passed at the last Congress. The first, containing a provision that the Cherokee Nation of Indians within the limits of Georgia, was an independent nation, and not subject to the laws of Georgia.  The second, containing a provision that the people of Georgia should pay a tax to the northern capitalists to protect the manufacturers. What would Georgia do with the first law? Need I answer that she had already nullified precisely such a law, in the present Intercourse Law, and the decision founded thereon. If then she would nullify the first law, can there be a sensible difference in point of effect or principle between that and the last?  It is said their difference is their consequences, the first applies to a single state, the other to all the states; and pray what has one sovereign state to do with the rights of other sovereign states in their separate capacities? It is not recollected that one state has nothing to do with another, only in the stipulated articles that have confederated them together, and so soon as the confederated government passes law out of these articles, each state throws itself upon its original separate rights, and may employ whatever means it pleases to prevent the operation of that law, or if it chooses it may submit to its authority. The other states may desire the protective system, indeed more than two thirds clamor for it. Can this be any good reason why Georgia shall submit to it?

Suppose all the other states, like Louisiana and Kentucky, should be bought up and become reconciled to the late act, can it be contended that Georgia must become so too? Does it not occur to every mind, that there can be no possible difference between robbing the states, by piecemeal, of their constitutional rights, or doing it in one general attack upon the whole sisterhood? The reasoning that would attempt to make a difference, will establish this position. If a ruffian attacks a single individual, he must repel him immediately, but if he attacks him in company with twenty- three others, sixteen of whom are willing to be robbed, and the other seven doubting whether they will fight or submit, he must wait until they make up their minds! From such logic I beg leave most heartily to dissent. All infractions of the zconstitution are alike, whether they be great or small, so say all divines in reference to the moral law; the progress of the mischief may be different, but the final result will be the same.- The beautiful green field may be as effectually destroyed by the admission of its despoilers at a single gab as if they had rushed upon its luxuriance from a prostrated broadside.

The fourth case, strange as it may appear, is actually going on almost unnoticed, at the present time, and though silently, yet as certainly as the other three. I allude to the survey and occupation of the Cherokee Nation.  Thousands who are now decrying the term nullification are perfectly willing that it should not be arrested in the case referred to, and perhaps into the threat of your 3rd resolution, would vote against any man who should be opposed to its success. The last legislature authorized a survey and disposition of this whole country, and I understand the survey is made; the commissioners are convened, preparation is making for the lottery, the drawing is to commence in October next, and in all probability the possession of the lands will pass from the Indians before the close of the year. Now what becomes of the treaties that have guarantied this very territory to its present inhabitants? The constitution of the United States declares all treaties to be the supreme law of the land, anything in the constitution and laws of the states to the contrary notwithstanding. The violation of a treaty often involves a nation in war, and but for the weakness of this nation, such might have been the consequences of this proceeding on the part of Georgia.

Can it be possible that this will not be called a plain and palpable case of nullification! The matter is too clear; concerning it there can be no manner of doubt. And although an individual, I cannot agree that it is right, yet under my doctrine, based upon the opinions of Mr. Jefferson, that a state has the right to 'jude for itself, as well of infractions (of the compact) as of the mode and measure of redress,' and the state having pronounced these treaties unconstitutional, and therefore NULL and VOID, if she is invaded by the general government, I go to support her decision 'right or wrong,' for my first allegiance is due to the state of Georgia. This is my kind of nullification; will your meeting do this?  If they will, there is no difference of opinion between us; if they will not, I leave the people of Georgia to judge which doctrine suits their notion of patriotism best. Now what case can tend to blood and revolution than this?  And yet I do not believe that this or any other case, will ever produce such a result. The thing is unreasonable. No oppressive and unconstitutional law can be enforced against a sovereign state. It is a free agent in a mere voluntary confederation which is wholly unnecessary to its internal municipal regulation. Having gone into the union for external objects, the moment these are lost, and an attempt is made to rob her of her inherent rights, the same free agency that made the compact ca dissolve it, nay it would become so by reason of the fraud of the opposite party. Force is out of the question. Four times has Georgia tried this matter, and just as certain as fate four times, she will meet with the same success, for no man can believe, that when the alternative is presented to the general government to give up the Union, or to cut the threats of her citizens to pamper the wealth of a privileged order, that the choice will occasion even an instants hesitation.

In all cases of usurped or assumed powers, Mr. Jefferson's doctrine maintain three things:

1st. That nullification is the rightful remedy

2d. This is a natural right.

3d. That 'every state,' of its 'own authority' as a right to 'nullify within her own limits.'

Upon this last it may be necessary to say but a word. A state entitled to 'judge for itself, as well of infractions, as the mode and measure of redress,' cannot part with its sovereignty (without becoming dependent) to any other state so as to make the other the judge of its violated rights. A submission of this kind implies an obligation to abide by the award, and such a course every body must perceive requires a state to give up its own judgment to the decision of one who may not have half the same interest at stake, or anything like a proper knowledge of the bearings of that interest. What would have been the consequence if Gov. Troup had waited till he should have submitted the case of the old and new treaty to a convention of southern states, or it Gov. Lumpkin had done the same thing in relation to the missionaries or the survey of the Cherokee Nation? Think you not the decision would have been against us? And what security has any state against any other result, when she trusts her sovereign powers to an arbitration?  I subscribe most unequivocally to the doctrine contained in the above three points, and consequently I am for a convention of the people of the state to determine the best method of removing the burthens imposed by this unconstitutional, usurped, and unjust law, and whatever that method may be, I feel bound to submit to it.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6, 1832

We refer our readers to an act of Congress published in this paper, authorizing the appointment of a Commissioner over the Indian Department, for the administration of the various affairs growing out of their relations with the Indian Tribes, ' for other purposes. The 4th section prohibits the introduction of ardent spirits into the Indian country, under any pretence whatever. If this section of the law was intended to operate in all the Indian countries, why is not this provision executed in this nation? This is the very country, and the proper time, if Congress intended to benefit the Indians by it, for the enforcement of this law. This part of the Cherokee country ever since the extension of Georgia jurisdiction over it-that portion bordering on the Tennessee State, as also that of Alabama, continues to be supplied, in traffic with the Indians, by the white persons permitted by the President to occupy and intrude on the Indian lands, in great quantities of this consuming fire. The Cherokees have at different times, called on the President for the enforcement of a law (Mar. 20th 1802) containing provision more ample for the suppression of this pernicious but he has as often refused.  This law provides heavy penalties against the whites for dealing in spirituous liquors with the Indians, but it has been regarded as a law unfit for the execution of the President. A new section has now appeared from Congress, containing four lines prohibitory of this traffic, but without a penalty for its infringement. A law in this condition we had always viewed, as a matter of Counsel and not of law, the pleasure of the subject superseding its supremacy, and altogether inefficient to govern the object for which it was obtained.  If Congress were candid in the passage of this section, and this part of the Indian country was intended to be embraced, it would be nothing more than an act of simple justice, to which we had at least a just claim; the enforcement would be salutary, and might go far in white washing the act of the President for refusing to execute the provisions of a much better law.

An act to provide for the appointment of a Commissioner of Indian affairs and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled. That the President shall appoint by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who shall under the direction of the Secretary of War, and agreeably to such regulation as the President may from time to time prescribe, have the direction and management of all Indian Affairs, and of matters arising out of Indian relations,and shall receive a salary of _______ per annum.

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of War shall arrange or appoint to the said office the number of clerks necessary therefore, so as not to increase the number now employed; and such sum as is necessary to pay the salary of said Commissioner of the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, shall be, and the same hereby is appropriated out of any money in the treasury.

Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That all accounts and vouchers for claims and disbursements connected with Indian Affairs, shall be transmitted to the said Commissioner for administrative examination, and by him passed to the proper accounting officer of the Treasury Department for settlement; and all letters and packages to and from the said Commissioner, touching the business of his office, shall be free of postage.

Sec. 4.  And be it further enacted. That the Secretary of War shall, under the direction of the President, cause to be discontinued, the services of such sub-agents, interpreters, and mechanics, as may, from time to time, become unnecessary, in consequence of the emigration of the Indians, or other causes.

Approved: July 9, 1832.

_____________________________

The following communication is from a respectable person, the truth of whose statement there can be no doubt. The decision of Judge Clayton in which he refers, was also nullified by Governors Gilmer and Lumpkins, but the still 'small voice of justice' was still recorded in the books of the Superior Court which the Honorable Judge has thought proper to banish and deprive the Indians of that justice which they are certainly entitled to from him, in regard to the gold mines.

Mr. EDITOR:- On Monday in September last, I had session to attend the Superior Court of Cherokee County, so called. I arrived there on Monday morning in time to hear Judge Daugherty deliver his charge to the Grand Jury. The court house being small and so much crowded I of course had to take a station on the outside, therefore, I could not hear all that the Judge had to say. But this much, I well recollect, in giving his charge, he stated to them, that the same Justice should be meted out to the red man as the white man. On the same evening I learnt (sic) that the next day (Tuesday) three Cherokees were to be brought before the Court for the crime of digging for gold on their own soil, I felt a deep interest, and waited to see the trial. On Tuesday, about 10 o'clock they were brought to the court house and seated on a log in front of the court house door. I went up to them, and took each of them by the hand; on doing this it recurred to my mind, where are the Treaties and laws of the United States, and has the executive arm become too short that it cannot protect the Indians in their own rights and privileges? I then inquired who they were, and from what part of the nation. I found that one of them was a nephew of the venerable Maj. Ridge;- and the other two were connections of our worthy Representative Walking Stick.  They stated that after they were arrested, they were taken before some of the justices of the peace and committed to jail in Dekalb county, Georgia, and were brought to that place for trial.  They were coupled one to the other as they sat on the log by the ankles, with a common trace chain, ' a padlock suspended to each ankle. About 11 o'clock they were brought before the court and the counsel, adverted to the decision of Judge Clay, viz:- the State of Georgia vs. Cunnetoo, which decision is well known to your readers; but the Judge over ruled the plea, and stated he had nothing to do with the acts of the legislature, but to enforce them; if the State had a right to restrain her white population from digging gold, she had the same right to restrain her Indian population from doing the same. The prisoners gave bond and security for their appearance at the next term of the Court which will be on the 4th Monday in March next so that the opinion of Judge Clayton of the unconstitutionality of the law, is declared by Judge Daugherty, as constitutional. What a contradiction! One other Cherokee case and I shall have done. A certain white man by the name of Bogan had a claim on the estate of Jesse Vann deceased, and commenced an action, Peacock, uncle of the deceased, and recovered a judgement against the Peacock on an open account of fourteen years standing, or upwards, and what is more strange, the magistrate had allowed the accounts to draw interest; which case was taken up to the Superior Court, and brought for trial, and let it be said to the Honor of the Court, the case was thrown out with cost of suit on Bogan.

A SPECTATOR.

Oct. 3d 1832

_________________

The Christian Soldier, a highly respectable paper published in Boston, and devoted primarily to religion, makes the following remarks on the letter of resignation by the late editor of this paper.

________

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

Mr. Elias Boudinot has resigned his situation as editor of this paper, and recommends that it be discontinued, on account of the pecuniary embarrassments of the Cherokee Nation. Mr. Ross, the principal Chief, in communicating the resignation to the Committee and Counsel says:

*              * *                  * *

We sincerely hope the paper will not be discontinued; and we cannot refrain from expressing our surprise at the recommendation of Mr. Boudinot. 'Knowledge is power,'- and the publication s of a weekly paper among the Cherokees in which the subject of their rights shall be freely discussed, and containing such other articles as shall be calculated to instruct and reform the people,and afford them necessary information of passing events, will be of incalculable benefit. We say to them, 'Don't give up the ship;' maintain the paper, if possible; it may be that God will yet send you deliverance.




      


From the _______

THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES.

Rev. S. A. Worcester and Dr. Elizur Butler, missionaries, are still in confinement in the Penitentiary at Milledgeville, Georgia.  There is a cruelty and injustice exhibited in the case of there missionaries, that is a national shame and reproach. In no part of the civilized world in modern times, under the authority of any government, has a subject or a citizen been subjected to an ignominious imprisonment contrary to the opinion and judgment of the highest tribunal of that government, except the missionaries.

Mr. Worcester is employed in the Penitentiary mostly as a mechanic at the bench; and Dr. Butler at the lathe wheel-they are dressed in ordinary dress of the prison, made of coarse cotton; the initials of their names are painted in large red letters across their breast and waist.  Thus attired they perform their daily task in company with felons. In three departments there are one hundred prisoners. Mr. Worcester has about 30 with him, and Dr Butler with him 27.  Each convict has a blanket to lie upon or to cover himself on the floor.

These gentlemen were residing in the Cherokee Nation in the capacity of duly authorized missionaries under the authority of the President of the United States; and never were required by him to leave it. Mr W. at the time of his arrest, was engaged in preaching the Gospel to the Cherokee Indians; and in translating the scriptures into their language, with the permission and approval of the Cherokee Nation.

Crime alleged against these men and for which they were prosecuted, was residing within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, without a license or permit from the Governor of Georgia, and without taking an oath required by the Act of Assembly of Georgia.

It is no longer a question, whether these missionaries committed any offence, by their residence for pious purpose, in the Cherokee Nation.- The Supreme Court of the United States at their session in February last, have settled that question. After giving every consideration to the pretensions of Georgia, as well as the rights of the Cherokees under Treaties and Laws of Congress, that high court, with ability and independence which distinguishes it, delivered the opinion, that these men had committed no offence and violated no law. That opinion is supported at great length by a train of reasoning that is unanswerable and conclusive to every dispassionate mind.

In that opinion, it is stated, 'that the Cherokee Nation is a distinct community occupying its own territory, with boundaries accurately described in which the laws of Georgia have not force,' and which 'the citizens of Georgia have not right to enter, but with the assent of the Cherokees themselves, or in conformity with treaties and acts of Congress.' 'The act of the State of Georgia under which Mr. Worcester was prosecuted is void, and the judgment a nullity.' 'These acts of Georgia are repugnant to the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States.' 'They are in a direct hostility with treaties, repeated in a succession of years, which mark out the boundary that separated the Cherokees country from Georgia; guarantied to them all the land within their boundary; solemnly pledge the faith of the United States to restrain their citizens from trespassing on it; and recognize the pre-existing power of the nation to govern itself.'

'They are in equal hostility with the acts of Congress-for regulating this intercourse and giving effect to the treaties.'

'The forcible seizure and abduction of Mr. Worcester who was residing in the Nation, with its permission; and by the authority of the President of the United States, is also a violation of the acts of Congress, which authorize the Chief Magistrate to exercise this authority.'

'Will these powerful considerations avail Mr. Worcester? We think they will. He was seized and forcibly carried away while under the guardianship of treaties guaranteeing the country in which he resided, and taking it under the protection of the United States. He was seized while performing under the sanction of the Chief Magistrate of the Union, those duties, which the humane policy adopted by Congress had recommended.  He was apprehended, tried, and condemned under color of a Law, which ha been shown to be repugnant to the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States.'

'It is the opinion of the Court that the judgment of the Superior Court for the County of Gwinnett in the State of Georgia, condemning Samuel A. Worcester to hard labor in the Penitentiary of the State of Georgia for four years, was pronounced by that Court under color of a law which is void, as being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States, and ought to be reversed and annulled.

'It was ordered and adjudged by said Court that the judgment of said Court of Georgia be and hereby is reversed and annulled, and that all proceedings on the said indictment surcease, and that the said Samuel A. Worcester be and he hereby is henceforth dismissed therefrom and that he go thereof quite without delay. And that a special mandate do go from this Court to the said Superior Court of Georgia to carry this judgment into execution.'

Such was the reasoning and the decision of the High Court, and how has the decision of this Court been enforced and respected?  The mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States, to the Court in Georgia, to which it was addressed; and that Court refused to obey it-the Georgia Court also refused a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of the missionaries, and even denied a copy of its proceedings in this case, totally disregarding the mandate of the Supreme Court, and yet disregarding it.

With such injustice, oppression and cruelty practiced in our Republican government under color of law; where is the supremacy of the law and security of the citizen.

The Supreme Court of the United States, decided that the imprisonment of these Missionaries was contrary to and a violation of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States; and more than six months have passed since that decision, and yet these men are confined at hard labor with felons in a penitentiary

Whose official duty is it to maintain the Constitution of the United States and execute the laws? The President of the United States has taken an oath, that he 'will to the best of his ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.'

By the same Constitution it is provided that the President 'shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.'  Notwithstanding the Supreme Court have in the solemn manner adjudged that the Constitution, laws and treaties were violated by the State of Georgia in the imprisonment of these missionaries, yet President Jackson has not done anything to maintain the Constitution or execute the laws. We have not seen or heard that he complained to Georgia of her proceedings, or uttered a single word of disapprobation of the course pursued by her authorities.

How different was the conduct of Mr. Adams, during his administration, when the State of Georgia attempted to violate the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States? The Georgia Legislature passed a law authorizing the survey of the lands of the Creek Indians; the surveyors under the authority of Georgia proceeded to survey-what complaint was made by the Indians to the President of the United States, of the violation of the laws and treaties. On the receipt of complaint and appeal of the Indians, President Adams on the 19th January, 1827, Mr. Barbour his Secretary or War, notified Gov. Troup of Georgia, 'That the pretensions of Georgia under which the surveys were attempted are in direct violation of the Treaty, and if persevered in must lead to a disturbance of the public tranquility.' He significantly made known 'That charged by the Constitution with the execution of the Laws, the President will feel himself compelled to employ if necessary all the means under his control to maintain the faith of the nation by carrying the treaty into effect.' Orders were at the same time issued to the Marshal and District Attorney of the United States for Georgia, to execute the laws against the intruders. Mr. Adams in a special message to Congress declared 'that if the legislative and executive authorities of the State of Georgia should persevere in acts of encroachment upon the territories secured by a solemn treaty to the Indians, and the laws of the Union remain unaltered, a superadded obligation even higher than that of human authority, will compel the Executive of the United States to enforce the laws and fulfil the duties of the nation,by all the force committed for that purpose to his charge.'

Gov. Troup of Georgia, after this, blustered excessively, and issued his orders to his Civil Magistrates to discharge all who might be arrested by the U. States authority, and he required some of his Major Generals to hold in readiness their several regiments. The course taken by President Adams, satisfied Georgia that the Chief Magistrate of the United States was determined to enforce the laws. The matter ended with only blustering and threats on the part of Georgia, and there were no further encroachments on Indian lands during Mr. Adams' administration.

These encroachments were however renewed with increased aggravation, during the Administration of President Jackson, without any opposition or remonstrance from him. The Georgians must have known his sentiments and inclinations on the subject or they would have not dared to set at defiance the Constitution, laws and authorities of the United States. The imprisonment of the missionaries, contrary to law, is an outrage on the rights and liberties of the citizen that is tolerated by President Jackson, in violation of his duty and his oath as Chief Magistrate. As Gen. Jackson is a man influenced by strong passions and attachments, it may well be suspected that he supports him in his measures and pretensions and encroachments because Georgia supports him in his measures and pretensions. The politicians of that State know how acceptable adulation is to our infatuated President; for at a late meeting in Oglethorpe, Georgia, where they had a President and ten vice Presidents, after resolving 'that the laws having for their object the encouragement of domestic manufactures, are deliberate, palpable and dangerous breaches of the Constitution, which to as free citizens of Georgia  we ought not, cannot, will not longer submit.' and declaring their co-operation in nullification, they alone for all to our Chief Magistrate, by resolving, 'That to prevent misconstruction at home or abroad, we aver our confidence in the patriotism of Gen. A. Jackson, unshaken. He is entitled to, and will undoubtedly receive, the most unanimous suffrage of Georgia.'

Such a resolution is the last, with President Jackson, will cover a multitude of political or other offenses.

Will the people of these United States, agree that for such considerations our Constitution, laws and treaties to be violated and our innocent fellow citizens imprisoned without offence and contrary to the law and judgment of the highest Court under the Constitution?

PUBLIUS.




      


From the New York Advertiser.

REVIEW OF GENERAL JACKSON'S ADMINISTRATION.

The political aspect of our country is at the present time unprecedented, and certainly not a little threatening to the peace and harmony, if not the very existence of the Union. One state promulgates doctrines utterly inconsistent with the constitutional powers of the national government-another denies the legitimate authority of one of the great branches of the government,and declares a fixed determination to oppose, by force, if necessary, the decree of the highest judicial tribunal known to the zconstitution. Powers usurped by the President of the United States, in the exercise of which the execution of the laws of the United States if suspended, and their force and obligation are made to depend upon the caprice or perverseness of man of no fixed political principles, one whose conduct is governed by his passions who is grossly ignorant of the Constitution under which he holds his office, and who is totally regardless of the solemn obligations which devolved upon him when entering upon the duties of chief magistrate of the Union. When Gen. Jackson was elected President, and took the oath of office, the United States were enjoying peace and prosperity-the Constitution was revered, the laws were obeyed, and the Union was sincerely cherished. Not a single act of oppression was seriously alleged to exist not an unconstitutional measure complained of, not a threat of dissolving the confederation was heard from any of its members. In the course of three years and a half a wonderful change in the circumstances of the country has taken place;and already are we threatened with insubordination, discord, a dissolution of the Union, and a destruction of the government. That this revolution in the state of things exists, cannot be denied, and its possible, and perhaps probable consequences must be deeply explored and deprecated.  The causes which have produced such effects should be carefully sought after, and ascertained, in order that the calamities under which the country already labors may be removed, the evils with which it is threatened may be averted, the progress which is making towards disunion be stayed, and the national government be preserved from total destruction.

It then becomes an object of seri-(sic) importance to review this course and conduct of the administration, since Gen. Jackson came into power, in order to ascertain how far the evils under which the country is suffering are chargeable directly to his account. If they are justly so, they can be but one opinion in regard to him, and his qualifications, among all the real disinterested friends of their country and that must be, and that he is not only unfit for the office which he holds, but a dangerous man to hold and exercise the executive powers of the government.

It is a remarkable fact, that more has been accomplished in the course of three years and a half in which Gen. Jackson has been at the head of the government, to shake the confederacy, and threaten the dissolution of the union, than during all the preceding administrations.  When he took the reins of power, he had a decided majority of his friends in both houses of Congress, who were devoted to his interests, as well as his politics. He, and his partisans, had succeeded, by what means it is not necessary to say, in rendering the administration of his immediate predecessor extremely unpopular; and he had no serious obstruction in his way, to prevent him from bringing to pass all the benefits which his devoted friends had promised as the certain fruits of his election.  It is not necessary at this time of day, to say, that none of these promises to have been realized. So far from it, according to his recollections, not a single important measure recommended by him in three successive official communications to Congress, with the exception of that relating to the removal of the Indian tribes, has been carried to effect by Congress. No reasonable person could require stronger evidence of incapacity in a chief magistrate, than that just stated. Even upon the strong majorities to which we have alluded his recommendations produced no effect-they were disregarded, and the measures proposed were unattended to, or not deemed worthy of adoption. The bill for the removal of the Indians, and the practices under it, he may without hesitation lay claim as great a proportion of the merit as he may choose. No honest, uninterested man of intelligence, will attempt to deprive him of any share of it.

In estimating the amount of credit to which Gen. Jackson is entitled for his sentiments on the Indian question, it will be necessary to examine the subject somewhat minutely. In doing this, it will be part of our intention to consider the question of justice and oppression toward the Indians. This is altogether foreign from our present purpose. Our object is, to show the consequences that have proceeded, and must be expected to proceed from the interference of General Jackson with the legitimate powers and duties of another branch of government, and with his usurping powers with which the Constitution has not clothed him. The usurpation was manifested immediately after he took the Presidency, by his assuming to decide that certain treaties and laws of the Union were unconstitutional, and therefore not binding upon our government. Whatever the character of those treaties and laws might have been, it was no part of Gen. Jackson's official duty, nor had he the least particle of power by the Constitution to decide questions of this description. But, in his first message to Congress, he took upon himself that authority; and thus gave the government of Georgia to understand, that the Indians were at their mercy; and let the state do what they pleased, he would not interfere. Up to the time of his accession, the validity of the treaties and laws alluded to was not questioned. So late as 1825 only four years before Gen.Jackson's message, to which we have referred was delivered, the Governor of that State, who,if we are not mistaken, was the same Mr. Troup who is now a Senator in Congress, and who some months ago published a letter respecting the decision of the Supreme Court of the most ultra and extravagant tenor, issued a proclamation in which among other things he says-

'Whereas it is provided in said treaty, that the United States shall protect the Indians against the encroachments, 'c. of the whites so they shall suffer no encroachment 'c in their persons, goods 'c. until their removal shall have been accomplished according to the terms of the treaty;'

'I have therefore thought proper to issue this my proclamation, warning all persons citizens of Georgia  or others against trespassing or intruding upon lands occupied by the Indians within the limits of Georgia, either for the purpose of settlement or otherwise, as every such act will be in direct violation of the provision of the treaty aforesaid, and will expose the aggressors to the most certain and summary punishment, by the authorities of the State, and the United States. All good citizens, therefore pursuing the dictates of good faith will unite in enforcing the obligations of the treaty, as the supreme law,' 'c.

We quote this passage from the opinion of Mr. Justice M'Lean, in the case of Worcester decided the last term of the Supreme Court. This proclamation alone is sufficient to show that as late as 1825 at least the Indian treaties were considered, even by the State of Georgia, as the supreme law of the land. But when General Jackson's opinions on the subject were promulgated, then the politicians of that State, finding a chief magistrate of the nation holding and avowing directly opposite doctrines, availed themselves of the advantages which the fact afforded them and immediately claimed the right of absolute jurisdiction over the Indians and their territory. And now, when the highest tribunal of the Union had solemnly decided, that the Indian nations are, what Gov. Troup declared them to be, in his proclamation just quoted-viz;-'the supreme law of the land.' and the acts of Georgia are tending jurisdiction over them to be unconstitutional and void, aware that the sentence of the court cannot be enforced without the eventual aid of the Executive of the Union, they threaten forcible resistance, if any attempt shall be made to carry into effect- a course that if ___ to the final result, will overthrow one of the main pillars of the government and in the end destroy the Constitution itself.




      


INDIANS.

From the Washington Globe

THE INDIAN WAR OVER-BLACK HAWK AND THE PROPHET TAKEN

Copy of a letter to the Editor dated

U. S. Indian Agency at Prairie du Chien, 3d. Sept. 1832

F.P. Blair, Esq.

Dear Sir: The Indian War is over. The celebrated leaders of the hostile Indians, Black Hawk and The Prophet, were delivered to me at this place on the 27th ult. by the Winnebagoes of my Agency. The day after Generals Scott and Atkinson left this place, I sent out two parties of Winnebagoes to bring Black Hawk, The Prophet and Niapope to me. They returned the 27th ult. about 10 or 11 o'clock, and delivered the two first. The same day I turned them over to Col. Taylor, commanding Fort Crawford, and expect to accompany them with a military escort to the Headquarters of General Scott, at Rock Island, in a day or two.

I am now waiting the return of an express sent up the Mississippi by which I expect to receive about 50 or 60 more prisoners, taken by the Indians. There is(sic) now 48 in the Fort, delivered to me by the Winnebagoes of my Agency, and I have previously delivered to General Atkinson 48 prisoners taken by the Winnebagoes and Menomenees.

From the moment the hostile Indians entered the limits of my Agency by crossing the Wisconsin with the aid of the Commanding Officer at this Fort, I assembled the Indians of my Agency, and encamped them before my door, where they remained until the battle of the Mississippi, and the rout of the hostile Indians.

I herewith cover to you an account of the delivery of Black Hawk and The Prophet to me.

Your most Obedient servant.

JOS. M. STREET.




      


Extract of an oration delivered at the celebration of Independence in Macon County, N. C. on the 4th July, 1832 by J. R. Williamson.

'But the time warns me to proceed in the consideration of the next principal subject of my address viz: the bill for the removal of the Indians, and our conduct generally, towards that unfortunate people.

In the midst of the general apathy, there is one at least, who dares to address the cause of the wretched and forlorn red man of the woods. And where shall I begin to count his multiplied wrongs? Shall I call upon the bleached bones of the warrior, that are now lying and crumbling far to the East? Shall the desponding heart broken and forsaken remnant of a fierce and lordly tribe of the South alone give evidence? Cannot the sequestered shades of the West tell tales of oppression?  Are the gelid and moss grown rocks of the North free from the reminiscences of the Indians' woe? No; nor time nor place-from the landing of Columbus to the passing of the act we discuss--from the Amazon to the Frozen Ocean are periods and regions marked with an outrageous encroachment upon the Indian soil, on Indian rights, and Indian privileges. The name of Indian has indeed been intensified with every species of freebeing, injustice and oppression. Whether it is evidenced under the specious garb of legislative toleration, or by the skulking miscreant; who goes among them, to carry fraud and treachery into their very bosoms, it is one ' the same thing-the eternal laws of justice equally forbid; and the wholesome maxim so use yours that you do not injure mine has been violated by this whenever it has waged an unjust and exterminating war against them, or intruded upon them an oppression and overstretched legislation. Our conduct towards them has been indeed singular and inconsistent. We have treated with them as a free people--we have declared war against them as independent nations--there has been a semblance of regard to their national rights, in all our conventional notices of them, and yet we are endeavoring to force them into our notions of their welfare as slaves, as savages, as brutes; and this last stab to the Indians' hopes is now given. Yes, descendants of the once uncontrolled proprietor of the mountain crag and the waving valley, east of the Mississippi, in this unhallowed act of Congress read your death warrant, and you who roam yet free in the prairied(sic) west, divine how soon your time will come.

The proper manner in which to notice this subject, is, to examine the features of the bill. After detailing the means and the instruments of removal, most lame and cruel conclusion it says to the Indian, if you do go in a certain given time, we will withdraw our protection from you, we are your friends but if you do not submit to the terms of our despotic friendship, the rapacious white man may despoil you of your lands, your homes and your dearest rights.  What is the answer of the Indian? Away with your cankering friendship; you promised us the peaceable enjoyment of the chase and the wigwam, our lands and our flocks, on the banks of the Holston; were there extended you the hand of frank and unsuspicious friendship, and you in return promised us love and protection, calling upon the Great Spirit, and the great seal of the United States to witness the solemn transaction. But this act of protection has been drawn with a dagger in its hand, not to shield us from our enemies, but to assist them in the red mans extermination. It is true, you promised us money and blankets and rifles, but what care we for these things without the means of enjoying them! Think you such paltry considerations are sufficient to reconcile us to the idea of being forced to leave not only our comfortable homes and our corn-fields, but our churches and our school houses, which you persuaded us to build, and go to the West and become savages again? And further, think you that we have not like yourselves, that heaven born attachment to the place where our fathers are buried--where we first looked upon the great sun that lights the day--the clear brook where we first quenched our thirst--the hill where we first struck fire for the hunting camp. Yes the Great Spirit gave us these feelings--we enjoy them in common with yourselves; and we like you, when done with the troubles of this world, wish to let our bodies molder in the valley beside the whitened bodies of our fathers.

But it is to the consequences of this bill, that we are to look for the chief injury of the Indian tribes that are the objects of its enactment; and what are these consequences? The States of Mississippi and Georgia have extended their civil and military jurisdiction over the tribes that are within what they claim to be their respective boundaries. What despotism, what inhumanity are couched in these terms, the extension of jurisdiction! Need I tell any man in this assembly that by the Constitution of these States an Indian would be excluded from the most common immunities of citizenship? Can an Indian give evidence against a white man?  Can an Indian make a contract that would be binding on a white man? He can neither hold an office, nor has he a voice in the election of these officers who are to dictate to him the destinies of his property, his honor and his precious life. What are the Indian's feelings on these things?- Hear him in his secret ejaculations to the Father of his Spirit: oh take me to thyself ere these calamities befall me. My ancestors were as free and as unrestrained as the winds of heaven-the spirit of freedom is engrafted in my very nature-if the white man is to restrict this, let me cease to exist. I have born his encroachments, his insults and his depredations with becoming patience.  Anything but subjection to the white man's laws and customs-death ten times inflicted, rather than subjected to the disadvantages of these laws, without the enjoyment of their advantages.  The white man boasts of this liberty, to secure which his people fought. If this is the use he makes of liberty, oh King of Nations never let the sin of liberty rest on my head! But, says Congress, you are savages, and never will become inured to the customs of civilization -go to the wilds beyond the Mississippi, and there enjoy the sports of the forest--there indulge your propensity for a roaming life. May it please your honorable body retorts the Indian, we have no security in your promises. We have before listened to such deceptive advice. You have persuaded us to give back from one point to another, and you shall still surround us, and moved with us, and destroyed us. In you last treaty with us, we were promised us the enjoyment of our lands in fee simple forever; and appealing to the strength of your national army, you promised to protect us from intrusion.  But what is the fact, we are now the slaves of Georgia, enjoying fewer privileges than your dejected sons of Africa.  If we leave our long cherished homes, what right have we to expect any better treatment beyond the farther of rivers, the discontented white man is there too, and will there continue to go until we are again overwhelmed with his bosom like jurisdiction.

I see fellow citizens, in the present method of disposing of the Indians, but one doom for them, viz; gradual, certain, and painful extermination from the face of the earth. I read it in the fates of the Catawbas, the Tuscaroras, and the six bold Nations of the North,the two former entirely, and the latter almost dwindled into total extinction; and the time is not far distant, when not a solitary red man will be left to tell the sad tale of his country's wrongs. Let us then hope that this nation will avert such a heart rending doom, in so immediate determination, in favor of truth, justice and humanity.




      


The following article is from the Washington Globe.  We publish it as a specimen of the miserable, paltry prevarication to which the confidential paper of General Jackson and the administration can resort, for the purpose of extricating 'their illustrious' master from the odium so justly his due, for the agency and influence he has had in subjecting the Missionaries to imprisonment in the State Prison in Georgia, and for the continuance of their punishment under an illegal and unconstitutional sentence of a court of that state. We copy it from the Mercantile Advertiser of this city.

N. Y. Advertiser.

'GEORGIA MISSIONARIES,- One of the falsehoods which the bank agents and lawyers employ to operate upon the hearts of the religious and benevolent to turn them against the President, is that which they connect with the missionaries. They assert that the President has refused to enforce the decision of the Court. This is one of the most wilful and disgraceful falsehoods ever fabricated by the unprincipled party, who have been employing every species of chicanery to drag religion into the arena of politics. The President has never refused to enforce the decision of the Court. He has never been called upon to execute it. The question is still pending between the Federal and State tribunal the terms not having continued in session so as to receive notice of the course of the State Court, and to authorize any execution of its order by a federal officer, on the failure of the State Court to obey the mandate. The counsel for the missionaries, we learn from a gentleman connected with the Indian Bureau, 'admit that in the present position of the case, he (the President) has no right to interfere'

After thus violating the truth to induce the belief that the President has refused to do his duty, in regard to the Missionaries, the Machiavels of the opposition endeavor to enlist the sympathies of the people against him, by accounts of the most distressing kind, in relation to the treatment of the missionaries, pending the issue of their case between the two courts. It is pretended that the Missionaries are treated as felons. This also we understand is utterly untrue. So far from being driven to hard labor, they do nothing more than take as much exercise as will contribute to their health.  And as to their confinement, every body knows it is perfectly voluntary; Governor Lumpkin, who is himself a member of the Church, having offered them a free pardon, on condition of a pledge on their part not again to violate the State Laws. This they refuse. In the meantime, however, they are permitted to receive the visits of their friends, and a free intercourse. We know that very recently their families spent some time with them; and as a decisive refutation of the wanton calumny that they are treated with cruelty, we state, upon unquestionable authority, that, while in Milledgeville, the families of the Missionaries resided in the family of Gov. Lumpkin.

It is a poor apology for the conduct of General Jackson in relation to these grossly injured and oppressed men, that he has not, in terms, refused to enforce the judgment of the Supreme Court, declaring the sentence of the Georgia tribunal illegal, because the legislative act of that State under which their (sic) were convicted was unconstitutional and void.- There is no doubt he waits with great patience for the slow and tedious process of technical measures for the relief of these persons, well knowing it must take at least a twelve month to bring the question formally before him, that he may take it into consideration, and act with all the deliberation and dignity that becomes the executive head of a powerful republic.  Fortunately for himself, this moderation and philosophical calmness, is not at all disturbed by the reflection, that these mock, humble, unoffending, and exemplary ministers of Christianity, are suffering under the iniquitous decree of the Georgia court--a decree that would have done credit to Nero, and added a deeper tinge to the sanguinary record of Draco-among felons, the most degrading punishment that the penal codes of modern legislation have been able to devise and inflict.

But it is necessary to go back further on the track of this injustice and disgrace and ascertain who induced Georgia to set the laws, the courts, the judgments, and the Constitution of the United States at defiance? Who took care to let the people and government of Georgia, as well as the Cherokees understand that he should not interfere between the State and the Indians-that he should not mind courts nor judgments, but should construe the Constitution as he understands it, and it is understood by others; and that-for such was the necessary inference from his doctrines and declarations-Georgia might plunder the Indians as much as she pleased, as far as he was concerned, for that he should not lift a hand to prevent her. Having resolved on pursuing this course, what absurdity is it to pretend that he may enforce the decree of the court, when it shall come technically and formally before him? The Missionaries will have suffered the hardships, the cruelties, the oppressions, and the disgrace, if such men can be disgraced by the exercise of such tyrannical injustice, for nearly two years; and at the end of it must be told that General Jackson, suspends or executes the laws when, where and how he pleases--that he construes the Constitution as he understands it, and not as it is understood by the court-that he and the court are correlative posers, and he has as good a right to control them, as they have to control him; -and as a conclusion to the whole matter he will do nothing to execute the decree of the court notwithstanding it has come formally before him. The public, in this view of the subject, will be able to form a just estimate of the integrity of the editor of the Globe, in this attempt to deceive and hoodwink them in this paragraph.

But it is said, that the Missionaries are not treated as felons, that 'they do nothing more than take as much exercise as will contribute to their health.'  We presume it was not the prime object of the legislature of Georgia, in forming this new and unheard of felony, nor of Judge Clayton when he sentenced the Mission aries to four years hard labor in the state prison, merely to consult their health, to give them more wholesome bodily exercise than they could find in their appropriate and pious labors among the Cherokees. But why is it that their case is singled out among their associates in the prison, and their labors lightened? Every man will give the answer. Oppressive ' tyrannical as the whole proceeding has been, and infamous as is the object, the authorities of Georgia, though deaf to justice and humanity, are not stout hearted enough to meet public opinion, and virtuous indignation, and therefore they fall into the implied acknowledgement that their acts, their judgments and their punishments are unjust, severe, and unconstitutional, endeavor to compound with their consciences by lightening the severity of those punishments and their sufferings of the Missionaries.

It is said that their confinement 'is voluntary, because Governor Lumpkin, who is himself a member of the church has offered them a free pardon, on condition of a pledge on their part not again to violate the state laws,' we would advise him to look over with close self-examination the confession he made, and the covenant he entered into, when he formed that connection, and see how far his conduct towards these ministers of religion squares with his own profession. The condition annexed to his proffered pardon was impracticable, and he must have known it. The Missionaries, as honest men, much more as Christian ministers, could never acknowledge as a law, an act which they believed,-that belief has been established by the court,-to be unconstitutional. They had rather suffer hardships and injustice in their master's service, than experience the remorse of wronging their own consciences.

If the families of the Missionaries resided in the family of Governor Lumpkin, when visiting these excellent victims of injustice at Milledgeville, we should think they must have been reduced to more than ordinary inconvenience in obtaining lodgings, before they could have consented to be under such obligations for such hospitality.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6 1832

(This is the date on the paper. It should read Oct. 27, 1832)

The General Council of the Cherokee Nation convened at Red Clay on the 8th inst., but could not proceed to business in the absence of the Principal Chief, whose arrival at the time fixed for the meeting had been prevented by the unusual and incessant rains that have fallen until the 2d. day of the session when he delivered his message which will be found below. We can make no remarks that would add anything to the merit of this interesting document. Its declaration 'there is no safety for this nation to change the relation it sustains to the United States on emigration' is entirely in accord with the feelings of the Cherokees at large and will be approbated by them.  The council proceeded to the consideration of the liquidation of the expenses of government for the past year, and the election of Judges of the Supreme and Circuit Courts which had become vacant, by extension of the term, of the presiding Judge ending this council.

Mr. Elisha N. Chester attended again and laid before the Principal Chiefs a communication; accompanied by a letter to him from the Secretary of War, in which a hasty glance we had of it at Chester's he reiterates the argument heretofore used by government, and alleged that a crisis had arrived, which placed the safety and welfare of the Cherokees upon a removal west of the Mississippi.

This communication had not been submitted to the council when we left there. It was a subject matter, so dry, or unwelcome, that it had found but little place in the topics of common conversation.

These communications we hope to lay before our readers in the next weeks paper.

Some curiosity exists in the minds of our people, respecting the consistency and rectitude of Mr. Chester's conduct. He was counsel for the Rev. S. A. Worcester and Dr. E. Butler, when prosecuted and condemned in the court of Georgia; in their behalf, he carried their case up to the United States Supreme Court and from it carried to Georgia a mandamus for their release.  This mandate being disregarded, he returned to Washington to take further legal measures in their case.  While there, he was appointed by the President messenger to the Cherokee Council, to promote the humane policies of President Jackson, the effect of which had already been the imprisonment of his clients--our worthy missionaries. Our people think this was a smooth somerset, that placed him in the employ of two parties which they consider opposite to each other.

Mr. Chester appears to be an intelligent man, and may think his conduct consistent, while he opposes the views of Jackson and Georgia respecting the Missionaries, he may accord with them both since he is promoted to be a special agent to urge on us a treaty, but scarcely any appointment by the President could be more unpopular with the Cherokees except it be that of Governor Lumpkin, which he states will be made, if the council do not accord to the propositions of government and if the Cherokees treat hereafter they must do it through him.

To the Committee and Council in General Council convened.

FRIENDS AND FELLOW CITIZENS--You have once more met in your legislative capacity, for the purpose of deliberating upon the affairs of the Nation; and, to adopt such measures, as its interest and welfare shall seem to demand. Therefore, as a preliminary step, I will take a cursory view of such topics, as in my opinion commands your attention.

At your late extra session you deemed it impossible, for the people to hold the General election in peace, agreeably to the mode prescribed by the Constitution, because Georgia had placed her military array against the system; consequently, the subject was referred to a committee of the people from several Districts, who devised and reported a plan, for keeping up the Government of the Nation during the continuance of our present difficulties with that state ' which plan was accepted, and then referred to the people and by them adopted so far as I am informed, the necessity which dictated this scheme of expediency has been duly appreciated and the measure will be received by the people, thro' out the several Districts.

Whenever we scrutinize the acts of the United States Government towards Indians generally and especially in reference to this nation, we cannot fail to see, that, those acts have been directed by a systematic course of policy, adapted solely to promote the views, wishes, and interest of the General or State Governments, and, that those few acts of benevolence on the part of the United States for Indian improvement and civilization have been adapter only from secondary considerations, and more with the view to advance their own glory and national aggrandizement, than to promote the true interest and permanent happiness of our race. I wish not to be misunderstood. I make no insinuation that such feeling has always existed in the controlment of the actions of the General Government towards Indians. There was a day, when better feelings directed the helm of Government, and in that day, justice stalked abroad in the land. The features of the numerous existing treaties between the United States and this nation, plainly exhibits the ligament of our political connection and the stipulations contained in them, unequivocally recognizes and acknowledges all the rights for which we have been contending and by virtue of which the Supreme Court has finally decided them in our favor. The time was, when the intellectual capacity and habitual propensities of the Indian to receive civil and religious instructions and to conform to the habits of civilized life were openly repudiated as problematical and visionary--this formed the basis of argument for those who opposed the encouragement of Indian improvement. But no sooner than the surrounding States becoming coterminous with the locality of our nation, the intercourse between their citizens and our increased with such rapidity as to produce a change in the habits of our people which finally led to the establishment of schools in our country by individuals and benevolent societies; the great progress made in the improvement of the youth both in moral and religious point of view soon dispelled all doubts in regard to the practicability of Indian civilization.

Thus by experimental demonstration the argument of the skeptic has been prostrated, and the insinuating dissembler continued and brought to silence on this head. By the treaty of 1819 Georgia discovered that the United States had so firmly acknowledged the rights of this nation, and so fully provided for its permanent security and the final civilization of its citizens, and being moved by the spirit of cupidity and avarice she became extremely pressing in her applications to the Government of the United States, for the negotiation of a new treaty with this nation for an additional cession of land for her benefit; and the Executive of the Union being disposed and ever ready to meet the wishes of the State on this subject, Commissioners were soon appointed for that object; but finding all overtures unavailing, Georgia became more restless and clamorous in her importunity and openly charged the General Government with the crime of having encouraged and facilitated the progress of Indian civilization, and thereby teaching this nation how to appreciate the value of our country and the consequent inability of the Government ever to purchase more land from us. To this illiberal charge, Mr. Monroe, the then President of the United States, in a message submitting the whole subject before Congress, very correctly responded, thus-'I have full confidence that my predecessors exerted their best endeavors to execute this compact (between the United States and the State of Georgia) in all its parts, of which, indeed, the sums paid, in fulfillment of its stipulations, are a full proof. I have also been animated, since I came into the office, with the same zeal'- I have no hesitation, however, to declare it as my opinion, that the Indian title was not effected in the slightest circumstance by the compact with Georgia, and there is no obligation on the United States to remove the Indians by force. The express stipulation of the compact that their title should be extinguished at the expense of the United States when it may be done peaceably and on peaceable conditions, is a full proof that it was the clear and distinct understanding of both parties to it, that the Indians had a right to the territory in the disposal of which they were to be regarded as free agents. An attempt to remove them by force would in my opinion be unjust. In the future measures to be adopted in regard to the Indians within her limits, and in consequence, within the limits of any State, the United States have duties to perform and a character to sustain to which they ought not to be indifferent. At an early period, their improvement in the arts of civilized life was made an object with the government, and that has since been persevered in. This policy was dictated by motives of humanity to the aborigines of the country,and under a firm conviction that the right to adopt and pursue it was equally applicable to all the tribes within our limits.' After the submission of this message, the Georgia delegation waived the discussion and final action of Congress on the subject at that session; and during the next session, the President presented another special message to Congress, accompanied by a report of the Secretary of War recommending the policy of adopting measures for the exchange of lands, with the various Indian tribes, residing within the limits of the States and Territories of the United States, and for the general removal and concentration on lands to be assigned them to the westward and northward thereof. In the proceedings of the Executive branch of the General Government in reference to us, since that period, it will be seen that they have run counter to their former treaty engagements with this nation, having for its object the general welfare and happiness of the Cherokee people in the permanent enjoyment of their national rights--And with the view of giving effect to this new fangled system of policy, for changing the existing relations established between the United States and the Indian nations under former treaties; and to make the system a general one, Congress under the auspices of President Jackson's administration passed a law entitled an act 'To provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or territories, and for their removal west of the Mississippi.'

This act 'makes it lawful for the President of the United States to cause so much of any Territory belonging to the United States west of the Mississippi, not included in any state or organized Territory, and to which the Indian title has been extinguished, as he may judge necessary, to be divided into a suitable number of Districts, for the reception of such tribes or nations of Indians as may choose to exchange the lands where they now reside, and remove there and to cause each of said districts to be so described by natural or artificial marks as to be easily distinguished from every other, and further, to exchange any or all of such districts so to be laid off and described, with any tribe or nation of Indians now residing within the limits of the States or Territories, and with which the United States, have existing Treaties, for the whole or any part or portion of the Territory claimed and occupied by such Tribe or nation-and that in the making of any such exchange or exchanges solemnly to assure the Tribe or nation with which the exchange is made, that the United States will former secure and guarantee to them and their heirs or successors, the country so exchanged with them; and if they prefer it, that the U. States will cause a patent or grant to be made and executed to them for the same, Provided always that such lands shall revert to the United States if the Indians become extinct, or abandon the same, 'c, 'c, 'c.'

It will at once be seen that by this act, every Indian tribe who may exchange for any of the Districts of land set apart by the President under this law and who shall remove upon it, that moment its national character as a distinct community will cease, and its relations with the United States under former treaties as such dissolved. Here then is a country in extent, agreeable to the report of the surveyor, six hundred miles long and two hundred miles wide, bordering on the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas spreading over an extensive prairie badly watered and only skirted on the margin of water courses and poor ridges with copses of wood, to be laid off into districts of various dimensions according to the contracts to be made with several Tribes of Indians, and to be assigned to and occupied by some fifteen or twenty different tribes, and all speaking different languages, and cherishing a variety of habits and customs, a portion civilized another half civilized and others uncivilized. And these congregated tribes of Indians to be regulated under one General Government; by no doubt, white rulers-but whether Congress is to be employed in digesting a municipal code of laws for them, and in mending it from session to cession (sic) or whether the President of the U. States, is to be sole legislator or whether the business is to be delegated to civil or military prefect, or placed under the diocese of 'the Indian Board,' we are not told. But of this it is certain that the sovereign jurisdiction over the country is exclusively vested in the U. States and that Congress has not given the President any power to relinquish it, to the Indian Tribes or Nations--and should any tribe who have been located, ever become dissatisfied with its situation and remove therefrom, Congress can authorize it to be settled by citizens of any states ' by a late act of Congress three Commissioners have been appointed to locate the emigrants and to adjust the boundaries of the several tribes and other difficulties that exist between them, and the said Commissioners are also required to report to the War Department a plan for the government of the Indians. In a circular written by one of the agents of the U. S. employed in exploring ' surveying the Districts of lands assigned to the several emigrant tribes and addressed to the philanthropist and Christians in the United States, he remarks, that 'most of the Tribes are changing places ' are concentrating in one territory, where the relation which they are to sustain to one another and to the United States is to be new. Under these changes we apprehend a crisis in their condition, approaching, ' speedily it is to be made either better or worse.' Again, 'In a retrospect of three centuries, we perceive little else in the history of American Indians, than their decline and misery. In this state of things, their destruction being inevitably, in relation to them, notwithstanding the new state of things might be a MERE EXPERIMENT.'  'Hitherto the several tribes have not been united to one another, nor to the U. S. Here they are united in one common boundary constituted an integral part of the United States.' I have thought proper to make references to these extracts merely to show that in the prosecution of the emigrating scheme the policy of the United States has never been fully developed by these agents to our people, and that there is no safety for this nation to change the relation it sustains towards the United States, under existing treaties and to adopt the new one by emigration. In the present state of things, you can do little more by legislation than to adopt such measures as will be calculated to keep our citizens correctly informed of the true posture of the public affairs, that they may remain united in the support of our common interests ' national rights-also securing the administration of justice. Justice between individuals in their private transactions so far as it may be practicable to do so. Confiding in the justice of our cause and the righteous decision of the Supreme Court of the U. S. upon it, and also in the constitutional power of the General Government to have it executed--we cannot but hope that the virtue of the people of the U. States will ultimately control the faithful execution of their treaty, obligations for our national protection and under this reliance let us still patiently endure our oppressions and place our trust under the guidance of a Benignant Providence.

Red Clay Cherokee Nation, Oct. 10th 1832.

JOHN ROSS.

________________________

The following poetry was sent us by the mail, accompanied by a statement, that it was copied from over the door of Coque Betty, a widow living at the gold mines within the limits of Tennessee, and was supposed to have been written after a 'calamitous reave' by a member of the Poney Club.

We are glad if even one of the Poney Club pities us, under the many calamities they have superinduced, and has engaged in the more reputable work of writing poetry. For his political orthoxy(sic) we cannot be responsible, but as he has been accustomed to more injurious liberties in another way we grant him poetic license. We are not sure that a more hungry swarm of vermin would not prey upon his wild bird were it to fly over the river and that it would not one day be cooped in another undesirable cage.

For the Phoenix.

Copied from over the door of Coque Betty, supposed to have been written after a calamitous reave, by a member of the Poney Club.

Alas, poor Betti,

Small good ye get,

You live in anxious trouble:

Hope ye to hoard?

Nauty Ledford

Makes still that hope a bubble.

With ruffian arm,

Or serpent charm*

Each villain, safe, here meets you;

The white man's laws

Distinction draws;

Each rogue here boldly entreats you.

The white's your foe-

O, Coquo! go,

Our vermin then can't grip ye;

If once you'll roam,

And make your home,

Beyond the Mississippi.

Go nature's child,

Your home's the wild,

The Indian here is droop'd

His doom's hero weav'd

Oh! I am griev'd

Thus to see the wild bird coop'd

_______

* Having particular allusion

___________________________

The State of Georgia is about to perpetrate one of the most shameless and atrocious depredations, that was ever committed in times of profound peace; upon any nation or people. Without awaiting the extinguishment of the Indian title, as pledged by the General Government to that State; -without regarding the existing title of the Cherokees- without regard to the most solemn treaties, guaranteeins (sic) forever to the Cherokees the occupancy on their lands, her Governor has fixed upon the 22d. inst as the day when she will commence drawing for our lands and gold miles by a lottery system. The progress of her iniquity, and our grievances has not been without our observation. We have been cast into dungeons there to lie, until some humane gentleman interposed for our relief. Our hands have been fettered, for daring to dig our own gold, and our backs have been scourged by weapons in the hands of the Georgia Guard. Our lives have been endangered, and some have been laid cold to rise no more, by the hands of the midnight ruffian. Our missionaries have been torn from their families, and churches, and schools and incarcerated in the loathsome penitentiary, and our moral and religious improvement has been retarded. The property of our ineffending(sic) citizens has been taken and continues to be taken by intruders, and without redress. What we have submitted to one calamity another and another like the billows of an angry sea has rolled upon us. Still our position has not been moved, nor not even by the appointment of that day when Georgia's honor was to be run through sporting wheel to enable her to seize our lands. We have looked forward to the crisis, when the President of the United States, would be moved by public opinion

to the execution of our treaties, and would restore to us the rights affirmed to us by the Supreme Court. But the President continues to withhold his fostering care of these rights, and refuses to fulfil in good faith our treaties with him. In the interim messengers and agents of the President have been arriving at our councils soliciting the exchange of lands, but we have as promptly refused. Animated by the justice of our cause, and confiding in the constitutional requisition and power of the government to restore us our rights, let us hold fast our religious belief, that a righteous cause will never fall. The drawing of the lottery and the settling of our lands can never convey to Georgia a title; it can be only a forcible entry, and illegal possession of the premises, and if persisted in, will certainly endanger the stability of the American institutions, and plunge the gen. government into deeper and darker chaos. To ward off this impending darkness a lowering on the present policy of the government, let us hope the good people of the United States, will not be insensible to a speedy termination of this unhappy controversy, by a restitution of the rights of which we have and may be deprived. In conclusion we have to state to our readers, that ere this time, the lottery may have gone into operation for the drawing of our lands, and a few days more, may perhaps disclose their seizure. But let us continue in the path of rectitude and peace, educate our children, encourage temperance, improve our farms, and sow quantities of grain for the subsistence of our families next year.




      


Jackson's notion of the Supreme Court.-- Everything that falls from the lips of him who was miraculously, and more than miraculously inspired to study the Constitution, as he has said he did, before it was made, which exhibits his views of that instrument, must be precious to the eyes, and dear to the soul of every true democrat; and, at the same time, a curious subject for consideration to the simple friends of the instrument itself, and lovers of the country, which country it is. We may make another, out of the same ground, under the sway of some six or eight penny tyrant;- but who would live in it, that could find a dwelling elsewhere, either in the wilderness, or under some honest and unaffected despot? And yet, that the Constitution is to be destroyed at least in its most important and essential features, if Gen. Jackson should be re-elected, provided he and his friends can effect its destruction, we have accumulating evidence every day. Let every person who venerates that Constitution, read the following statement, the truth of which cannot be denied, and then by the wayward old man, who has his parasites say, 'WAS BORN TO COMMAND.' After Messrs. Sergeant and Wirt had concluded their arguments in the Cherokee case, before the Supreme Court, General Jackson thus expressed his opinions to a gentleman of Philadelphia, with whom he was conversing, or rather to whom he was making an angry rhapsody upon the subject:-

'He expressed the most outrageous anger that the court should have dared to entertain the case; and heaped in unmeasured terms, his bitter denunciations upon the heads of the Judges. Heated to excess of anger, he swore eternal vengeance against the court. 'We shall never be a free people, Mr._, he observed, until the Supreme Court is abolished. It is a greater tyrant than the inquisition. And sir, if I am re-elected, I will put it down-- or it shall put me down! It is a usurper on the Constitution.- We can have no laws-no legislation-no Executive; as long as this court exists. It is a mere cabal of faction, to interfere with and defeat my plans for the public good. There is Sergeant at the head of it-and Wirt too!-Sir, it is not for the Indians that they stir it-but they hope to put me down by it--but that they can't do.--I knew the man that moves it,' shaking his long finger with a significant gesture of hatred towards the West-'but this court. Mr__. and shall be put down. Your representatives deserted me on the repeal of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, or we should have drawn its teeth this last session-but it shall yet be done, or it shall put me down. We have no liberty as long as we have a Supreme Court!!!'




      


THE PRESIDENT ' THE MISSIONARIES.

From the Protestant- The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions appealed to the President of the United States in behalf of the imprisoned missionaries, praying that he would execute the judgement of the Supreme Court and rescue them from the penitentiary. The following is General Jackson's reply.

'Gentlemen- I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your memorial, stating that certain missionaries in the State of Georgia have been imprisoned for alleged offenses against that state, and requesting my interference in furthering their release.'

'In reply, I have to inform you the power vested in me has been placed in my hands for the purpose of seeing the laws of the United States justly and impartially administered and not for the purpose of abusing them, as I must assuredly should do were I to interpose my authority in the case brought before me in your memorial. The state of Georgia is governed by its own laws, and if any injustice has been or is committed, there are competent tribunals at which redress can be obtained without an appeal to me. I do not wish to comment upon the causes of the imprisonment of the missionaries alluded to in the memorial; but I cannot refrain from observing that here, as in most other countries, they are by their injudicious zeal, (to give it no harsher name) too apt to make themselves obnoxious  to those among whom they are located.'

ANDREW JACKSON.




      


The following excellent article is extracted from the Christian Advocate of the present month--

The month past has furnished us with nothing of much importance to chronicle from Asia, Africa, and South America. But we feel ourselves constrained to notice; before we conclude our view of public affairs, the answer returned by President Jackson to a Memorial, addressed to him by the American Board of Commissioners for Missions, in behalf of the missionaries of that Board, imprisoned in the State of Georgia.  It is our fixed purpose, as it has been our uniform practice hitherto not to meddle with any subject merely of a political character, which may be discussed in our country. But we have never hesitated, and we never intend to hesitate, if a subject directly involving the interests of morality and religions is treated by our public functionaries--no matter how elevated their station--in such a manner as to injure or disserve those interests, to remark upon what they say or do, with all the freedom which a freeman enjoys-always guided and controlled by the principles and spirit of the gospel. The Board of Commissioners, it appears, prayed the President to execute the judgement of the Supreme Court, and rescue the missionaries from the Georgia Penitentiary.  This is the statement we have seen, extracted from the paper bearing the title of the Protestant; and we are unable to say whether it is correct or not.  If correct, we remark, that we are aware it is denied by the friends of President Jackson, that he has any right to interfere in that concern, till a return should be made to the Supreme Court, of the inexecution of their decree and that this has not yet taken place.  Now, if this opinion is well founded, as we doubt not the President believes it is, it would surely have been easy, and we think dignified as well as courteous, so to have replied to the memorialists; and with such a reply, we say for ourselves, that if not satisfied, we should have been silent. But it seems to us that the whole answer of the President is a gratuitous reflection on the Board; and that the conclusion is a severe and undeserved censure of missionaries and missionary operations in general. He says,'I do not wish to comment upon the causes of the imprisonment of the missionaries alluded to in the memorial; but I cannot refrain from observing, that here, as in most other countries, they are, by their injudicious seal (to give it no harsher name) too apt to make themselves obnoxious to those among whom they are located.' We think it undeniable that the clear meaning of this sentence is, that in this country, and in most other countries, the injudicious zeal of Christian missionaries has rendered them justly obnoxious, either to popular resentment, or to governmental restraint, or to both; and that even more than this might be said with truth. We ask, is this a correct statement? If it is, all the missionary operations of the present day, in ever part of the world, with few exceptions, have been and still are, conducted in a very exceptionable and improper manner, and is this the sentence pronounced on the missionary cause as now managed by the Chief Magistrate of the United States!  We confess it has filled us with astonishment and regret. Still, however, the question returns, and it is a most solemn question-is the sentence just and true? We fearlessly declare it is our opinion, that it is not-that it is an unmerited denunciation.  We have been familiar with this subject for more than thirty years; and although we pretend not to say, that there have not been individual acts of indiscretion in missionaries--they must indeed have more than mortal, if among so many in a series of years; there have been no indiscretion-yet we affirm, and think we can incontestably prove that in general missionary operations have been conducted, and missionaries themselves have acted; with an exemplary prudence and discretion. It always has happened, from the time of Christ, and his apostles, and it always will happen until the millennial age, that the preaching of the gospel with fidelity, whatever be the discretion with which it is accompanied, will be offensive to vicious men, and if they be armed with power, it will produce persecution. But in regard to the missions of the day in which we live, although they have been opposed and decried for a time in the East Indians, in the Sandwich Islands, in Africa, in Demerara, and in the West Indies, yet on a fair investigation, the missionaries have been justified, not only by public sentiment, but (with the exception of autocratic Russia) by civil authority. By the constitutional and constituted organ of our own beloved country--the Supreme Court of the United States- the Georgia missionaries have been justified; and it is with both grief and surprise that we read their condemnation by President Jackson, in the reply of which we have felt it our sacred duty, as a Christian advocate, thus freely to remark.

(Extract from an article in the Mississippi Gazette.

President Jackson has in two cases acted towards this State, in a manner calculated to insult our feelings, degraded our character, and destroy our independence. He has directly and indirectly interposed in the legislation of this state. At the session of 1830, when the Indians were made, by enactment, citizens of the state of Mississippi, it was done according to the suggestions and evident desire of Gen. Jackson. A letter in his own hand writing was shown amongst his partisans for that purpose, and one of them, Mr. Marsh, avowed the fact in the House. Mr. Haley who was an active and efficient agent of the President's and who had just arrived from Washington City, and who was known to be entrusted personally and confidentially with his designs, and had the letter before mentioned in his possession, was untiring in his exertions and the Bill passed.

Again, he admitted the propriety and constitutionality of the law, destroying the tribal character of the Indians. But the Constitution of the United States only authorized treaties to be made with 'Indian tribes,' and there is no such thing as treaties between governments and individuals.

Again he admitted that it was right and proper to destroy all the appearance of nationality, which then was amongst the Indians, by making it penal for anyone to hold the office of 'head man, warrior, mingo, or chief.' But unfortunately 'Indian treaties' cannot be made without these worthies.- Boston Centinel




      


From the Journal of Commerce

AMERICAN BOARD OF MISSIONS.

The annual meeting commenced in this city on Wednesday morning, and will close today. In the course of yesterday morning's session, the letter which has been extensively published in the newspapers, purporting to be President Jackson's reply to the memorial of the Board in respect to the Cherokee Indians, was alluded to by one of the members; and the Prudential committee stated that no such a letter had been received by them, and that they had no reason to suppose that it was genuine. The following gentlemen were elected officers of the Society for the ensuing year:

Hon. John Cotton Smith, President.

Hon Stephen Van Rensselaer, Vice President.

Rev. Calvin Chapin, D. D. Recording Secretary.

Prudential Committee

Hon. William Reed

Rev. Warren Fay. D. D.

Hon. Sam'l Hubard,

Rev. B. B. Wisner, D. D.

Sam'l T. Armstrong, Esq

Charles Stoddard, Esq

Sec's.

Rev. B. B. Wisner, D. D.

Rev. Rufus Anderson

Rev. David Greene

Henry Hill, Esq Treasurer

Auditors.

John Tappan, Esq.

William J. Hubbard

The next annual meeting is to be held at Philadelphia, on the 3d Wednesday in September, 1833. Rev. Dr. M'Auley, of that city, was appointed to preach the annual sermon, and the Rev. Dr. M'Murray of New York his alternate.

PUBLIC ANNIVERSARY MEETING.

The public meeting of the anniversary addresses 'c. was held last evening in Chatham Street Chapel.--A numerous concourse assembled on the occasion.

The Speakers were:

Rev. Mr. Smith, Missionary to Persia. Hon. Mr. Frelinghuysen, and the Rev. Dr. Beecher.

It appeared from the annual Report, that the receipts of the year had amounted to $130,574.12 viz: donations $117,349.93, legacies $10,349.93; interest of permanent funds and temporary loans $2,832.19.-  Expenditures, including $2,941.95 for which the Board was indebted at the beginning of the year; $123,896.48.  Leaving a balance in the treasury, $6,677.64

The Society has missions at the Sandwich Islands, in the Mediterranean, in Ceylon in continental India, in China, in Siam, and among the aborigines of our country The accounts received from them are in general highly encouraging.

Bombay- At Bombay and vicinity, there are 35 schools under the direction of the missionaries, containing 1946 scholars, of which 455 are girls; a fact which Americans will hardly appreciate as they ought.- Until very recently the idea of a female learning to read, would have been regarded by the native population as the height of absurdity. The mission press is very active having printed during the year 1831, 1,481,300 pages, and since the first establishment of the mission, 11, 481,000 pages.

Ceylon-This mission has been, in many respects, far more successful than of Bombay.  The number of native children and youth in the schools, is 3,560, of whom 617 are females. There is a sort of high school at Batticotta, to which students of promise in the lower schools are transferred after they have advanced to a certain stage of progress, containing 83 native young men, 35 of whom are members of the Mission Church.  The whole number of native church members connected with the mission is 170.

China and Siam.- The only missionary which the Society has in China, is Rev. Elijah C. Bridgeman, he has not been long there, and has been engaged, so far, mainly in acquiring a knowledge of the language. A printing press has been sent out to his aid, ' a printer, Mr. S. W. Wells of Utica, is expected to go out in the course of a few months. The missionary at Siam. is Rev. David Abeel, formerly of this city.

Mission among the Cherokees.- This mission has been greatly embarrassed in consequence of the proceedings of the State of Georgia, and the refusal of the National Executive to afford protection either to the missionaries or Cherokees. The consequence is, that two of the missionaries, Messrs. Worcester and Butler, are in the Georgia Penitentiary, and most or all of the others, except a few females, have removed into those parts of the nation not claimed by Georgia.   As this subject is of great importance to the public, both in civil and religious point of view we subjoin a considerable extract from the Report, embracing a succinct view of the history of the persecutions endured, and the present state of the mission.- The number of church members connected with the mission, exclusive of the missionary families is about 230. Many of the schools have been broken up, and of course the number of children is greatly diminished.

Extracts from the Report.

It was stated in the Report of last year, that the missionaries have been driven from Carmel, Hightower, Haweis, and New Echota, by the Georgia guard. The missionaries at the former places, after having been once arrested and discharged by order of the Court in Gwinnett County, Ga. thought it expedient, when they were threatened with a second arrest; to remove their families out of that portion of the Cherokee territory over which Ga. claimed jurisdiction. On this point the committee, when consulted, left them to act according to their own conviction of duty, as citizens of the United States and missionaries of the Lord Jesus Christ.

* *              * *                           Messrs Worcester and Butler were arrested and brought to trial before the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia, sitting in Gwinnet County, on the 15th of September. The Jury in their verdict, declared them guilty of residing in that portion of the Cherokee territory claimed by Georgia, contrary to the laws of that State, and on the following da they were sentenced to four years imprisonment at hard labor in the Penitentiary of that State. Nine other persons were sentenced to the same punishment by this Court;--one of them was a preacher of the Gospel, of the Methodist denomination, and four others were professors of religion. On their arrival at the Penitentiary, pardon was offered to them, on condition that they would promise not again to reside in the Cherokee country. With these offers all complied except Messrs. Worcester and Butler, who were accordingly thrust in prison, where they have remained to the present time. Mrs Worcester and Mrs. Butler, still remain at New Echota, and retain possession of the mission premises.* *               * *

Messrs. Worcester and Butler, on their trial before the Superior Court of Georgia, had the aid of good legal counsel, who urged in their defence, as a bar to the indictment, that the Cherokee country was not within the jurisdiction of Georgia, and that their arrest and trial under the laws of that State were contrary to the Constitution, Treaties, and Laws of the United States. They therefore determined, with the approbation of the Prudential Committee, to appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States. Measures were accordingly taken to bring their case in due form before that tribunal.

In the meantime, as the Missionaries entered the Cherokee country with the express sanction and protection of the Executive of the United States, the Committee, in accordance with the instructions of the Board at its last annual meeting, forwarded a memorial to the President, containing a full statement and injuries to which the Missionary property in the Cherokee Nation had been and were subjected, together with the circumstances connected with the arrest and imprisonment of Messrs. Worcester and Butler, and praying that the power of the Executive might be interposed to protect the Missionaries in their labors from further molestation and violence, and that the Attorney General of the United States might be instructed to commence a suit against the offending officers of the State of Georgia for the arrest and imprisonment and other injurious treatment of the Teachers and Missionaries.  In violation of the Treaties and Laws of the Union, and their rights as citizens of the same.

The President replied to this memorial through the Secretary of War, simply stating that as Georgia had extended her laws over the Cherokees, the various Acts of Congress providing a mode of proceeding in such cases, inconsistent with the State laws, became imperative and that he, therefore had no authority to interfere.

A writ of error was granted by one of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States on the application of Messrs Worcester and Butler, and the case was brought up and ably argued on the 20th, 21st, and 23d day of February last, by Messrs. Wirt and Sergeant, in behalf of the plaintiffs in error. The decision of the Court was pronounced by Chief Justice Marshal on the 3d of March last. The Court exhibited at great length in a very lucid and convincing manner the nature and extent of the right of discovery, the original ground upon which different European powers laid claim to the continent, the manner in which the lands of the Indians have heretofore been obtained, the import and binding obligations of the treaties which have been made with the Indians, and the manner in which the Constitution of the United States and the Acts of Congress relating to the Indian affairs are to be understood. The laws of Georgia enacted within the last two or three years, extending the jurisdiction of that state over the Cherokee country, were also examined by the Court, and declared to be repugnant to the Constitution, Treaties and laws of the United States. The mandate of the Court was immediately issued, reversing and annulling the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia, and ordering that all proceedings on the indictment against the prisoners do forever surcease, and that the prisoners be and hereby is dismissed therefrom.

A motion was made on the 17th of March in the Superior Court of Georgia by Messrs Chester, Underwood and Harden, the counsel for Messrs Worcester and Butler, that the mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States be received and entered upon the records, and that a writ of habeas corpus be issued to bring the prisoners before the Court, for the purpose of their discharge in obedience to said mandate. After this motion had been argued, the Court refused to obey the mandate of the Supreme Court, or to discharge the prisoners. The Court refused to allow the motion, or the decisions of the Court upon it, or any matter relating to the case, to be entered on its records.

On the 4th of April the principal counsel for the prisoners addressed a letter to the Hon Wilson Lumpkin, Governor of the State of Georgia, enclosing the decision and mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States, and the doings thereon in the Superior Court of Gwinnet County, praying that he would exercise the power entrusted to him as Chief Magistrate of the State, and discharge the prisoners. To this application Governor Lumpkin refused to answer in writing, but gave a verbal denial.

A memorial to the President of the United States was prepared by the counsel for the prisoners in their behalf, praying him to interpose his authority for enforcing the decision of the Court; but after consideration, it was deemed inexpedient to present it in the state of the case. It was also, after consultation with the friends of the Board and of the Indians in Congress, deemed inexpedient to petition that body on the subject during their last session. The case will probably be brought before the Supreme Court again at their next term, when they will take such measures as in their wisdom they shall think best, for enforcing their decision.- It must be left to Providence to decide how this painful business shall terminate, and what shall be its influence on the Indians, and on our own government and country. In the meantime, the Missionaries and their bereaved families are earnestly commended to the continued prayers of the members of the Board and its patrons and to the merciful care of the Great Head of the Church.

During the year, Messrs Worcester and Butler, while separated from their beloved families and labors, condemned to an ignominious punishment, and shut up in a Penitentiary with felons, have been placed in a most trying situation, requiring great fortitude, and a firm reliance on the faithfulness of their covenant God and Savior. They have, without doubt, shared largely in the sympathies and prayers of the churches throughout the land, especially of the Cherokees; and it ought to be a case of devout thanksgiving in their behalf that they have been so full satisfied as to their duty, have possessed so much contentment and peace of mind, and enjoyed so many manifestations of the Divine presence and favor, and have had so much spiritual enjoyment.--Nor should it be noticed with less gratitude that they have been enabled so well to maintain the Christian character and to exhibit in all the trials and sufferings to which they have been subjected by the officers of the State of Georgia, that meekness and benevolent forbearance which the Gospel requires. It is believed that in all their correspondence there has not been one word which indicates an angry, unforgiving or vindictive spirit.

It is due to Charles E. Mills, Esq. keeper of the Penitentiary to mention that Messrs Worcester and Butler, as prisoners, have been treated with great kindness. Their tasks have not been severe. They have been allowed to see their friends and to correspond with them as freely as the regulations of a prison could be expected to permit, and every indulgence seems to have been granted them which could be expected in such circumstances for promoting their personal comfort.

Their health during most of the year has been good.  Mrs. Worcester and Mrs Butler visited the prison last Fall and had an interview with their husbands, and were expecting to repeat the visit the present autumn. They have daily read the Scriptures and prayed with the prisoners confined in the same building with themselves, with much religious conversation.  They have also held stated religious services on the Sabbath, and during the last four or six months all the prisoners have been assembled, and Mr. Worcester has been required by Judge Mills, the keeper to preach to them one half the day. A spirit of inquiry has, to some extent, been awakened among the prisoners. A number have broken off their iniquities, temporarily at least, and a few, it is hoped, have been savingly and permanently benefitted.

During the year, the missions at Hightower and Carmel have been much exposed to injury. The former station was violently seized by the Georgia Guard, a portion of whom have been quartered there the most of the year. The produce of the fields, which was ungathered at the time they took possession last fall, has been consumed or destroyed, as have been also the fowls and swine belonging to the mission. Early in the winter, it was stated by persons connected with the Georgia Guard, that all the stations situated in the portion of the Cherokee country claimed by Georgia, would be taken possession of, and rented or sold for the benefit of that State. Mrs. Worcester and Mrs. Butler were also informed that they must leave the premises at New Echota and Haweis, and in case of their delaying to do so, the Guard would be sent to eject them, and their families. It was, however, though inexpedient for them to remove until force was actually applied. They have been suffered to remain unmolested to the present time.

According to the laws of the State of Georgia, surveyor have been sent into the Cherokee country; the division of it into lots is now nearly completed, and the Lottery by which these tracts are to be distributed among the citizens of Georgia, is to be drawn about this time. Much effort has been made during the year to induce the Cherokees to enroll as emigrants, and the places of all such as have been enrolled have been rented or sold to white men who are filling the country.  The Cherokees have generally been much united, ' notwithstanding they have been so harassed and distressed, they have still almost unanimously resolved not to remove, until driven from their country by force. Recently, when an Agent of the Government appeared in their Council and proposed to them to meet commissioners for the purpose of making a Treaty for ceding their lands, they unanimously rejected the proposal without debate. It is said, however, the people are becoming somewhat divided; --some after having their wrongs and grievances laid before the people of the United States without redress, and despairing of being reinstated in their rights, supposing that ultimate removal will be unavoidable, and that it is expedient for them to make the best terms they can, without protracting a wasting and unsuccessful opposition. The great body of the people, however, it is believed, including most of their intelligent and influential men are still determined to test the question fully, whether they can obtain a redress of their wrongs, and be reinstated in the rights and immunities which they formerly enjoyed and which have been guarantied to them and their posterity by numerous Treaties, by the Government and People of the United States.

[From the Journal of Commerce, of this Morning.]

American Board of Missions.- We should have stated yesterday, in our notice of the proceedings of the Board, that the number of missionary stations under its care is 55; ordained missionaries 68; physicians not ordained 1; printers, 3; teachers, 17; farmers and mechanics, 20; females, married and unmarried, 125; making a total of 237 laborers in heathen lands, dependent on, and under the direction of the Board.- There are also four native preachers, 30 native assistants, 1257 schools, 59,786 scholars. The printing presses at different stations have sent forth about 14,200,000 pages of Bibles, Tracts, 'c. during the year, and from the beginning of the operation, of the Board, about 61,000,000 pages, in eleven different languages. Eight ordained missionaries and their wives,--one male and three female teachers and a printer,--are about to proceed to different fields of labor in heathen lands, and five other missionaries and a printer are expected to sail in the former part of the next year.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6 1832

(This is the date on the paper. It should read Nov. 3, 1832)

We find in the proceedings of the Tennessee legislature, presentations of petitions, for the extension of jurisdiction over the Cherokees within the limits of that state. When we saw this,we thought it could not be possible, that the legislature was moved by the old saying, 'that when a man goes down hill, every one give him a kick, Georgia had kicked, until we had bled, while Alabama was thrusting a thorn in our side, Tennessee was about to do the same. But such we fear is the moving principle and we regret to see it. The Petitions referred to in the proceedings, was signed by a white man from Georgia, resident in the nation, within the limits of Tennessee, and cognominal of the intruders on the Cherokee lands.- Now, we had expected, that the magnanimity of the legislative was of that lofty kind, that it occupied a position so high that it was far above the paltry disposition, even for a moment to consider the propriety of becoming a party in the oppression of the much depressed Cherokees. But to the facts, the legislature has been petitioned by a Georgian, an intruder on the Cherokee lands, to extend the jurisdiction of that state over the Cherokees, who are represented, as being anxious to receive the laws of the state, and without any other evidence of the facts, than the statement; the honor of the legislature at a special called session, and in its sovereign capacity have been induced, to consider the grave subject of taking care of the Cherokees, on the wilful misrepresentation of a Georgia intruder. We hope the legislature will yet pause, to preserve its high reputation.

TENNESSEE LEGISLATURE

Sept. 24th 1832.

House of Representatives. Mr. Vernon presented a communication from a citizen of the Cherokee Nation concerning the extension of laws of the State over said Nation, which communication was referred to the select Committee on that subject.

______________________

We perceive by the Southern prints, that the failure of a treaty with the Cherokees by the Gov't last July council at Red Clay is confidently stated to have arisen from the circumstance of a proposition of a company from Tennessee to rent the gold mines of the Cherokee Nation. We are astonished at the credence given to rumors by those prints who ought ever to be the sentinels and heralds of truth to their readers, to propagate a statement to an enlightened public, having not the least foundation in truth. The fact of the propositions of a company, was made to the council, for a term years  but it was not the influence of this proposition that induced the Cherokees to reject a treaty. Col. John Williams, and Cox of Knoxville, Tennessee, had previous to Secretary Eaton's leaving the Department of War, obtained from him, a full sanction in writing to work the gold mines of the Cherokees, provided he obtained a permit or grant from the Nation, and upon this basis he solicited of the council a permit to work the mines which was refused, on the ground that the Cherokees had determined never to sell any more lands, and that it was no object to the Nation to let the property to citizens of the United States

The cause of the Cherokees rejecting the proposition of a treaty, was contained in the address of the council to Secretary Cass, published by us sometime ago.

'It is stated to us, and on good authority, that the cause of the late failure to form a Treaty with the Cherokees was the offer, by a large Company from Tennessee, to rent their gold mines. Col. Williams is said to be at the head of this Company.-Georgia Courier.

________________________

The General Council of the Cherokee Nation at Red Clay, closed its session on the 31st ult. We had promised our readers the publication of Mr. Chester's communications to the Principal Chief, renewing the propositions to the Cherokees to enter into a treaty, but they have not come to hand. The council made no reply to his communications, more than a notice to the War Department, through the medium of Col. Montgomery the agent, that a delegation had been appointed, composed of John Ross Principal chief, and Senators R. Taylor, J. Vann, and J. Baldridge, to proceed to Washington, to attend to the interests of the Cherokees. This is the second time Mr. Chester has decidedly failed, in effecting the measures of the Government. Secretary Cass is now enabled to set down his final failure to negotiate a treaty, shut his book, with the conviction of having mistaken the influence of Mr. Chester, over the Cherokees, when he was appointing him to effect the views of the President. As to the appointment of Governor Lumpkin, which the Secretary has already intimated, to hold treaties with the Cherokees, we will not condescend to sell a nation to a man who is now about to rob us. The Cherokees will enter into no treaties at a time when they are proclaimed to be a nullity.




      


From the Boston Daily Advertiser and Patriot

THE CONDUCT OF THE ADMINISTRATION.

ARTICLE SEVENTH

THE INDIANS AND THE MISSIONARIES.

This is the darkest chapter in our history.  If it were possible to draw a veil over it, we would gladly do so for the honor of our country and of humanity.  But it is not. The work of iniquity is still in progress. The only hope of arresting it before it reaches it s consummation, must be founded on the awakening sense of justice of the people.  The strongest appeals have been made repeatedly to the executive and legislative departments of the government, as they are now constituted, but without effect. The judiciary has nobly taken its stand in defence of the right, but without the cooperation of the executive, its interposition will probably be ineffectual. It is only by a change in the character of the administration, and of the majorities in Congress, that we can expect to redress this great wrong, and prevent the final extermination of a civilized and Christian community. If there were no other objection to our present rulers, this alone ought to be considered as decisive; and it is therefore of the highest importance that the facts in the case should be constantly kept before the public mind.

What then, are these facts? The Cherokee Indians, occupy a territory somewhat smaller than the state of Massachusetts, situated at that point where the boundaries of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama approach each other-partly in each of these states, but principally in Georgia. The possession of this territory has been solemnly guarantied to them in a succession of treaties, first by Georgia herself, and subsequently by the government of the United States, those of the latter class being not less than sixteen in number. In all these treaties, they are expressly recognized as a distinct community; their rights of property and jurisdiction are formally admitted; ' it is stipulated that no citizen of the United States shall enter their territory without a passport. In all these treaties there are mutual concessions; the Cherokees make grants and promises in exchange for the guaranties and promises which they receive. All these grants and promises so made by them have been faithfully executed-we have had the whole benefit of them;- it is not even pretended that there has been any breach of faith. The Supreme Court has declared that the treaties are valid and binding. Finally, the Intercourse Act of 1802 authorizes and requires the President to employ, if necessary the military force of the country, for the purpose of securing to the Indians the rights and privileges to which, under these treaties, they are entitled.

Such are the rights of the Indians. Let us look now at the manner in which they have been treated by Georgia and the general government. In a time of perfect tranquility-without a pretext even for complaint against the Cherokees-the state of Georgia, by a public act of her legislature, extends her jurisdiction over them and their territory; in other words, declares that she is herself the rightful sovereign of a territory of which another community has had from time immemorial quiet possession, and which is guarantied to that community in a series of treaties by Georgia herself and the Union of which Georgia forms a part. Truly, a modest pretension! But even this is not the worst. The object is to obtain; not merely the jurisdiction but the property. Another act is passed authorizing the survey of all the lands not in the immediate occupation of the Indians, and their division into lots, for the purpose (will posterity believe it?) of distributing them by lottery among the inhabitants of the state. In order to render the quantity of land not included in this distribution as small as possible, the Indians are subjected to personal disabilities which must render their residence in their ancient abodes intolerable, and if the system is continued, will compel them all to emigrate.

Assailed in this unexampled manner by a stronger neighbor, whose aggressions they are wholly unable to resist by open force, the Cherokees appeal to the General Government and invoke the execution of the laws and treaties by which their rights are secured. They appeal at different times to the three great departments, the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. The Supreme Court, answers their appeal with its usual prompt and yet prudent energy. In the first case in which the question came up-that of Corn Tassel, a prisoner indicted for murder, a mandate was issued immediately requiring the State of Georgia to appear in Court and defend the constitutionality of her proceedings. No sooner was the fact known, than the Legislature of Georgia, which was then in session, passes a set of resolutions, denying entirely the right of the Supreme Court to interfere with the course of her criminal jurisdiction, and requiring the government to resist any such interference by force. In open contempt of the authority of the Court, and with a disregard for the common feelings of humanity that makes the blood run cold, the prisoner, his trial still pending in the ordinary course of law- was ordered to execution and actually executed, or in plain English murdered under the forms of justice.  When the case came on at Washington, the State of Georgia made default; the Court, with the dignified moderation and correct sense of property which constantly marks their proceedings, took no notice of the contumacious conduct of that State which was not regularly before them, and decided the case on a point of form in her favor.

The next year the affair came up a second time in the case of the Missionaries, and the Court, with a manly firmness, not less honorable to them than the steady impartiality which they had exhibited before, gave an unequivocal opinion against the constitutionality of the laws of Georgia. When that opinion was sent down for execution, the authorities of Georgia, in their usual spirit of insubordination, refused to carry it into effect, and actually retained and now hold in close confinement in the State Penitentiary,  TWO MINISTERS OF RELIGION-one of them a citizen of Massachusetts-under a process which the highest judicial authority of the United States has declared to be unconstitutional.

Such has been the conduct of Georgia. In the mean time what has the President done?  The President is bound by the Constitution and his oath of office, to see that the laws and treaties are faithfully executed, and as we have said, is authorized and required by the Intercourse Act, to employ if necessary the military force of the country, for the purpose of securing to the Indians the personal, political and territorial rights guarantied to them by the treaties. What then has the President done? In what way has he interfered to check these violent and unconstitutional usurpations of power by Georgia, and to sustain the Judiciary department in the rightful course of its constitutional functions? What sort of countenance and aid has he given to the feeble and distressed remnant of a once powerful people, who have come to him in their utmost need-to invoke not merely the friendship for the beloved Cherokees of which they had received so many homed assurances, but the PLIGHTED PUBLIC FAITH of the Union? When thus called upon by the Cherokees, the President informed them, through the Secretary of War, that whether the proceedings of Georgia were or were not in accordance with the treaties, the United States could not and should not undertake to oppose them. When the Supreme Court declared these proceedings to be unconstitutional, the President's Secretary of War attempted to refute the decision in a long manifesto, published in the semi-official paper call the Globe. When the State of Georgia, in carrying her unconstitutional laws into execution invaded the territory of the Cherokees, the President, instead of employing the military force of the country in their defence, actually withdrew a corps of troops which was previously stationed there, and left them entirely at the mercy of their enemies. Instead of lending them his countenance and aid to the unequal struggle in which they are engaged, he is continually laboring, through his agents, official and unofficial, to persuade them that they are in the wrong, that they cannot maintain their ground, and that they would do much better to quit their improvements-abandon their cultivated territory; and emigrate to a distant wilderness two or three thousand miles off-in one word, that they would do better to abjure civilization and Christianity and return to barbarism. When the state of Georgia, after setting at nought the claims of common humanity, and the majesty of the laws and Constitution of the country, went still farther and laid violent hands upon the persons of MINISTERS OF RELIGION for no other cause than zeal and activity in their sacred calling-the President not only did not, as he was bound to do by law-protect them, but actually withdrew from one of them the character of a functionary of the United States, which he had held before, for the express purpose of exposing him entirely naked and defenseless-to the full sweep of the blows that were aimed at him by the brutal agents of the tyranny of Georgia.

Such has been the conduct of the President.  Even Congress-we blush for the honor of the country and of humanity, when we say it-even Congress has thus far been so completely enveloped in the toils of party management, that it has been found impossible by the friends of the country, notwithstanding, their unremitted laborious energetic and most praiseworthy efforts, to obtain even a          resolution that it was expedient to maintain the Public Faith of the Union.

Such are the facts in the case of the Indians and Missionaries: Let us now very briefly consider the character of these proceedings under the various aspects, in which they naturally present themselves-their PERFIDY:-their VIOLENCE;-their MEANNESS:- their BRUTALITY:- the alarming resistance to the constitutional authority of the Supreme Court:-the revolting and outrageous defiance of the moral and religious feelings of the community.

[TO BE CONTINUED]




      


From the Knoxville Republican.

THE CHEROKEES.

The following clause is taken from the 23rd Section, Article 1st, of the Constitution of Georgia:

'And provided, also, The Legislature may give its consent, to the establishment of one or more governments westward thereof; but monopolies of land by individuals being contrary to the spirit of our free government, no sale of territory of this state, or any part thereof, shall take place to individuals or private companies, unless a county or counties shall have been first laid off, including such territory, and the Indian rights shall have been extinguished thereto.'

With such a clause in the Constitution, how can Georgia proceed to sell the lands of the Cherokees? Can she pretend that the title of the Cherokees has been extinguished?  With all her effrontery, we believe she has never set that up as an excuse for the illegal and inhuman course she has taken. The constitution says no sale of lands in the State shall take place until, 'counties shall have been first laid off, including such territory, and the INDIAN RIGHTS SHALL HAVE BEEN EXTINGUISHED THERETO.' But it seems Constitutions mean anything or nothing, in the present enlightened day, just as it may suit avarice or ambition. And for this glorious era in jurisprudence, the world may research of the great constitutional lawyer, Andrew Jackson.  He that upon the resignation of his Judgeship in the Tennessee, confessed he was not qualified to discharge the duties of his office, and who, when Judge in Florida, procured a lawyer to write decisions in causes (sic) which that lawyer had argued before him.

__________________

It is well known that the Chickasaws agreed by treaty, to sell their lands and remove across the Mississippi, whenever a suitable country could be found for them.  A deputation from that tribe made a full examination of the western regions, for the purpose of finding one.  They found but one suitable place, not already occupied by other tribes; and that proved to be, not in the United States, but in Texas. On their return, Major Eaton, late Secretary of War, and Gen. Coffee, commissioners  on the part of the United States, called a meeting of Chickasaws and Choctaws, for the purpose of making some arrangement by which both might settle on the land to which the Choctaws were then removing. Some in the Choctaws replied that, as the government had promised never to ask them to sell that land, it might have been as well to let them set their feet upon it before violating that promise. The meeting was thinly attended, and nothing done. So much has long been public.

The commissioners thought best to make another trial. They attributed the thin attendance to bad weather, and pronounced it no test of the sentiments of these tribes.- They write down a talk to both tribes, and a separate talk to each of them, recommending the proposed arrangement.  They stated, as plainly as words could express it, in their talk to the Chickasaws; as a reason why they should consent to settle in the Choctaw country, and be one people with them; and in their talk to the Choctaws, as a reason why they should receive the Chickasaws; that the United States has no other land; to which the Chickasaws could be removed. This document, we believe, has never appeared in the newspapers printed solely for circulation among the two nations; but someone procured a copy from an Indian agent; to whom they were committed distribution, ' sent it where we saw and read it. Nothing further has been done for the removal of the Chickasaws.

'Here we have it officially announced, that the United States have no land to which the Chickasaws can be removed; and this announcement is confirmed by the subsequent conduct of the government towards the Chickasaws, to what place shall the Cherokees be removed, if they leave their present residence? And fair what ' honorable intentions can our government have in continuing to harass them on this subject?'

Who that has flesh and blood, can avoid the rising of indignation at the recital of such disclosures! We do not wish to speak evil of our rulers, to call in question the honor, or the reputation or the purposes of men in power; but here are facts that must speak for themselves,and we suppose there is no doubt of their truth. Men of sense and candor, that are not too far gone in party politics to be capable of just reflection, must and will draw their own inferences.--Vt. Chronicle.




      


From Poulson's Advertiser.

INDIAN WRONGS.

This day's vote may frustrate the evil designs of those who would at one fell swoop drive the Indians into the Pacific Ocean.

Then let us go to the polls and vote the whole Anti-Jackson ticket, particularly for Ritner; by so doing we may be the means of turning out Jackson and his retainers, and in their room elect men who will act with good faith towards the Indians.

The aboriginal nations are not looking to us as to their last hope-our neglecting to vote may seal their fate, and brand our country with infamy.

We,the people of the United States, and GEORGIA in particular, have no more right to the Cherokee lands and gold mines than we have to the mines of Golconda!!

PENN.

__________________________

From the New York Journal of Commerce

Governor Lumpkin, of Georgia, has announced by Proclamation, that the drawing of the Cherokee lands and gold mines, by lottery, will commence on the 22d of October. Tell it not in Algiers, publish it not in the streets of Constantinople, lest traitors and pirates cry out with horror at the injustice-lest it cover our nation with infamy.

_________________




      


Those of our subscribers who have not settled for their subscriptions ending the 4th Volume, are requested to remit to us by mail, or by safe conveyance, the amounts respectively due. We are anxious for an early compliance of our patrons in order to enable us to meet the expenses incurred in publishing our paper.




      


MISCELLANEOUS.

AN OSAGE WAR DANCE.

The Rev. W. F. Vaill, one of the missionaries of the A.B. C. F. M. among the Indians of the Arkansas country, in a letter to the editors of the New York Observer, dated Union, July 25th, thus describes an Osage War dance, which he witnessed on one of his recent preaching excursions.

In our late preaching tour through the Osage villages, we fell on the Little Osage town, when it was all alive with a war dance. The warriors or braves, fitted out in their wild fantastic style, were all assembled. As we approached, a runner met us, and asked of our interpreter our business, but did not offer us his hand. This was not owing to malice but to custom. Their war dances are their most sacred seasons. During the ceremony they separate themselves from the touch of the vulgar and profane. Being told our business, he ran back and reported, and our approach seemed to cause neither derangement nor suspension. We eagerly rode up to the scene of action, getting our horses as near as we could, although they were affrighted by the music, the fathers (sic), shields, and the Star-Spangled Banner of the United States fluttering in the wind.

The position in which we found these warriors was that of a large ring, one circle standing, and another squatting, and all facing towards the center of the circle. Well, what does this mean? What next?  sooner than thought could fancy an answer, one of the circle partly rises with his shield one hand,and tomahawk in the other, and dances towards the center; first facing this and then that way, holding his shield first on this and then on that side, and then occasionally making a brandish with his tomahawk; as though he was saying, 'See here, my comrades in arms, see how I will defend myself with this hand and this shield, while with this I will level my foe.' Having proceeded to the center, he returned, and squatted in his place. Another then performed a similar feat, and then another, till all had given a specimen, by way of anticipation and sample of their approaching conflict, and expected victory. Meantime, the hoarse, hollow sounding criers, who appeared to be already exhausted by constantly over straining their voices, in their zeal to make those hear, who stood only a very short distance-stood yelling, with their hands bracing their empty

stomachs and exciting the warriors to bloody deeds. One perhaps had lost a wife, another a child, or they represented those who had lost them, and now they were inspiring these official murderers to be courageous, and bring home a scalp, and so avenge their loss.

There was much variety in the costume of these Indians. Some had the skins of white wolves, as large species found somewhere to the west in their hunting excursions, hanging behind with the face, eyes, and nose projecting above their heads. Others had ravens' bills or eagles' claws, and all some terrific emblem. One had a snake's skin hanging from his neck to the ground:-I said to him, 'Vateseh hee!' i.e. What a serpent!  He answered, by snapping at me so sharply as to startle me. This proved quite amusing to his comrades. All were entirely naked except the usual flap, and their bodies were painted black-black as an African. Of all the human beings I ever saw none approached so near my idea of devils.

Much of the ceremony was taken up in a sort of dancing march round the streets of the town, between their lodges. Their dancing has nothing to do with the light trip of the foot; it is properly a pounding of the earth with both feet at once.  As they passed our lodge, it seemed as if a little earthquake was passing by. The osages, and I think all other Indians whom I have seen in their dances, strike the earth with both feet at once, jumping along with their bodies bent, their faces turned, first this way, and that, first looking askance under one arm, and then turning a wild vacant look over the other shoulder, and all the while brandishing shields, tomahawks, 'c.

In their marching around the town, the warriors were followed by a band of musicians, some rattling the gourd shell, some drumming on a piece of deerskin stretched over the head of a keg, and others,singing their wild war songs. Among the retinue I observed a great many youth, about the right age for going to school, who appeared to be young disciples, learning the art of war in the prospect of future renown. Another group followed, who appeared to be mourners, crying for vengeance on their enemies, to reward them for the death of some relative.

So busily employed were these warriors, that the ceremony ceased only for a small part of the night.- Early the next morning, before it was yet day, we heard their music and their singing, and their pounding up and down the streets. Our tarry among them was about 24 hours. When we arrived, we found them in the ceremony, and on our leaving the town they had not finished it. It is attended with extreme fasting, for their custom forbids them to eat, before the sunsets. And I believe they often fast, eating once a day, till the battle is accomplished, and they are returning with their scalps rejoicing. They are not allowed, moreover, to eat with their families; they must sleep separately; must go naked, flap excepted; offer many prayers,- and, as the climax of all, sacrifice a dog. In this ceremony they were engaged as we left the village, for we saw two or three braves most ceremoniously washing the parts of a dog at a branch which we had to pass.

My dear friends! look at their iron chain with which Satan hath bound these people for more than a thousand years. You have heard of the dark places of the earth-here they are, within a month's travel from your own city; and the chains all strong as Indian's cast, or China's imperial veto's (sic).

But you will wish to hear how we got along with preaching. As we stood gazing at the wonderful works of Satan, and waiting to ascertaining which was the chief's lodge, the Big Soldier, a term corresponding with that of General among the whites, came and most pleasantly invited us to his dwelling, and treated us with every mark of hospitality we could desire. He is of a most elegant form, perfectly well proportioned, a little above middling height, as portly and symmetrical as that of our departed friend, Cornelius-while his countenance is even more placid. I think it is the pleasantest (sic) countenance I ever saw.

Having refreshed ourselves, we requested him to send for the crier and give notice of our intention, and invite all to come and her the Gospel. Some came and attended our different meetings, but the greater part cared for none of these things, or cared more for the war ceremony; and its mighty expected profits. Some of the young men would occasionally rush in and stand near the door, displaying their tall, naked forms for a few minutes, then rush back to their favorite ceremony.

In the morning one host told us we were welcome to hold our meetings in his lodge, but he himself had to go to the Agency, 15 miles distant, to procure tobacco, for his warriors to smoke on their expedition, in testimony of his hearty cooperation, he being excused from going out to war himself-there being subordinate officers in abundance.

We held several meetings, and preached the Gospel to all we could collect, and intended to tarry two nights; but as the people were actually under alarm for fear of the Pawnees, having lately lost some horses, and as we had to keep our horses confined over the first night, through fear, we did not deem it prudent to tarry. And moreover, as the leading chiefs were both absent, we feared also some of these braves might most bravely take our horses, and be off to war with them before morning. So we set off for the next village.

I had visited these people, for the first time, the year before,-they being situated 120 miles from Union, and near to Boudinot. Had they improved during the year? Truly the signs were against them. The Government, about three years ago,built a good house for their leading chief, at the expense of 2,000 dollars. In this we lodged and preached the year before. It had three spacious rooms-a frame building, and valuable. Now it was razed to the ground, and the materials had been consumed for common fuel. In the morning, when I visited the site, about half a dozen women were hacking away upon some of the sleepers, cutting and splitting them, and then carrying them away. I asked them why they did so. They said the 'latus saggy'-the wind first started off the shingles-and perhaps some of the roof-so they had followed on to destroy it.

Such is a specimen of the people to whom we were originally sent. So we have turned to the Creek Gentiles, and are doing good among them for which we bless the name of the Lord.






      


RELIGIOUS

ARKANSAS CHEROKEES.

Communication from Mr. Washburn,

dated May 18, 1832

RELIGIOUS MEETINGS AT DWIGHT.

This mission has presented many facts of common interest for more than a year past, as will be seen by recurring to p. 220 of the last volume, p. 182 of the present year, 'c.

I returned on the 5th inst. from an useful tour amongst the Cherokees, Creeks, and Osages. I shall in this communication give you some account of our meeting with these Indians, and the prospect of spiritual good among them.  The first meeting was held here.  It began Friday and continued till Sabbath evening. Mr. Dodge from Boudinot, Messrs. Vaill and Montgomery from Union, Mr. Palmer from Fairfield, and Mr. Newton from Forks of Illinois were  present, and all took in the public exercises of the meeting. A large congregation for this place were present. A prayer meeting was held each morning at sunrise. The regular public exercises commenced at 10 o'clock A.M..  Two sermons were preached and interpreted in the forenoon and two in the afternoon. About half of the prayers ' singing were in the Cherokee language.  In the evening a meeting for prayer and extortion was held. On the Sabbath the Lord's supper was administered.  Before the meeting commenced it was evident that many in our family and in the neighborhood around us, were under the influence of the Holy Spirit. This indeed has been the case for more than a year. At the very opening of the meeting there was a feeling in almost every heart that God was in the midst of us.- Christians were more humble in their confession of sin, more deeply penetrated with a sense of their unworthiness, and of the presence of a holy God, were more affected with the guilt and anger of sinners, and felt stronger desires for their salvation, and rested with a simpler and stronger faith on the divine promises.- We trust they prayed in faith. Several, who before had indulged a tremendous and doubting hope, were brought to a fuller submission to God, to a single and entire trust in Christ, and of course, to a clearer and more joyful hope. The awakened were brought to a clearer sense of their guilt and felt the duty of repentance. Whether any, if any, how many yielded their hearts to Christ, I cannot say. Of some, we hope they did.-- Those who came to the meeting careless could not avoid a solemn sense of the realities of religion, and we hope some such will indeed henceforward, 'seek first the kingdom of God.'-- More than forty persons came to the anxious seats requesting the prayers of God's people. Of some of these we indulged hope previous to this meeting, and several more gave us reason to hope before its close. The day of judgment alone will disclose the results of this meeting; but we doubt not its influence will be long felt in this nation.

Meeting at the Forks of Illinois.-- From Dwight. Mr. Dodge and myself accompanied Mr. Newton to the Forks of Illinois. We spent one day in the neighborhood and on Bayon Menard, near Cantonment Gibson. The day was devoted to family visiting. At sunrise we went to the house of one of the female members of our church, whose husband has been a long time serious. The family, with the servants and a few neighbors, who were occasionally there, made up a little congregation . A hymn was sung and prayer was offered. The presence of the Holy Spirit was very obvious. Not a soul was indifferent. After two prayers and three exhortations, another hymn was given out before the closing prayer. The hymn was 'the successful resolve,' beginning, 'Come, humble sinner.' Before reading the hymn it was proposed that every one present who did then make the resolution expressed in the hymn, should stand while singing. The hymn was then read. When the reader came to the stanza beginning, 'Perhaps he will admit my plea.' the husband before alluded to, whose emotions during all the exercises had been very deep arose, and when the hymn was sung, every soul present arose, and at the close every one dropped upon their knees while one lead in prayer, expressive of our application to Christ as our only refuge, and of our determination to trust only in him. I trust every Christian did go to Jesus and surrender himself wholly to him. That anxious husband we hope was one of them.-- Since then his hope in Christ has been constant; clear and joyful.  Impressions were then made on several that we trust will be permanent. Three other meetings were held in the course of the day, similar to the preceding. In all of them, there was deep and solemn feeling, and from that time a revival has been manifestly in progress in that neighborhood. Several of the full Cherokees have expressed a hope of salvation, and others are anxiously enquiring. Mr. Newton's prospects of usefulness are very encouraging.- We spent the night on Bayon Menard with a hospitable family, with whom we had religious exercises, singing exhortations and prayer. In the morning we rode to the garrison. At 10 o'clock a meeting was holden at that place. Most of the officers, with their ladies and all the privates who were off duty, attended. I have never witnessed a more respectful attention to the word of God. If the army were furnished with chaplains of the right character, there is reason to hope that great good might be done. If a healthful, moral influence could proceed from the military post in the Indian country, these posts would become important auxiliaries to missionary efforts for the improvement of the aborigines. Such as influence, it is reasonable to expect, might be secured, if the army were supplied with pious, faithful and laborious chaplains.

Meeting among the Creek Indians.- In the evening after the meeting at the garrison, all our party met at Dr. Weed's in the Creek country. During the three following days, the last of which was the Sabbath,we held religious meetings among the Creeks. The meetings were held in a grove, where a rude kind of pulpit had been erected and logs placed in the form a square served the congregation for seats. The number of persons collected, especially on the Sabbath, was very considerable.--Great seriousness and good attention were manifested. The work of God was steadily advanced during the last year. Nearly forty persons came forward to the anxious seats. The number of communicants on the Sabbath was about sixty.  The religious prospects of the Creeks are very encouraging. A revival has been steadily in progress for more than two years, and there is no apparent abatement of the work at this time. They have however suffered for want of a resident missionary. The brethren of Union Mission have done what they could, but this has, of necessity been little, in comparison with the wants of the people.

One great error in Indian missions has been to go over too much ground at once __e the number of missionaries has been so small, that in order to extend their labors to the whole tribe,none have been instructed with that minuteness and to that extent which is necessary to the formation of the Christian character in all its symmetry and perfection .

Meeting among the Osages.- From the Creeks we went to the Osages. We visited and held meetings in their villages except two.  We also held meetings at Union.  At Hopefield we had a promiscuous congregation of males and females, old and young, at the other villages we had separate meetings. One congregation was composed exclusively of men, another of women and girls, and a third of boys. In general there was much willingness to attend meeting, and much better attention to preaching than last year. There is a considerably extensive conviction on the minds of the Osages, that their old superstitions and religious ceremonies are useless, foolish, and wicked.--This conviction added to the interested attentions given by many to preaching, satisfied us that, if they could be steadily assailed by divine truth, there is as much encouragement to labor for them as for any other people.

The different reception given to us this year, the access granted us to different classes, and the greater interest manifested in the truths of the gospel, are all the effects of divine truth. It is true we found no one convicted fully of sin, no one anxiously inquiring after the way of salvation, but we did find several that expressed a conviction that their system of idolatry and superstition was sinful, that it provoked God, and was the cause of their poverty and misery, that they never would be happy and prosperous till they embraced the true religion. This was clearly expressed by some of the most intelligent and influential men among them.--Miss. Her.




      


SINGULAR CONVICTION ON CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE

In the year 1723 a youth who was serving his apprenticeship in London, to a master sail-maker, got leave to visit his mother, to spend the Christmas holidays. She lived a few miles beyond Deal in Kent; he walked the journey, and, on his arrival at Deal, in the evening, being much fatigued, and also troubled with the bowel complaint, he applied to the landlady of public house, who was acquainted with his mother, for a night's lodging. Her house was full and every bed occupied, but she told him that if he would sleep with her uncle, who had lately come ashore, and was a boatswain of an India man, he should be welcome. He was glad to except the offer, and after spending the evening with his new comrade, they retired to rest. In the middle of the night he was attacked with his complaint, and awakening his bed-fellow, he asked him the way into the yard. The boatswain told him to go through the kitchen, but as he would find it difficult to open the door into the yard, the latch being out of order, he desired him to take a knife out of his pocket, with which he could raise the latch. The young man did as he was directed, and after remaining near half an hour in the yard, he returned to his bed, but was much surprised to find his companion had risen and gone. Being impatient to visit his mother and friends he also rose before day and pursued his journey, and arrived home at noon. The landlady, who had been told of his intention to depart early was not surprised; but, not seeing her uncle in the morning, she went to call him. She was dreadfully shocked to find the bed stained and every inquiry after her uncle was in vain; the alarm now became general, and on further examination, marks of blood were traced from the bed room into the street, and at intervals, down to the pier heard.- Rumor was immediately busy, and suspicion fell of course on the young man who slept with him, that he committed the murder, and threw the body over the pier into the sea, a warrant was issued against him, and he was taken that evening at his mother's house. On being examined and searched, marks of blood were discovered on his shirt and trowsers; and in his pocket were a knife and a remarkable silver coin, both of which the landlady swore positively were her uncle's property, and that she saw them in his possession on the evening he retired to rest with the young man. On these circumstances, the unfortunate youth was found guilty. He related all the above circumstances in his defence, but as he could not account for the marks of blood on his person, unless he got them when he returned to bed, nor could he account for the silver coin in his possession, his story was not credited; the certainty of the boatswain's disappearance, the blood at the pier, traced from his bed room, were too evident signs of his being murdered, and even the judge was so convinced of his guilt, that he ordered the execution to take place in three days. At the fatal tree, the youth declared his innocence and persisted in it with such affecting assertions that many pitied him though none doubted the justice of his sentence.

The Jack Ketches of those days were not so expert at their trade as modern ones, nor were drops of platforms invented; the young man was very tall, his feet sometimes touched the ground, and some of his friends who surrounded the gallows, contrived to give the body some support as it was suspended. After being cut down, those friends bore it speedily away in a coffin, and, in the course of a few hours, animation was restored, and the innocent saved. When he was able to move his friends insisted on his quitting the country, and never returning. He accordingly travelled by night to Portsmouth, where he entered on board a man of war, on the point of sailing for a distant port of the world, and as he changed his name and disguised his person, his melancholy story never was discovered. After a few years of service, during which his exemplary conduct was the cause of his promotion through the lower grades, he was at last made a masters mate, and his ship being paid off in the West Indies he, with a few more of the crew, were transferred to another man of war, from a different station.  What were his feelings of astonishment, and then of delight and ecstacy, when almost the first one he saw on board his new ship, was the identical boatswain for whose murder he had been tried, condemned, and executed five years before. Nor was the surprise of the old boatswain much less when he heard the story. An explanation of all the mysterious circumstances then took place. It appeared, the boatswain had been bled for a pain in the side by the barber, unknown to his niece, on the day of the young man's arrival at Deal; that when the young man awakened him, and retired to the yard, he found the bandage had come off his arm during the night, and that the blood was flowing afresh. Being alarmed, he arose to go to the barber, who lived across the street, but a press gang laid hold of him to the pier, where their boat was waiting; a few minutes brought them on board a frigate then under way for the East Indies and he omitted ever writing home to account for his sudden disappearance; thus were the chief circumstances explained by the two friends, thus strangely met; the silver coin being found in the possession of the young man could only be explained by conjecture--that when the boatswain gave him the knife in the dark, it is probable, as the coin was in the same pocket, it stuck between the blade, of the knife and in this manner became unconsciously the strongest proof against him.

On their return to England, this wonderful explanation was told to the judge and jury who tried the cause and it is probable they never afterwards convicted a man on circumstantial evidence.

This was the heinous offence with which they were charged, and for which they were doomed to four years hard labor in the penitentiary. One of these Missionaries, Mr. Worcester, was a Post Master in the Cherokee Nation at the time he refused to take the persecuting oath, as such, being an officer of the United States Government, the Georgia guard dare not take him unless he was turned out of the Post Office. Application was made to the executive department of his removal, and he was removed. The Georgia guard then took him-he was tried and sentenced as before stated.-Indiana Phoenix.




      


(Continued from our last)

1.PERFIDY- A whole series of solemn treaties negotiated and concluded, successively during a period of fifty years, under all the administrations that have held the power of government since its organization, are openly violated, without the slightest pretext or apology. It is not pretended that we were surprised or forced into the conclusion of any of them.  They were free, fair and equal compacts, or rather they were compacts in which the advantage was entirely on our side.  It is not pretended that they have not been observed in good faith by the Indians. The lands which they granted, have been occupied and the public stipulations in our favor have all been excepted-we have had the benefit of them to the last fraction. It is not even seriously pretended that the treaties were informal although if such were the facts, it would furnish no excuse for the violations of a bona fide engagement of which we have had the benefit. But it is not what we have said, seriously pretended that the treaties were even informal. An objection of this description was indeed not forward by Georgia, who meanly attempted to pick a flaw in the form of an instrument of which she has had the benefit, for the sake of escaping from the payment of the consideration; but the Supreme Court has put the extinguisher at once upon this feeble and unmanly effort. There is not even the poor and stale plea of state necessity. It is not pretended that the observance of the treaties would be productive of any material inconvenience either to Georgia or the United States. The immediate motive for violating them is, to procure for Georgia the opportunity of distributing the Cherokee land by lottery among her citizens. The proceeding is an act of open, avowed, unblushing, deliberate, premeditated NATIONAL PERFIDY.

Is this a light thing Are the people of the United States prepared, by continuing their present agents in power, to give their sanction to and take upon themselves the responsibility for this monstrous abuse of authority? We answer for them boldly, emphatically, and decidedly, NO; a thousand times over NO. The PUBLIC FAITH MUST AND SHALL BE PRESERVED. The unprincipled and reckless tools of party, who are endeavoring to fasten upon our national character the stamp of indelible dishonor, by the violation of these treaties, must and shall give way to men who have at least the common honesty to feel and acknowledge the obligation of a contract.

2. VIOLENCE AND MEANNESS. Independently of the positive engagement which we are under to the Indians; were there no relation between them and us, but that which is created by the law of nature and fact of neighborhood; -the proceedings towards them are such that they can hardly be parallel even in history of barbarous nations. There no doubt is and always has been a great deal of injustice and violence in the world.   Wars have been carried on;-states have been invaded and conquered for the mere gratification of personal ambition. In turning over the bloodstained rolls of history the friends of humanity must too frequently -

---------Learn with abhorrent to rate

What millions died that Caesar might be great

But in almost all the instances on record, even of gross and substantially unproved aggression, there is at least some pretext put forward by the aggressor, which if true, would in some degree excuse the outrage. Even in the celebrated case of the partition of Poland, which in form approaches perhaps more nearly to the present than any others; - a case in which as in this, three prosperous and powerful states combined to parcel out among themselves, the territory of a weak and unoffending neighbor, there was at least a pretence of state necessity. The transaction was justified by the partitioning powers, on the ground of the inconvenience and danger which they suffered from the troubles which habitually disturbed the interior of Poland.--The proclamations that were issued, are filed with loud complaints of injuries and insults received from that dangerous government. They breathe an edifying tone of justice and humanity-Russia, Austria and Prussia, if you believe them, are three peaceable and well disposed powers who have combined to abate a common nuisance. All this we know, was false and hollow; but it showed at least some sense of shame in the parties to the outrage; some disposition to assume a virtue although they had it not;-to discharge that tribute of hypocrisy which vice habitually pays in virtue.  But that a state, claiming to be civilized and Christian, should in time of profound peace, without even a pretence of injury or provocation, appropriate to itself the sovereignty over a weaker neighboring community, destroy its political existence, subject its members to the most atrocious indignities, and distribute their territory by lottery among its own people!--This, we confess, appears to us to be entirely a new case. We have paid some attention to political and diplomatic history, but we have met with no other exactly like it.

When we say that Georgia puts forward no pretenses in justification of her proceedings, we mean that she makes no allegations injury or fraud on the other side which, if well founded, would justify her course.--The attempts at apology which she has in fact made are of such a kind as rather aggravate than extenuate the injustice of her conduct.  She says, for example that when she took possession of her territory, she found the aboriginal inhabitants barbarious, and become immediately their rightful sovereign, because a civilized community possesses a natural right of sovereignty over its barbarous neighbors.  The right thus acquired she ceded away in a series of solemn treaties. She now claimed the right of rescinding these treaties, and resuming the sovereignty which had been granted away by them. Why? Because the Indians are now civilized. Such-if our readers will believe us-is actual, bona fide intent and meaning of the language of the judges of Georgia assembled in convention to decide upon the case of Tassels. The authorities of Georgian in earnest, or are they sharpening the sting of oppression by a bitter and criminal mockery? We will not trust ourselves to comment seriously upon such reasoning. It would be impossible to keep within the limits of moderation which are fixed by the dignity of the parties to this cause.

The attack of Georgia upon the Cherokees is therefore destitute even of a plausible pretence of justice. And let it be observed that her pretensions extend much farther than they could be carried by conquest in the ordinary forms of civilized warfare. The law of nations is not understood to permit a conquering people to take advantage of its success for the purpose of appropriating the territory and reducing to subjection the persons of the conquered. These are the practices of barbarous communities; they were practices of the northern hordes that overran the Roman Empire. The principles of public law, as established by the practice of civilized nations, only permit the conqueror to proceed until he has reduced his enemy to terms and obtained satisfaction for the injury which he has suffered. If he go beyond this,he puts himself in the wrong. It appears, therefore that Georgia, in a time of profound peace, and without even a pretence of provocation has proceeded in her aggressions upon the Cherokees infinitely beyond the point which would have been authorized by actual conquest in a war waged for a sufficient cause.

And then the meanness- the paltry, dastardly, pitiful meanness of the whole transaction. A man of real power, and who has withal a single spark of the lofty and generous spirit which so naturally accompanies a consciousness of strength, scorns to use his advantages, either in his public or private concerns, for the purpose of crushing the weak and unoffending. He would feel himself dishonored forever by such conduct.- So true is this sentiment to nature that we find it exhibiting itself even in children. An overgrown lubber, who should undertake to treat with harshness an unoffending school fellow of smaller size, would be hooted out of every village in the country.  But what do we see in this affair? Three or four prosperous and powerful states, numbering on an average not less than half a million souls each, backed by a Union of twenty-four sovereign states and thirteen million inhabitants, are pouncing with all their combined strength upon a little peaceful society, composed of some fifteen thousand persons, incapable, of course, of offering the least resistance, or of defending themselves in any way but by an appeal to the sixteen treaties in which these very aggressors have solemnly guarantied their political existence and the integrity of their territory. Is there an honorable man in the country whose cheek is not on fire with shame when he feels that, as a citizen of the United States he is unconsciously a party to such a transaction? But even this is not the worst.

3. BRUTALITY. Mean and pitiful as it is in all cases for an individual or a nation to abuse power for the purpose of injuring the feeble, there is in this affair a feature of a still more revolting character. These Cherokees are not merely a peaceful and unoffending little community, but they are a community of very peculiar and interesting character.- They are among the last remnants of the once powerful native race that in former days occupied the whole country - they are the only tribe of this great family that has made any considerable advances in civilization.  It has often been doubted whether it were possible to induce these natives to assume the habits that belong to European culture; and, until within a short time, the general opinion was decidedly in the negative. For two centuries in succession the government and people of the United States have been urging, entreating, praying, compelling them as it were, to come within the pale, but all in vain. At length, a single tribe takes us at our word, and comes in. They adopt our religion, form of government, dress, manners, and customs; learn our language, make an alphabet for their own rise, in short, very nearly to a level with ourselves in all the arts and accomplishments of civilized life.- A community which has risen in the way from civilization to barbarism, in the life time of a single generation, is a great moral and political curiosity. Their history forms a very valuable addition to the experiments that have been made upon the fortunes of our race. Every enlightened man would for this reason-independently of any other circumstance-watch their further progress with peculiar interest, and would anxiously desire that no unfortune(sic) accident might interfere with it. How, then do we treat them? How do we- a civilized and Christian community- conduct ourselves towards this tribe of barbarians, whom we have succeeded in converting into a civilized and Christian country like ourselves? Georgia says to them, Gentlemen, we have succeeded in converting you from a tribe of barbarians into a civilization and Christian community like ourselves, and to show you the satisfaction we feel at your success and our own, we proceed to appropriate your country, confiscate your property, subject your persons to atrocious indignities and destroy your political existence. They appeal for redress to the government of the United S. The government tells them-What? That it cannot and will not protect them-that, whether Georgia be right or wrong, she must have her way, and that they had much better quit their country, emigrate to a distant wilderness on the borders of the Red River, and there resume their former modes of life. Strange, astonishing-incredible as it may appear, after we have labored for two centuries to civilize these Indians, and have at last succeeded with a single tribe, the first salutation which we address to them is a recommendation- what do we say?- a preemptory injunction issued in contempt of a whole series of treaties, to return to barbarism.

And all this for the noble purpose of distributing a few more acres of land by lottery among the inhabitants of a state where the population is now hardly ten to the square mile!

4. But the most important and also alarming aspect under which we can look at these proceedings, is in their relation to the constitutional authority of the Supreme Court. We have now reached that fearful crisis in our history when a few months will decide whether the Constitution and with it the Union of the States shall stand or fall.  It is useless to attempt to conceal from ourselves that if Georgia carries her point against the Supreme Court in this great case, the authority of that tribunal, and with it the basis of all our institutions, is destroyed forever. The decision of this question will depend upon the result of the election of President. At the next term of the Supreme court to be held at Washington next winter, a return will be made of the refusal of Georgia to execute the decree of last winter, and the Supreme Court will then agreeably to the provisions of the statute, address a precept to the marshal of Georgia requiring him to execute the decree himself and release the missionaries from the penitentiary. Should we have in office at that time a President who has the intelligence to know, and the manly firmness to do his duty, Georgia will not venture to resist; the missionaries will be liberated; the Cherokees will be sustained in the rights secured to them by treaty, and the whole affair will pass off without further trouble. If the present incumbent should be reelected and Georgia should feel that she is sustained and encouraged by the very power whose duty it is to arrest her mad course, she will probably resist. Jackson will refuse to employ the military force of the Union in aid of the court, as he has already refused to employ it in the execution of the Intercourse Act; the decree will not be executed; the reign of law will terminate-that of terror and violence will commence and with it will commence for us the long series of internal commotions, prescriptions, confiscations, wars, foreign and domestic, with all their frightful accompaniments and consequences, which make up the history of most other nations, and from which, in the goodness of Providence we have been thus far almost wholly exempt.

How fearful to reflect that such immense national interests are staked upon the almost fortuitous results of a popular election, which is to take place within six weeks throughout the whole country!  Are the wise and good-the fathers of families, who wish to bequeath to their children the same blessings which they inherited themselves from a virtuous and patriotic ancestry, sufficiently alive to the emergency of the crisis? Are they straining every nerve with the intense anxiety that men ought to feel who know that everything valuable is at hazard?

5. There is still one consideration connected with this subject, more solemn than any to which we have hitherto adverted. We have seen in this affair the authorities of Georgia and the President of the United States combining to violate the respect due to the sacred character of a minister of Religion, with a grossness hardly to be paralleled even in the history of barbarous communities. We have seen the MISSIONARIES, after having been not merely authorized, but invited, encouraged, and urged by the government to prosecute their labors of love and piety in these remote regions, suddenly torn from their homes-dragged IN CHAINS, and at the imminent risk of their lives, through the wilderness, subjected to a mock trial, and then committed to the Penitentiary-and all this without their having been guilty of the slightest offence against the public peace or the laws and Constitution of the country. We have seen this course of more than brutal violence continued after the highest judicial authority of the country has solemnly declared their innocence.

Is this again a trifling thing? Will the Christian people of the United States give their sanction, by placing him again in office, to the conduct of a President who treats the minsters of the christian religion with open outrage-loads them with chains-drags them from their peaceful homes to the Penitentiary, and violently keeps them there against the decision of the highest law authority affirming their innocence For throughout this whole business we are to recollect that the real difficulty lies not in the perversity of Georgia, who would not dare to act unless she felt herself supported at head quarters, but in the continuency of the President, who tacitly and openly bears her out in all her violence. Will the People then sanction these proceedings by continuing the President in office? Once more we answer for them NO-- a thousand times over NO.

On this topic it would be vain and idle to enlarge. The ministers of the Christian religion detained against law like common criminals in the Penitentiary! All the eloquence of Demosthenes and Patrick Henry could add nothing to the effect of such a sentence. Gen. Jackson will feel it to the cost at the polls.

One of these ministers of religion, Dr. Butler is a citizen of this commonwealth. He owes allegiance to Massachusetts, and Massachusetts in return is bound to protect him at home and abroad, from illegal violence. He is now violently detained in person by the authorities of Georgia in defiance of a decree of the Supreme Court declaring his innocence. If this violence should be continued after the court shall have ordered its own officers to execute the decree, and the civil process shall be entirely at an end, will it not be time for Massachusetts too to begin to think of her reserved rights? If the Government of the United States cannot or will not protect our most respected citizens in the exercise of the highest and most solemn functions from the Penitentiary, will it not be time for us to begin to think of taking their protection into our own hands?

But we must here finish this too long article.  We cannot conclude without expressing our admiration of the noble firmness which has been shown by the Cherokees in refusing to accept the insidious proposals to emigrate, which have been made to them by the General Government. With the fragments of sixteen violated treaties scattered round them, is it not something like mocker for the government of the United States even to ask them to conclude a seventeenth? Can it in good carnes (sic) reasonably be supposed that they would be tempted by any terms, however apparently favorable? No;- let them perish--if it must be so--in defence of their rights--by their firesides--on the tomb of their fathers! Let them fall--if it be so--as so many of the best and bravest of all nations and ages--as so many of our own forefathers fell before them--fighting manfully the good fight of innocence against oppression! How can they ever find a noble or a happier way of passing from the trouble scenes of this transitory world to the permanent glories of a better?

But we do not apprehend this result. The Supreme Court, with a manly firmness not inferior to their own, has already declared in their favor:- the people are preparing to sustain the sentence of the polls:- the agents of Georgia, who have bullied and blustered at their ease while they knew that there was no danger, will make great haste to draw in their horns, when they find themselves encountered by the power of the United States in the hands of a President who knows and will do his duty. The Cherokees will be supported in their rightful pretensions. THE PUBLIC FAITH MUST AND WILL BE PRESENTED.




      


Missionaries- Where are the Missionaries that were lately employed in learning the Cherokees to read and write? They are now in the Georgia penitentiary, in company with felons, and they themselves are treated as such. Why were they put in prison? Because they would not swear to support the laws of Georgia; or, in other words, because they would not swear to join in and help persecute the Cherokee Indians.

It seems to us a far fetched infliction of cruelty to compel the imprisoned missionaries to make the Lottery wheel which is to distribute the Cherokee lands among the merciless Georgians. At any rate, it shows the spirit by which the Georgians are actuated; a spirit of wanton outrage and persecution, even where no possible benefit can result to them from the act. The missionaries, however, are not first who have been forced to yield themselves the unwilling instruments of oppression; and the Georgians are not the first who have played practical witticisms upon suffering victims who were by far their betters. The Spanish Inquisition, and the History of the Martyrs, furnish many such examples.  The day of retribution will come, we fear, and the missionaries themselves may yet live to see it, and possible to administer relief to some of those who are now their persecutors.

P. S. When we speak of the Georgians in this connection, we mean only their public agents, and so many of the people as concur in their measures of oppression. ____Jour. of Com.




      


From the Columbus Enquirer.

The Lotteries- It will be recollected by our readers that the Land and Gold Lotteries commence drawing on Monday next. What hopes, what fears, what anxieties will these two inanimate machines, containing the names and prizes create in the agitated breasts of thousands!  What a palpitation of heart-what a solicitous inquiry for the last news from the Lottery-what a tremulous handling of lists to hunt up the valuable prize attached to you fortunate name! What enveyings, what jealousies, what covetings will they produce! Here we see the unfortunate debtor waiting the good news to rid him of his inexorable creditor--there the young prodigal, to pay his 'debts of honor' and fill his pockets that he may continue to 'go it'. Here we behold the maiden hoping to heighten her personal charms by the not less brilliant but more substantial contents of the mine--there the lover, looking forward to the happy hour when he shall be enabled to pour his wealth at the feet of his adored fair. Here the poor but honest head of a large family, whose desire extends no further than 'a good tract,' that he may provide for his own household-there the ambitious 'single gentleman,' who would sell his chance of heaven for the poor momentary gratification to swell and strut and domineer his little hour above his fellow mortals. Here the humble follower of Him who gave us all, that he may do his deeds of charity and alms commensurate with his benevolent heart--there the miserable miser, that he may hoard and hoard and hoard to his own destruction. What thousands of opposite and contending emotions, we repeat, are concentrated in those two mute unconscious whirligigs as they roll and tumble the gold and land of the Cherokee country on the one hand, and the distinguished and obscure, reputable and disreputable names of the good people of the Commonwealth of Georgia on the other! Well, we have each a chance- May fortune favor the lovely, and brave and the deserving.

_____________________________

Georgia, the Cherokees, and the Land Lottery. -The annexed statement from the Savannah Georgian, should be generally read. The tone of it is in keeping with the matter it relates. Oppression, avarice, and the gambler's hopes, have all mingled to work the destruction of the Cherokees, and the lawless appropriation of their property to the Christian! people of Georgia, by the connivance of President Jackson. It is possible there may be those devoted to this personage who, believing all right in his course towards Indians generally will particularly approve that towards these Cherokees; and such persons will naturally enough be delighted with the generous and Christian spirit, which it is related, that the lottery wheels, whence the prizes in Indian Lands and gold mines are to be distributed, were in part made by the hands of Christian missionaries, held in duress in contempt of the solemn decision of the Supreme Court of the United States.

[From the Savannah Georgian. of Oct. 4-]

Land Lotteries.--We have mentioned that the lotteries are to be commenced on the 22d inst. The following, as we learn from Milledgeville, are the number of draws placed in the wheels, and the prizes to be awarded them,viz.

The Land Lottery in which the prizes are square lots of 150 acres each; names given in 85,000 prizes, 18,309; or about four and half blanks to a prize.

In the Gold Lottery, in which the prizes are square lots of forty acres each; names given in, 133,000; prizes, 35,000; or nearly four blanks to a prize.

The commissioners have been industrious to prepare such a mass of tickets (which are printed) together with the numerical books necessary in so short a period. The wheels containing the names are of great circumferences, and so weighty with the tickets that a strong man can hardly turn them. They were manufactured in the Penitentiary, and these important aids towards speedy distribution of Cherokee territory were constructed with the united help of two persons whose stubborn zeal in asserting its independence has thus made them remote agents in its dismemberment-we mean the Missionaries-- Great accuracy being requisite in his registry, it will hardly be possible to draw more than 250 or 3000 names per day, so that with the latter number it will occupy seven months before the prizes are exhausted and the lottery finished. It is proposed to draw a day alternately from the wheels of each.




      


News from the Rocky Mountains.-- Capt. Sublett's Fur company have just returned from the Rocky Mountains, and state, on the 12th of July last, in Pier's Hole, on the waters of the Columbia River, about 1600 miles from this place, Captain S. was attacked by a party of Black Feet Indians, and 4 Americans, 1 Frenchman, and 1 half breed were killed, and 4 wounded, among whom was Captain S. in the shoulder; 7 friendly Indians called the Neperse(sic) were also killed, and 6 wounded.- Five days after 7 persons were attacked near Jackson's Hole, not far from the Tetons, and Mr. More of Boston, and Mr. Fay of the state of Mississippi, were killed; and Mr. Alfred K. Stephens of St. Louis, was wounded and died five days after.

In the first engagement, at Pier's Hole, were nearly 250 men; mostly of Captain S's Fur company; some of Capt. Wythe's Oregon company besides about 10 of the Neperse (sic) and Flathead Indians, against about 100 of the Black Feet Indians.

Mr. Fitzpatrick, one of the fur company, was run into the mountains by a party of the Black Feet Indians, where he kept hid five days, and lived upon two meals, and finally made his escape by night. He lost 2 horses. The company 11.

During the fall of 1831 and the spring of 1832, 28 trappers have been killed by the Indians. The set of the mountain hunters are generally healthy. Captain S. who is considerably recovered from his wound, has with him 168 packs of fur, valued at more than $80,000.-  Missouri paper.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6, 1832

(Note this is the date printed, should be Nov. 11,)

We anticipated in our sixth number, the drawing of the Ga. Lottery, ' the occupation of our lands. Our papers from Ga. brings us accounts of the operations of the lottery at Milledgeville, and the drawing of the lands and gold mines of the Cherokee Nation. We were prepared to see Georgia step, to perpetrate, one of the darkest and most shameless moral crimes that has ever been consummated in Christendom, but the magnitude of this atrocity on our property, has created feelings of astonishment, that language fails to describe, and in a degree not less than if the event had been unexpected. The arguments on the part of the President, for the purpose of inducing the Cherokees to remove west of the Mississippi has been exhausted; but he has sustained Georgia in the nullification of our treaties, and taking possession of our land. The voice of the Cherokees in the assertion of their conventional rights, must likewise be fruitless; the Supreme Court of the U. S. having defined them, by authority of their supreme judicial power; to the full extent claimed by the Cherokees, our remarks therefore is necessarily limited to a brief summary of the numerous barriers which have been erected for the security of the national rights of the Cherokees, and now trodden under foot, and the extent of the loss which the Cherokees will sustain, by the fortunate citizens of Georgia taking forcible possession of our lands. In the year 1785 the United made their first treaty with the Cherokees, in which boundary lines were established, marked; and defined the limits of the Cherokees lands.  The U. S. from that time continued to make treaties with the Cherokees down to the treaty of 27th Feb. 1849 amounting to sixteen in all. Each successive treaty contains a successive guaranty by the United States for the remainder of the Cherokee lands forever. These treaties, the President is sworn to have faithfully executed, but he has refused to enforce them, and they have been placed under the dominion of the Georgia Lottery.- The estimated quantity of lands guarantied to the Cherokees by the latter treaty, which lies within the limits of Georgia, is about five millions of acres. This territory has been surveyed into lots of 40 and 160 acres, and are now drawn for the citizens of Georgia,* and her Governor will acquire such a title for his citizens to this property, as we would have to his purse, if we were to take forcible possession, without having previous claim to it. The law of the U. S. of 1802 prohibiting its citizens from surveying Indian lands, has likewise been nullified, the faith of sixteen solemn treaties prostrated, and the genius of liberty has taken its flight from Columbia's happy land.

*The lots which embraces the Indian's improvements are reserved to them by the laws of Georgia.




      


OBITUARY

________________

DIED

At Oougillogee, of the consumption, on the morning of the 21st ult. Mrs. SUSAN NAH C. WATIE, aged about forty six.

The subject of this notice was a Cherokee, born amidst the ignorance which then enshrouded her countrymen. Like them she was brought up without any hope of enjoying the blessings of civilization and the comforts of religion. Through the kind Providence of God, however, she lived to enjoy the one, and died supported by the other.

Although she was herself ignorant of letters, or of any other language but her own, she manifested the greatest desire that her children might be educated and instructed in the paths of virtue. Her exertions in support of a desire so commendable were such as are not common to be met with in persons of the same limited advantages. Those of her children who survive to mourn her loss can never forget with what anxiety she watched over their morals-how worthy of imitation was her example before them, and what parental authority she exercised to keep them from the vices and temptations of youth.

She was an exemplary member of the Moravian Church for upwards of ten years.- During her lingering illness she exercised a spirit of submission to the Divine Will, and expressed her willingness to depart looking to the merits of her Redeemer as her only hope of a blessed immortality.

_____________________

DIED- At Haweis, missionary station, Oct. 23rd. Mr. JOHN WALLIS apparently about 20 years of age. His disorder was believed to be a bilious fever.- He had been taken sick nearly two weeks previous in Carroll Co. Georgia-was confined to his bed three or four days, then resumed his journey on foot and alone, ' reached the place where he died, on the twentieth of October. He was returning to his parents who he said resided in Tennessee, 35 miles from Nashville.  He named the county,and perhaps the town where they live, but they are not recollected. He was not apprehended to be in immediate danger until it was too late to make further inquiries.

Should this meet the eyes of his weeping parents, brothers, and sisters, it will be a small alleviation of their grief to know that though their dear departed relative bade farewell to earth among strangers, they were those whose hearts were touched with sympathy from the first moment of his arrival, which continued with increasing interest while he lived. He greatly endeared himself to them by his patient and unassuming deportment.

May his bereaved friends remember the injunction 'Be still and know that I am God.' May young persons remember that youth and health and loveliness furnish no security against the approach of the 'king of terrors.'

[Communicated.]




      


LOOK AT THIS!

I have been informed by respectable authority, that a Judgement is out against me for the sum of Two Hundred dollars given and signed by Isaac Bushyhead which I pronounce to be a base forgery as no Judgment for that amount has ever been claimed against me in any court of Justice in the limits of the Cherokee Nation.

Therefore I caution the public to beware of any imposition being put on them, I presume the said Isaac Bushyhead has signed his name officially as he was the clerk of the Circuit Court but no Judgment as have before stated has ever been issued by the Court for any amount against me.

JAMES FOREMAN

Red Clay, C. Nation Oct 22, 1832.






      


RELIGIOUS

From New York Observer

PRAYER FOR THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES

Remember them that are in bonds. as

bound with them'

The word remember, intimates we shall forget them. If they are in bonds, they are out of our sight; and what is out of sight, is apt to be out of mind. But those in bonds have not always been forgotten.--When Herod had imprisoned Peter, 'prayer was made without ceasing of the church, unto God, for him.'  They did not cease to pray, until their prayer was answered in his deliverance; for we are told, that on the very night when this joyful event happened, 'many were gathered together praying.'

Christian brethren, I wish to stir upon mind and yours to remember the dear missionaries who are incarcerated in the Georgia penitentiary. I fear we do not pray for them with as much fervency and frequency as we did on our first hearing of their imprisonment. Things have transpired which have been calculated to dishearten us. A change in the supreme magistrate of the state where they are imprisoned did not operate in their favor, as their friends hoped it would have done. The decision of the Supreme Court of the United States honorably acquitted them of all crime; and yet it has not effected a deliverance from their confinement.  The petitions of their friends brought their grievances before the national legislature; but this also failed of affording them any relief. We are now in danger of sinking into despondency, and concluding that it will  do no good to pray for them any more.  Permit me to suggest several reasons why we should not cease to remember in our prayers these brethren who are in bonds.

1. We need the benefit of this exercise ourselves. If we cease to pray for them, we shall cease to sympathize with them. We are required to feel for them as if we wore the bonds with them. A frequent remembrance of them in our prayers will more than anything else, enable us to do it. It will transport us to their prison, and help us mingle our sorrows and joys with theirs.

2. Our prayers for our brethren in adversity may greatly benefit them; even in case they should not serve to shorten the term of their imprisonment. From some letters which they wrote to their friends, soon after they were lodged in the penitentiary, we were pleased to learn, that the state of their minds was uncommonly tranquil and happy. As their sufferings for Christ abounded, so also did their consolation by Christ. This gloomy prison, was no doubt a precious answer to prayer, not merely to that which ascended from their own hearts, but to that also which was poured forth by thousands of the friends of Christ in all parts of the United States. Nor is there any reason to doubt beyond the seas.--For these divine comforts, which are better than all the joys of life, they are still dependent. Should their brethren cease to pray for them, their long continued bondage may yet depress their spirits, and terminate in mental dejection.

3. Ceaseless prayer for the imprisoned missionaries should it fail to procure their releases may nevertheless be of incalculable importance to the cause of Christ. We have reason to believe that, hitherto, this glorious cause has not suffered by their means; but, on the contrary, that it has been honored and advanced. Still, we must not forget that our afflicted brethren are nothing but men, imperfect men. And Solomon tells us that 'oppression maketh a wise man mad.' Should their protracted sufferings, which they are now compelled to endure, against the imperative demands of justice, declared by the highest tribunal of their country, chafe their minds and disturb that Christian meekness which is so honorable to the religion of Christ, it would not be strange; nevertheless it would be injurious to the best of causes. Their exemplary conduct is of more consequence than their personal comfort; in relation to this particular, we should, therefore be very earnest in the petitions which we make in their behalf. Though our brethren are shut up within the walls of a prison, they are placed on a hill,-that is a situation of great conspicuity-and it is of indescribable importance to the honor of their Savior, and the progress of religion in the world, that their light should shine before men; that they should continue to possess a meek and a quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is of great price; that they should continue to be patient in suffering, active in doing all the good which it is in the power of their hands to do.

4. Our prayers may yet procure their release from prison. This was the effect of the prayer which was offered in behalf of Peter by the church of Jerusalem. Perhaps it will be said, 'But those were days of miracles: his prison was opened by the ministry of an angel.' To this it may be replied, the power of God is as supreme now as it was then; nor have angels ceased to be ministering spirits sent forth to minister to the heirs of salvation. Though God does not at the present period manage the kingdom of providence by miracles, as he did in times past, during the days of inspiration, still this does not render him impotent, or incapable of answering the prayers of his saints. Jay, in his 'Closet Exercises' makes a remark to this effect: that God would still make use of miracles, if he cold not answer the prayers of his people without them. The Scriptures represent God as having the control of all the hearts in the world; so that even the hearts of kings (the Bible word for rulers) are as much in his hands as the rivers of water. In answer to the united, persevering, and fervent prayers of his people in behalf of the imprisoned missionaries, it is not too much to hope that God will give them favor in the eyes of nations ' soften the hearts of the oppressors that he will so influence in the choice of rulers, whether in the particular state which is the scene of their sufferings, or in the general government, as shall be most conducive to their enlargement. While his people are praying for their enlargements, uninfluenced by party politics, and without making any calculations of their own concerning the means by which their prayers will be answered, God can with perfect ease, and consistency take this method to do it. By terrible things in righteousness (said the divine monarch) will thou answer us, O God of our salvation. The cholera may be the messenger, which the Lord will send to open the prison and bring out his servants. By sending this pestilence, he may answer the prayers of his people; and again, in answer to their prayers, he may remove it. The church of the redeemed, whether living in the age of miracles, or in any other period, may say, 'Our God is in the heavens; he hath done whatever he pleased.'- And Jehovah their God has declared, 'I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain.' And their own experience of his readiness to attend to their requests has led one and another of them to testify. 'God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Nov. 18, 1832

We publish in our eighth number, a letter of President Jackson to the American Board of Missions, in answer to the memorial of that board to him for the liberation of the imprisoned missionaries.--This letter was said to be taken from a paper called the Protestant, and which was copied from some of the New York papers. This letter is now stated to be a forgery, and entitled to no credit.

____________________

LETTER FROM DR. BUTLER.

Mr. Hicks,

A few says since, a Cherokee young woman, who had been a member of Dr. Butler's mission school permitted me to read a letter addressed to her after the recent decease of her mother. It may perhaps gratify some of your young Cherokee readers.

MY DEAR ELIZA:

But few Cherokee gils (sic) have a mother that is so faithful to them; as yours was to you But she is now gone and you can see her no more in this world. It is right for you to mourn her death; and I hope you will profit by this heavy affliction, you are in a much better situation to profit than most of your people of your age. Your friends were so good as to send you to school where you learned to read the bible (sic) and were instructed about the Savior. It is time for your to make a good use of what you have learned. She who taught you to read is not (I trust) a bright seraph above. Remember how she used to pray for you, and how much she taught you about the Lord Jesus.  Think to of all the good things told you by your mother. The Holy Spirit has ofted(Sic) made you pray and think you would repent; believe on the Savior and love him, but I fear you have never done these things, you know I love you and wish you to do well, and be happy in the world and the next. Then will you not listen to me and do what I say Do now repent, grieve the Spirit of God no longer. Do not live another day without loving the Savior, He can make you more happy than you ever were, or could be with your mother without religion, then give ourself away to him and be wholly his. I hope you will write me again and tell me about all your feelings and what your determination is in serving God, ' ask me any questions you wish.

Your affectionate friend,

ELIZUR BUTLER.

Penitentiary, Aug. 1st. 1832.




      


Cherokee Grants.- We learn that apprehensions are entertained that Grants will not be issued by the Governor for the lands drawn for in the progressing Lotteries. All such fears are without foundation, and must proceed from the Governor's enemies. We assure the people, that any man who draws a land or gold lot, can obtain his Grant, so soon as the clerk's books are filed out for the day on which it is drawn. One grant has already been issued.--- Fed. Union.




      


THE MISSIONARIES.

There is an act of Gen. Jackson's administration which so strongly appeals to the sympathies of every good man, as his cruelty towards the Georgia Missionaries. The melancholy tale has been oft told, and yet there are advocates among a Christian people. Three missionaries under a license from the President, entered the Indian territory, for the purpose of preaching to them the 'glad tidings of great joy.'  They were violently seized upon and incarcerated in a loathsome prison. The President is appealed to. He refuses them protection, and hauntingly refers them to the courts of law.- The courts decide that the imprisonment is illegal.  He refuses to carry this decision into execution, and says that he is independent of the judiciary; and that every public officer must construe the law and the Constitution for himself. And what are the consequences? The ministers of peace on the earth are held in dura_ce vile, among murderers and thieves, and felons of every description. They are compelled to labor as felons; to eat the food of felons; to wear the prison livery of felons; and, worse than all, to have as their daily companions and associates, none but felons.- National Republican Advocate.



____________________

THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES.

Ten gentlemen from Bellefonte, Pa. solicited the opinion of Wm. W. Potter, Esq, on the following inquiries:

1st. Has the President of the United States any power, under the Constitution of the Union, to reprieve or pardon the missionaries, confined in the penitentiary of Georgia, in pursuance of the sentences of the court of that state.?

2d. In the preceding and present stage of the case of the missionaries, has the President any power, under the Constitution and laws, to coerce obedience to the decree of the Supreme Court, by calling out a military force, or in any other mode? The following is a REPLY copied from the Centre Democrat.

 BELLEFONTE, Sept. 18, 1832

Gentlemen:- Your note of the 15th inst, has been received.  In respect of the first inquiry, whether the President of the U. States power under the Constitution and laws to reprieve or pardon missionaries, confined in the penitentiary of Georgia, in pursuance of a sentence of the Criminal court of that state, after trial and conviction for a violation of the laws of Georgia, the only answer that can be give it, that the laws and constitution clothe the President with no such power. As well might the Governor of Pennsylvania claim the right to pardon the missionaries, as the President of the United States. The offence or crime alleged against Messrs. Butler and Worcester was created by the municipal regulations of Georgia. Their trail and conviction was had before a state tribunal. In all such cases, the power to pardon is confined by the Constitution of Georgia, to the Governor of that state. The 2d section of the 2d article of the Constitution of the United States, gives the President power 'to grant reprieves and pardons to offenses against the United States,  except in cases of impeachment.' This section contains the sole power created in the President, on the subject or pardons or reprieves ' confines his power specially to offenses against the United States.  As the missionaries committed no offence against the United States, and were not convicted, a pardon by the President would be a void and nugatory act, unconstitutional and unauthorized.

A brief history of the proceedings so as they have progressed, in the missionaries, is necessary to elucidate the answer of your inquiry relating to the power of the President to call out a military force to carry into effect the decision of the Supreme Court. Messrs Butler and Worcester were arrested, tried, and convicted in the Superior Court of the county of Gwinnet, in the State of Georgia, for a violation of a statute of that state, and sentenced to imprisonment for two years in the penitentiary.  They appealed from the judgment of the State Court to the Supreme Court of the United States; which Court, on the 5th of March, 1832 reversed the judgment of the Superior Court of Gwinnet County, and ordered that judgment be awarded, that the special plea in the case of the defendants is good, and that the indictment, and all proceedings there  on, do for surcease, and the defendants be discharged therefrom and go thereof quit without delay; and that a special mandate do go from this Court, to the Said Superior Court to carry this judgment into execution. The record, accompanied by the decree, was forewarded to the Court in Georgia, and when produced, obedience to its mandate was refused by the judge of the Criminal Court of that state. Thus, the case at present stands, and will probably remain, until the session of the Supreme Court, in January next, when I suppose, application will be made to the Court, to execute its own judgment in favor of the missionaries, under the laws, which provide 'that in cases where the State Courts do not execute the judgment of the Supreme Court, that Court may issue its own process should it be resisted, it will be the duty of the Marshal of the United States, for the district of Georgia to summon a posse comitatus to aid in enforcing the judgment.  If this civil power should prove unavailing, from resistance by a combination too powerful to be overcome, then and not until then, on the requisition of the law being complied with the President has power to place the army ' militia of the United States at the service of the civil authority. In the present stage of proceedings in the case, the President has no power by the Constitution and laws to interfere. As the agent and officer of the people he is limited by the authority vested in him by the Constitution, and dare not transcend the power intrusted to his care. He is as amenable to the people for a violation of constitutional injunctions or a disregard of legal restraint, as the lowest executive officer known to the laws.  Illegal and outrageous as has been the conduct of the Court of Georgia and her legislature; wicked and flagitious as has been the continued imprisonment of the missionaries, after the decision of the Supreme Court, yet it would afford no apology for a premature  and unconstitutional interference of the Chief Executive. The power of the President to act in enforcing the laws, is very limited, and can only be reported to, when all other civil means have proved inefficient. The 3d section of the 2d article of the Constitution of the United States, directs 'that the President shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.' By ch. 14 15 of the 8th section of the 1st article, power is given to Congress to provide for the calling forth of the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions.' In pursuance of this authority, Congress by the act of the 28th of February, 1795 provided for calling forth the militia; ' by the act of the 3d March 1807 authorized the President to employ 'such parts of the land and naval forces of the United States, as shall be judged necessary to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions.' As a prerequisite to the constitutional exercise of the power of the President, to resort to military force, 'to cause the laws to be faithfully executed;' these acts require 'that either the chief justice or associate justice for the Supreme Court, or the judge of the district, shall certify that the laws of the United States were opposed, or their execution obstructed, by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by the power vested in the marshals. It is evident, that before the President, as an executive officer can act, proof attesting the resistance and obstruction in the execution of the laws, by combinations too powerful to be overcome by the civil officers of the law, must be submitted to the executive and laid before the judge, on which the certificate to the President is predicated.  After the certificate is given, it is required, that the President issue a proclamation, calling upon the insurgents to disperse, and cease their resistance to the laws before he can resort to coercion by military power. It was the desire of the statesmen who framed the Constitution and enacted the laws, as it must be the wish of every friend of civil liberty, to avoid a resort to military coercion, if obedience to the laws could be produced by any other means.  It is only to be used when a lawless section of the Union have forcibly set at defiance the laws, a declared by the highest judicial tribunal, or as expressed by the constitutional authorities of the nation, and then to be proceeded in as the dernier resort, with the utmost care and deliberation; so as to prevent, if possible a civil war, which would drench any part of our happy country with the blood of American citizens. As the final act of the Supreme Court has not been taken in the cause; as there has been no evidence of a resistance to the execution of the decree of the Court, by a combination too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, as not one single prerequisite necessary by the constitution and laws to enable the President to employ a military force 'to cause the laws to be faithfully executed,' has occurred, the case contemplated by the Constitution, and acts of Congress for the interposition of the President, has CLEARLY NOT HAPPENED, and for him to have acted heretofore or at the present period, would have been a violation of the Constitution and laws, for which he ought to be impeached and punished. When the antecedent constitutional steps are taken if resistance should be preserved by the people of Georgia, the President should be bound by the most high and solemn obligations to employ that force under the provisions of the act of Congress, which the Constitution has placed at his disposal, to suppress a criminal opposition of the due execution of the laws.  He will be constrained by the awful responsibility of his official oath-by his high reputation for patriotism, and by the very existence of the Government, to enforce at all hazards, the judgment of the Court. It is to be presumed that the President will not disregard the dictates of official duty. His devotion to liberty, his sacrifices and services to our country, from youth to old age, are pledges of his fidelity to the Union. So far, the President has had nothing in his power; certainly the abuse lavished upon him for the continued imprisonment of the missionaries is entirely gratuitous and undeserved.

Your fellow citizen,

WILLIAM W. POTTER.




      


From the New York American

The conduct of President Jackson towards the Cherokees, in their controversy with the State of Georgia and in regard to the missionaries who are now suffering the punishment of felons in the Georgia State penitentiary in contempt of a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, excites, as it is well fitted to excite, the indignation of all who are accustomed to respect the faith of treaties, and to reverence the authority of law. Hence, it becomes an object with his partisans to give such a coloring to his conduct as may help to divest it in some degree of its enormity; and accordingly, we find Mr. Benj. F. Butler, of Albany,- the most respectable man of his party, laboring at a recent public meeting at the Capitol to reconcile Gen. Jackson's course towards the Indians and the Missionaries, with the principles of faith, law, and morality. Let us see with what success. The charges against Gen. Jackson are-

1st. That he has assumed to abrogate the law of 1802, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indians-which law had been in uninterrupted and unquestioned force from its date to the accession of General Jackson.

2d. That he has assumed of his own authority to abrogate treaties between the Indians, thus usurping the function of the judiciary.

3d. That he has made known both to Georgia and the Indians that the United States Government would not interfere to protect the latter against the claims of the former to reduce them under their laws and take possession of their lands.

4th. That in order to carry out this notification to its full effect, he has caused to be withdrawn the troops of the United States, then actually stationed in the Indian country in order to prevent the encroachments of the white men on the Indians, and their settlement among them.

5th. That certain missionaries were with the consent and approbation of the United States, stationed among these Indians, and that they refused to acknowledge the law of Georgia requiring them either to remove or take an oath of allegiance to a State, the protection of the United States was withdrawn from them; and one of them, Mr Worcester, who still as a postmaster was exempt from the operation of State laws, was deprived of that post, so as to leave him and his associates to the full sweep of the laws, as they are called, of Georgia;- the mercy of these laws had been exemplified by imprisoning among felons those ministers of religion who would not abandon their sacred posts, nor recant them by virtue of an unlawful oath.

How does Mr. Butler dispose of these unquestionable facts. Simply by passing them over in silence, and with an advocate's dexterity, presenting his case in his own way. He first insists, that, as Mr. Adams, when President, expressed his opinion that the residence of Indians, as independent communities in the bosom of the States, was fraught with inconvenience and mischief. Gen. Jackson, in urging upon the Cherokees their instant removal beyond the Mississippi, has only acted upon the same opinion. But he omits--what, as a lead advocate, perhaps, he might omit what, as an honest man purporting to enlighten the people as to the facts, we know not how he could omit that in order to coerce the Cherokees into emigration, Gen. Jackson informed them that the General Government would not, in the event of their persisting to retain on their own lands, interpose to protect them from the laws of Georgia, that is to say, that the treaties and laws of the United States under which these Indians had before felt secure, should secure them no longer; -whereas, Mr. Adams, while urging them to go West, plainly notified to Georgia, that if she should attempt to resort dominion over the Indian country, the authority of the Federal Government should be interposed to prevent it.  Does this proceeding of Mr. Adams justify that of General Jackson- and if not, can Mr. Butler justify himself in foro conscientiae- not in the conscience of a party, but his own, for seeking to assimilate them?

The great argument, however, of Mr. Butler, is-in so much as it has been asserted, that Gen. Jackson is responsible for the continued imprisonment of the Missionaries, and has not offered to carry into effect the decision of the Supreme Court declaring the law under which they are imprisoned invalid,- that a deliberate imposition has been thereby made upon the people; because Gen. Jackson has not yet, and in the present stage of the legal proceedings could not be called upon to enforce that judgment of the Supreme Court.--Now, although we deny that the statement made by Mr. Butler is a fair version of the censures usually and justly leveled against the President, an account of the treatment of the missionaries-yet, if for the sake of argument, we admit it, what does the defence amount to, beyond a mere technical quibble? It is true, the return of the process unexecuted to the court, whence it issued, the calling out the posse, and the other steps preliminary to an official call upon the Execute (sic) to enforce the judgment of the Court, are yet to be taken, and therefore the President has not been called upon formally to interfere. But whence is it that these steps have become necessary whence is it that the spirit of defiance to a mandate of the Supreme Court has been manifested by Georgia? Whence but from the 'foregone conclusions,' founded upon the official acts and declarations of the President, that he had prejudged the question? That he deemed the law of Georgia constitutional, however it might be viewed by the Supreme Court of the United States? And that acting upon the (sic) his views of the obligations of laws, treaties, and the Constitution, he would not interpose the federal arm between the laws of Georgia and those upon whom its penalties would fall.--Whence but from this 'foregone conclusion' has Georgia derived the audacity to set at defiance the laws and sovereignty of the Union? And if this is so, is it not a mere technical subtlety to say, that Gen. Jackson is not to blame for the imprisonment of the missionaries, because their case has never been officially before him? From the moment that Gen. Jackson abrogated the laws and treaties which protected the Indians, and all legally residing within their borders, he assumed the responsibility and must hear the censure, of all the lawless violence which has since occurred--and it is, therefore, strictly true to say that he is the cause, both of the original imprisonment of the missionaries, and of its prolonged agonies-in contempt as we said before of a solemn decision of the Supreme Court of the United States.




      


The Lottery.- The drawing of the Gold Regions and Land Lotteries, long a matter of doubt disputations with the politicians--the subject of the anxious inquiries of many, and of the golden dreams and joyful anticipations of the sanguine, has at length commenced.  But little progress has yet been made by the commissioners. On Monday, the first day, only 150 numbers were drawn, partly from the gold and partly from the land; and on the second, two hundred from the gold.--Southern Rec.




      


MISCELLANEOUS

SINGULAR ADVENTURE

Mr. Bradbury in his travels in the interior of North Country relates the following singular adventures of a man named Colter.

Colter came to St. Louis in May 1810 in a small canoe from the head waters of the Missouri, in a distance of 3000 miles, which he traversed in 30 days. I saw him on his arrival, and received from him an account of his adventures after he had separated from Lewis and Clark's party; one of these, for its singularity, I shall relate. On the arrival of the party at the head waters of the Missouri, Colter observing an appearance of abundance of beaver being there, got permission to remain and hunt for some time, which he did in company with a man of the name of Dixon who had traversed the immense tract of country from St. Louis to the head waters of the Missouri alone. Soon after he separated from Dixon, and trapped in company with a hunter named Potts; and aware of the hostility of the Black-feet Indians, one of whom had been killed by Lewis, they set traps at night, and took them up early n the morning remaining concealed during the day. They were examining their traps early one morning in a creek about six miles from that branch of the Missouri called Jefferson's Fork, and were ascending in a canoe, when they suddenly heard a great noise resembling the trampling of animals; but they could not ascertain the fact, as the high perpendicular banks on each side of the river impeded their view. Colter immediately pronounced it to be occasioned by Indians, and advised an instant retreat, but was accused of cowardice by Potts, who insisted that the noise was caused by buffaloes, and they proceeded on.

In a few minutes afterwards, their doubts were removed by a party of Indians, making their appearance on both sides of the creek, to the amount of five or six hundred, who beckoned them to come ashore.  As retreat was now impossible, Colter turned the head of the canoe, and at the moment of its touching an Indian seized the rifle belonging to Potts; but Colter who is a remarkable strong man, immediately retook it, and handed it to Potts, who remained in the canoe, and on receiving it, pushed off into the river. He had scarcely quitted the shore when an arrow was shot at him, and he cried out, 'Colter, I am wounded!' Colter remonstrated with him on the folly of attempting to escape, and urged him to come a shore, Instead of complying he instantly leveled his rifle at the Indian and shot him dead on the spot. This conduct, situated as he was, may appear to have been and act of madness, but it was doubtless the effect of sudden, but sound reasoning; for if taken alive, he must expected to be tortured to death, according to their custom. He was instantly pierced with arrows so numerous that to use Colter's words, 'he was made a riddle of.' They now seized Colter, stripped him entirely naked, and began to consult on the manner he should be put to death.

They were first inclined to set him up as a mark to shoot at, but the chief interfered, and seizing him by the shoulder, asked him if he could run fast? Colter, who had been for some time amongst the Keekatse or Cree Indians, had in a considerable degree acquired the Blackfoot language, and was also well acquainted with Indian custom, he knew that he had now to run for his life, with the dreadful odds of five or six hundred against him, and those armed Indians; he therefore cunningly replied that he was a very bad runner, although he was considered by the hunters as remarkably swift. The chief now commanded the party too remain stationary, and he led Colter out of the prairie three or four hundred yards and released him, bidding him 'save himself if he could.' At this instant the horrid war whoop sounded in the ears of poor Colter, who urged with the hope of preserving life and with speed at which himself was surprised. He proceeded towards the Jefferson Fork, having to traverse a plain six miles in breadth; abounding with prickly pear, which he was at every instant treading with his naked feet. He ran nearly half way across the plain before he ventured to look over his shoulder, when he perceived that the Indians were much scattered, and that he gained ground to a considerable distance from the main body; but one Indian who carried a spear, was much before all the rest and not more than ninety or a hundred yards from him. A faint gleam of hope now entered the heart of Colter, he derived confidence from the belief that escape was within the bounds of possibility, but that confidence was nearly fatal to him, for he exerted himself to such a degree that the blood gushed from his nostrils, and soon almost covered the forepart of his body.

He had now arrived within a mile of the river, when he distinctly heard the appalling sound of footsteps behind him, and every instant expected to feel the spear of his pursuer. Again he turned his head, and saw the savage not twenty yards from him. Determined if possible, to avoid the expected blow, he suddenly stopped turned around, and spread out his arms. The Indian surprised by the suddenness of the action, and perhaps by the bloody appearance of Colter, also attempted to stop; but exhausted with running, he fell whilst endeavoring to throw his spear, which struck in the ground and broke.  Colter instantly snatched up the pointed part, with which he pinned him to the earth, and then continued his flight.  The foremost of the Indians, on arriving at the place, stopped till others came up to him join them, when they set up a hideous yell. Every moment of time was improved by Colter, who although fainting, and exhausted, succeeded in gaining the skirting of the cotton tree wood on the border of the Fork, through which he ran and plunged into the river.

Fortunately for him, a little below this place was an island against the upper part of which, a raft of drift timber had lodged.  He dived under the raft, and after several efforts got his head above water amongst the trunks of the trees covered over with smaller wood to the depth of several feet. Scarcely had he secured himself, when the Indians arrived on the river, searching and yelling as Colter expressed it 'like so many devils.' There were frequently on the raft during the day and were seen through the chinks by Colter, who was congratulating himself on his escape, until the idea arose that they might set the raft on fire. In horrible suspense he remained until night when hearing no more of the Indians he dived under the raft and swam silently down the river to a considerable distance, where he landed and travelled all night. Although happy in having escaped from the Indians, his situation was still dreadful; he was completely naked, under a burning sun; the soles of his feet were entirely filled with the thorns of the prickly pear; he was hungry, and had no means of killing game, although he saw abundance around him; and was at least seven days journey from Liso's Fort on the Bighorne branch of the Roche Jaune River. These were circumstances under which almost any man, but an American hunter would have despaired. He arrived at the Fort in seven days, having subsisted on a root much esteemed by the Indians of the Missouri, now known by naturalists as psoralsa esculenia.- Wyoming Republican.






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA. NOV. 24, 1832.

The message of Governor Lumpkin to the Georgia Legislature will be found in our columns. His Excellency congratulates his fellow citizens of the undiminished state of their attachment to the system of governments under which they live, therefore encourages an increased zeal, for the preservation of their happy institutions. He then makes known the conflicts of that State with federal usurpations, in the case of Worcester and Butler, as a cause of distrust and dissatisfaction, and his readiness to have resisted any branch of the Federal Government, in the enforcement of the decision of the Supreme Court. The reversal of the criminal jurisdiction of Georgia by the Supreme Court, his Excellency, like all his cruel and selfish predecessors, takes the ground, that the Court has attempted to prostrate the right of jurisdiction, within the limits of Georgia proper. The assumption of this ground will not be sustained by acts. The question of jurisdiction involved in the case of Worcester and Butler, as decided by the Supreme Court, had only a reference to the right of Georgia exercising that power in the Cherokee Nation, which the court decided by an elaborate opinion, and supported by detailed authorities of the Constitution, Treaties and Laws of the United States, to belong to the Cherokees, and consequently the nullity of the Georgia laws over the same. The fallacy which Governor Lumpkin has discovered in the decision of the court-its tendency to consolidate the states into one mass-the infirmaries of the judges, as the cause of this decision, are allegations, it seems to us, better calculated to represent the angry passions of the human mind, and the cause of injustice, rather than of truth and calm reason.

His Excellency's early communication which he says he made to the President, on the subject of surveying and occupying the Cherokee lands, we do think are proceedings at which humanity must at least shudder. Has piety ceased to mourn over this dark iniquity? Yes, Gov. Lumpkin the Christian Governor of a civilized state, has communicated to the President, the necessity of taking possession of his fellow creature's and his neighbor's lands. He then represents the solicitude of the President with Georgia for the amicable adjustment of their territorial embarrassments, and that the President had proposed to the Cherokees, liberal terms to induce them to remove-to fulfil the objects of his solicitude, and benefit that deluded race. By whom have the Cherokees been deluded? If his Excellency means that the General Government had deceived or cheated the Cherokees in promising them protection  ' the sanction of their sovereignty, it is to be observed that the state of Georgia of which Mr. Lumpkins (sic) is the head, has been chiefly instrumental and it has been at the instance of that very State, that the principal part of the treaties have been made, which have secured to the Cherokee the rights affirmed to them by the Supreme Court.

His Excellency then states that the enemies of the President and of Georgia succeeded in preventing a treaty being made with the Cherokees, and the arrogant reply of the Cherokees to the propositions.--We feel no hesitation to say to this statement, that the enemies of the President and of Georgia, have had no influence with the Cherokees, in their rejections of a treaty, this grave subject have been from time immemorial exclusively under the control of the Cherokee councilors and the people.

Again, His Excellency states that the reply of the Cherokees to the propositions 'evinces a most arrogant and uncompromising spirit.' The reply which the Governor has reference to is that given to the Secretary of War at the July Council and already published by us. We must here take the liberty of correcting in a few words, the view which the Governor has taken of our reply. The council after rejecting the propositions, called the attention of the President to their former decisions on that question--great intrusions on these lands by the whites,--to have them removed according to their treaties with the government-the Cherokees indures by the Georgia military--but to remove this encroachment, and then, they would be placed in a situation to enjoy freedom ' liberty, which would enable us to speak ' act on the subject of our national interests.- This is the substance of our reply. If there is any pride of haughty disposition evinced in this reply, as his Excellency has taken it, let the impartial reader decide.

From the message, it can be no longer doubted, that the occupancy of the vacant lands of the Cherokees, by the state of Georgia will now soon be attempted we deem it; therefore necessary to say a word to the effects of this forcible occupation of our lands, in the event of the non-interference of the federal government. His Excellency has called the attention of the legislature to the serious deliberations of the condition of the Cherokees. Special and appropriated legislation he deems necessary to secure to them their rights of property. If each Indian has five hundred bushels of corn, and the Governor was to take by force four hundred of it, would it not be a mockery of justice to deliberate seriously at the same time, to secure that which was left?  Such an act we have no doubt would be pronounced outrageous and atrocious. But the hardships arising out of the land case are much greater; in this place and elsewhere, two to five families reside and cultivates in one enclosure, and by the laws of Georgia, it is embraced generally by lot of one hundred and sixty acres.- This is the only lot granted to these families by the laws of Georgia and their right of occupancy to any more are debarred forever.  Where is (sic) the children of these families ' the others not similarly situated, when they arrive at maturity to seek for lands on which to settle?  Where will these families procure their supplies of wood when their vacant lands are taken? Shall we go to Arkansas? But it is said, there, no wood is to be found.- Shall we go to Milledgeville?  It is said, there justice ' precepts have parted. The grave deliberations of the legislature recommended by his Excellency will be productive of enormous injustice to the Cherokees, and their endless sufferings.  To this confiscation of our property, we will not submit, we would choose to be placed in the silent regions of death, and be gathered to our fathers, than to remain depressed by Georgia oppression.

The Guard of Governor Lumpkin at the Sixes gold mine has again spilt Cherokee blood, A Cherokee by the name of Nicojaek was discovered digging for gold, when one of the guard fired, and severely wounded the Indian in the arm and leg.- He has nearly recovered.

_____________________

From the Federal Union.

MESSAGE:

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, Ga.

Milledgeville, 16th Nov. 1832.

FELLOW CITIZENS-- When we take a survey of the events of the closing year, it produces mingled emotions of pleasure and pain.  Our actual condition and enjoyments as a people, arising from climate, soil, and good government, when compared with other portions of the world, admonish us to admire and adore the Divine Author of our multiplied blessings. Nothing has transpired to lessen our attachment, or diminish our confidence in the good systems of government under which we live; we should therefore cherish an increased zeal, and an abiding hope for the perpetuation of our free and happy institutions. The truths of history do not authorize the belief, that we are to enjoy the inestimable blessings of liberty and free government, founded on principles of equal rights, without vigilance and constant exertion on the part of the people, who are the only legitimate source of governmental power.

Our conflicts with Federal usurpation are not yet an end; the events of the past year have afforded as new cause for distrust and dissatisfaction. Contrary to the enlightened opinions, and just expectations of the people of this, and every other state in the Union, a majority of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States, have not only assumed jurisdiction in the cases of Worcester and Butler, but have by their decision, attempted to overthrow that essential jurisdiction of the State, in criminal cases, which has been vested by our Constitution in the Superior Courts of our own State. In conformity with their decision a mandate was issued, directed to our conduct concerning a reversal of the decree under which those persons are imprisoned, thereby attempting and intending to prostrate the sovereignty of this State in the exercise of its constitutional, criminal jurisdiction.-  These extraordinary proceedings of the Supreme Court, have not been submitted to me officially, nor have they been brought before me in any manner, which called for my official action. I have however been prepared to meet this usurpation of Federal power, with the most prompt and determined resistance in whatever form its enforcement might have been attempted by any branch of the Federal Government. It has afforded me great satisfaction to find that our whole people, as with the voice of one man, have manifested a calm, but firm and determined resolution to sustain the authorities and sovereignty of their State against this unjust and unconstitutional encroachment of the Federal Judiciary. The ingenuity of man might be challenged to show a single sentence in the Constitution of the United States giving power, either direct or implied, to the General Government, or any of its Departments, to nullify the laws of a state, enacted for the government of its own population, or coerce obedience by force, to the mandates of the Judiciary of the Union; On the contrary, the Journals and proceedings of the Conventions that framed the Federal Constitution abundantly evince that various attempts were made to effect that object, all of which were rejected. This proves that the States of this Union, never did and never will permit their political rights to be suspended upon the breath of the Agents of Trustees to whom they have delegated limited powers, to perform certain acts. I however deem it unnecessary for me at this time to animadvert on this decision of the Supreme Court. Its fallacy, its inconsistency with former decisions, and its obvious tendency to intermeddle with the political rights of the States, and to change our Federal System into one consolidated mass, has been so often exposed by the most able jurists, and statesmen, that a large majority of the people of this union are confirmed in the conviction of the fallibility, infirmaries and errors of this supreme tribunal.--This branch of the General Government must henceforth stand, where it always ought to have stood, in public estimation as being liable to all the frailties and weaknesses of erring man.

Shortly after the adjournment of the Legislature of December last, I communicated directly to the President of the United States, the views of this State as manifested by her legislation on the subject of our unoccupied lands lying in Cherokee County, and at the same time frankly communicated to him my views, especially as to the necessity and importance of an immediate survey, and perhaps the occupancy of these lands.  The President has manifested equal solicitude with ourselves, to affect as amicable and satisfactory adjustment of our territorial embarrassments. We proposed to the Cherokee people, terms of the most liberal character, with a view to induce them to emigrate to the West, and thereby to enable him to effect like great object of his solicitude, in permanently benefiting that unfortunate and deluded race, and at the same time to fulfil the long delayed obligations of the United States' government to Georgia, entered into by the compact of 1802.

Notwithstanding the extraordinary liberality of the propositions submitted to the Cherokees, and the kind spirit in which they were presented, the enemies of the President and of Georgia, have so far succeeded as to prevent any satisfactory arrangement or treaty with them; and their reply to those liberal propositions evince a most arrogant and uncompromising spirit.

Every day's experience has afforded new evidence of the utter impracticality and impolicy of attempting any longer to maintain our laws and government over the Cherokee part of Georgia, without an increased and better population. Every effort has been made by the Executive, to maintain the inviolability of the laws of the State in Cherokee country, but these efforts have not been attended with the desired success. Our laws have been repeatedly violated, and for the want of the moral force, which pervades counties inhabited by a more dense enlightened and virtuous population, the transgressors have sometimes escaped merited punishment. Our scattered population of good character who now inhabit this country have often found themselves destitute of security from the depredations of dishonest men; and when they have sought protection from the laws of the land, they have often found those laws evaded and perverted by combinations of such characters aided by the advice and council of those whose enlarged acquirements should have directed their influence in aid of the cause of justice, and the supremacy of the laws. Legal and pettifogging subtleties, in this country, seem measurably to have triumphed over equity and a fair administration of the law.

Not only the Supreme Court of the United States, but the Superior, and even the Inferior Courts of our own State, have so far aided in overturning our laws and the policy of our State government, as to declare them unconstitutional and order the discharge of prisoners arrested and confined under their provisions. Nevertheless, amidst all these irregularities, strifes and disorders, there is much cause of sincere gratification that the events of the year have produced nothing more seriously injurious to the interests and character of the State.

The Survey of the county of Cherokee in conformity with, and under the provisions of the several acts of the Legislature has been completed without any serious obstacles or difficulty; and in the exercise of that discretion confided to me by law, I have not hesitated to move forward in that direct line, which I deemed best calculated to ensure a speedy settlement of the unoccupied lands in Cherokee county. Accordingly, in due time, the Justices of the Inferior courts of the several counties were notified and required to execute the duties devolving on them, in regard to receiving and returning the names of persons entitled to draw in the lotteries; which having been done according to law, and the tickets having been prepared, the Lottery Commissioners were convened and commenced the preparatory arrangements for the drawing; which was commenced on the 23d October last, and is now in progress, under their superintendence.

I deem it unnecessary at this time to enter upon an enlarged vindication of the policy which has been pursued by the authorities of Georgia on this subject. Suffice it to say, that I have daily increased evidence that our policy has been founded in wisdom justice and true benevolence, and will ere long, terminate in the preservation of a remnant of those unfortunate Indians; and our State will be relieved from the libels and embarrassments of a thirty years' controversy.

It now becomes my duty to call the serious and deliberate attention of the Legislature to the subject of the present condition of the Cherokees who remain within our State. By our existing laws their homes and improvements are secured to them as long as they may choose to remain thereon; but these laws are by no means adapted to the security of their persons and property. Therefore special and appropriate Legislation is most earnestly recommended, whereby these objects will be secured to them, and their rights be as effectually shielded from violation as those of the white man.  It is due to the character of the State, that this dependent people should be protected by laws as liberal as may be consistent with their moral and intellectual condition. To afford them such protection, and to extend to them suitable privileges, without endangering the rights of our own citizens, will require the most careful deliberation and prudent forecast.

*                  * *                 *

The territory embraced in Cherokee County, should be divided into counties of suitable size and form to promote the convenience that portion of our population who may inhabit that section of the State; and the organization of such counties should be provided for without unnecessary delay.




      


INDIAN TREATIES.

The last Missouri Republican states that on the 16th ult. a Treaty was concluded at Rock Island with the Winnebago Indians, by which they cede to the United States all the lands south and east of the Wisconsin and the Fox River of Green Bay, amounting to nearly 5,000,000 acres for which they are to receive an annuity of $10,000 for twenty seven years. A school is also to be established and maintained among them during the same period, at an expense not to exceed $3,000 annually; and they are moreover to be supplied with agricultural improvements, oxen, 'c. of the yearly value of $2,600 until the expiration of the same term. There is likewise granted them a tract of country called the 'Neutral Ground' extending 40 miles along the west bank of the Mississippi, and running back 70 miles; and they are on their part to deliver up nine of their warriors who stand charged with having murdered unoffending white citizens.

A Treaty has been also concluded with the Sac and Fox Indians; by which they cede to the United States to defray the expenses of the war, and for the security of the frontier, a tract of country extending along the Mississippi about 300 miles, and running west of that river about 53 miles, with the exception of a reservation of 20 miles square, embracing the principal villages on the Ioway (sic). They are to receive by way of compensation for this territory, an annuity of $20,000 for thirty years; and a black smith is to be maintained among them during that same period. Provisions for immediate use, and 6,000 bushels of corn to be delivered in April next, are likewise to be furnished them. Black Hawk and sundry other Chiefs, are to be detained as hostages, for the good conduct of their followers during the pleasure of the President; and no warrior or brave of the hostile band is to be permitted in future to exercise any authority whatever in the Nation.




      


THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES

[The following spirited appeal to the religious public, in behalf of the imprisoned Missionaries, is published at the request of a friend, who is one of the most active, intelligent influential members of the Methodist Episcopal Church of this city. It comes to us in a printed circular.]

The mere annunciation of the fact that missionaries are imprisoned, would awaken the attention of the whole Christian community-and every heart which pulsated the feelings of brotherhood, nay, even of humanity. Common humanity, would swell with anxious solicitude and the question would be asked by thousands, at the same moment--'where? where?'

If the answer were, in pagan lands-among people who yet inhabit the dark places of cruelty-in the distant islands of the sea, among barbarians-what would the Christian do? - fold his arms!-seat himself by his fireside, amidst the comforts of home, and leave those pioneers of the gospel to their fate? The bare question is revolting! No- But from North to South, and from East to West, one noble generous effort would be made and differing sects would be found acting in harmonious concert to find the ways and the means to liberate their captive brethren.

The case is not a fancied on- 'missionaries are imprisoned!' - not in pagan lands-not among a heathen people, not in the distant and barbarious islands of the sea--but in the midst of Christendom; among a people professing to be Christians, and a people professing to be free!

Yes- in the penitentiary of one of the States of this Republic, in Georgia-and in the capital of that state, Milledgeville, may be found two faithful, devoted followers of the meek and lowly Jesus-preaching of his everlasting gospel, classed with felons, wearing the ignominious badges of the loathsome penitentiary, and doomed to the labor and toil of working, day in and day out, and subsisting upon the coarse and unsavory fare of that dismal place!

And for what has this terrible punishment been inflicted? For crimes committed? No.-  For any violation of the law? No. Or offenses of any sort, either against the rightful government of the State, or the United States? No-No. Christians, no ye honest men of all parties- no ye freemen of America,-but for being found preaching the gospel to and teaching the Cherokee Indians! For this,and for this only have these good men and brothers in the bonds and fellowship of the Gospel, been dragged from their holy employment, and in violation of the laws and treaties of the land, and in the face of their written authority given by the executive of the United States to go in among these people and enlighten and bless them, has this outrage upon their persons, rights, and their liberty been committed.

And by whom has this been permitted? Who in the first place winked in ignorant prejudice at this daring outrage of Georgia, and then refused, afterwards, to interfere and execute the laws that his oath binds him to execute, and by so doing, liberate those holy men; and who after the case had undergone judicial investigation, and the incorruptible Marshall had pronounced the judgement of the Supreme Court, virtually commanded them to be set free--who we ask, is it, that in contempt of this, still refuse to execute the power vested in him by the laws, and enforced upon him by the Supreme Court, and which his oath demands him to obey-who is he that causes to break those penitentiary fetters, and give back to light and liberty, and society, and usefulness these missionaries? We answer, ANDREW JACKSON.

Is this doubted by anyone? We know the bosoms of the humane- the hearts of the patriots- and the generous and noble feelings of the Christian, may well harbor a doubt whether it be possible that even Andrew Jackson could thus defy obligations so binding in a cause so imperative and so sacred. But we will put those doubts to flight. To do this, we introduce here an official letter from the Secretary of War, which the reader will see, puts the extinguisher upon all hope that while Gen. Jackson remains President, these abused Christians will be released from their bondage.

When Paul and Silas were by unjust judges thrust into the inner prison and when at midnight they lifted up their voices in the solitude of their cells an angel came and delivered them. Those were times when prejudice and ignorance like scales hung upon the eyes of the people; and when the agency of Heaven was employed in a direct was to awaken and enlighten the sleeping and stupid multitude of that day, and establish, by the test of miracles the authority and the truth of God.

But now our angel, to effect the liberations of the Pauls and the Silases of the present day, is enlightened public opinion and virtue. Direct means employed by the master of life, for the accomplishment of such great ends are withdrawn, and He had placed the power in our hands by human agency to accomplish the same ends. It is left to our intelligence and our virtue.

Read this letter-and then judge what hope remains for the liberation of the devoted Worcester and his companion in prison, while General Jackson has the power to keep them bound-and let every Christian heart ask itself what is its duty!

 To be Concluded.




      


THE MISSIONARIES

From the Journal of Commerce we make the following extract from the Report of the American Board of Missions:

'A memorial to the President of the United States was prepared by counsel for the prisoners in their behalf, praying him to interpose his authority for enforcing the decision of the Supreme Court. But after consultation it was deemed inexpedient to present it in the present stage of the case. It was also after consolation with the friends of the Board and of the Indians in Congress, deemed inexpedient to petition that body on the subject during their last session.'

Now, why did they not apply to the President to interpose? We are told explicitly that 'after consultation it was deemed inexpedient' to present the memorial `in the present stage of the case.' Nor would they make any application to Congress upon the subject. The reason for this is obvious. The Board of American Missions, upon consultation with the counsel of the prisoners, ascertained that it was a case still pending, and within the cognizance of the Courts, and that the President could not, without violating the rights of the Court, and alter the principles of the situation `interpose his authority for enforcing the decision of the Court.' And they furthermore ascertained from their counsel that for the same reason both branches of Congress, united with the Executive, could not interfere with a question pending between the Courts.

Upon what pretence does Mr. Clay in person, as well as the opposite prints, beginning with the Bank Gazette charge the President with failing in his duty to the Missionaries, when even their own counsel declare that he could not properly be asked to interpose in their behalf? The whole system on which the unprincipled partisans of the Bank and Mr. Clay act is a tissue of deception. They know that the President cannot rightfully move in this business, and yet they pretend he can. They know that the Board of Missions have expressly declined addressing a memorial to the President; and, yet, the scrupulous, high minded opposition have actually FORGED and published a letter signed with the name of the President responding to this call which the Board of Missions declare was never made on him. Globe.






      


THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES

Concluded

Department of War

November 14, 1832

Sir: I have received and submitted to the President, the memorial of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, transmitted in your letter of the 3d inst., and am instructed to inform you, that having on mature consideration satisfied himself that the Legislatures in the respective states have power to extend their laws over all persons living within their boundaries, and that when thus extended the various acts of Congress providing a mode of proceeding in cases of Indian intercourse, inconsistent with these laws, become inoperative, he has no authority to interfere under the circumstances stated in the memorial.

I have the honor to be,

very respectfully

your obedient serv't

LEWIS CASS.

William Reed, Esq. Chairman of the Prudential Committee of the A. R. C. F. M. Boston.'

A state, in President Jackson's view of the subject may therefore nullify 'acts of Congress'!!!-and he takes upon himself to exercise the kingly prerogative to decide the question though the Supreme Court has rendered against his decision--which, however, he respects as little as he does the 'acts of Congress'  the reason is he is 'independent of both,' when 'born to command' and the people to obey.

But we leave this branch of the discussion to the judgment of an enlightened public, and proceed.

Yes, Fellow Citizens, it is he who ought to be the President of the people, the guardian of our rights, the supporter of the Constitution, the executor of the law, but who has told us he is above law or what is the same thing, that he is 'independent of both Congress and the Supreme Court.'  And that he shall execute the laws, and administer the Constitution according to his interpretation of them; it is this usurper, who with more than kingly daring, looks on composedly and sees a state exercising usurped  power, to afflict and disgrace men for preaching the gospel to a remnant of the original owners of our country!

If a pagan despot were to act thus, though in ten thousand miles distant, and did oceans roll between us and the victims of his malice, all the energies of our souls would be employed to break down his power, and thousands and hundreds of thousands of gold and silver would be looked upon as the dust in the balance, when compared to the great object of liberating our brethren from such unjust and cruel slavery. And he who would not aid in effecting the great object no matter by what Christian name called, would justly subject himself to the indignation of insulted humanity.

But our despot is at hand. He breathes with us the air which our Fathers taught us to believe was the air of liberty- and as it was until the breath of Andrew Jackson contaminated it. He is moreover within our reach, and at our disposal, and the liberation of the missionaries is within our power. Nor are we called upon to fit out armaments to cross seas, nor to batter down the castle of the despot with ____ and ball, nor expend hundreds and thousands to accomplish so great an object; we have it in our power in a few weeks from this day, by going to the ballot box and voting against the re-election of Andrew Jackson, to demolish the castle of despotism which has been upwards of three years in building, drive the tyrant from it into his original obscurity, reestablish the empire of law, and let the missionaries go free.

We ask, where, where is the christian, where the citizen, where the man, who will refuse to come forward, and lend his power, the exercise of which will not cost him a single cent to aid the country of the Usurper who has shown himself to be a despot; his conscience is to be impervious to the obligations of his oath, and his heart steeled against the cries of suffering humanity?

Where we ask, is the man? Let him who would refuse to smite in a cause so holy, hold up his hand-let him stand out before angels and men, and announce his insensibility to such a call, that he may not be mistaken before any righteous community in the future. But no, we will not believe that there lives one man, having the feelings of a man, to say nothing of Christians who would, under such circumstances feel indifferent to the fate of the heralds of the gospel, or withheld his efforts to release them from a bondage so lawless, so cruel, and so unjust.

When Rome was free, the declaration of one of her sons--no matter how humble his condition, I am a Roman citizen, made the despot relax his hold, in the certain prospect if he did not, that all Rome would rise to defend the victim and avenge the insulted honor of the Republic.

But here, in America, how have our hearts felt and our energies been employed during the many months that the voices of two of our citizens have been mournfully uttering the complaint, we who are American citizens, are here incarcerated in this loathsome prison-our crime being the preaching of the everlasting gospel to the aborigines of the country?

Will we stand still any longer?- Will we permit the opportunity to pass which is now to be brought to our very doors to liberate our brothers? Will any man consider the toil for the accomplishment of so great an object too great, which requires only that each person shall vote against the re-election of Andrew Jackson.

Our Fathers pledged themselves, each to the other, in their property, and their sacred honor, eye, and in their lives, to win the boon of freedom-to lay the foundation of equal and just laws in this Western world-to secure to every man his rights, and confer upon all the blessings of free government. Nobly did they resolve, and nobly did they achieve.  Treasure and blood, and life, were freely given, and the eye of the dying patriot, catching a glimpse of the glorious future, would impart to his heart as it ceased to beat, a tranquil joy that compensated for the agonies of the death wound and the loss of life!



 But had that part of the future been revealed, when the place of Washington, and Adams, and Jefferson, and Madison, and Monroe, and the second Adams, should be filled by one who in utter disregard of the laws would erect the throne of the despot, and decree that free men, and the sons of free men, and the ministers of the gospel of Christ should be thrust into a penitentiary for no earthly crime, to mingle with felons, the joy of the dying patriot would have been turned to sorrow- and `how vain is it' he would have said with his expiring breath, `for me thus to shed my blood, and yield up my life for my country and for freedom.'

Happy thrice happy, for man, is it that a curtain separates his view from the events of the future.

But we live when that which might then have been announced by some prophet has become a sad reality.--Will we permit its continuance? What say ye? you who revere the memory of your patriot fathers-`what say ye?' you who love liberty and law-what say ye? you who are followers of Jesus, will you let slip the opportunity, the only opportunity which is at hand, to thrust from his seat the author of all the wrongs that are heaped upon the memories of our fathers- and of the disgrace which has been inflicted on our liberty and our law- and of the

violence which has been so ruthlessly exerted upon our brothers?

'No'- We hear the indignant and heart swelling answer from thousands, 'no we will not.'

Then let the response be heard in the midst of all who are free- in our churches in the hamlets, and upon the mountaintops, let all come up with the glorious purpose, to thrust the despot from his throne, and save our country, our liberty, our altars, and our hopes.

Let our watch word be 'down with the despot and liberation to the incarcerated missionaries.'




      


THE MISSIONARIES AND LOTTERY WHEEL

It gives us pleasure to state that the assertion in a paragraph from the Savannah Georgian respecting the imprisoned missionaries and the Lottery wheel, which has been extensively copied by newspaper editors in this part of the country, is without foundation. The following letter has been addressed to us by Messrs Worcester and Butler.--Observer.

PENITENTIARY

Milledgeville

October 29, 1832

To the Editors of the New York Observer.

GENTLEMEN--We notice in your paper of the 20th inst. a statement made on the authority of the Savannah Georgian, that we have been compelled to aid in the construction of the lottery wheels by means of which the land and gold mines of the Cherokees are distributed. While we are sorry that any editor should make such a supposed fact a matter of exultation, we have the happiness to assure you and your readers, that the editor of the Georgian has been misinformed, and that we were not called upon for any assistance whatever in the construction of these wheels. we would add, in gratitude to the principal keeper of the Penitentiary, that at some sacrifice of convenience, he studiously avoided calling upon us to assist in that work, from the apprehension that it would ba a task ungrateful to our feelings.

Respectfully yours,

S.A. WORCESTER

ELIZUR BUTLER.




      


CHOCTAW NATION.

Major Armstrong, the agent for removing the Choctaws, has arrived here from the Nation, and informs us that about 2,300 Choctaws are now on their way to this place, and will probably arrive on the first of November. Arrangements are made for their immediate transportation across the Mississippi, and their final settlement on the western frontier. It is supposed that between seven and eight thousand will remove this fall.

We also learn from Maj. Armstrong who passed by the Chickasaw Council of Treaty, that up to the 18th ultimo. the day on which he left, the Treaty had not finally been ratified, but the prospect was still flattering.----Memphis Times.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA Nov. 24, 1832

(This is the date on the paper. Should be Dec. 1, 1832)

The following poetry we admit to our columns, we do it the more readily in order that our readers may give it their interpretation. The transactions to which it has reference is that of the United States troops, who have been stationed since the early part of this year at the gold mines in the Nation, within the limits of Tennessee, who were ordered to the Nation by the President at the instance of the Governor of North Carolina, to remove the gold diggers from the limits of the latter State; and it would appear by our poetical genius, that they have commenced building on Cherokee land, ' as we understand him, from which it was thought intruders would fly it. A similar circumstance is known to have occurred in the Nation in the Georgia limits. The President stationed six companies of troops in 1830, at the gold mines, to remove intruders 'c. The fu'gay note was sounded, and axes too, built houses also, but they went further; they drove the Cherokees from their mining operations, and left their station to the Georgia Guard.

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

October 23

Mr. Editor,

I found a queer sort of paper upon my table the other morning, and as I cannot make anything of it myself, take the liberty to send it to you for your interpretation; although it seems plain to me it was not intended for either of us. It is suspected to have a reference to the doings of the United States military, in this vicinity.

Waes me! waes Me! that I maun do it,

A hopeless cause, yet I maun sue it;

O cease your axe to fa' and hew it,

The pride o'ages;

Each reckless wight, how can ye view it?

His wild war wages.

O,lang these forests have held their quiet.

O, lang has freedom here run riot,

And when ye came--Ah! why belie it?

So sweet your fife sang,

Intrusion only, thought to fly it;

Fu'gay its notes rang.

But was't for this ye have come here?

Ye, blast e'en them the best o'fruits

bear

Ye knell the hopes o'ev'ry new year

Wi sound o'axes!*

And greedy wrath, 'gainst them wi'

fruits rare

More eager waxes.

Each vale was fu' o'white face niggers,

And joy'd was I to see your triggers,

But now the odds, 'tis not in figures

How much I rue it;

A Saxan thou to Pictish diggers,

The times do shew it.

___________

* Alluding to the destruction of forest in building, and also of the chestnut trees, by the men after fruit.




      


CHICKASAW TREATY

We understand the principles of the late treaty to be these:--The whole Indian territory is ceded to the United States; not one acre is reserved. The President is to have the country surveyed as soon as possible and to advertise and sell it at public sale in the same manner, and in the same terms in all respects as other public lands-the sale to be made as soon as the land can be surveyed. It is stipulated that the Chickasaws are to select for themselves, a country west of the Mississippi River, and if possible to move away before the first public sale of their lands.- Should they be unable to remove before that time, they are permitted to retain a tract of land for each family to live on until they fix upon the place of their future residence.  It is expressly agreed however, that they will remove as soon as they can, and when they go, those tracts upon which they resided, shall be sold as the other lands are, all the Indian territory not now occupied by them, is to be sold, when surveyed.- No persons are permitted to move on the ceded lands, until the sales take place should any presume to do so, they will be driven off. The Chickasaws are to receive the net proceeds arising from the sale of the lands, deducting all incidental expenses connected with the survey and sale of the same. Three fourths of all the money derived from the land sales, are to be vested in stock at interest by the Gen. Government, for the benefit of the Chickasaw Nation, allowing them to use the interest, but never touch the principal reserving that as a fund for the use of the nation forever.- The ceded territory is about 100 miles square and the number of acres is estimated at 7,000,000.






      


This issue in two pages only

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA. Nov. 24, 1832

(This is the date on the paper. Should probably be Dec. 8)

Governor Lumpkins (sic) continues to distribute to the citizens of Georgia, by the lottery wheel the lands and gold mines of the Cherokee Nation. The preceding two or three weeks we have been the spectators of proceedings by the citizens of Georgia, having no parallel in the history of mankind, and to our feelings of the most unnatural kind. If such a case was progressing in any other civilized country, than the North American Republic, however regardless it might be of its honor, for the sake of simple justice,and respect for the feelings of mankind, we believe such proceedings as we have been compelled to witness, would be promptly prohibited.  The fortunate drawers ( so called) of our lands have been passing and repassing single and in companies, not unlike that of John Galpins race to the country seat, in search of the splendid lots of which the rolling wheel had pictured to their imaginations. Ho sir, where is the nearest line to this place, what district, number, corner, lot, station, 'c. are the impertinent questions forced upon us. When we see the pale faces again, they are closely viewing the marked trees, and the carved posts. The gold drawers have been arriving at the gold mines, and they are compared to the great flocks of pigeons that hasten to the ground in search of their food. Every lot has been viewed, and as many paths beaten by the passing and the cross passing hunters. The Pica man in Georgia is now richer, the poor Georgia orphans have drawn Gold lots belonging to the oppressed Cherokees. Esqr._____ has been lucky, he has drawn a rich lot in the bottoms of the Etaw-wah ' Chattachooshy (sic) Rivers.  Mr._____ will be relieved from his embarrassments he has drawn a first rate lot and is worth hundreds of dollars.  These are a few of the deeply absorbing subjects which engross the conversations of the Georgia circles, and it would seem as thoughtlessly of the Cherokee claim to the property, as if they never existed. Such is the progress of the Georgia measures, that the drawer of our lands are now entering the Nation to settle on them, at a time when they are in the possession of the aboriginal proprieties, and their right to them unrelinquished. To this invasion of our property we protest; and we state to our readers, our right to the lands, money has never bought. We hold the bond and seal of the republic to protect this property. We have stricken off from our nation province after province in consideration of this promised protection.

The Indian Bill of 1830, sanctioned by Pres't Jackson himself 'provides that the existing treaties with the Indian tribes shall not be violated.'

The Supreme Court have decided that our treaties are binding on the Government and the laws of Georgia are a nullity.

The Superior and Inferior Courts of Georgia have decided that the right of soil belongs to the Cherokees, and the law of Georgia to the contrary notwithstanding. Let us therefore calmly await and see if the Government will not yet acquiesce in the numerous authorities we have cited, from which we claim our relief or whether the government will choose to have their laws nullified by a state as the easiest mode of releasing itself from enforcing them.

_______________________

We should have stated before this, the suspension by the President, of enrolling the Cherokees by his travelling agents for removing them west of the Mississippi. These agents after performing the difficult service of nearly two years in traversing the settlements of the Cherokee mountains and vale,nook and corner, of paths and hog trails, in search of Cherokees for emigration, the President found that the project was not so successful as he anticipated in a message to Congress that 'two thirds of the Cherokees would remove west of the Mississippi' and hence it is presumed the discharge of his agents from the service. The number of Cherokees white men, colored, and slaves removed since the commencement of their enrollment, may be computed at the one fortieth part of our whole population, so that the decrease falls considerably short of the increase of our population. At these rates, President Jackson never can succeed in removing the Cherokees west of the Mississippi under the present policy. The improvements abandoned by the emigrants which were generally on the Georgia frontier, are now occupied by numerous Georgians composed of farmers, judges, sheriffs, bailiffs, merchants, and tipplers introducing great quantities of spirituous liquor in opposition to the laws of the United States, and sanctioned by President Jackson.  This is the first President who has encouraged his citizens to violate the laws which he was solemnly sworn to have executed.

______________________

The elections of electors in the several states for President and Vice President of the United States have resulted in the election of a large majority favorable to the present administration. President Jackson will be President again for the term of four years commencing from the 4th of March 1833.






      


Extracts for the Cherokee Phoenix.

 From an old book entitled-'The non such professor'---

1. The harp sounds sweetly; but it hears not its melody.

2. As the shadow of sun is largest when his beams are lowest; so, we are always least when we make ourselves the greatest.

3. Saints should resemble a spire steeple which is smallest where it is highest. The deep rivers pay a tribute to the sea than shallow brooks, yet empty themselves with less noise.

4. Believers resemble the moon which emerges through the eclipse by keeping her motion and ceases not to shine because the dogs bark at her.

Paul who turned the world upside down could not be turned upside down by the world.

The higher the flood swells on earth the nearer the ark mounts to heaven.

5. For saints to set their hearts upon that whence hearts set their feet, is as if a man should desert a golden mine to dig a pit of gravel.

6. There is a proverb, but none of Solomon's 'Every man for himself and God for us all' but where every man is not for himself the devil will have all.

7. A religious man in the company of the wicked is like a green branch among dry burning brands. They can sooner kindle him than he can quench them. Christians are not always like the rose which preserves its sweetness among the most noisome weeds, or like the sun which shines throughout an impure world and yet knows no impurity.

8. Some too much resemble sponges; which greedily suck up the waters, but will not yield a return of them till they are squeezed. Though the son of charity rise at home, it should always set aborad, showers that fall upon the highest mountains, should glide in the lowest valleys.

Your benevolence should seek the poor, before the poor seek your benevolence.

9. A believer is like a vessel cast into the sea, the more it fills, the more it sinks. It is the night-owl of ignorance that hatches the peacock of pride.

10. Those trees bend the most freely that bear most fully.

11. Small fishes bites the fastest. Oh how few great men do we find so much as nibbling at the gospel book.

12. The dial of our faces does not infallibly show the time of day in our hearts, unclean spirits may while at the chamber when they look not out at the window,

The skin of an apple may be fair while it is rotten at the core.

13, It is dangerous to smite those with our tongue whom God has smitten with his hand. His right to correct is not ours.

14. He that takes fire to cast at an adversary is in danger of burning his own fingers.- He that blows into a heap of dust is in danger of putting out his own eyes.

15. Those who profess to forgive but cannot forget injuries are like persons who sweep the chamber, but leave the dust behind the door.

16 A word will do more with others. A Venice glass is not to be rubbed so hard as a brazen kettle.

Dashing stones do but destroy the seed while gentle showers nourish it.

Some are very angry in reproving anger.

17. Sin is like a nettle which stings when it is gently (word is unclear) but heres not when it is roughly handled.

18. He that hates reproof is like a vicious horse, that strikes the grove while he is rubbing off the dirt.

19. Believers should be like sheep, which change their pastures at the will of their shepherd.

20 Our worldly pleasures would be a sea to drown us, were not on crosses a plank to save us.

21. Worldlings love religion not for the beauty existing in it, but for the dowry annexed to it. They are like the fox that follows the lion, for the prey that is falling from him.

22. When the snow drops of youth appear in the garden of the church, it evinces that there is a glorious summer approaching.

If youth be sick of the will-nots; old age is in danger of dying of the shall-nots. An old sinner is nearer to the second death than he is to the second birth. O how amiable are the golden apples of grace in the silver pictures of blooming youth.

23. Those trees that are unsound at their roots, cease from putting forth leaves in their season.- Those that are inwardly corrupt will be outwardly profane. The wool of a sheep's back, if A be shaven will grow again; but the wool on the sheep's skin, clip that and there will come no more in its room. Hypocrites the fiery meteors, fall to the earth. Fixed stars remain in the heavens.

24. The Devil could never come off a conqueror, were he not joined by our forces. The fire is his but the tinder is ours.

24. The firmament is made more glorious by the sun than by all the stars that steed the heavens.  Thus Jesus Christ hath more glory given to him by one saint than from all the world beside.

26. By how much the higher the morning larks are in their flight, by so much the sweeter are their notes.

The higher a Christian is raised above this world, the more he is ravished with the joys of heaven.

27. The world is but a looking glass, there is a face presented in it, but there is no face seated in it.

28. Good works are so indigent that no man ca be saved by them, and yet so excellent that no man can go to heaven without them.

[To be continued.]




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA DEC. 8, 1832

(This date should read Jan. 5, 1832)

Owing to the indisposition of our principal printer our paper has not been issued for three weeks. It is not here as it is in cities, where printers can be had any day or hour, here if a workman is unable to perform, we have to await his recovery to resume the work or ride hundreds of miles in search of another. Our subscribers are entitled to a volume of 52 numbers, all of which when printed will be regularly transmitted by mail, and the circumstance as above stated and unavoidable to us, will we hope apologize for this seeming neglect of forwarding our papers.

___________________________

Extracts from the message of the President, to Congress, and from the reports of the Secretary of War on the Cherokee question will be found in our columns. We are gratified to find that the message has left out the bold assumption of state jurisdiction over the Indians, that his former messages had set up. The reference which the President makes to his message of Feb. 1831, as the continuation of his opinions on the Cherokee question, we presume, is the one which he submitted to Congress, on a call made upon him 'for his reasons of the non execution of the law of Mar. 30th, 1802 to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes.' Recurring to memory alone, and if it serves us correct, the President stated in this document, that the above law was prospective in its operation; its enforcement was a discretionary power vested in the executive. Since the communication of these views as he now terms them, the Supreme Court has decided that the laws and treaties of the United Sates are binding and that the Cherokees are under the protection of the United States. Will the President in his exalted station, in the contemplation of his great moving navies, glistening bayonets, sublime Congress, growing treasury, suffer his action for our relief, to continue suspended on this small and trivial thread?  We hope not, and that his re-election to the Presidency by a people celebrated for their benevolence and learning will enable him to scorn the oppression by a state, of a people who have waded in aboriginal blood, to brighten the laurel which has placed him in the high station , where treaties should be sustained to be the supreme laws of the land.

_____________________

The President of the United States has issued proclamation to South Carolina in anticipation of the nullification by that State, of the laws of the United States regulating duties on imports of foreign manufactures.  The proclamation contains the most unqualified denial of the President to the right of a state, in any manner to impede the operation of the United States laws. He announces the principles by which he will be governed, in the event of her attempting to nullify said laws of which we make a few Extracts: 'Our Constitution does not contain the absurdity of giving power to make laws, and another power to resist them.

'The Constitution declares that the judicial powers of the United States extends to cases arising under the laws of the United States, and that such laws, the Constitution and treaties, shall be paramount to the state constitution and laws.'

'The states have surrendered the right to make treaties, to declare war and collect taxes, and exercise exclusive judicial and legislative powers.'

'But the dictates of a high duty obliges me solemnly to announce that you cannot succeed, I have no discretionary power, my duty is emphatically pronounced in the Constitution.'

From the above principles avowed by the President, of his determination to enforce the laws of the United States against South Carolina, a question necessarily arises, why are they not applicable, and directed likewise to Georgia? Georgia nullification and the one intended by Carolina are absolutely analogous--if there is any difference between the two cases, it consists only in the difference of the laws. What is Georgia nullification? It is resisting the authority of the Supreme Court in a question decided and arising out of 16 solemn treaties, held by the Constitution to be the Supreme law of the land, by which these treaties are rendered a nullity. These treaties are proclaimed by all the Presidents to be obligatory, and all the citizens of the United States are enjoined to conform and observe every clause and article thereof. These treaties the Government cannot rescind of its own pleasure on constitutional principle. The Carolina intended nullification makes void a purely municipal law of the General Government which the legislative department can at any time rescind. The Georgia resistance so called conflicts with the treaties, the Supreme law of two nations, the United States and the Cherokees; by which the virtual operation of these treaties are destroyed.  Now we humbly conceive, if the exercise of nullification has ever been attempted, it is palpably, and we cannot be mistaken that it has been practically attained by Georgia. From the attitude in which Georgia is now placed, by the exercise of this power, and the opinions of the executive of the United States proclaimed in opposition, in a parallel case, we shall await with anxiety at a time the state is robbing us of our lands, secured by these treaties whether or not, the government will inhibit the exercise of this new but destructive principle.

_____________________

EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.

I am happy to inform you, that the wise and humane policy of transferring from the eastern to the western side of the Mississippi, the remnants of our aboriginal tribe, with their own consent and upon just terms, has been steadily pursued, is approaching, I trust, its consummation. By reference to the report of the Secretary of War, and to the documents submitted with it, you will see the progress which has been made since your last session, in the arrangement of the various matters connected with our Indian relations.  With one exception, every subject involving any question of conflicting jurisdictions, or of peculiar difficulty, has been happily disposed of and the conviction evidently gains ground among the Indians that their removal to the country assigned by the United States for their permanent residence, furnishes the only hope of their ultimate prosperity.

With that portion of the Cherokees, however, living within the State of Georgia, it has been found impracticable, as yet, to make a satisfactory adjustment. Such was my anxiety to remove all the grounds of complaint, and to bring to a termination the difficulties in which they are involved, that I directed the very liberal propositions to be made to them which accompany the documents herewith submitted. They cannot but have seen in these offers the evidence of the strongest disposition on the part of the Government, to deal justly and liberally with them. An ample indemnity was offered for their present possessions, a liberal provision for their future support and improvement, and full security for their private and political rights. Whatever difference of opinion may have prevailed respecting the just claims of these people, there will probably be none respecting the liberality of the propositions, and very little respecting the expediency of their immediate acceptance. They were however rejected, and thus, the position of these Indians remained unchanged as do the views communicated in my Message to the Senate of February, 1831.

________________________

EXTRACTS OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR'S REPORT.

In my report of November 21, 1831, I stated it 'had been suggested that a considerable portion of the Cherokees were desirous of availing themselves of the provisions of the treaty of May 6, 1828, for their removal.' And that, 'with a view to ascertain this fact, and to afford them the aid offered by that treaty, if they were inclined to adopt it, a system of operations had been adopted, and persons appointed to carry into effect.' But that 'sufficient time to form a judgment of the result of this measure had not then elapsed.'

Under this system, about seven hundred Cherokees have claimed the benefit of the treaty of 1828 and have been removed, in conformity with its stipulations, to the country west of the Mississippi. But the operations have for the present been suspended. And until recently there was reason to hope that their resumption would have been rendered unnecessary by an arrangement for the cession of the whole Cherokee title East of the Mississippi, and for the emigration of that tribe to the country offered for their permanent residence. With this view, the liberal propositions authorized by you were made to them a copy of which is annexed to this report. It will be seen, by reference to it, that the offers were conceived in spirit of kindness and liberality, which justified the expectation of their prompt acceptance. They contained ample security for the permanent establishment of the Cherokees, and for the perpetual occupation of the country allotted to them. They provided the means for their moral, social, ' political improvement; and they offered all the pecuniary aid necessary to their present ' future subsistence and support. Their acceptance would have determined the difficulties, in which the Cherokees are involved, would have united the dispersed portions of the tribe, and would have laid the foundation of their permanent improvement and prosperity. But it will be seen, by the answer which is submitted to you, that this effort has been unavailing, and that, unless there is a change in their councils, no favorable change in their condition can be expected.

It will thus be seen that with the Creeks, the Choctaws, the Chickasaws, and the principal Appalachichola bands, certainly,and with the Seminoles, probably, such arrangements have been made as will prevent the occurrence of any difficulties resulting from the assertion of jurisdiction by the state or Territorial Governments, on the one hand, and the unfounded claims of exemption from their authority by the Indians, on the other. These tribes embrace all the aboriginal population now remaining the country east of the Mississippi, and south of the Ohio, with the exception of a few individuals, too unimportant for recapitulation; and with the exception, also of the Cherokees. Of these latter Indians, it is computed that about thirty five hundred reside west of the Mississippi, and about eleven thousand within the chartered limits of Georgia, and the States of Alabama, Tennessee, and North Carolina. All the embarrassments arising out of the anomalous situation of the Indians, which have engaged the public attention, and occasioned much anxiety to the government, are confined, in their operation, to that portion of this small band living within the state of Georgia.  Could they be induced to pursue the only course which promises them stability and prosperity, and to remove to, and re-establish in the West, their political and social systems, with such modifications as experience and the change of events have rendered necessary, the country might soon look forward to an entire removal of the whole Indian race east of the Mississippi, and to a termination of all those perplexing difficulties which inevitably result from the existing relations established between them.




      


From the New York Advertiser.

Conventions were in session during the last week, both in South Carolina and Georgia, for the purpose of obtaining relief from the alleged oppressions of the tariff laws. The South Carolina politicians proposed to accomplish their object by a system of nullification; the Georgians, if we understand their sentiments by secession from the union. The latter condemn nullification in very decided terms and at the same time claim the power as well as the right of seceding from the Union, whenever in their opinion the national government transcends its constitutional limits.  Now it seems to us, that the distinction which is so zealously contended for by these two classes of politicians is hardly worth the labor of an argument. However widely they may nominally, or professedly differ, they must both meet at the point if they carry their measure into effect, and that point is the severance of the Union. That being the necessary result of their measures, it is a matter of little moment whether it is accomplished under the name of nullification, or by a voluntary secession from the Union. That the measures of both lead to this result, cannot be questioned. In the case of Georgia it is their avowed object. When, or to what manner, it is to be brought about, it is thus far pointed out.- They may withdraw their senators and Representatives from Congress, and give notice in for to the national government, that henceforward they will have no connection with the Union; or, when the time occurs, they may resist the execution of the laws, and the decrees of the Judiciary, and thus stop by force the powers of the government over them. The South Carolina plan seems to be to resist the government by preventing the collection of customs, and resisting the enforcement of the revenue laws. Georgia purposes to make it a highly criminal offence of a lawyer, employed as council by a Cherokee, to question the constitutionality of their legislative acts extending jurisdiction over the Indian country, or to assist in carrying into effect the judgement of the Supreme Court in the Missionary case. The last measure, when carried in execution, will be levying war against the United States.

We should think it hardly worth while for the politicians of Georgia to condemn those of South Carolina, in the prosecution of their system of measures in opposition to the laws of government of the Union. The plans of both states are incompatible with their obligations, as members of the confederation, to support the Constitution and laws of the United States, that Georgia being, in our judgment, the most flagrant of the two. In both instances, the claim the right of determining for themselves what laws of Congress are, and what are not constitutional, thereby denying the legitimate authority of the Judicial branch of the government. Each may pursue a different course in reaching the object in view; but when accomplished, the effects upon the Union, and the national government, will be precisely the same.

Since the above was in type, we see by a Charleston paper, that a part of the Georgia convention have protested against the further proceedings of that body, on the ground that a large portion of the State is not represented. We publish the protest this morning.




      


'Putting all these things together, we are led to conclude, that Governor Lumpkin and Governor Hamilton think pretty much alike on the general subject; but that the former is not disposed to drive on quite so furiously as the latter. Now there may be political as well as philosophical reasons for this show of moderation in the Georgia governor. That state are now engaged in prosecuting their measurers against the Cherokees, in which they are countenanced by President Jackson. Their first object is to secure the Cherokee case. When that is accomplished, they will probably be ready to undertake another crusade. It is well known to them, that General Jackson intends to crush nullification at least in S. Carolina; and if Georgia were to be found cooperating with her neighbor in her opposition to the revenue laws, she might run the chance of losing his good will in the warfare against the Cherokees. As the latter controversy is farther advanced than the other, it is natural enough for them to conclude that it may be sooner terminated; and then Georgia will be at liberty to take up the other quarrel and go on lovingly with her neighbor.'

N. Y. Adv.

____________________

 Georgia Nullification.-- A project has been introduced to the Legislature of Georgia, for a Convention of the State of Georgia, Virginia, North and South Carolina, Mississippi, and Tennessee, 'which shall take into consideration the Tariff System of the General Government, and devise and recommend the most effectual and proper mode of obtaining relief from the evils of that system.'

The Georgians seem to have declined, for the present, a state nullification of the Tariff laws; but the nullification advocated by the South Carolinians, is in no respect more extravagant or more fatal to the existence of the national government than that urged and enforced in Georgia in opposition to the constitutional authority of the national Judiciary. The measures pursuing in the State for crushing the Court, and destroying the power of that branch of the government, are quite as fatal to the Union and the Constitution as the doctrine promulgated in South Carolina will be when carried into full effect.

It ought not to be forgotten, that if these disorganizing proceedings end in disunion, the sin and the shame will rest forever upon the head of General Jackson. If he had not countenanced the unhallowed proceedings of Georgia, in appropriating to her own use the land and gold and silver mines of the unhappy Cherokees- if he had enforced the laws for the protection of Indian rights from the encroachments of the robbers--if he had not lent all the influence of his high station to bring the decisions of the Supreme Court into contempt, we should not now have been reduced to this extremity. It is the executive sanction that has been given to practical nullification in Georgia, which has emboldened the theoretical nullifiers of South Carolina to carry out their plans to an extent which now admits of no retreat, and of no amicable termination.- Salem Gazette.




      


Land Lotteries.- We understand from our Lottery correspondent under date of 29th ult. that the legislature have suspended the drawing of the Land Lottery for the present, in order to investigate charges of fraud made against Mr. S. Bogan, one of the Commissioners appointed in 1830. Mr. Bogan is from Gwinnett County, and is accused by his fellow citizens of having fraudulently drawn with bought chances, several of the most valuable lots in the territory, two of which adjoin each other, and two others with valuable sites for ferries on one of the rivers. It was expected that the Committee of investigation would be occupied about a week in the examination.

The Gold Lottery will, we presume, progress as usual, as we have the drawing of the 29th ult.

Georgian.






      


Extracts for the Cherokee Phoenix from an old book entitled.- 'The non such professor'-

[Continued]

29. There is no instruction to be got from the sundial of duty, except the sun of righteousness shine upon it.

30. The law condemns those as criminals, who lay claim to the crown royal, when they are not of the blood royal.

31. A believer is like the mariners compass, which is governed by the constant heavens, and not by the variable winds.

32. It is dangerous to dress ourselves for another world by the looking glass of this world.

33. Great men's vices are more imitated than men's graces. The Persians thought a crooked nose a great ornament because seated on the face of their Emperor, and the whole court would go away, because such a neck was on the shoulders of Alexander.

34. There is a rotten possessor who says in his heart,'why may I not be drunk as well as Noah and commit adultery as well as David? Did you over hear any who beat out their eyes because others were smitten with blindness? Their faults are not landmarks to direct travellers, but sea marks to warn mariners.

35. Grace is not such a beggarly Visitant, as will not pay its own way.

36. Many a man's days deceive him, they pass away like a shadow by moonshine which appears longest, when the moon is lowest.

37. He who now gives way to the least sin, way be given up to the greatest sin. Why should you venture on slippery places who can scarcely stand upon the firmest ground? Who will pity the man whose house is blown up with powder if he heap his barrels in the chimney corner? The fable saitih that the butterfly enquired of the owl, how she should do with a candle that had singed her wings. the owl counselled her not so much as to behold its smoke.

38. He who would not hear the bell of eternal death should not finger with the rope of sin.

39. Too  many think that God is cutting down the tree when he is but lopping off its luxuriant branches, putting out the light when he is but snuffing the candle. When the stars do not shine; the sun appears, repairing the loss of lesser lights with brighter beams.

39. (this number is repeated) Because Justice seems to wink men suppose her blind. Security resembles a flash of lightening which at _____ in a clap of thunder. The rising sun in the morning was no proof that sodom should not be entombed in its ashes before the evening.

40 To prise (sic) ourselves by what we leave and not by what we are, is to estimate the value of the Jewel by the golden frame that contains it. The most curious parts are often enclosed in the most rugged shells.

41. All the grapes in Christ's Vineyard, must pass rough the winepress.

42. Spiritual prayer resembles Noah's dove which returned with an olive branch. It is a traffic for those commodities which are laid up only in heaven's storehouse.




      


INDIANS

'LO! THE POOR INDIAN.'

God save the Indians from the tender mercies of the avaricious people of this land!- Secretary Cass says 'a very extensive tract of country lying to the west and north of Arkansas Territory, has lately been set apart for the colonization of the Indians.'

And is this the place fellow citizens to which 'your servants' are about to drive these helpless children of the forest?  Do they-do you know what kind of a country it is?

The celebrated Red Jacket, speaking of a much better location than that now under consideration remarked, it could not be better,(if as good) as where he then was, else why did the white man want him to go there?  Why not go there himself?

So we may now ask, if that country be as good as the Indian Territory, why not give it to those who are thirsting after the lands which of right belong to the Cherokees?--ah no! these crafty whites know it is good for nothing IT IS A BARREN DESERT!! If a line be drawn a little west of south from Council Bluff, on the Missouri to near the junction of the 'False of Washita' with the Red River, which separates us from Texas, it will show the beginning of a great desert six hundred miles in width east and west, and extending nearly the whole breadth of the country; at all events it may safely be said to extend from the line above described 600 miles westward to the foot of the 'Rocky Mountains' and from Rio Roxo or Red River on the south, to the Platta River on the north.

[TO BE CONTINUED]




      


 Black Hawk- It seems to be a matter of some speculation to determine on the course that will be adopted by the government in reference to this chief.  That he and his misguided followers have carried desolation and death along an extensive frontier, is well known, and that this was done in violation of treaty engagements between the United States and his tribe, is equally true. But having been engaged in open warfare against the United States, and having been recognized as a chief of an independent nation by various treaties, can he be regarded otherwise than a sovereign? If he is entitled at the hands of the captors to the rights of a prisoner of war, as acknowledged by the law of nations by what authority is he detained in custody after a new treaty of peace has been formed? He can only be detained, either as a hostage for the due observance of the treaty or for the purpose of punishment. Should a trial take place, his offence must be judged of by the civil courts; but has the mere breach of a treaty and subsequent capture (in open war) of a sovereign, ever been deemed sufficient to put him on trial for life?  And such had been the doctrine, half the crowned heads of Europe would have fallen on the scaffold.

These ideas have occurred from contrasting the condition of Indians, said to be independent, with civilized nations where no doubt exists. If Black Hawk applies for the usual privileges and immunities of a sovereign, we should much doubt whether they would be granted. If he is not held in captivity as a hostage; he may probably try the efficacy of a writ of habeas corpus, and thus present another interesting question of Indian rights for the decision of the United States Court. The definition of their true character, (subject, as they are in a great to the control of the United States, and yet possessing some of the forms and attributes of sovereignty,) seems to baffle the ingenuity of the most acute jurist.-   

New Haven Herald.




      


From the Franklin Repository.

Extract from the speech of Mr. Wirt, in the case of the Cherokee Nation vs. the State of Georgia, argued before the Supreme Court of the United States, at January term, 1832

The seventh article (of the Treaty of Holston,*) contains the guarantee, so often spoken of, which had been the subject of previous consultation and arrangement between the President and the Senate of the United States:

'Article 7. The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands not hereby ceded.' that is to say, the United States pledge the faith and honor of this nation, to protect and defend the Cherokees, by force of arms if necessary, in the possession and enjoyment of all their lands not ceded by treaty: for such we have seen is the exposition of a guarantee, as given by Washington, and approved by the Senate. The states of this Union, the State of Georgia concluded, are the parties to this guarantee. The engagement is not that they will not themselves disturb the possession, but that they will not permit it to be done by others. Each state of the Union stands bound, as a member of the confederacy, by the most solemn pledge of faith and honor, given in the sight of God and man, that she will not permit it.

It is no excuse, therefore, to the several states which compose this Union to say that they are notdisturbing the Indian possession; for their engagement is that they will not permit it to be done by others; but on the contrary, that they will prevent it by force of arms if necessary. Being then bound to prevent it, this pledge is not redeemed by expressing regret at it, and crying 'shame' on the offending state. The obligation which they have assumed is not one of sentiment, which is to be acquitted by having a sentimental sigh. It is an obligation of action and of vigorous and effectual action. The United States have undertaken, in the most solemn form, to protect the Cherokees, or their possessions by force of arms if necessary; and if thus engaged, they permit that possession to be intruded they are participants ariminis, and actually guilty with the invading state. There is no moral difference between them; and if these things shall be permitted, the faith and honor of this nation are gone; they are not worth a rush. Punic faith will be quite as respectable in history.

It is that the Cherokees are now weak and unable to call us to an account, that we held ourselves absolved from the obligations of this treaty.- Are we so lost to character as to excuse ourselves on that ground, and to make the tacit admission that we hold ourselves bound by our engagements only so long as we can be compelled to fulfil them? That we will be very faithful and honorable to the powerful, who can punish us from being otherwise, but as to the weak, we will only be just so far faithful as suits our case and convenience: and having solemnly undertaken to defend such, by force of arms if necessary, we consider the obligation sufficiently discharged by the unprofitable expression of our sympathies and our regrets.

If such be the point of degeneracy, to which we have already sunk since the age of Washington, farewell to the honor of the American name: happy it is for that patriot that he was called from the scene of things, before he witnessed this heart-striking degradation of this country.

_____________________

* This treaty was concluded on the 2nd of July 1791, and headed 'A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of the said Nation.'

+ Partakers in the crime.




      


Indian Lands.- We are sorry that we cannot assent so cheerfully to the sentiments in the Report of the Secretary of War regarding the Indians, as to those on the two preceding topics. But if the Indians are to be removed from their native home they will not probably remove under better auspices than those of the Secretary of War. The feelings expresses in his Report are kind and sympathetic towards that unfortunate race. We only regret that they do not lead to a different system of measures in relation to the location of the Indians. He speaks of 'their present unsuitable residences'- and of their future 'establishment in a region, where we may hope to see them prosperous, contented, and improving.'  But the way, if our memory serves us, the writer of a long article on the subject of the Indians, in the North American Review, two or three years ago, took the ground that the Indians are so fixed in their habits that they never will improve-they will be Indians still, whatever their circumstances may be,and whatever is done for them. As to 'their residences,' we presume many think they are specially 'unsuitable' since the discovery that gold exists there,and the cupidity of Georgia is burning to possess it.

We learn from the Report that a new principle has been introduced into the treaty with the Chickasaws-

'The whole value of the country ceded is assigned to the Chickasaws, and the United States become in fact trustees to make the necessary arrangements for their benefit.

It is stipulated, that the ceded territory shall be surveyed and sold, and the whole proceeds, deducting only the actual expenses applied to the various objects enumerated, connected with the temporary subsistence, removal, and permanent establishment, of these Indians.  A residuary fund is to be vested in some productive stock, and the income to be annually appropriated for the public and private objects stipulated in the treaty. A country for the residence of the tribe is to be procured by themselves, and it is probable they will be able to make a satisfactory arrangement for that purpose with the Choctaws, a kindred people, who are in possession of a much larger district, than is required by their numbers.'

It is proposed to adopt this principle in all future treaties with the Indians for lands. And why, if injustice has been done by our Government heretofore in this matter, is it too late to repair the wrong even now? Will it do to say that we have oppressed and cheated the Indians out of so large a part of their possessions, that we can afford to deal honestly and justly, and even kindly with them in future, while we retain the avails of our possession? It seems to be desired by some that the lands owned by the General Government should before long be given up to the States within which there are located. But if the United States are about to divest themselves of the national domain, why not relinquish a part of it to the former owners, from whom, as now conceded, it appears to have been obtained without a fair equivalent?

The manner in which the efforts of those who have contended for the right of the Cherokees to live in the land of their fathers, and to establish a government of their own choice, are spoken of in the Report, is far different from that sometimes employed. It is candid, liberal and elevated--such as might be expected from that source.-

Our great objection to a removal, which has been urged by the more discreet Indians, and many by our own citizens, who are honestly seeking their improvement, is the prospect, judging by the past that their location west of Mississippi would be temporary, as they would be soon pressed for new cessions, and would yield, as they heretofore yielded, successive applications for this purpose. Although the nature and objects of their removal, and the spirit of the act of Congress, which introduced the system, are opposed to such attempts, still the apprehensions entertained, and proved injurious.- Probably no course would better satisfy them upon this subject, than the introduction of a principle, which would secure to them the full value of the property, under all circumstances; thus lessening the probability, in their view, of any wish on our part to acquire it, and insuring on theirs, if not the power and disposition to retain it, at least the means of converting it to the greatest advantage?




      


GEORGIA NULLIFICATION

Whilst the nullification of South Carolina excites much observation, that of Georgia calls for little notice.-- And yet the one is only in preparation, and other is effective.  Georgia nullification is in favor with the President of the United States-that of South Carolina is under his ban.  Every other matter serves to cast disrepute upon the nullification of Georgia. A most greedy and discreditable mania for land speculation lies at the bottom of it, which has given the Government of the United States a great deal of trouble.

It is not perhaps generally known that the foundation of the Colony was a canting piece of land begging. The original application was for a 'grant of land for the charitable purpose of transporting necessitous persons and families from London to procure a livelihood by their industry.' Upon this foundation the grant was made and the colony settled.

After the Revolution, Georgia claimed to own most of the territory that now composes the states of Alabama and Mississippi.  In August, 1786, when New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Virginia, at the suggestion of Congress, had granted their waste lands to the Union, upon a most pressing request from Congress, Georgia proposed to cede to the United States, a very small portion of these lands on terms so unreasonable, that their acceptance was refused.- At that time, the boundary between Spain and the United States was not ascertained, and whilst the negotiations between the two governments were in a favorable train, the State of Georgia commenced her land speculations on a prodigious scale.

In January, 1795 she passed a law for selling her vacant lands, to form companies of land traders. Under this law, one company effected the purchase of a tract of land, beginning where the 31st degree of latitude intersects the bay of Mobile, ' running into the Alabama River, to the 4th degree of latitude, west to the Mississippi River. This was commonly called the Yazoo sale. At the next session of Georgia Legislature, notwithstanding the sale had been completed under the law of the state, and a patent issued by the Governor, it was resolved to nullify the whole. An act was passed, declaring the sale to have been fraudulent, directing the law and the act to be expunged from the records and asserting that the title to the land remained in the state. Here was real nullification with a vengeance. And out of this sale, and the assumption of a power to rescind it has arose the present difficulty with the Indians and the United States. The States within whose territorial lines there are large bodies of waste and unappropriated land, at the completion of the Revolution, claimed those lands as there (sic) individual separate property. The justice of the claim was not admitted by the other States. The acquisition was obtained at the common charge.  It was a consequence of the successful termination of the War of the Revolution; and that had been achieved by all the States together, who had jointly borne the expense as far as it was paid, and were jointly liable for what remained due. It was by way of compromising this intricate and delicate question, that Virginian (sic) took the lead in ceding much the largest portion of her unsold land to the United States. And upon the same principle other states followed her example. The sale made by Georgia to the land companies just noticed, and the attempted nullification of that sale greatly embarrassed both the States and the United States. The purchaser denied the power of the States to rescind the sale, the State stoutly stuck to its right to nullity.--Public opinion was divided as to the title, whether it was in Georgia or the purchasers. Jurists and statesmen differed; and in the meantime the lands remained, and were likely to remain a wilderness. With a view to dis-embarrass the title, the United States, in the year 1802 accepted a cession from the state of Georgia of the disputed lands, with some more territory upon certain specified terms and conditions, one of which was that the United States should 'extinguish for the use of Georgia, as early as the same could be peaceably obtained, on reasonable terms the Indian title to certain lands within the states.' It is upon this stipulation that Georgia has been constructing difficulties for years. In 1803, after the compact was made with Georgia, Congress passed a law authorizing the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Attorney General, to receive, from purchaser, under the rescinded law, and grant of Georgia propositions of compromise. Such propositions were received, and a compromise agreed upon, and an act of Congress was passed in the Spring of 1806 for confirming it.

For some time this was an absorbing topic of political discussion. The Yazoo fraud was rung upon thousand changes. It furnished to John Randolph a theme for declamation. To innumerable demagogues it was a sweet morsel to roll under their tongues. Many of our citizens cannot have forgotten the furious attack made upon Mr. Morrow, then our single representative in Congress, because he voted for perfecting the companies. A Mr. Pritchard of Jefferson County, was put in nomination against him, at the October election of 1806, and the canvass was a most furious one. The principal charge against him being that of voting to compromise the claims of these purchases. The courts of the United States came in for their share of opprobrium. The Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, in a case brought before it, had decided that the State of Georgia could not by legislative act, rescind her own grant, thus affirming the title of the purchases.  The decision was subsequently affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States. See 6th Cranch 87. Hence the Georgia nullifiers, in Georgia and elsewhere, denounced the court. Its opinion sustained the rights of individuals against the pretensions of the State and therefore it became obnoxious.

The United States, having removed all claims of Georgia and of the purchasers under her to the lands in question, put them into the market, and they soon sold so as that now the States of Alabama and Mississippi have been erected out of the territory they secured. The population improvement and cultivation of these lands have tended to greatly increase the value of the lands of the Cherokee Indians within the State of Georgia.- Cupidity to possess them has been long excited and very much increasing.- At first it appeared only in Georgia importuning the United States to purchase the Indian title. The importunity suggested the plan of sending the Indians west of the Mississippi.  Then came the McIntosh treaty with the Creeks and the murder of McIntosh, the wrathful controversy between General Gains and Governor of Georgia, in respect to which there was but one opinion here at that time. At length Georgia started the doctrine that she had a right to extend her laws over the Indians within her own jurisdiction. She was staid from practically asserting this power by the declaration of President Adams that he would call the military force of the Union to protect the Indians in the quiet possession of their lands. President Jackson, however, very soon after entering on the duties of his office, took occasion to announce his opinion in favor of the pretension of Georgia, to make it known that he would not interpose the shield of the Union between her and the Indians. In the preparatory and progressive measures of the state of taking possession of these Indians lands, Tassels has been hung and the Missionaries imprisoned, in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States, as adjudged, by the Supreme Court. So far Georgia has nullified and speculated with impunity. With what of honor or morality, the reader is left to form his own judgment.-------------Cincinnati Gazette




      


'Georgia- Mr. Chester has notified Gov. Lumpkin that he shall apply to the Supreme Court to enforce its decision in case of the Missionaries.- The Governor has communicated this fact to the Legislature, with his usual talk about resistance.

The drawing of the Cherokee land lottery has been stopped, on a supposed discovery of fraud in the drawing, by one of the managers. He is impeached before the State, and the drawing ordered to proceed. We do not believe they can get such a dishonest business honestly done.'




      


'THE PROCLAMATION, by the President is a document of too much interest and importance to be omitted or abridged. We have therefore inserted it entire, to the exclusion of other matter. It is certainly notwithstanding some considerable violations of good taste, a powerfully written document. The main arguments against nullification is (sic) perfectly conclusive.- It is in fact, just an abridgement of Mr. Webster's argument in his celebrated contest with Mr. Hayne. It is however none the worse for that; and it is to the President's credit, that he would use the best argument, though a political opponent had used it previously. The sentiments of the proclamation, generally, so far as we can learn, meet with a high degree of approbation. We like them, because they are precisely what we have maintained from the beginning on the 'Indian question.' We have maintained that Georgia had no 'power to annul a law of the United States,' regulating intercourse with the Indians; that 'the laws of the United States must be executed;' that the President has 'no discretionary power on the subject;' that his 'duty is emphatically pronounced in the Constitution.' We have maintained that the Constitution of the United States, with the TREATIES and laws made under it, are 'the supreme law of the land'-of every part of the land, even in Georgia- and that the Judges in every State should be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution and laws of Georgia' to the contrary notwithstanding.' But we need not multiply quotations. The doctrine of the proclamation is evidently that which the friends of the Cherokees have urged from the beginning. South Carolina 'extends her jurisdiction' over the custom house at Charleston, and makes laws for the government of all persons and things found there. Georgia must say, she has a right to do it; for the custom house is within 'her chartered limits.' These laws are a part of her'criminal code.' They impose a fine, at least, on all persons who shall reside there, demeaning themselves as the laws of the United States allow and require; and Georgia says that the general government must not interfere with proceedings under the 'criminal code' of a state.  The President, however, sets all this sophistry aside at once, and 'proclaims' that he will 'take care that the laws be faithfully executed.' We suppose therefore, that when regularly called upon he will enforce the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Worcester ' Butler, 'to the extent of the power vested in him by law;' and that he will in the same way enforce whatever decisions that Court may hereafter pronounce, on actions which the Cherokees may bring for removing Georgia surveyors, 'c. from their limits. Indeed, we do not see how one can feel any respect, either for his honesty or his understanding, and yet suspect that such are not his intentions. We shall be surprised, if the Georgians do not understand the proclamation as we do, and if it does not unite them at once in feeling at least, with South Carolina




      


Compact with Georgia- Mr. Forsyth has introduced a bill into the Senate to provide for the fulfillment of the Compact of 1802, by which the United States stipulated to extinguish the Cherokee title to their lands within the limits of Georgia, which has never yet been accomplished by the Government, from the unwillingness of the Cherokees to leave their native soil. The bill has been referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs. This will bring up the Indian question once more; and we hope it may be settled agreeably to the strict principles of justice and equity.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA.Jan 19th 1833

We contemplated an improvement of our paper at the commencement of this year with new type; but the absence of our printer by indisposition obliged us to defer it to the present number. We present now to our readers the CHEROKEE PHOENIX printed with a type entirely new, and of a smaller letter, which will enable us to publish a little more matter than was contained in our former numbers, and without increasing the price. The motto of the Cherokees granted them by treaties, which crowned the rising PHOENIX, and so earnestly urged upon the President for 'PROTECTION' and without effect, has been discontinued to give place to the ordinary but splendid capitals which will hereafter stand at the head of this paper.

It is deemed unnecessary at this time for us to enumerate more particularly the principles by which we shall be governed in our future labors, as we presume they are generally known to our readers.- The support of the rights of the Cherokees. The improvements which have been made is not without considerable expense to the Nation, and in order to the continuation of our paper we again solicit from a candid public an increased patronage.

__________________

The beautiful and beloved country of the Cherokees is now passing to the occupancy of the Georgians. The drawing of the lands and gold mines of the Cherokees continues to be prosecuted with vigor, under the authority of the enlightened and Christian Governor of Georgia. The fortunate drawers (so called) are daily entering into possession of the arable and otherwise valuable lots which they have drawn, and obtained by a game of chances. The Cherokee country is now wedged with settlers, and droves of land hunters, to which the Indians cry daily, and it is literally Robbery! Robbery!  This crusade on our rights forms a new era in the history of the United States by which the Cherokees are denationalized, treaties destroyed, the legislation of Congress to carry them into effect annulled, and the faith of the republic fled to the western wilds.  The approach of the crisis we were loth to believe; because it was unjust, it was uncouth, and incompatible  to the known promises of protection by the government. Will Georgia be tolerated to plunder the Cherokees of their lands of incalculable worth and wrested from the guaranty of treaties, at a time when the sullen cannon is pointed, and bayonet is brandishing by the President against Carolina, to preserve inviolably a law, involving a question of taxation of doubtful legality? We are here in darkness; why of this distinction, we ask light on this question.

Query. Why are not our treaties as binding now, as when they were negotiated and ratified?

_______________________________

What does this mean?

We are informed from an authentic source that the Honorable Secretary of War has invited a delegation of Cherokees to attend at Washington City. About the time when the Principal Chief left the nation with a delegation for that place to attend to the interests of the Cherokees Nation, Secretary Cass, had conferred an appointment on Jack Walker with authority to select three others, and proceed to Washington. In accordance to the requirements from the White House, on Saturday last (not saying their honors) were to have moved and probably have proceeded, and as we are informed without any authority whatever from the Cherokees as a tory delegation on the road to Washington.- But we fear the road of Benedict Arnold.

_____________________

The following article we copy from one of our exchange papers, which is said to be taken from the Globe, the Government paper.  The condition in which the commissioner has represented the western Cherokees is so prosperous, that the friends of the Indians and of truth will hardly credit it. By what means the commissioner ascertained the surplus of 28,000 bushels of corn, is not stated. It must be borne in mind that the Secretary of War reported to Congress the number of Cherokees of Arkansas at 3500 assuming this number, would give to each hand including women and children 800 bushels of corn. Truly this is preposterous! But we think it a fine cloak to cover many sins, and each statement should not be credited on the face of the Globe.

_________________

PROSPEROUS CONDITION OF THE INDIANS

WEST OF THE MISSISSIPPI

It will gratify the true friends of the Indians,and go far, we think, to convince those who have apprehended their position, west of the Mississippi, was an unfavorable one, to read the following extract from letter recently received from one of the Commissioners, now engaged in the adjustment of unsettled Indian matters, in that region:

'The condition of the Creeks and Cherokees is very prosperous. The Cherokees can, I think, disposed of 23,000 bushels of this season, and the Creeks 50,000 bushels; (this is over and above their own consumption.) Education is becoming an interesting topic. Five schools have been and are now being established among the Creeks, independent of benevolent school. The Cherokees have employed four native teachers at four hundred dollars each, and Mr. Guess, the inventor of the alphabet, at four hundred , thus consuming 'their own fund' of two thousand dollars. This, si to the Indian nations a most interesting time.'

_____________________

From the Boston Recorde.

GEORGIA PENITENTIARY.

A letter before us from a gentleman who lately visited the Georgia Penitentiary says:

'We found the prisoners [missionaries] apparently in good spirits, and Dr. Butler in excellent health. Mr. Worcester had been sick with ague and fever for about two weeks, but was so much better that he had been laboring the day on which we left Milledgeville. The situation of the prisoners, and of our brethren in particular, was much more comfortable than I had anticipated. Their [Messrs. W. and B.] clothing was decent and _______ for what I saw, their food also.  Col. Mills [the keeper] is____________ loved by the prisoners, who consider him their friend. A great reformation has been effected in the morals of the convicts, fourteen of whom give evidence of a change of heart, while as many more have pledged themselves to abandon their wicked courses.'

The fact last mentioned is a remarkable instance of the over-ruling Providence of God, in bringing good out of evil and causing even the wickedness of men to subserve the interests of his kingdom.  It also shows very strikingly the power of Christian character.- The missionaries have doubtless acted on the minds and hearts of their fellow prisoners at least as much by their example-by the consistent and pervading holiness of their lives-as by direct oral instructions and appeals. Without the former, indeed, the latter must have been powerless with such men.- It is also an instructive and encouraging fact for those interested in prison discipline.  It is an important testimony to the practicability of reform, and to pure Christianity as a reforming principle even for the most vicious and degraded classes of men.- Once more; It is a fact that ought to excite the gratitude and encourage the hearts of the friends of missions. God does not permit their labors and prayers to be frustrated even by the interference of iniquitous and oppressive laws. The light that they send out in the persons of their missionaries, if those missionaries be found faithful, cannot be hid. Chains and imprisonment-torture and death itself, may be resorted to; but the power of the Gospel in the human heart and character is stronger than chains-stronger than death.

Let us hope that the justice which has ben awarded to those men by the highest tribunal of their country, will soon be actually secured to them. In respect to the case of South Carolina the President says:

'But reasoning on this subject is superfluous when our social compact in express terms declares, that the laws of the United States, the Constitution and treaties made under it, and the supreme law of the land'-and for greater caution adds, 'that the Judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' And it may be asserted without fear of refutation, that 'no Federative Government could exist without a similar provision.'

This provision the President declares himself determined to abide by and enforce. And if in the case of South Carolina, why not in that of Georgia also?  In principle there is not a particle of difference in the two cases; and till facts shall compel us to relinquish it, we shall cherish the hope that the decision of the Supreme Court will be enforced by the Executive-the language heretofore used in public documents notwithstanding.




      


From the N. Y. Courier and Enquirer.

WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENCE

November 28, 1832

The Representatives of the American people have never convened at a crisis more interesting. South Carolina will proceed to nullification. If coercion be attempted, she will secede from the Union 'peaceably, if she can; forcibly if she must.' In the latter movement, she will be sustained, directly or indirectly by a portion of the other States.

Georgia will resist, forcibly, if necessary, the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States in relation to the Cherokees. Both these subjects will occupy the attention of Congress.

The charter of the United States Bank in a modified form will agreeable brought under discussion; and in all probability its fate connected with the other great political questions.

As the Supreme Court does not meet until February their mandate in Georgia cannot be issued and a return made to it until a few days before the adjournment of Congress. The affairs of the Cherokee Nation in the ordinary course of legislation would not therefore come under discussion during the approaching session; but it is believed the question will be brought up in anticipation of resistance by Georgia; and certainly will be agreed during the S. C. debate.

_______________________________

The President's proclamation will be read with deep interest by all - and we fervently hope that its effect on nullifiers of the South may be such, as to induce them to abandon their mad projects in time to save the country from civil war.

After expressing the sentiments avowed in the Proclamation, it may rationally be concluded that the president has resolved to enforce the decision of the Supreme Court in the Georgia case; and that he will not sanction the expulsion of the Cherokees from their lands contrary to the provisions of the existing treaties, and to the express injunction of the law of 1831.

[Balto. Chronicle]






      


INDIANS

THE PAWNEE BRAVE

One of the most prominent modern characters in Thatcher's LIVES OF THE INDIANS, is the celebrated Miami, LITTLE TURTLE, called in his own language, NESTECUNNAQUA. Mr. T. gives him, on the authority of Schoolcraft, the credit of doing much to abolish the practice of human sacrifice among the savages of the West.  The passage reminds us of a well authenticated anecdote of a young Pawnee Brave, who visited Washington some ten years since.

The Pawnees were at war with another trans-Mississippian tribe, living several days' journey to the South of them. In one of their forays into the enemy's country, a party of warriors captured a beautiful Indian girl, and carried her home in triumph. A council of the Pawnees was called, and the prisoner was decreed to die at the faggot.  The fatal pole was raised in the middle of a wide plain near the villages of the tribes; and an immense multitude of all ages and sizes-for the Pawnees are still quite numerous-collected to witness the ceremony.- Just as the flame was about being set around the trembling victim, a gallant young war-chief rushed forward to the pile, leading two fleet horses, thoroughly caparisoned for a journey. He unloosed the bands which confined the prisoner at one stroke of his knife-helped her to mount one of his steeds-mounted the other himself-and, before his countrymen had recovered from their first surprise, had cleared the ring, and was a mile or two on his way to the South. He continued his attendance two days, and then left her within the territory of her own tribe, and with provisions for the residue of the way.  On his return home, not a word of reproach was uttered against him. He was popular; and the Pawnees not only thought proper to overlook the liberty he had taken in consideration of his bravery; but they ascribed the act to the inspiration of the Great Master of Life.  It is said there has been no instance of sacrifice among them from that day to this.

We have forgotten, if we ever knew this gallant fellow's name; but he was much complimented at Washington, and especially by the ladies of the city, as the PAWNEE BRAVE.- N. Y. Con. Adv.




      


From the Auburn Free Press

EARLY WARS AND MASSACRES OF THE INDIANS.

1609 Thirty of the Virginia colonists killed by the Indians

21 Massacre of 317 Virginians by the Indians.

37 The Pequod Indians in Connecticut subdued by Capt. Mason.

Mystic , their fort, composed of 70 Wigwams, was burnt with many women and children, and 500 or 600 Indians killed.

42 War with the Indians in Maryland. This war was caused by Clayborne, and lasted several years, bringing much

distress upon the inhabitants.

43 War between the Indians and Dutch in New York. Indians subdued, 1646.

46 A severe battle was fought at Horseneck, now Greenwich, Ct.-1646, in which the Dutch were victorious, though on  both sides great numbers were slain.

51 Civil war in Virginia.-Berkley Governor of Virginia, sub-

dued by Royal troops.

Civil war in Maryland, between the Catholics and Protestants.--Catholics submit.

55 The Swedes on the Delaware are conquered by the Dutch.

73 The Dutch take New York-Restored to the English 1674

75 King Philip's War Begins-Lasts till 1676

Seventy young men slain by the Indians at Bloody Brook near Deerfield. Capt. Mosely attacks the Indians, kills 96, wounds 40, losing but two men.

Thirty-two houses in Springfield, burnt by the Indians, October.

Great depredation committed in New Hampshire and Maine, by the Taranteens.

Capt. Hutchenson, with 16 men, slain by the Nipmucks.

Brookfield burnt by the Indians.

The Narragansetts defeated and their Fort burnt, Dec. 19. Loss English 280 Indians 2000. This battle lasted 3 hours. 1000 Indian warriors were killed, several hundred made prisoners, and 600 Wigwams burnt, many perishing in the flames.

76 Capt. Pierce with 50 men was slain by the Indians, March.

In April, Capt. Wadsworth and 50 more, met the same fate.

Philip is finally defeated and slain at Mount Hope, August 12.

Bacon's rebellion in Virginia creates great disorder.  Bacon dies.

The English meet with great success in the war with the Indians.

78 Peace concluded with the Indians throughout the New England colonies.

During this war with the Indians, N. England lost 600 men, the flower of her strength; twelve or thirteen towns were destroyed, and 600 dwelling houses consumed. Every eleventh family was houseless and every eleventh soldier had sunk to his grave.

89 King William's war begins-lasts till 1697.

Montreal is destroyed by the Five Nations, and 1000 persons massacred.

New Hampshire suffers much from Indian barbarity.

Dover [N.H.] is attacked by the Indians, 23 persons killed, and 29 carried captive to Canada.

90 Schenectady [N.Y.] burnt by the French and Indians, February 8th, -60 persons killed and 30 taken prisoners. The destruction of Schenectady was marked with the horrid barbarity.

Solmon Falls [N.H.] burnt by the French and Indians, March 17, - 30 persons killed, and 54 made prisoners.

Casco, in Maine, also destroyed, and 100 killed and captured.

Several other excursions were made into the eastern parts by the French and Indians, in which many people were killed and some buildings burnt.

Nova Scotia is taken by a fleet under Sir William Phipps, May.

Expedition against Canada by New England, in October.  Unsuccessful.

91 Maj. Schuyler attacks the French near Lake Champlain, and kills near 800 men.

94 A settlement on Oyster River [N.H.] is destroyed by the enemy.-Several other places burnt, and many of the inhabitants carried into captivity.

97 Peace of Ryswick, which established peace between the French and English colonies.

1702 Queen Ann's War begins-Lasts till 1713.

Expedition of Gov. Moore against Florida.  Unsuccessful.

3 Gov. Moore subdues the Appalachian Indians in S. C.

4.Deerfield, in Massachusetts, burnt by the French and Indians, February 29- 47 persons killed, and 112 carried captive to Canada.

3 Benjamin Church, with 500 men, destroyed several towns on the Penobscot and St. Croix Rivers, and took many of the enemy prisoners.

The English capture the Seine, a large store ship belonging to the French, whose cargo was estimated at nearly a million of lives.

During the two or three years following, the French and Indians in small parties continued to hover about the frontiers of New England, burning, scalping and taking prisoners.

6 A French and Spanish fleet is repulsed from Charleston, S. C. with a loss of 300.

7 Expedition against Nova Scotia by New England-failed.

8 Haverhill on the Merrimack, plundered and burnt-40 killed and many taken prisoners.

10 Port Royal in Nova Scotia, taken by Col. Nicholson.

11 Expedition against Canada,[commanded by Nicholson and Walker]- failed.

Nine Englishman transports, engaged in this expedition, were wrecked, and 1000 lives lost.

12 Many places along the frontiers of New England plundered by the enemy, and great numbers of the inhabitants massacred by the Indians. One hundred and thirty seven of the inhabitants of North Carolina are surprised and massacred by the Tuscaroras, but they are soon subdued by Col. Barnwell, with a loss of 3000 killed and 1000 prisoners.

13 PEACE OF UTRECHT, which established peace between the French and English colonies.

It has been computed that during the two preceding wars, in the Colonies of New England and New York, as many as 8000 young men fell by the sword of the enemy, while defending the land of their fathers.

15 War with the Yamasee Indians in South Carolina.

A secret combination was formed of all the tribes from Florida to Cape Fear. They fell suddenly upon the inhabitants of Port Royal, and in a few hours massacred 90 persons, then hurried in parties towards Charleston. Gov. Cravan, at the head of only 1200 men marched against them, and after an obstinate battle totally defeated them, at a place called the Salt Catchers.

It was computed that the force of the Indians exceeded 600 fighting men.

Four hundred of the Carolinians were slain in this short war.

22 War commenced against New England by the Indians-Lasts three years.

The Indians ravage the Northern Frontiers, doing much damage.

26 Peace concluded with the Indians at Falmouth, Maine.

36 Canada sends a large party against the Chickasaws in Tennessee, but they are defeated, 60 being slain, and all the rest being tortured and burnt to death.

39 War declared against Spain, October 23, and France and Spain, March 31, 1744.

40 Oglethorpe's invasion of Florida-Unsuccessful.

Expedition, [part from Canada, and part from New Orleans] sent against the Chickasaws, who sue for peace, which is granted.

42 A Spanish fleet is sent from Havana against Georgia.- Unsuccessful.

44 Old French war begins-Lasts till 1748




      


INDIANS

Upper Missouri, August 5, 1832

The Mandans or see-phos- kanu-ka-nee, 'People of the Pheasant,' are perhaps one of the most ancient tribes of Indians in America. There(sic) villages is undoubtedly of very ancient origin, and at a former period have been a very numerous and powerful nation; but by the continual wars which have existed between them and their neighbors, they have been reduced to the number of 19 or 18,000 souls.

There (sic) villages situated on the bank, on one of the most beautiful valleys on the river. Their lodges are closely grouped together, leaving but just room for walking and riding between. They appear without to be built of dirt, but one is surprised when he enters to see the neatness, and comfort, of these earth covered dwellings; they all have a circular form, and are from 50 60 feet in diameter.- These cabins contains from 15 to 20 persons-a family and all their connections. They sleep on bedsteads similar to ours, but not quite so high; they are made of round poles rudely framed together. A buffalo skin is strained across it like a sacking bottom, on which they place a number of buffalo skins, making the best bed in the universe. The Mandans have nothing in their personal appearance to distinguish them from the neighboring Indians, excepting the singular appearance of face hair. Their hair has all the shades and variety of a color that are seen among white society. Many children at the age of ten fifteen, are seen with their hair of a bright silver gray, and some almost perfectly white. Many of the young women are extremely beautiful-they marry at a very early age, and dress with much neatness ' practice more pure, native modesty, than any female society that I ever was in. Their beautiful white skin dresses are ornamented in a variety of ways with porcupine quills, beads of different colors, elk's teeth, and shells.  After becoming matrons, that blushing modesty in a degree disappear and they wear a dress made of elk skin, shorter and better calculated for the labors duties they have to perform, as slaves to their lords. Perhaps nothing ever more completely astonished these people than the operations of my brush. Soon after arriving in their village, I invited and painted the two principal chiefs; in a very few minutes after having exhibited them, the whole village was crowding upon me to see them. The likenesses were recognized, and some commenced yelling, some singing and others crying. The eager curiosity and astonishment which they gazed upon me, plainly showed they considered me some strange being; they soon resolved, that I was the greatest medicine man in the world, for they said I had made living beings;-said they could see them laugh, and if they could laugh they could speak, and must be alive. The squaws soon raised a cry against me, saying that I was a dangerous man that I could kill them when I pleased, and that some bad luck would happen to these whom I painted. In this way they excited fear in the minds of a number of Chiefs who had agreed to sit; my operations, of course were completed at a stand. I finally had an interview with a number of them, and assured them, that I was but a man like themselves, that my art had no medicine or mystery about it, but could be learned by any of them if they would practice it as long as I had. I was taken by the arm by the Chiefs and led to their lodge where a feast was prepared for me in their best way. In this manner I was taken from one lodge to another, and treated in the cordial manner. I hope is an universal disposition in the Indian character to admire curious works of art, and particularly for paintings, for which they seem to have the greatest passion; it is not therefore to be wondered at that they were astonished at an operation so novel and unthought of by them, and that I should for once in my life, have been considered a great man and a great painter.  It was reported in the village that a large herd of buffalo were insight, and in a few minute about one hundred young men were mounted with bows and arrows in their hand and ready for the onset. An old chief offered me a fine horse to ride, which I mounted and swept off in the flying throng to see the sport. We were soon in sight of the unsuspecting band, who knew not their danger until they completely surrounded by their enemy; here then ensued a scene equal to any military manoeuver. The animals, afrighted, rapidly fled in a body, but the fleet cavalry closed so rapidly in front of them, waiving their small robe, and raising their frightful yells, that they turned about in confusion, and bent their course in a different direction, where they also met their yelling foes advancing in the rear-during which time they were so closely hemmed in, that they rushed together in the greatest confusion, being able to move in no other form than in a circle.- The Indians then commenced riding round them in a ring-the whizzing arrows began to fly, and the work of death commenced-not a mere scene of laughter, but a battle scene of the most spirited kind, for the bulls often would turn upon them with the greatest fury, in which case their only safety was flight. I often saw the Indians dismounted in the midst of the confusion and struggle-the instant their feet touched the ground, the small robe from their waist was in readiness for the bull,and as quick as thought, this robe is thrown over his horns and face. The Indian leaps by his side,and his arrow flies to the heart. About fifteen minutes closed the scene and all was silent; about 300 were slain, and not one of the band escaped. Though the scene had been as spirited and picturesque, that I looked upon it with riveted feelings of delight, yet I could not look upon this field of slain, who had so nobly died, without sensations of pity and regret.--Com. Adv.




      


'LO, THE POOR INDIAN.'

The territory to which the powers that now  be, are endeavoring to drive the aboriginal inhabitants of this land, is a barren inhospitable desert!! a vast ocean of sand! destitute of wood; destitute of water, and almost destitute of vegetation except prickly pears and a few useless plants that belong to an arid sterile soil, it is true there is a strip of tolerably good land averaging about twenty-five miles in width, between this great desert and the state of Missouri and Arkansas territory, but this will hardly be sufficient for neutral ground between the Indians and their savage white neighbors.

I now appeal the PEOPLE of the U. States, and ask, are you willing to tear these rightful owners of the soil from the land which by the laws of God and nature belong to them; and which the supreme law of this land has guarantied to them, and to drive them out into this inhospitable desert to endure the scorching heat of summer and to remain unprotected from the bitter blasts of winter as they come howling from the Rocky Mountain? with not a tree for fuel or for shelter, and scarcely a drop of water to allay their thirst in summer.

The rivers as depicted on the maps may exist in winter, but in summer, after running a small distance eastward from the Rock Mountains, they sink into the sand and for hundreds of miles do not appear upon the surface. Comment is unnecessary, if you are determined to extirpate these helpless unoffending people do it at once. The Paxton boys themselves were more merciful, they surrounded the church whilst the Indians were on their knees at prayers and beat their brains out with mallets; cruel as that was, it was not more cruel than to send helpless old men, women and children many of whom are now more civilized and Christianized than their white neighbors, into such a place as is destined for them; there to perish by hunger and thirst, or whilst they live to endure alternately the scorching rays of a summer sun, reflected by the unshaded sand, or the piercing northwest wintry winds as it comes sweeping from the mountains.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: JAN. 26, 1833

We present to our readers below the correspondence of Messrs. Worcester and Butler in relation to their pending case in the Supreme Court, against the State of Georgia, which has resulted in their liberation from their confinement in the penitentiary.

The position in which Georgia had placed herself against these worthy men, we had always believed was a useless one; her resistance even with the bayonet, had the case been prosecuted, would not have invalidated the decision of the Supreme Court. The decision of this high court, touching the rights of the Cherokees, is by no means weakened, by the discharge of the Missionaries from their confinement. If the United States were as intent at the preservation of their primary tribunals as they are at a revolution, the decision of the Supreme Court would be sustained, and the rights of the Cherokees as a nation would be protected according to treaties.

It will be seen that these Missionaries have made no concessions to the State of Georgia by accepting of their release, for while they avowed the justice of their cause in the face of Gov. Lumpkin; the case could be borne no longer, he ordered their discharge.

NEW ECHOTA, Cher. Na. Jan. 23, 1833

Mr. E. Hicks,- Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir,- The following communications of Dr. Butler and myself to Messrs. Wirt and Sergeant and to the Governor of Georgia are at your disposal,

Yours respectfully,

S.A. WORCESTER.

PENITENTIARY, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jan. 8. 1833.

HON. WM. WIRT AND HON. JOHN SERGEANT,

GENTLEMEN, We write to inform you that, by considerations of a public nature with which you are already familiar, we have been led to the conviction that it is not expedient, under existing circumstances, further to prosecute the case in controversy between the State of Georgia and ourselves, in the Supreme Court of the United States. It is our desire, therefore, that you make no motion on our behalf before that Court.

You may expect a further communication for us in a few days. In the mean time we are,

with great regard and esteem,

yours very truly

[Signed] S.A. WORCESTER,

ELIZUR BUTLER,

PENITENTIARY, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jan. 8, 1833

To His Excellency  WILSON LUMPKIN,

Governor of the State of Georgia,

Sir,--In reference to a notice given to your Excellency on the 26th of November last by our counsel, in our behalf, of our intention to move the Supreme Court of the United States, on the second day of February next for further process in the case between ourselves individually as plaintiffs in error, and the State of Georgia as defendant in error, we have now to inform your Excellency, that we have this day forwarded instruction to our counsel to forbear the intended motion, and to prosecute the case no farther.  We beg leave respectfully to state to your Excellency, that we have not been led to the adoption of this measure by any change in views in regard to the principle on which we have acted, or by any doubt of the justice of our cause, or our perfect right to a legal discharge, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court in our favor, already given; but by the apprehension that the further prosecution of the case under existing circumstances injurious to our beloved country.

We are respectfully yours,

[Signed]

S.A.WORCESTER

ELIZUR BUTLER.

PENITENTIARY, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jan 9, 1833

To his Excellency Wilson Lumpkin,

 Governor of the State of Georgia.

Sir- we are sorry to be informed that some expressions in our communication of yesterday were regarded by your Excellency as an indignity offered to the State or its authorities. Nothing could be further from our design. In the course we have not taken it has been our intention simply to forbear the prosecution of our case, and to leave the question of the continuance of our confinement to the magnanimity of the State.

We are yours respectfully,

[Signed] S.A. WORCESTER

ELIZUR BUTLER

___________________________

From the Federal Union

GEORGIA.

By Wilson Lumpkin, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State, and of the Militia thereof.



To CHARLES C. MILLS, Esquire, Principal Keeper of the Penitentiary.

WHEREAS at a Superior Court, held in and for the county of Gwinnett, at the September Term 1831, Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler were convicted of illegal residence within the Territory of this State, then inhabited almost exclusively by Cherokee Indians, and such other persons as were unfriendly to the rights and interest of the State:- Whereupon they were sentenced to four years confinement in the Penitentiary of this State.

And whereas sound policy has, since the confinement of said persons, induced the constituted authorities of this State to provide by law, for the legal settlement of the unoccupied part of said Territory, by a free white population-and having provided for the organization of said Territory into counties of suitable form and size for the convenience and regular administration of public justice, and the due execution of the laws of the State. And the Legislature being assured at their late session, that under existing arrangements, which were daily going into execution, the country would shortly contain a sufficient number of well qualified inhabitants, to carry fully into effect these several objects-did therefore repeal the law under which the said Samuel A. Worcester and Butler were convicted and sentenced as aforesaid:

And whereas the said Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler have made known to me, that they have instructed their counsel, William Wirt and John Sergeant Esquires, to prosecute the case which they had though fit to institute before the Supreme Court of the United States against the State of Georgia, no further; but have concluded 'to leave the question of their continuance in confinement to the magnanimity of the State.'

And moreover, taking into consideration the earnest solicitude for the release of these individuals, which has been communicated to me, in the most friendly and respectful manner, by many of the most distinguished friends of the State, residing in various parts of the Union-amongst whom are many of those who have sustained the State and her authorities throughout this unpleasant controversy. And also taking into view, the triumphant ground which the State finally occupies in relation to this subject, in the eyes of the Nation, as has been sufficiently attested, through various channels, especially in the recent overwhelming re-election of President Jackson, the known defender of the State throughout this controversy. And now believing as I do, that not only the rights of the State have been fully and successfully vindicated and sustained in this matter, but being assured as I am, that the state is free from the menace of any pretended power whatever, to infringe upon her rights, or control her will in relation for this subject. And above all other considerations the magnanimity of Georgia being now appealed to-I therefore, as the organ of the State, feel bound to sustain the generous and liberal character of her people.

Whatever may have been the errors of the individual-whatever embarrassments and heart burning they may have been instrumental in creating-however mischievous they may have been in working evil to the State, to themselves, and the still more unfortunate Cherokees-and whatever may have been the spirit which has influenced them to the course they have pursued, and however obstinately they may have adhered to the counsels of their employers, aiders and abetters, yet the present state of things is such, that it is enough-that they may submit the case 'to the magnanimity of the State.' They shall therefore go free.--And know ye, that for and in consideration of all the forgoing circumstances, and many more which might be enumerated-I have thought proper to remit, and do, in virtue of the powers vested in me by the Constitution, hereby remit the further execution of the sentence of the Court against the said Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler, and order that they be forthwith discharged.

In testimony where of, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the Ex. Department to be affixed, this fourteenth dy of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, and of American independence the fifty-seventh

WILSON LUMPKIN.

By the Governor:

Rholom A. Greene, Secretary.




      


CONGRESS

On the 12th inst. Mr. Forsyth introduced in the Senate a bill to provide for the fulfillment of the Compact of 1802 between the United States and the State of Georgia, which was twice read and referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs.






      


(Note, this issue 2 pages only)

INDIANS,

INDIANS IN LOWER CANADA.

In the legislature of Lower Canada, on the 15th inst. Mr. Nelson presented a petition from the Lorrette Indians, representing their claims upon the seigned (sic) of Sillery, and praying redress.  It was couched in respectful terms and, though coming from those we call savages, stated their hard case clearly and well. It was upon a well known subject of that conmlian (sic), had been agitated a great number of years, and had even, as a dernier resort, induced the poor Indians to send a mission to His Majesty George IV where they got fair words, gold medal, 'c. But were referred back for justice to the very usurpers of their property,-the Colonial Government. The property was included in that belonging to the Jesuits Estates, and now that those had been given up to the province, they came to claim the rights that had been wrested from their forefather.- They represented the miserable plight they were in. They were not only debarred from receiving that instruction for which the grant was originally made, which would advance them in the scale of civilization, but for want of their inheritance, the most robust young men, and the most industrious women amongst them could with great difficulty procure a bare subsistence. Mr. Smart, considered this petition to be one of a public character. Nothing could be more so than anything relating to the conduct and connections between the red men of the forest and the descendants of the Europeans. Is it because they are poor and few in number that we are not to listen to them? Our ancestors, listened to their ancestors, because they were numerous and powerful; but now these poor red men of the forest, whose property we are enjoying, by what right he did not enquire, for he did not mean to enter into the merits of the petition, are to be put off on account of an informality. He thought this was distinctly and plainly a public petition and ought to be received as such.

Mr. Speaker said, with respect to the reception of the petition, that had it been a general representation from the whole body of Indians, it would then have been a public petition, but this was from a particular set of men, claiming particular lands. But he thought the rules in this case should not be followed up to the utmost rigor, and as it appeared to be the general sense of the House that the petition should be received, he should not, for his part, object to it. The petition was then received and referred to a Committee of five.




      


The Washington Globe of the 3d inst. contains a correspondence between the SECRETARY OF WAR, and Messrs KING, MADRIS and CLAY, members of Congress from the State of Alabama, in reference to the course which the Government will pursue towards the white settlers on the Indian lands in that State, ceded by the late treaty. It will be remembered that reservations are not to be selected after survey for the exclusive use of the Indians. The Representative from Alabama stated that the treaty does not seem to contemplate the removal of any of these settlers, necessarily, 'unless they shall have trespassed on the improvements made by and actually in the possession of the Indians.' They ask, therefore, that no removals be required, from sections 'where the settler occupies under contract of purchase or lease from the head of the family, and that no removal be required at all until thirty days after the selection of the Indian reservations.'

Governor Cass replies that the Government wishes to avoid all unnecessary severity towards the settlers; but it is his duty 'to preserve the public faith, and to fulfil, on the part of the United States, those compacts under which the Indians cede very important and valuable rights.' He thereupon explains, that person who have obtained peaceable possession of the land upon which they live, and do not retain it to the exclusion of any just Indian title, may retain it until the Indian reservations are selected, but must remove from the reservations within thirty days thereafter.

Balto. Amer.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: FEB. 2, 1833

The following account of a massacre of two white families, by the Cherokees is taken from the National Intelligencer, and on the authority of a rumor by the Augusta Courier, the gentlemen of the Intelligence (sic), sound it to the world as lamentable. We are sorry that these popular editors, should have uttered the sentence at the head of the article, destitute of facts as they must have been, where with to allege the barbarities of the Cherokees. Although the words spoken are but few, it may be productive of immense injury to the Cherokees.- It awakens the prejudice of the whites, and strengthens their hatred to the Cherokees, for supposed offenses having as we know in the present case, no foundation in truth We will briefly relate the case which is blazoned to the world, and for the facts of which it is our aim that our relation shall be strictly true.

A white family of four persons resided at Saloquoyah ten miles distant from this place, Lawson Bowman, wife, child ' mother-in-law. Bowman was a young man brought up partly in the Nation and lived 3 or 4 miles from any house. The week preceding Christmas, two Indian boys passing his place, found that the house had burned to the ground with the occupants of it. The boys made it known, and many Cherokees proceeded to the place to make some discovery whether this painful loss of lives was occasioned by murder or otherwise. It appearing the house had been burned four or five days previous, and a heavy rain, no circumstances appeared which would justify the conclusion that it was a case of murder. Nothing could be found of the remains of the persons, but small pieces of cinders. An out-house contained some property undisturbed. In the mean time, Bowman's relations had charged the perpetration of this crime to the Cherokees, and the Guard were sent for, to arrest them. The writer of this article advised the Indians to submit. They did so.  The Georgia Guard rushed to the Indian settlement with the spirit of Samson when he went down to Askelon, or like a lawless storm, frightened the poor women ' children from their homes in the cold days of Christmas and chained fast together 8 or 10 Cherokees.  They were kept in this condition for several days; we saw some driven along the muddy roads to some magistrates for examination, but in the absence of any testimony whatever against these men, they were all released. This is the only case that has occurred where the loss of lives has been charged to the Cherokees, and so far they have proved unfounded.

The authorities of Georgia not being satisfied with dipping their hands in the blood of George Tassels and Ahcayaley, we hear that the guard have arrested an Indian named Took, of infamous character, of whom, as of the others, the sight of Georgia justice may be the penalty of death.

The Cherokees are not such savages as is so liberally lavished on us by the Courier; our readers are therefore informed, that women and children are ever exempt from the violence of the Cherokees. In conclusion we would enquire of the editors of the Intelligencer why have they not applied the same language to Georgia for robbing us of our lands, and the nullification of our Treaties?




      


The following lamentable information is from the Augusta Courier of January 4: Nat. Int.

'A passenger in the stage last night, who came through the Cherokee Nation, says that there was great excitement there.  Some person who had drawn a tract of land, on which were improvements, attempted to take probably violent possession, and was resisted by the Indians, and that two families consisting of nine persons, had been massacred by the enraged savages. He says the Georgia Guard is in close pursuit of the murderers.'




      


We stated in our paper of week before last, a new delegation, through the medium of J. Walker had been invited to proceed to Washington City.- In accordance with the orders of the Secretary of War, Walker selected 3 other persons with himself to proceed. A day was fixed on for their departure, when one of the members declared, that it was treachery to go on without authority from the Cherokees. A second feigned himself sick. A third, an old warrior, declared he could not visit Washington with a man having no authority, rather than, as the wagoners says is 'stall on level ground,' Walker with the orders from the White House in his pocket, has taken a seat alone, and followed on the cracking of the whip. A law of Congress say, if Government invite a deputation of Indians to Washington, their expenses shall be paid. But as the President has refused to pay the Cherokee Nation their annuities according to treaties, the Cherokees are inclined to the opinion, that the President will construe the former to be a prospective law.

________________________

Scarcity of paper compels us to issue but half a sheet this week.

______________________

The following remarks are from the New York Spectator on the great fraud of Shadrick Bogan (so called) for obtaining by fraudulent means, as commissioners of the lottery distributing the lands of the Cherokees, taken by the State of Georgia. It appears the impeachment of the gentleman for the offence, has cost him is reputation and liberty. If one rogue reproved another for the same act, we could not wonder; as such, what will they not do? But when a civilized community robs another of their lands in time of profound peace, and punishes its citizens for obtaining by fraud a part of the same lands, it seems to us the whole world cannot furnish such an instance. It is a monster!

___________________

It is altogether a mistake to denounce this as 'one of the most stupendous frauds ever practiced upon any community.' It is trifling, both in its extent and its enormity, compared with the FRAUD in which the Government of Ga. is engaged against the Cherokee community.  Bogan was endeavoring to compass the robbing of John Ridge-the eloquent ' accomplished Cherokee Chief who was in this city last winter-but the employers of Bogan are engaged in robbing the whole Cherokee Nation of the property. No doubt Bogan deserves the State prison. But what angry bolt of heaven is red enough with wrath, to punish his employers!






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: FEB 2, 1833

(Note this is the date printed, it should be Feb. 9.1833)

The following communication in relation to the Governor of Georgia and the Missionaries we willingly admit to our columns.  The references which the writer makes to the Proclamation of the President that the decisions of the Supreme Court are to be sustained as the law of the land, ' we cannot see it _______on the President and Georgia at the time when the Court has pronounced her measures void, than it will be on South Carolina on the happening of that contingency.

We may here remark that the Gov. of Georgia would make it appear, that the extension of his clemency was solely at the instance of the missionaries. But the facts are not so, they exist on the other hand. He, the Governor, gave authority to Senator Forsyth to interpose who found his way to the office of Mr. Wirt in Baltimore and entreated him withdrawing the case from the Supreme Court. The policy of Georgia charging in this case Messrs Worcester and Butler at all other times, were ready, and adopted an unconditional restoration to their liberties of which they had been so unjustly deprived.

The Israelites trembled at the mighty thunderings on Mount Sinai, so the disobedient leaders of Georgia wished to hear no more of the Supreme Court.

__________________

Cher. Nation Jan 27th 1833

Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir:_ In reading the Proclamation of the Governor of Georgia for the release of the Missionaries from the Penitentiary dated the 11th inst. I am much surprised to find so may mistakes made (as I think there are) by a person so elevated in office.

He states the manner in which the Missionaries were tried, and sentenced to four years imprisonment in the Penitentiary for 'illegal residence in the Territory of this state' which a man not professing to know so much nor holding any office, would call legal residence in the Cherokee Nation; which has been sufficiently proven to be the call to the satisfaction of any unprejudiced man who can read, from the high station of the Governor down to the beggar, by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, that the State of Georgia claiming jurisdiction within the boundaries of the Cherokee Nation as defined by Treaties of between the United States and them, was unconstitutional null and void are also the President's Proclamation to the State of South Carolina, say that the Laws of Congress, the Constitution of the United States and treaties made under it are the supreme law of the land.

Now it seem curious to me that the Governor, must have read the Proclamation; and yet will say that 'President Jackson is the known defender of the state throughout this controversy.' Will the Governor of Georgia try to make the world believe that his friend who he intimates has defended the state in robbing the Cherokees of their lands and gold, after the President himself has published to the world his sentiments that 'did not speak with a  forked tongue' 'nor never told a red brother a lie 'c.'

After permitting the state to do these things and even so far suffer her as I say to rob, murder and plunder the Cherokees at will for years, then survey their lands prevent them with an armed force from digging their own gold, make a lottery, have it all drawn and settled and all this without the consent of the Cherokees and also without any equivalent whatever. I say after all this the Governor will try to make the world believe his friend will yet speak with a forked tongue with one fork to South Carolina and the other to Georgia.

Shame! Shame! All this shows the magnanimity of the State, the Christian and patriotic spirit of her leading men and legislators who all must of course know the decision of the Supreme Court and read the President's proclamation all know their acts as respects the Cherokee Nation were pronounced null and void yet they have passed laws for the government of the Cherokee country and divided into counties 'c. and this as the Gov. says as sound policy dictated to them. The Cherokees could no better than this although termed a savage people he says 'the Territory of the state was then inhabited exclusively by Cherokees and others unfriendly to the rights and interests of the State.'

If Robbery and possession afterwards, is the right and interests of the State who would be friendly to it? The Gov. says the President is the known defender of the State in it, can any man of common sense believe this after reading the Proclamation? We hope for better times. The President may have winked at these things, heretofore from the hope the Cherokee lands would be given up by the Indians and all agree to remove west of the Mississippi- But no, he has proclaimed his sentiments to the world, he cannot, constently and we hope will not now talk with a forked tongue as the Governor wants him to do.

The Governor says he is well as____-ed that the state is free from the _________ of any pretended power whatever to infringe upon her rights or control her will in relation to this subject. The Governor certainly would seem to have forgotten that the state of Georgia was a party in creating the Supreme Court of the United States and is bound to respect and obey its decisions whenever it comes in the way, as long as she is one of the United States-this is the true cause why the Missionaries were released, (that is the fear of the Supreme Court, whom she had placed over herself, would manage and control her will on the subject.  Can any men of any firmness suppose that the President of the United States in his high and responsible station, the highest which the people of the United States can confer on any man, will degrade himself so far as to suffer Georgia to go on ' trample under foot solemn Treaties, Laws of Congress and the high acts of the Supreme Court of the United States, after telling South Carolina and the world knows his views and sentiments on these subjects? No.  The President of the United States cannot be the man the Governor represents himself to be, else the people of the United States would not have placed him in the executive chair a second time, or would they choose a man who would talk with a forked tongue, in preference to one who would not? I suppose not.

So, I presume the fear of another power of menacing and controlling the will of the state on the subject caused the Governor to release the missionaries. The power I speak of is President Jackson, although the Governor says, 'he (Jackson) is the known defender of the state throughout this controversy.'

The Governor says he hereby 'remits the further execution of the sentence of the court against the said S. A. Worcester and Elizur Butler.' Very kind magnanimous State of Georgia. To condescend so far as to remit an unconstitutional sentence declared so by the Supreme Court of the United States long since. But if it is so as the Governor would have it be then indeed we Cherokees are in a desperate situation; we are in darkness, the promises and acts even of the highest authorities of this much 'Talked of Union is nothing more than wind,' and a rope of sand.

CANDOUR.




      


CANDY'S CREEK,

Jan. 24, 1833

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.



Sir:_ As the memory of the late Rev. A. Hoyt, will long be cherished with peculiar delight by his missionary and Cherokee friends, I trust a few lines from his pen will not be either unwelcome or unprofitable to your readers. The following was written at Willstown, March 30, 1826, and addressed to his sons, preparing for the ministry at the Theological Seminary, Maryville. As this has fallen into my hands, I take the liberty of forwarding you a copy.

Yours respectfully,

D. S. B.

MY EVER DEAR SONS,

I hope you have been enabled to pass your school examination, in a good degree, to the satisfaction of your instructors, and without bringing any discredit on the Seminary. You are not to have a little respite from your studies, which may afford you time for reflection. You may find it profitable to review the past. I have no doubt but you have been 'diligent in business.' You inherit from your parents a disposition to persevere in whatever you undertake. But as the remainder of the test, 'Fervent in spirit, serving the Lord.' You inherit from the same source, a dreadful clog,-a backwardness-a death-like stupidity, to all the finer, and more noble exercises of the soul,-to all that elevates man above the spirited animal,-to all that assimilates to angels, and the spirits of just men made perfect. If you have had a good degree of this fervency of spirit,--this devotedness to God, you are indebted for it wholly to free mercy; and abounding grace. If the sciences have so occupied your attention, that you have had little life in religion, and have made no progress in piety, we shall all have reason to lament that so much time has been spent to so little purpose. Therefore while you are taking a retrospect of the winter past, permit a father to ask you to look into your closets, and your hearts; and in view of a preparation for the sacred ministry, see what progress you have made in piety. If you would please your Savor, seek first of all a nearness of heart to Him. The same is requisite for your usefulness and comfort here and a meekness for the saints in light. I wish you to be learned in the sciences I wish you to be mighty in the scriptures, but above all, that you be eminent for spiritual mindedness and ardent piety. This spirit is the gift of God, who has said, 'ask and ye shall receive.'

Few perhaps sufficiently realize the value and importance of closet devotion. Of all the neglects of my very unprofitable life, those of the closet cause the deepest regret. I wish my children to shun my false steps, and to follow me only as I have followed Christ, you will remember that it is said of Him, ' He overcame strong crying and tears.' If you add occasionally a day of fasting, I think you will find it beneficial. In  your seminary do you have any days set apart for fasting? At Andover I think the professors and students have, stated by a semiannual fast.  Perhaps the mixed character in your school, may render this inexpedient in the view of your directors. But there can be no objection to an occasional private fast, when your other duties will admit of it. In a word, 'It is good to draw nigh to God.' Our duty and interest,- our comfort and our usefulness are combined in urging us to do this by all the means which he appointed. You doubtless now consider it your great business to prepare for usefulness in the church below, I trust however that you will at the same time, seek to be useful as your pass along, strive to let no opportunity for usefulness pass unimproved. I would have you forward to bring yourselves into notice, or ever seem to obtrude yourselves into any service which does not belong to you, but what I mean is, that with meekness and unaffected humanity, as in the sight of God, you should at all times seek the advancement of the Redeemers kingdom; and never put off for tomorrow what can be done today. The future is all unknown to us- many young men of promising prospects with the dead before they had prepared to go out. What you call our time of preparation, may then be your only time of life. Let it then be improved for your own profit, and the profit of others, that at the day of judgment your present, and all your future days (be they more or less) may be reviewed with joy by yourselves, and by all with whom you are connected.






      


INDIANS

Among the most interesting events of this stirring age, are the pardon and release of the two Georgia Missionaries. Gov. Lumpkin has published his manifesto to the world, setting forth that they have thrown themselves upon the magnanimity of the State,-that the State has done enough for glory,-and there in all the dignity of conscious rectitude, and perfumed with the full odor of sanctity, she turns the key of the penitentiary, and with clemency transcending that of Titus himself, she bids them go in peace. In other words the missionaries finding that an unconditional pardon was to be given them, have abandoned the process by which they were endeavoring to obtain their liberty, and are pardoned.

Truly it becomes Georgia to talk about magnanimity, and to instruct her officers to boast of the dignity and honor with which she is clothed. We wish her all possible joy, if she finds anything to gratify her pride in the laurels she has won, and the prizes she has drawn. Her own vain glorious boastings,-and self commendation however, must be more valuable than we think them, if they furnish a fair offset against the unmeasured abhorrence and aversion of the civilized world. She has indeed earned for herself some reputation- a reputation that bids fair to be remembered while that of Algiers is forgotten.  At the very moment while by her officials, she is canting about magnanimity and clemency, she is consummating one of the most extensive robberies which the world ever witnessed,-and without a shadow of title, in defiance of the decisions of her own Courts, as well as those of the Union, in utter contempt of public faith and private memory with no motive but sordid and impertinent avarice, she seizes the houses, farms, gold mines and lands of the defenseless Cherokees, and sells them by lottery to her own citizens. The lawful property of these poor wretches she takes by conquest, her citizens attempt to win possession from the desperate owners by force, and can in many instances maintain that possession only by murder.

The magnanimity of Georgia! The Buccaneers of old were equally magnanimous; like Georgia, they seized what they wanted, with strong hands and made good their title by conquest, and where necessary, by extermination. Their motives were not in the least degree more selfish, or less magnanimous than those of Georgia.- They shed more blood than Georgia has yet caused to now,-but they did not in their whole history deviate more widely from the eternal rules of strict justice ' honor,-they did not even perpetuate a more palpable booty, they never gave the world more glaring example of the suppression of law by brute force than Georgia does at the moment.

The magnanimity of Georgia! Without law and against right she seizes upon two individuals, and throws them into her dungeons. They have been solemnly adjudged by the highest tribunal known to the laws to be innocent of any crime whatever,-and now she generously remits the remainder of a sentence, which she had no right to enact in the first place, and which in itself was a crime of the deepest atrocity. At the very moment while she is distributing the spoils of the Cherokees, inflicting an incurable wound on the laws and Constitution of this land,-trespassing upon the national faith,-staining with her ___ iniquities the pure ermine of the national honor,-and placing her self at the same level in civilization and justice with the Barbary powers, she rebukes South Carolina for threatening to nullify the laws. When Georgia lets go her ruffian grasp from the throat of the Cherokees,- when she has made all the reparation she can make to those whom her illegal violence has shut up in jail,- she may begin to talk about justice. Even then, it would be unreasonable and premature to mention of magnanimity.

Lowell. Journal.




      


GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES.

The National Gazette contains a communication on this subject, in which is attempted to be shown that the bloody bill cannot be made applicable to the Cherokee case. For some reason or other, we cannot conceive what the Gazette countenances the same idea. We do not wish to charge the Gazette with an attempt at deception, but does not the Gazette know what is well known here and elsewhere that the sections referred to were introduced, we might almost say, expressly for the purpose of being applied to the Georgia case. It was soon known that it was intended for them to be so applied, and whatever doubts might have been entertained upon the subject were soon removed by the Indian delegation. They indirectly refused to sell, although the government made them an offer of two million and a half, and would have gone to three million. We are not sure but that three millions were offered. Has the Gazette never heard that it was with difficulty the President could be got to sign the bill? The truth is, the administration was outwitted. They discovered it, but not until it was too late.  The President gave himself up, bound hand and foot, to his new friends, and they had not the least compassion for him.

But what will Georgia do when the mandate of the Supreme Court comes? Will she acknowledge her sins, repent and obey? Will she look to the White House for countenance and forbearance? In vain! The proclamation stares her in the face.  Will she look to her Union and proclamation men-her advocates of the bloody bill, her Forsyths and her Waynes?  It will be needless. They have sold her to the Philistines, and shortly hope to receive the price of their treachery. Will she look to the Union men of the adjoining States? Alas! their cry is submit! submit! The law of Congress must be executed!

[U. S. Telegraph.]

_________________

Extract of a letter from the 'Spy in Washington'

WASHINGTON, D.C.- March 18, 1833.

Sir:- It is not my general habit to notice the remarks which are made on my letters. But the Intelligencer of Monday contains an article from the National Gazette which claims attention. The object of the writer appears to be twofold. First to show that no section of the enforcing bill can, in any manner affect the case of the Cherokees in relation to their lands. And second, that as the law referred to does not affect the case, no difficulties can have arisen calculated to interrupt the then pending negotiation of a treaty between the Cherokees and the Government.

I entertain a profound respect for the author of the article under consideration who is a distinguished jurist. It is from the pen of Judge Hopkinson of Pennsylvania. This respect forbids that I should comment upon what I consider the cavalier if not dogmatic style of the Judge's production. His honor will pardon me, however, when I say that as he is evidently mistaken, only in the argument relating to the technicalities of the case.  The facts are, as stated.  Difficulties had arisen and the negotiation, as I anticipated, was broken off abruptly. No treaty was concluded. Since the passage of the Enforcing Bill, the Cherokees have advanced in their demands for compensation.

I do not intend through your paper or elsewhere to argue a law point with his honor the Judge. But I think he will find after more minute examination that the bill changes the character of the Cherokee case. May it not be, that although the Supreme Court of the United States had no original, yet that they may have appellate jurisdiction! May not the Cherokees, as individuals, under this bill commence their suit in the State Courts of Ga. and then appeal to the United States Court?- Could they have made such an appeal without the record previous to the passage? But I feel myself warranted in stating to his Honor that the counsel for the Indians, Mr. Wirt, was consulted previous to the passage of the bill, on the particular section referred to, and he supposed that it would cover the case of his clients. I do not assert, but I believe it to be so, that Mr Wirt drafted the section himself. Whether this be true, or not, I take leave to refer the Hon Judge Hopkinson for further explanations, to the learned Counsel.

__________________

From the Washington Globe.



We would not have noticed the silly trash of the New York Spy, about the operation of the Revenue Collection Bill upon the Cherokee country, had we not seen that in respectable prints, his statement was considered worthy of refutation. The National Gazette has correctly said there is no case depending, and given its views of the effect of the act upon this matter. But the whole subject, and all the assertions concerning it are unworthy serious examination of the law.

The 4th and 5th sections are those, which it is said, will operate on the Cherokee question, and constitute the trap in which the President is kindly supposed to have caught himself. Let us see. The 4th section simply provides for the removal of the record or case from the State Court to that of the United States. With this of course the Executive has no concern. His interposition can never be required for the act expressly defines the mode in which the omission shall be supplied. If the State Court fails to send the record.

The fifth section is the one which authorizes the employment of military force, but unfortunately for the truth of all those bug-bear stories, this section is limited in its operation to the end of the next Session of Congress. Now independently of the very conclusive review taken in the National Gazette, of the impossibility of the Cherokees maintaining a suit in the Supreme Court of the United States, it is sufficient to say, that no case involving those questions exists in any Court whatever.  Grant the Supreme Court the most ample jurisdiction over this whole subject, and grant what the Court has expressly disclaimed, the right of the Cherokees to appear before them, everyone who knows anything of judicial proceedings knows it is impossible to institute a suit in one of the State Courts, to carry it to the highest Court of law or equity of the State, whence only in all cases, except those relating to the revenue, it can be removed, and from there to the Supreme court of the United States, procure a final judgment thereon; have process issued; the execution thereof obstructed; the proceedings thereon directed by the statute take place, the facts reported to the President; the proclamation issuing the obstruction to be removed; a neglect or refusal to comply with such a proclamation, and then call out the military under this law, before the end of the next Session of Congress.  All these must be done before the President could interfere. It is not pretended that in any of the intermediate stages of the proceedings force would be interposed to obstruct the process. And when all that is done, if it ever should be done, we presume the President would look at his constitutional duty, and examine the whole matter under the Constitution and laws.

We hope we have said enough to allay all the apprehensions of those who have in such a spirit of amity, conjured up this phantom to trouble the country.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA; APRIL 20, 1833

After an intermission of nine weeks, we are enabled to again present to our readers the Cherokee Phoenix. We have been prevented during this long time from the regular production of this paper, from the circumstances of three successive failures of the Georgia weekly mail, which brings us all our important progress and placed it out of power to furnish our office with copies of the latest news. We did not  wish to have recourse to our old files for news which our readers were already conversant. The long indisposition of the editor was another principal cause in delaying the issuing of this paper, causes which we could not control, our readers we hope will pardon this seeming injustice in not furnishing our paper at the times they are entitled.

____________________________

A Called Council of the Nation will meet at Red Clay on the 12th of May. It is stated by the authorities of the Nation that the session will be a short one and will continue but a few days.

__________________________

We invite the attention of our readers to the Communication below, of the Secretary of War through Mr. Herring, to the Cherokee delegation on the subject of intruders on the lands of the Cherokee Nation. It was our intention to have withheld the publication of this interesting document, until we could obtain the communications of the delegation to which this is an answer, and publish then together; but finding it impracticable, we present the Secretary's alone. The ambiguity in which this letter comes to us, precludes any remarks from us, of the extent to which it will be executed. The reference to which the Secretary makes to his original orders, and of which the present are to be a repetition, we have been informed, (for we never saw the orders) had only a reference to the removal of intruders from the limits of North Carolina; for which purpose two companies of troops were stationed within the limits of that State, during the last year and subsequently marched to the excitement in South Carolina.

The remainder of this communication breaths a spirit of so pacific a character to the future well being of the Cherokees, that, if the Government acts up to its obvious meaning, the golden beams of the sun will have penetrated, and light will have dawned through the dark cloud which has been hanging over the Cherokees muttering their destruction, and our liberty, the rights of freemen the Indians birth right will once more be restored. It is an official notification from the Secretary to the delegation of the purity of his mind to promote the well fare of the Cherokee Nation, and that a detachment of troops would forthwith be ordered to remove intruders off of the assailed parts of the Cherokee lands and no distinction can be discovered of the parts of the land, from which intruders are to be removed, for all parts of the nation are now densely settled by intruders, excepting within the limits of North Carolina. Georgia has taken possession of the Cherokee land within its limits, which constitutes in part the Cherokee Nation as defined by Treaties, we shall await with deep anxiety to see the execution of these orders in this part of the nation.

If the President possess the power which undoubtedly he has by the laws of the U. S. to remove intruders off of Cherokee land within the limits of Ten., we should like to know why he has not the same right to remove intruders from Georgia. The Supreme Court having declared the laws of Ga. null and void over the Cherokee country, the circumstance of that State exercising arbitrary power over the Cherokees surely cannot divest the President of his right to execute the laws of the United States.

[Copy]

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

Off. of Ind. Aff. March 14, 1833

Sir:- Your letter of the 8th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War on the subject of intrusion on Cherokee land by white citizens, has been referred to this office for reply.

It cannot be denied, that your complaints are well founded and that your people has sustained injuries from the rapacity and lawless conduct of our citizens. It is however in some degree an unavoidable evil incident to the present condition of your tribe, and no blame is fairly attributable to the Department on that account. It is due to the Secretary of War to say, that soon as he received notice of intruders having presented themselves on your land, he gave orders for their expulsion.--These orders will now be repeated, and a military force will forthwith be dispatched to the assailed parts of your country, for the purpose of expelling and keeping off intruders. And orders will also be given to the District Attorney of the U. States to prosecute for trespass all such as may dare to return after their expulsion. You cannot consider it a misplaced assurance, and it is made with the utmost sincerity that the Department cherishes deep solicitude for the welfare of your Nation, and will to the extent of its power, endeavor to promote it.

With high respect,

Your humble servant

Signed ELBERT HERRING

Messrs. Jno. Ross and others,

Cherokee Delegates.

__________________

We readily admit the communication of Mr. Watie to our columns. The great quantities of spirituous liquors introduced into the Cherokee country since Georgia has possessed herself of it, is now the fountain cause of the growing intemperance of the Cherokees and the loss of lives consequent upon the use of ardent spirits. We hope, and it is our special request to our brethren to pause and reflect on the sufferings that awaits themselves and families in consequence of the use of ardent spirits ' that it is nothing more nor less than taking the dagger from the hand of the Georgian, and thrusting in into our own breasts

CHEROKEE COURT HOUSE,

March 30th 1833

To the Editor of the Cher,. Phoenix.

Sir:- An accident, having its origin in the immoderate use of ardent spirits, happened to one of our people a few days ago, at a a gold mine some fifteen miles from this place which has caused me to address you this note. Robin is the name of the unfortunate man.,- Whilst in a state of deep intoxication, the fire, by which he was lying, unguarded, was communicated by some means to his clothes and burnt him so severely that his life is despaired of--he is now at home under the care of his family, in this neighborhood.

Were it not for the subsequent sufferings of persons thus unfortunate, such accidents would hardly excite pity. For a reasonable man to drink intoxicating liquor until he becomes a senseless brute, incapable of protecting himself from harm, is truly aggravating. I hope that those fond of ardent spirits may take warning from Robin's case.

Yours Respectfully,

T. B. WAITE.

__________________

Army Changes.- We are informed that company 'E' 2d Artillery, Capt. Merchant, will resume its old station at Oglethorpe Barracks, and that company 'B' of the same regiment, Lt. Mackenzie commanding, at present occupying this post, will as soon as relieved, proceed to Augusta, there to be joined by company 'C' also of the 2d Artillery, and thence march for Camp Armistead.-Savannah Georgian.






      


INDIAN EXPENSES.- From the act making appropriations to carry into effect Indian Treaties, 'c., as published in the Globe of Saturday, we make the following abstract;

For the Winnebagoes, for the treaty of September, 1833, $23,332

For the Sacks and Foxes, $69,474

For the Pawnees and Delawares Oct. $42,350

For the Kaskias and Peorias, $ 8,630

For the Appalchicola tribe $13,000

For the Potawattamies of the Prairie

by treaty of October 1832 and January 1833 $124,779

For the Kickapoos, by treaty of Oct. and Nov. $71,232

For the Potawattamies of the Wa-bash, October $263,661

For the Potawattamies of Indiana $31,520

For the Piankeshaws and Weas $22,262

To enable the President to extinguish titles in

Indiana, Illinois and Michigan, in addition

to grant of last year,                                                                 $3,871

For expenses of the treaty at Butte des Morts,

in addition to former appropriation, $400

For removal and subsistence of the Creeks, 'c. in

addition $16,561

For arresting and guarding Ioway murderers, $1,523

For locating Choctaws, (not before provided for,)                  $1,500

For expenses to Chickasaw deputation to Washington $1,650

For expenses for keeping twelve prisoners of war

of the Sacks and Foxes as hostages, 'c. $250

For Sundry small items-together $4,030

For expenses of removing and subsisting the Choctaw,

Creek, Cherokee, and Ohio Indians $474,013

For holding a treaty with the Potawattamies, to

extinguish their remaining title in Illinois,     $10,000

For carrying into effect treaty with Chickasaws

to be refunded out of sales of their land 1,000,000

For do. do. with the Ottawas $47,400

For do. do. with the Menominees $53,400

For several small items-together, $5,000

For expense if found necessary of repressing

Indian hostilities of the frontiers $10,000




      


From the Cross.

LETTER OF MR. Mc.COY

The letter from which extracts are given below, was addressed to Mr. J. R. John, of Troy, Miami County, Ohio. It contains some facts which we presume will be new and interesting to our readers. Mr. French, if we mistake not, was from Miami county.- The letter having been forwarded to our disposal, we publish the following extracts. It is dated.

SHAWANEE (sic) JACKSON

CO. MO. DEC, 1832

My  Dear Friends;_ Your favor by Daniel French was received by my family in my absence to Arkansas.- We were all happy to hear from you.***

I am located about a mile within the State of Missouri. How I know long this will be my place of residence not.

You are aware, that, in the last five years, I have roamed over a good deal of country. My business has extended from Boston and Washington to the western limits of our Indian Territory. I have encountered much hardship, but the Lord has been my helper.

It has been the pleasure of my heavenly Father, to afflict us in regard to our children. Seven have been taken away, and the last four--all sons-- were taken in less than two years' time. Still the Lord is kind as well as just. Josephus and Rice both gave evidence of the conversion of their souls. The other two sons were small.

My family are now all about home, and in health, and, in all respects except religion my living children are a great comfort to us.

The work of colonizing our Indians is still going forward, though slowly. In the course of five years, I have performed a good deal of exploring, surveying, mapping, reporting, writing, 'c. At this time the government is about forming a code of laws for the government for the Indian Territory.

Mr. French is associated with a Mr. Evans at a mission of which Mr. Lykias has the superintendence, among the Shawanees(sic), about five miles from where I write. We have great hope that he will be extensively useful. We meet there now in the capacity of a church. Our mission among the Shawanees is but just going into operation. I think the prospect of good being done is encouraging. I have been twice to Arkansas since the beginning of fall. I assisted in constituting a church there among the Creeks. We have now a Mr. Lewis, late of New York, and a Mr. Davis, a Creek Indian,  preaching among the Creeks. While I was in that country, on one Sunday, two Indians were baptized; a month afterwards thirty-seven  were baptized, and on the monthly meeting, Sunday, ten more were baptized; a majority of them were negroes,-slaves to the Indians; the residue were Indians, excepting one white woman. A Sunday School has been instituted among the Creeks.

Among the Cherokees of Arkansas, a brother O'Bryant resides with a little church which emigrated to that country with him last spring. A brother Wilson of Philadelphia is now here, and will proceed in a few days to the Choctaws of Arkansas and Red River. I have also received a letter from a brother Burch, a Choctaw Baptist minister, and hope we shall soon be able to place him with Wilson among his people. Burch has baptized 23 among the Choctaws east of Mississippi.

In this upper part of the Territory, we have a knowledge of six openings for mission stations that we hardly know from which the call for help is most pressing. More than a dozen missionaries would be set to work at once under auspices  circumstances.- Do try to find some, and send them without delay.

Most affectionately your brother,

and obedient servant.

ISSAC McCOY.




      


MR. WILLIAM WALKER'S LETTER.

'Immediately after we landed in St. Louis, on our way to the West, I proceeded to Gen. Clarke's, superintendent of Indian Affairs, to present our letters of introduction from the Secretary of War, and to receive the same from him to the different Indian agents in the upper country.  While in this office and transacting business with him, he informed me that three chiefs from the Flat-head Nation were in his house, and were quite sick, and that one (the forth) had died a few days ago. They were from the west of the Rocky Mountains. Curiosity prompted me to step into the adjoining room to see them, having never seen any, but often heard of them. I was struck by their appearance. They differ in appearance from any tribe of Indians I have ever seen; small in size, delicately formed, small limbs, and the most exact symmetry throughout except the head. I had always supposed from their being called 'Flat-Heads', that the head was actually flat on the top; but this is not the case. The head is flattened thus: (here in is a drawing in profile of a 'flat-head') From the point of the nose to the apex of the head, there is a perfect straight line, the protuberance of the forehead is flattened or levelled. You may form some idea of the shape of their heads from the rough sketch I have made with the pen, though I confess I have drawn almost too long a proboscis for a Flat-head. This is produced by a pressure upon the cranium while in infancy. The distance they had travelled on foot was nearly three thousand miles to see Gen., Clarke, their great father, as they called him, he being the first American officer they ever became acquainted with, and having much confidence in him, they had come to consult him as they said upon very important matters. Gen. Clarke related to me the object of their mission, and, my dear friend, it is impossible for me to describe to you my feelings while listening to his narrative.  I will here relate it as briefly as I well can. It appeared that some white man had penetrated into their country, and happened to be a spectator at one of their religious ceremonies, which they scrupulously perform at stated periods. He informed them that their mode of worshipping the Supreme Being was radically wrong, and instead of being acceptable and pleasing, it was displeasing to him; he also informed them that the white people away toward the rising of the sun had been put in possession of the true mode of worshipping the great Spirit. They had a book containing directions how to conduct themselves in order to enjoy his favor and hold converse with him; and with this guide, no one need go astray, but every one that would follow the directions laid down there, could enjoy in this life, his favor, and after death would be received into the country where the great Spirit resides, and live forever with him.

Upon receiving this information, they called a national council to take this subject into consideration. Some said, if this be true it is certainly high time we are put in possession of this mode, and if our mode of worshipping be wrong and displeasing to the great Spirit, it is time we had laid it aside, we must know something more about this, it is a matter that cannot be put off, and the sooner we know the better. They accordingly deputed four of their chief to proceed to St. Louis to see their great father, Gen. Clarke, to inquire of him, having no doubt but he would tell them the whole truth about it.

They arrived at St. Louis, and presented themselves to Gen. C. The latter was somewhat puzzled being sensible of the responsibilities that rested on him; he however proceeded by informing them that what they had been told by the white man in their own country was true. Then he went into a succinct history of man, from his creation to the advent of the Savior, explained to them all the moral precepts contained in the Bible expounded to them the decalogue informed them of the advent of the Savior, his life, precepts, his death, resurrection, ascension, and the relation he now stand to man as a mediator-that he will judge the world 'c.

Poor fellows, they were not all permitted to return home to their people with the intelligence. Two died in St. Louis, and the remaining two though somewhat indisposed, set out for their native land. Whether they reached home or not is not known. The change of climate and diet operated very severely upon their health.  Their diet when at home is chiefly vegetables and fish.

________________

Mission to the Flat Heads.- The article which we inserted a few weeks since under the head of 'Wise men of the West' seems to have excited a fine missionary spirit among our Methodist brethren, in whose paper the article was originally published. The following animating letter from the Rev. Wilbur Fisk, we find in the Christian Advocate and Journal of last week.-  N. Y. Obs.

HEAR! HEAR!



Who will respond to the call from beyond the Rocky Mountains?

Messrs Editors.- The communication of brother G. P. Disasway, including one from the Wyandot agent on the subject of the deputation of the Flat Head Indians to Gen. Clarke, has excited in many in this section intense interest. And to be short about it, we are for having a mission established there at once. I have proposed the following plan: Let two suitable men, unencumbered with families, and possessing the spirit of martyrs, throw themselves into the nation; live with them-learn their language-preach Christ to them-and as the way opens introduce school, agriculture, and the arts of civilized life. The means for these improvements can be introduced through the fur traders, and by the reinforcements with which from time to time we can strengthen the mission.  Money shall be forth coming. I will be bondsman for the church. All we want is men. Who will Go? Who? I know of whom I can say, I know of none like him for this enterprize. If he go, (and we have written to him on the subject) we only want another, and the mission will be commenced the coming season. Were I young and healthy, and unencumbered how joyfully would I go! But this honor is reserved for another. Bright will be his crown; glorious his reward.  Affectionately yours,

W. FISK

Wesleyan Seminary, March 9, 1833.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA; MAY 4, 1833

PROGRESS OF THE GEORGIA LAWS.

It will be recollected the Legislature of Georgia passed an act for dividing the Cherokee country into ten counties to be named Forsyth, Lumpkin, Union, Cobb, Gilmer, Cass, Murray, Floyd and _aulding, providing for the organization of said counties and the election of officers, 'c. Pursuant to this act of usurpation on the 4th of March last, a general election for officers was held throughout the said counties, when there were elected fifty judges to the inferior courts, ten sheriffs, twenty clerks for the inferior and superior courts, ten tax collectors, ten country surveyors, ten coroners all residents on the lands taken from the Cherokees, all commissioned by the Governor and now exercising the functions of their respective offices.

The ascendent party in Georgia, or the party in power deny that their measures over the Cherokees to be an exercise of nullification. But we ask, what have become of our sixteen solemn treaties which guaranteed forever to the Cherokees the integrity of their territory. They have been destroyed; and put under foot by the same rule that one man should murder another, and rob him, without having made a previous declaration. In the meantime the President has moved his finger against Carolina for the same offence of infringing on the supreme law of the land, and did not the dormant cannot awake from his slumbers and command Carolina to desist from the intended act of usurpation! If the State of Georgia has not rode the named nullification horse to destroy our treaties and rob us of our lands, she has undoubtedly that of a wolf in sheep's clothing in the presence of the President with her laws over the Cherokees set aside as void by the Supreme Court, legislated for the Cherokees; deprived them of their right of testimony; robbed them of their lands, and superseded the operation of our constitutional treaties. If this is not nullification, and something worth putting to right by the American people, this reprehensible and grossly inconsistent proceedings of the President and Georgia, the Cherokees can never hope for tranquility, until they shall have descended to the tomb and joined their fathers.

____________________

The Southern Recorder in a prelude to an article copied from the Cherokee Phoenix into that print, tells his readers that the Phoenix is under the revision of Ross. The labors of the former Editor of this paper were also claimed by some prints to be the work of the Rev. S. A. Worcester, but the design to make him out incapable utterly failed-as will the Recorder, so long as is the case, absolutely impossible for a Georgia paper to tell one truth on the affairs of the Cherokees.

________________________

ERROR CORRECTED

The 4th number of the New York Spectators, says, that we had taken exceptions to the publication in that paper of some murders alleged against the Cherokees. We are sure that we have not said a word against the honorable course that print has taken in relation to Indian affairs, our cotemporances(sic) have mistaken our remarks, they were intended for the National Intelligencer.

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

MURDER OF CHRISTIAN INDIANS ON THE MUSKINGUM.

A little more than half a century ago there was a Guadenhutten on the Muskingum, a settlement of Christian Moravian Indians, who took no part in the prevailing wars, and were so peaceable they

Lived unknown

Till persecution dragged them into fame

And chased them up to heaven.

Many persons who adopted the sentiments long before advanced in a sermon by a worthy clergyman of Boston, that Indians were Canaanites and should be completely exterminated, were indignant because the Governor of Pittsburgh had released several friendly Indians that had been unjustly imprisoned. One hundred and sixty met at Wheeling and Buffalo and proceeded to Guadenhutten with more than the malice of Satan when he entered Eden. Upon their arrival they professed much sympathy and friendship and easily for the unsuspecting Indians whom they said, they had come to escort to Pittsburgh where they should be protected from their enemies. They possessed themselves of their guns and hatches, which they promised to return at Pittsburgh. In this the brethren acquiesced ' thought they saw in it the protecting hand of God.

A number of the strangers expressing a desire to see Salem, another Christian settlement, they were accompanied by some of the brethren. There also, they possessed much friendship and easily prevailed upon the Indians to return with them. On the way, they entered into much spiritual conversation, for they pretended to be very religious. Suddenly they were seized, bound, and deprived of even their pocked knives ' when they arrived at Gaudenhutten, they found brethren there in the same condition. The murderers then held a council to determine how they should put them to death. Some wished to burn them alive, but it was resolved to scalp them; and a messenger was sent to tell them that as they were Christian Indians they might prepare themselves in a Christian manner, for they must all die the very next day.- In vain they appealed to God for their innocency.  It was enough that they were Indians.  Their doom was irrevocably fixed.  Neither bloodless hands-nor sincere hearts-nor father entreaty, nor mothers tears nor the inoffensiveness of infancy moved the hearts of there determined to do the work of death.

The last night these pious natives spent on earth was employed in praying, and encouraging each other to remain faithful unto the end, and in confessions and expressions of forgiveness and love.

When the morning arrived the murderers expressed great impatience to commence the work of carnage. The brethren declared they 'were ready to die, having commended their immortal souls to God who had given them divine assurance in their hearts that they should be with him forever.'

Immediately after this the defenseless victims were bound two and two together with ropes, and led into two houses which their murderers had prepared and denominated slaughter houses; and there scalped and pierced with swords, so that the blood flowed in streams into the cellars. Thus sixty-two adults, and thirty-four children were butchered, in cold blood. Only two escaped one having been scalped lay among the corpses as dead, till the murderers retired, the other being concealed in the cellar of one of the slaughter houses.

How often do parents fill the minds of their children with recital of murders committed by Indians, and thus creating toward that unfortunate and much injured people an aversion as lusting as life.  Let such think of Muskingum and be silent. While we tell of their cruelties, they can tell more deeds of one that much better befitting Turk than those who profess to have 'drunk the sigh of Calvary.'

______________________

CHEROKEE ANECDOTE

Last Sabbath a Georgian intruder attended a religious meeting, and requested a pious Cherokee who sometimes conducts meetings to appoint at his house. The Cherokee made him no direct answer. At the close of the exercises I observed the Georgian looking as though desirous to know if an appointment had been made stopping to the Cherokee I said 'did you appoint a meeting?' He replied in a low voice 'No, he smell whiskey.'

BRUCE

_________________________

A few days ago a missionary while instructing a Cherokee family remarked, that the wicked would be sent to a place of endless torment. A Cherokee with much gravity enquired-'The same as the Georgians?'  When he was told that all the wicked would be confined to the same place of punishment, he appeared somewhat uneasy and said he would hate to live forever with Georgians.

BRUCE

__________

Two prisoners in the penitentiary at Milledgeville refused to partake in the lottery by which the Cherokee lands are disposed of. Would that Georgia would learn of honesty from some of her degraded citizens.  There may it seems be honesty in prisons when it has none from legislative halls.

BRUCE

_______________________

For a certain lady's album.

Thy looks shall soon be as the dwellings

Of the lamented dead;

Each leaf like a cold marble telling

Of some bright spirit fled.

Oft as thine eye shall wander,

O'er its silent grave;

Sadly thy heart shall ponder,

Upon life's pilgrimage.

And thy full tide of feeling,

Shall turn to worlds above,

Whose ecstacies are stealing

The objects of thy love.

Should I before the slumber;

Then let this stanza tell,

I was of the number,

Who truly wished thee well;-

Wish'd God's mercy peace and grace

Might here thy portion be

And the vision of his face

Through all eternity.

Cherokee Nation, Feb. 1st. 1833.

______________________

MAGNANIMOUS CONDUCT OF GEORGIANS

TOWARDS THE CHEROKEES.

Georgians are continually passing among the Cherokees enquiring 'Have you any whiskey-where is such a district and such a section.' Two men supposed to be of this description called a few evenings ago at the house of one nearest Cherokee neighbor and requested entertainment because they were 'Methodist Brethren.' In the morning they refused to make the poor Cherokee any compensation and even threatened to whip him for telling them he knew they were not brethren because they cursed and swore.

BRUCE




      


From the Columbia (S. C.) Telescope.



 The Dilemma Evaded.- The President, or his directors, have felt the grossness of his conduct, in preparing to use force against South Carolina, for a mere prospective Nullification while he was himself directly encouraging Georgia, in acts of Nullification already put into effect. A new move has therefore been made. The Presidential influence has been tried upon Georgia; perhaps with the intimation that it was no longer possible for the President to evade enforcing the decision of the Supreme Court, unless he likewise yielded to the Carolina proceedings.  Be this as it may, the good Governor of that 'Nullification abhorring State, has pardoned the Missionaries; and they have been enlarged from the Penitentiary.

This is truly shikul(sic). As a more than twelve month of notorious acquiescence-upon favoring of the act of Georgia, could thus be of a sudden reversed and given over to oblivion, whenever it suits King Andrew, that his subjects on the eastern side of a river shall be dealt with differently from those on the other bank?

The missionaries have, it is true, given up their suit against the State; and so far as the President is rid of a present difficulty. But why did he not send a fleet and an army to Savannah, long before he marched against us?  Nay, why does he not now?  Georgia has taken forcible possession of the Indian lands, in direct and violent contravention of the laws of Congress and decree of the Federal Courts. She raised State Troops, for this purpose.  She has enacted and enforced an Oath of Allegiance not only as to the Nullifiers-her loyal citizens-but against the Indians and Missionaries-her Union party. If she has now dispensed with the oath of allegiance, it is (as Governor Lumpkin avers) because he had introduced such a population on Indian lands, as to enable her to execute her laws. The whole possession of these lands is a case of Nullification, as complete as any that is ever likely to happen in South Carolina.  Nothing at all equivalent in point of violence has ever been thought of in this State. Where are the Presidential thunders? Where the fleets-armies-Proclamation?

One word solves the whole enigma-GEORGIA HAS NO UNION PARTY, TO WEAKEN, TO DENOUNCE, TO BETRAY HER; and to call down upon their own State, the fury of her sectional enemies and of an ignorant and savage tyrant.




      


UNITED STATES AGENTS

NOTICE

ALL those Indians who are entitled to pay for improvements on the ceded lands under the Treaties of 1817 ' 1819, whose accounts have been forwarded, and approved by Congress, are notified to attend at this Agency on the 15th of May next, or as soon thereafter as convenient, and receive their pay.

They must attend personally if alive, if dead their legal representatives are entitled.

H. MONTGOMERY,

6th April.






      


INDIANS

From the New York Spectator.

Letter from Washington Irving:- The friends of the distinguished writer will be well pleased to hear from him again, and still more to read the following sketch of his recent journeyings among the wild tribes beyond the verge of civilization; and we earnestly hope, that it will not be long before we have something more than a sketch of this interesting tour; although we believe he has as yet written nothing upon the subject for the press. The letter before us, it will be perceived, was written to a friend in Europe, during Mr. Irving's recent sojourn in Washington.  It reaches us through the medium of the London Athenaeum.

WASHINGTON CITY,

Dec. 18, 1833 (sic)

I arrived here a few days since, from a tour of several months, which carried me far to the West, beyond the bounds of civilization.

After I wrote to you in August, from I think, Niagara, I proceeded with my agreeable fellow travelers, Mr. L. and Mr. P. * to Buffalo, and we embarked at Black Rock, on Lake Erie. On board of the steam-boat was Mr. E. one of the commissioners appointed by government to superintend the settlement of the emigrant Indian tribes, to the west of the Mississippi. He was on his way to the place of rendezvous, and on his invitation, we agreed to accompany him in his expedition. The offer was too tempting to be resisted; I should have an opportunity of seeing the remnants of those great Indian tribes, which are now about to disappear as independent nations, or to be amalgamated under some new form of government. I should see these fine countries of the 'far west' while still in a state of pristine wildness, and behold herds of buffaloes, scouring their native prairies, before they are driven beyond the reach of a civilized tourist.

We, accordingly, traversed the center of Ohio, and embarked in a steam-boat at Cincinnati, for Louisville, in Kentucky.  Thence we descended the Ohio River in another steam-boat, and ascended the Mississippi to St. Louis. Our voyage was prolonged by repeatedly running aground, in consequence of the lowness of the waters and on the first occasion were nearly wrecked and sent to the bottom, by encountering another steam-boat coming with all the impetuous of a high pressure engine, and a rapid current.  Fortunately we had time to shear a little so as to receive the blow obliquely, which carried away part of a wheel, and all the upper works on one side of the boat.

From St. Louis, I went to Fort Jefferson, about nine miles distant, to see Black Hawk, the Indian warrior, and his fellow prisoners-a forlorn crew, emaciated and dejected-the redoubtable chieftain himself, a meager old man upwards of seventy. He has, however, a fine head, a Roman style of face, and a prepossessing countenance.**** * *** ** ** ** *** ** ** * * * * * * * * * *

At St. Louis, we bought horses for ourselves, and a covered wagon for our baggage, tents, provisions, 'c. and travelled by land to Independence a frontier hamlet of log-houses, situated between two and three hundred miles up the Missouri, on the utmost verge of civilization.

From Independence, we struck across the Indian country, along the line of the Indian missions; and arrived on the 8th of October after ten or eleven days' tramp, at Fort Gibson, a frontier fort in Arkansas.  Our journey lay most entirely through vast prairies, or open grassy plain diversified occasionally by beautiful groves and deep fertile bottoms along the streams of water. We lived in frontier and almost Indian style camping out at nights, except when we stopped at the Missionaries, scattered here and there in this vast wilderness.  The weather was serene, and we encountered but one rainy night and one thunder storm, and I found sleeping in a tent a very sweet and healthy repose. It was now upwards of three weeks since I had left St. Louis, and taken to travelling on horse back, and it agreed with me admirably.

On arriving at Fort Gibson, we found that a mounted body of Rangers, nearly a hundred, had set off two days before to make a wide tour to the west and south, through the wild hunting countries; by way of protecting the friendly Indians, who had gone to the buffalo hunting, and to overawe the Pawnees, who are the wandering Arabs of the West, and continually on the maraud. We determined to proceed on the track of this party, escorted by a dozen or fourteen horsemen (that we might have nothing to apprehend from any straggling party of Pawnees), and with three or four Indians, as guides and interpreters, including a captive Pawnee woman. A couple of Creek Indians were dispatched by the commander of the Fort to overtake the party of Rangers, and order them to await our coming up with them. We were to travel in still simpler and rougher style, taking as little baggage as possible, and depending on our hunting for supplies; but were to go through a country abounding with game. The finest sport we had hither to had, was an incidental wolf hunt, as we were traversing a prairie; which was very animated and picturesque. I felt now completely launched in a savage life, and extremely excited and interested by this wild country, and the wild scenes, and people by which I was surrounded. Our rangers were expert hunters, being mostly from Illinois, Tennessee, 'c.

We overtook the exploring party of mounted Rangers in the course of three days, on the banks of the Arkansas; and the whole troop crossed that river on the 16th of October, some of rafts, some fording.  Our own immediate party had a couple of half breed Indians as servants who understood the Indian customs. They constructed a kind of boat or raft out of a buffalo skin, on which Mr. E. and myself crossed the river and its branches, at several times, on the top of about a hundred weight of baggage-an odd mode of crossing a river a quarter of a mile wide.

We now led a true hunting life, sleeping in the open air, and living upon the produce of the chase, for we were three hundred miles beyond human habitation, and part of the time in a country hitherto explored.

We got to the region of buffaloes and wild horses; killed some of the former, and caught some of the latter. We were, moreover, on the hunting grounds of the Pawnees, the terror of that frontier; a race who scour the prairies on fleet horses, and are like Tartars or roving Arabs.

We had to set guards round our camp, and tie up our horses for fear of surprise; but, though we had an occasional alarm, we passed through the country without seeing a single Pawnee. I brought off, however, the tongue of a buffalo, of my own shooting, as a trophy of my hunting, and am determined to rest my renown as a hunter, upon that exploit, and never to descent to smaller game. We returned to Fort Gibson, after a campaign of about thirty days, well seasoned by hunter's fare and hunter's life.

* *   * *  *  * *  * * ** *

From Fort Gibson, I was about five days descending the Arkansas to the Mississippi, in a steam-boat, a distance of several hundred miles; and then continued down the latter river to New Orleans, where I passed some days very pleasantly.

New Orleans is one of the most motley and amusing place of the United States; a mixture of America and Europe. The French part of the cay is a counterpart of some French provincial towns; and the levee, or esplanade, along the river, presents the most whimsical groups of people of all nations, castes, ' colors. French, Spanish, Indian, Half-Breed, Creoles, Mulattoes, Kentuckians, 'c. I passed two days with M. on his sugar plantation just at the time when they were making sugar. *   * *   *  * *  *  * *  *  * *  *




      


From the New York Spectator.

More Indian Treaties.- A treaty was concluded at Fort Armstrong, Illinois on the 21st of September last between the United States on the one part, and the Sac and Fox Indians on the other. It stipulates for a cession to the former of a tract of country included within the following bound, to wit;

Beginning on the Mississippi River, at the point where the Sac and Fox northern boundary line, as established by the second article of the Prairie du Chen, of the 10th of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty, strikes said river; thence up said boundary line to a point fifty miles from the Mississippi measured on said line; thence in a right line to the nearest point on the Red Cedar of the Ioway, 40 miles from the Mississippi River; thence in a right line to a point in the northern boundary line of the State of Missouri, fifty miles, measured on said boundary, from the Mississippi River; thence by the last mentioned boundary to the Mississippi River, and by the western shore of said river to the place beginning.

By a subsequent provision, there is reserved from the forgoing a tract of four hundred square miles for the use of the Indians on both sides of the Ioway River, including Le-o-kuck's principal village.  In consideration of the promises the United States are to pay $20,000 per annum to the Indians in specie for thirty successive years, with sundry other stipulations of minor importance. Black Hawk and The Prophet, with their sons, and five other Indians, are to remain as hostages during the pleasure of the President of the United States.

Another treaty with the Appalachicola band of Indians in Florida, was concluded at Tallahassee on the 11th October last, which likewise stipulates for a cession to the United States of a prior reservation which is described as commencing on the Appalachicola, one mile below Tuski Hujo's improvements, running up said river four miles, thence west 2 miles, thence southerly to a point due west of the beginning thence east to the beginning point.

The United States are to pay therefore the sum of $13,000 and the Indians, 256 in number are to remove on or before the 1st of November next, west of the Mississippi, beyond the limits of the states and territories of the former.

A third treaty between the United States and the Kickapoo tribe of Indians was concluded at Castor Hill in the State of Missouri, on the 20th of October last, by which the latter cede to the former all their claims to lands within the state of Missouri, in consideration whereof they are to receive lands lying southwest of the Missouri Rivers as their permanent residence described as follows:-

'Beginning on the Delaware line, six miles westwardly of Fort Leavenworth, thence with the Delaware line westwardly sixth miles, thence north twenty miles, thence in a direct line to the west bank of Missouri, at a point twenty-six miles north of Fort Leavenworth, thence down the west bank of Missouri, at a point six miles northwest of Fort Leavenworth, and thence to the beginning.'

The United States are also to pay to the Kickapoos $18,000, besides an annuity of $5,000 per annum for nineteen years, with sundry other minor payments, amounting in all to about $30,000. The tract assigned to the Kickapoos contains about twelve thousand square miles.

The greatest objection to these and the preceding Indian treaties that we have noticed, seems to be, that their new locations are still too near the whites. The farther they are removed from us, the better for them. They will probably be but scarcely warm in their new abodes before the encroaching spirit of our border patriots will seek to drive them still farther into the wilderness. Let them, therefore, make new their real remove beyond the Rocky Mountains to the remotest space that can be found for them on this side of the Pacific.




      


From the Arkansas Gazette..

Negotiations with the Indians- We are indebted to an Officer of the army at Fort Gibson for the following letter, giving advice of the progress of the negotiations with the Indian tribes.

'FORT GIBSON, 9th March 1633 (sic)

Sir:- The Commissioners appointed by the President of the United States for the purpose of holding treaties with, and setting matters of dispute relative to land boundaries, 'c. arising between the different Indian tribes, west of the Mississippi River, were to have held a Council with the Osage Nation on the 25th of last month at the Grand Saline, on the Neosho River, and on the 23d of the same month, Maj. Young of the United States Army, with companies A. and D. of the 7th Infantry, and Capt. Bean's company of the United States Rangers, was, at the instance of the Commissioners, detached from this post, for the purpose of attending them during the operations of the council. The detachment arrived at the point of destination on the 24th and formed their encampment near the Neosho. The Osages, about 700 in number, arrived in the course of a few days afterwards, and pitched their camps about a mile distant.

The weather was cloudy and cold, so much so, as to render the movements of the Indians extremely tardy, and they were so much under the influence of a superstition, which is common to the wild Indians of the west that they could not be prevailed on to go into Council during the continuance of the cloudy weather. At length however, on the seventh instant, the day being clear and pleasant, the Indians assembled, and the ceremony of shaking hands-(which is always a preparatory measure with them, to the commencement of business)- was performed; but, in consequence of the utter impossibility, in that place, of procuring forage for the horses of the Rangers, or even the necessary supplies of provisions for the Indians, the Commissioners thought proper to adjourn the Council to this post, where they themselves and the troops arrived yesterday-and the Indians are expected tomorrow. Should they arrive,and weather be fair, the council will progress on Monday, the 11th inst.

The Gazette adds-

By the arrival of the steam-boat Spy, which left Fort Gibson on the morning of the 12th instant, we learn, that one town of the Osages, consisting of five hundred souls, arrived at that post on the preceding day, and that another large body of that nation were expected the day she left, for the purpose of attending the Council with the U. S. Commissioners.




      


The Aborigines of America- It is commented that the aboriginal inhabitants of America amount not to the twentieth part of those who existed when this continent was discovered by Columbus. This decay is ascribed to the intemperate use of ardent spirits, and to the small pox, both of them introduced by the Europeans. They are indebted to us also for the 'intemperate use' of the sword and the dreadful bigotry and cruelties practiced by the religious and avaricious Spaniards, which certainly were not less destructive than the contagion of the small pox, or the poison of spirituous liquors.

Bartholomew Casa affirms that the Spaniards in America destroyed in about forty-five years ten millions of human souls! And this with a view of converting these unfortunate men to Christianity. There is a story recorded of an Indian, who, being tied to the stake, a Franciscan friar persuaded him to turn Christian, and then he would go to heaven. The Indian asked him if there were any Spaniards there.- 'Certainly,' answered the friar, 'it is full of them.' 'Then I had rather go to h__l than to have any more of their company.' were the last words of the dying Indian.- Boston Transcript.




      


FROM ARKANSAS.

Copy of a letter to the Editor of the Arkansas Gazette, from Col. S. C. Stanbaugh, Secretary to the Board of U. S. Commissioners for settling differences, 'c. among the Western tribes of Indians, dated.

'Fort Gibson, Feb. 5, 1833.

'Dear Sir:- An express arrived at this place yesterday, from Fort Towson, bringing the intelligence, from the Commandant of that post, that a very serious outrage has been committed by a party of Osage Indians, in Miller County, Arkansas Territory. Mr. Simpkins, who is represented as a very respectable citizen, has sustained damages in the loss of property to the amount of nearly two thousand dollars; and several other houses have been plundered. Parties of Osage Indians have been discovered within a few miles of this place, within the last ten days, approaching this county from the direction of Red River, loaded with articles of clothing, bed quilts, knives, spoons, and a variety of merchandise, answering to the property stolen. As the depredating Indians used violence, in driving families from their homes, and killed and drove off a number of cattle, it is supposed a military force will be sent in the direction of Fort Towson, from this place, as it is supposed there are still a band lurking in the vicinity.  The commissioners can do nothing more in the matter than direct the Intercourse Law, which is plain on the subject, to be carried into effect-that is, demand the stolen goods of the Indians, and if they refuse to surrender them, to report the matter to the War Department, that the proper steps may be taken to secure indemnity to the party injured.  I am sorry to say, that the Osages have been very troublesome lately-very little behind the Pawnees and Koomanchees (sic).

'The Commissioners are now in the midst of the Cherokee and Creek treaty, for the purpose of establishing their boundaries.  I trust we shall get throu' in two or three days, and that the dispute about their lines existing between these tribes, will be adjusted in such a manner as not only to gratify those who have already emigrated, but who to induce the removal of the whole of the nations still remaining east of the Mississippi. You are aware that this is a matter of deep and absorbing interest to the Government, and the adjustment which we hope to make will be received with much satisfaction by the Government and the States interested.'

_______________________

An Act to protect the Cherokee Indians in the peaceable and quiet possession of the lands secured to them by the existing laws of the state, and also to secure their property and persons from illegal violations, and to provide for bringing to trial of the trespassers upon the lots or fractions of land belonging to the state in the Cherokee country, and prescribing the punishment to which they shall be subjected upon conviction 'c.

Whereas under the provisions of the existing laws of this state, the right of occupancy and peaceable and quiet possession of their lands, has been secured to the Cherokee Indians, who still remain in this state, so long as they can continue to occupy the same; and whereas the unoccupied lands, which surround their present abodes, are about to be granted to and settled by the inhabitants of this state, and whereas that country in a short time will be regularly organized into counties and districts, to further the administration of public justice and whereas, doubts exist that the remnant of Indians remaining in said Territory may be liable to the depredations of lawless and dissolute white men.

Be it enacted by the Senate ' House of Representatives of the state of Ga. in General Assembly met and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same. That ten men under the command of a fit and qualified officer, shall be continued in the Cherokee country, who shall have full and complete power to protect each and every Indian in his and their persons, and also in the enjoyment of all their personal property that may be in their possession; and it shall be the duty of said commanding officer and his guard, to prevent the intrusion no matter by whom on any lot of land already or hereafter to be drawn or fraction undisposed of, on which any Indian or Indians may and do actually reside and occupy, under the provisions of the land act, for the survey and disposition of the said Cherokee territory passed the twenty second day of December, eighteen hundred and thirty.

Sect. 5. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That it shall be the duty of the said commanding officer with the said guard in a body or in detail to continue to examine and visit and inspect all the aforesaid Indians' habitations and settlements, and to see that in the occupation of their lands they are not interrupted or disturbed, and also carefully to protect their persons from assault and abuse, as well as their personal property; and it shall also be the duty of said officer and those under his command, when trespass, or offence has been committed against the legal rights of said Indians and contrary to the spirit and meaning of this act, without delay to reinstate said Indians in the possession of their lands and personal property, and in these two latter cases as well as in cases of the abuse or injury of their persons to bind over the person or persons so offending, in a reasonable sum, with bond and security to answer for such illegal conduct, at the next Superior Court, that may be held in the county where the offence was committed; and that it shall be the duty of the Solicitor General said Judicial Circuit to prosecute to conviction all persons so offending.

Sec. 3 And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said commanding officer and guard aforesaid shall be appointed by his excellency the governor with the same pay and emoluments, and the late Georgia guard for the protection of the gold region, and shall be under the special direction and orders of the executive to be discharged upon the organization of the said counties.

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That from and after the time the Justices of the Inferior Courts of the several counties which are laid off in the Cherokee territory, have been duly qualified it shall be their special duty, immediately thereafter to convene ' appoint some fit and proper person to act as agent or guardians, to protect the right of person and property of said Indians, say one for each county; and the said agent or guardian shall take the following oath before one of the said justices to wit: 'I, A B do solemnly swear that I will justly and impartially superintend, examine into, protect and defend all the rights of the Cherokee Indians residing in the County of _____ both as respects the occupation of their land and personal property, agreeably in the laws of this state, and against the unjust and illegal proceedings of all persons whatsoever; and that I will to the best of my ability, protect and defend the fractions belonging to the state in said county from the trespass of intrusion so help me God,' which agents had received a reasonable compensation out of the treasury of the state.

And be if further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That it shall be the bounden duty of such agents who may induce said Indians dispossessed of the occupation of their lands or that their personal property has been illegally taken from them, immediately to restore the same to the Indian occupant or owner. Provided never the less, that the person setting up any claim to the aforesaid property, shall have a right to appeal from said agents decision as and acting, which shall be proceeded on as claims on sheriffs levies, but the bunas probandi shall rest on said appellant, and the said appeal or claim, shall be tried at the next ensuing Superior Court, where the offence was committed, but until such decision is made, the Indian owner of personal property or Indian occupant of land shall be continued in possession; and it is hereby made the duty of said agent to guard diligently the fractions lying in the county in which he resides belonging to the state and prosecute to conviction or acquittal any person or persons trespassing on said fractions, by digging gold or otherwise, according to the laws of force in this state. As it is of importance to the humane and just character of the state and the citizens thereof, that in this particular case of the Cherokees, that no wanton, illegal, or oppressive proceedings, acts, or doings should be exercised towards them, during their residence in the said territory.

And be in further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Justices of the Inferior Court, Justices of the Peace, Sheriffs, Constables, and all Military officers, in each of the several counties aforesaid are hereby enjoined to see impartial justice done to said Indians, and to aid in sustaining their just rights.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That to secure the personal property of said Indians any person or persons, who shall actually dispossess them of it or attempt to do so; shall be considered as having been guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to be prosecuted criminally, and the fact being established, he will be subject to a fine of fourfold the value of the property so taken or attempted to be taken, besides such other fine not exceeding two hundred dollars, as the said court may deem fit.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all persons who shall by any act, either forcible deprive or in an illegal manner endeavor to deprive any Indian or Indians of the possession or occupation of any lot of land on which, or any part thereof, the said Indian has resided as a home, shall be subject to be indicted in the name of the state, as a misdemeanor, and in violation of the laws which are in a letter and spirit extended to the protection of said Indians; and on conviction, shall forfeit all right and title to said lot or any part thereof, and be fined in a sum not less than one hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that though the oaths of the Indians are not admitted in our courts of law for the purpose of protecting their persons property and lands, their rights shall be recognized for these special purposes, and be considered as standing on the same footing with free white citizens of the state, though all prosecutions and sentences be and shall be carried on in the name of the state, and on the criminal side of the Superior Court; and the laws shall be so construed as to carry the spirit and intent of this law into effect.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all persons who shall attempt or actually dig gold on any fraction belonging to the state, or on any lot or lots of land belonging to the persons who have drawn or actually own the same, and who have not actually taken possession of the same, in the territory lately organized in the Cherokee country, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject the offender to a confinement in the penitentiary for a term of years not less than four years nor more than eight years.

And be it further enacted, That any person who shall be guilty of any trespass upon the premises of the Indian resident aforesaid shall be guilty of high misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars and confinement in the county jail for a term not less than three or more than six months.

And be it further enacted, That it shall not be lawful from and after this time, for any inferior court in this state whilst sitting as a Court of Ordinary, to grant letters of administration to any person or persons on the estate either real or personal of any deceased Cherokee Indian or the descendant of a Cherokee Indian.

ASBURY HULL,

Speaker of the House of Rep.

THOMAS STOCKS,

President of the Senate.

Assented to Dec. 21, 1832

WILSON LUMPKIN, Gov.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 18, 1833

In another part of this paper will be found one of the laws of Georgia said to be enacted for the special purpose of protecting the remnant or the Cherokee Indians in the peaceable possession and occupation of their improvements within Georgia. We intended to have given this extraordinary law an insertion at an early time but unavoidable circumstances prevented. It is not our intention to enter into a detailed commentary of the injustice of this law to the Cherokees, as well as of others to which it has a reference, but largely to remark on the unprecedented principle on which the legislation of Georgia on the rights of the Cherokees is predicated. The lots occupied by the Indians which this act processes to protect, recognizes no title to the Indian occupant; but obviously reserved to the Indians, as permissive occupants, at the will of the State.  The compact of Georgia, with the General Government recognizes a title to the lands to belong to the Indians.  The Constitution of Georgia prohibits the laying off of new counties west of the Chattahoochy on lands encumbered with the Indian title. The treaties of the government to which Georgia is a party recognizes a title. The superior and inferior courts of Georgia have recognized the Cherokee title-yet in direct contravention to these existing authorities, her own obligations, the legislature have by a sweeping act disinherited the Cherokees, robbed our rising generation from a participation of our lands, and under the garb of magnanimity of permitting the Indian to stay at his own home, placing him on the same footing of citizenship of a Georgian 'says' the Indians must not testify in a Georgia court, nor letters of administration shall be granted by the property of any deceased Indian. The law of 1830 to which this act makes a reference likewise prohibits the Indians from selling one to another the improvements which they have made with the labor of their own hands, their industry, and during their protracted oppression. This is what we feel to be grasping from us the unalienable rights of free men, and depriving the Cherokees of their personal rights of purchasing from each other improvements made on their lands. This is but a sketch, which we have thought proper to lay before our readers, of the inabilities of which we are rendered by the laws of Georgia.  Americans so tenacious of liberty-what think ye of this Algerine and most cruel legislation? We hold your bond for the security of this property, and the continuance of a good neighborhood.

_______________________

ATROCIOUS INJUSTICE.

It will be recollected in 1831 the Rev. H. Clauder missionary of the Moravians stationed in this vicinity, with a flourishing school, and a prosperous church, was arrested by the Georgia Guard, and ten days given him to remove without Georgia, which he was compelled to do; and after leaving a valuable improvements returned to the society in Salem N. C. Mr. Clauder was again sent out by the society to Spring Place, to supersede the Rev. G. Byhan and the appointment of Post Master at that place. The appointment placed him under the protection of the Gen. Government, and seemed to secure his residence as a missionary there, without the molestation of the Georgia authorities. But it appears that the learned Georgians are wretchedly behind that of the Roman notions of justice, they have not the 'perpetual will of doing right' they surveyed the Cherokee country, placed Mr. C. in a lot with a respectable Indian, drew for it, then granted by the Governor ' the worthy missionary with his Post Office commission driven off from a valuable improvement by the drawer, and utterly destroying two missionary stations in the Cherokees of the United Brethren. The national government have a character to sustain and it is with that government to see her own citizens protected from this persecution of usurpers.

Again: at Ellijay an industrious Indian had by his steady habits improved his premises to be of considerable value, when it was drawn by one of the lottery gamblers in Georgia. The fortunate drawer gathered up his all, including some two or three pistols, and moved to the Cherokee country, loaded his pistols entered the possession of Ootawhensia pointing one at him and drove the innocent Cherokee from his well cultivated field and was without a home the last account we had.

The Cherokee are doomed to suffer.

The following extract of Wilson Lumpkin's letter.

When a member of Congress to the written (sic) of this article will show the sudden revolution of his feelings towards the Cherokees and how faithless are the words of the white man to the Indians:

WASHINGTON CITY 14 MARCH 1828.

'For as a member of Congress, I hope you will not think me too assuming when I say-I consider myself bound to attend to the interest of the Indians in a peculiar manner-and especially those within the limits of Georgia.'

________________________

We omitted to state in our last, the passage near this place about three weeks since, two companies of U. S. troops from Augusta and Savannah on their way to Tennessee in the Cherokee country, when they are at present removing intruders, and burning their improvements. Would it not be a humane policy for the government to remove such poor dependents on the Cherokee lands west of the Mississippi.  In such a measure it would be truly benevolent and laudable; the sterile plains of the west might be made to blossom as the rose incur less expense, and abandon the consummate foolery offer to oppressing the aboriginal inhabitants ' that with the cloak of humanity colonizing them west of the Mississippi.






      


A

(Copy)

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA.

Milledgeville April 26, 1833

 Hon. Lewis Cass, Secretary of War.

Sir:- A few days ago, I addressed a letter to the President of the United States, on the subject of our Indian relations, which I requested, might be submitted to you.

In connection with the same subject, I herewith enclose you a copy (of the copy) of a letter, received by me a few days ago from a respectable gentleman who resides in the neighborhood of John Ross. That gentleman, with various others, informs me that Ross is exhibiting this indiscreet letter, and impressing the ignorant Indians and Indian countrymen, with the belief that he is authorized to say, from the authority of the War Department, that in a short time, all the Georgia settlers who have settled under the authority of the laws of Georgia, will be driven from their homes by the United States army. There may be some exaggeration in these statements; but I am forced to the conclusion, from what I have heard, and from the reading of this imprudent letter, that great efforts are making in that country to mislead, and delude the unfortunate Cherokees.

I do not hesitate in my reply, to such communications, to assure the people on place in the views of the Federal Executive, and the Indians so long as they choose to remain in Georgia, must yield implicit obedience to the supremacy of the laws of the state. And that no power of the Federal Government, will ever be exerted to remove the inhabitants, who have settled under the authority of the State, 'c. 'c., 'c; I am engaged in using all the means in my power, to counteract the mischievous influence of the enemies of good order in this half settled country.

But I consider it highly important, that you should with all possible dispatch, make such a communication to the Cherokees, as shall put an end to all false stories of the character pointed out.  Such a communication should be publicly and authentically made to the whole people, who may assemble at their council on the 11th of next month. It is submitted to your considerations, whether a communication from you or the President of the U. States himself might not be made through me to the Cherokees most effectually. At any rate please to let me hear from you immediately on this subject, for I deem it indispensable, at their approaching council, by some means, to remove the idle delusion into which these people are led, by the exertions of bad men. If the copy of the letter which I enclose you, be not a forgery, its deserves strong reprehension. Such production, from such a quarter are most mischievous. With great respect, your obedient servant.

WILSON LUMPKIN

_________

B

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office of Indian Affairs, March 14.

Sir:- Your letter of the 8th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War on the subject of intrusion on Cherokee land by white citizens, has been referred to this office for reply.

It cannot be denied, that your complaints are well founded, and that your people have sustained injuries from the rapacity and lawless conduct of our citizens. It is however in some degree an unavoidable evil incident to the present condition of your tribe, and no blame is fairly attributable to the Department on that account. It is due to the Secretary of War, to say that as soon as he received notice of intruders having presented themself (sic) on your land, he gave orders for their expulsion. These orders will now be repeated; and a military force will forthwith be sent to the assailed parts of your country for the purpose of expelling and keeping off intruders. And orders will also be given to the District Attorney of the United States to prosecute for trespass, all such as may dare to return after expulsion. You cannot consider it a misplaced assurance, and it is made with the utmost sincerity, that the Department cherishes deep solicitude for the welfare of your nation, and will to the extent of its powers, endeavor to promote it. With high respect, your humble servant.

ELBERT HERRING.

Messrs. John Ross and other, Cherokee Delegates.

______________

C.

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

 Office of Indian Affairs.

March 15th 1833

Complaints from various quarters and particularly from the Cherokee delegation to this place of intrusion on Cherokee land, have recently been made to the Department. It is the duty of the Government to put a stop to this illegal and most disgraceful practice of our people. The Cherokees must be protected in the quiet enjoyment of their possessions and our citizens must be punished, if possible, for any encroachment on their rights. The commanding officer at Fort Mitchel will be ordered to station troops at whatever places you may direct, and to assist you in expelling intruders and preventing their return. He will act under your instructions-and in carrying this into effect, you will proceed with firmness and at the same time with all possible moderation. A recurrence to former instructions on this subject will render it unnecessary to enlarge on this topic. Much must necessarily be left to your discretion, and it cannot be doubted that you will proceed with all due caution, and at the same time with all proper energy. Justice to the Cherokees and the plighted faith of the Government, demand instant and thorough attention to this business. If after their expulsion any of the intruders shall have the hardihood to return, you will cause the District Attorney of the United States to prosecute them for trespass. Their punishment would be but a proper atonement for their outrageous conduct and would tend to prevent it in others. You will of course cause public notice to be given to the intruders to depart peaceably and thereby avoid forcible expulsion. I am 'c.

ELBERT HERRING.

Col. H. Montgomery.

_____________

D.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

May 2, 1833

Sir:- I had the honor to receive your letter of the 26th ult. together with the copy of one from the commissioner of Indian Affairs, date March 11th, and addressed to some of the principal men among the Cherokees.

Before the receipt of your letter, application had been made by some of the Cherokees, to know whether any change had taken place in the opinions of the President, respecting the constitutional right of the Executive to remove persons from land claimed by the Indians, where the laws of the states had been extended over such land. They stated, that they made the inquiry because some of their people had taken up such an impression, founded on the above letter of the Commissioner. Correct this misapprehension, and explanatory letters, copies of which I have the honor to enclose, were written and despatched to Col. Montgomery, Cherokee Agent, Major Curry, the special Agent, for emigration, and to the Cherokee persons, who sought the information. These letters will undoubtedly remove any errors, which may have prevailed and will show that the opinions of the President, are unchanged.

Very respectfully, I have the honor to be, your ob't ser'vt.

LEWIS CASS.

His Excellency Wilson Lumpkin, Milledgeville, Ga.



________________

E

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS,

May 1, 1833

Sir:- In consequence of an application from several of the Cherokees, I have been instructed by the Secretary of War, to call your attention to my letter to you of March 15th, 1833, and to say to you that the provisions of that letter relate solely to those portions of the Cherokee country, within the state of Tennessee and North Carolina, and over which the laws of those States have not been extended.- The views of the President upon this subject have been too often and too publicly expressed, to leave any doubt of the course which, in his opinion, should be pursued. And this explanation would have been considered unnecessary, had not some of the cherokees intimated different views. The President yet thinks, as, he has always thought, the Executive has no constitutional right to apply military force to remove persons from any part of the States of Georgia or Alabama.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your ob't serv't

ELBERT HERRING.

Col. H. Montgomery.

___________________

F

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office Indian Affairs.

May 1, 1833

Sir:- Enclosed I transmit your copies of two letters of this date, one addressed to the Agent Col. Montgomery, ' the to (sic) other several of the Cherokees. You will see by these letters, that some misapprehension has existed, or has been affected, respecting the purport of an order sent by this office to Col. Montgomery on the 15th March last for the removal of intruders from the Cherokee country. That order is intended to operate only upon the Cherokee lands within the States of North Carolina and Tennessee, over which the state laws have not been extended.  The views of the Executive on this subject, have been so well known, that it was not supposed that any mistake could arise. If however any has arisen it will be cleared up by these instructions.- I am directed to communicate these facts to you, that you may be aware of the precise views of the President, and that you may correct any erroneous impressions which may have a tendency to prevent a favorable decision by the Cherokee council, which is about to convene.

Very respectfully,

Your obedient servant.

ELBERT HERRING.

Benj. F. Curry, Esq.

____________

G

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office Indian Affairs

May 1, 1832 (sic)

Gentlemen:_ I have been directed by the Secretary of War to acknowledge the receipt of your letter to him of April 5th and to inform you that no change whatever has taken place in the opinions of the President so often expressed to your people, and so clearly stated in the letters to which you allude from the War Department of 2d and 20th Feb. 1833 as well as in previous communications respecting the constitutional right of the Executive to apply military force, to the removal of persons from any part of the Indian country over which the laws of the proper States have been extended. My letter to Mr. Ross and others of the 14th March, and to Col. Montgomery of the 15th of March, were intended to relate solely to that part of the Cherokee country lying within the States of North Carolina and Tennessee, and over which these States have not extended their jurisdiction. The whole views of the Executive, were so well known to your people, that it was not supposed that any misapprehension on this subject could have existed.- And I am directed to state to you clearly, that the opinion is of the President, heretofore expressed, are unchanged, and that no interference with the laws of the respective States on this subject, must be expected. These views have been communicated to Col. Montgomery, though they cannot be necessary for his action in the matter. And I am instructer further to express to you the opinion of the President, that the immediate removal of your people in conformity with the very liberal terms held out to them, offers the only prospect of their permanent and prosperous establishment.

Very respectfully, I am. gentlemen, your ob't servant.

ELBERT HERRING.

John Ridge, Esq. and others, Head of Coosa.




      


From the Political Register

POLITICAL PRINCIPLES

Most persons will find no little difficulty in rightly comprehending the nature of our President's principles.- They vary just as occasion suits. He has one set for South Carolina and the North, and another for Georgia. One set for his friends and the other for those he thinks his enemies. In North Carolina he will execute the laws and treaties, and act in conformity to the decision of the Supreme Court because the people wish it, in South Carolina he will do the same, because the people do not wish it; and, in Georgia he will not do it, because the people do not wish it, and he has an object in making friends in Georgia.

It would thus seem, that a law of Congress and a treaty with the Indians is a law and treaty in North Carolina, but it is none in Georgia. The Government is bound to execute them in North Carolina, but it is not bound to do in Georgia, because Georgia has  nullified the law, and says that neither law nor treaty shall be executed.

When Georgia nullities both law and treaties, and says they shall not be executed, because they violate her right and sovereignty, we hear nothing from General Jackson of his imperative duty to execute the law. He is then a state rights man. Georgia has the right to decide upon the constitutionality of the laws, and she has decided the laws to be unconstitutional, he, the President, has no right to contravene her decision. But, when South Carolina does the same, how quick his blood is up! He is all for war and slaughter, and the imperative calls of duty cannot be resisted! Verily we have a most consistent President!

We are led to make these remarks by a perusal of a correspondence published in the journals, between Gov. Lumpkin and the War Department, published yesterday. It appears that the War Department, through the Commissioner of Indian affairs, writes to the Cherokees that 'a military force will be sent to keep off intruders' on the public Cherokee lands. The Department, probably having in its eye the proclamation and the bloody bill, takes for granted that the principles there avowed and embraced are the principles of the Administration, very naturally, and as a matter of course, sends the letter of the fourteenth of March, and, we presume, orders on the military to carry them into execution.

But, between the fourteenth of March and the second of May a great change takes place in the view of things. The President and the Administration become re-converted to nullification. The proclamation and bloody bill are laid on the shelf quo ad hoc for Governor Lumpkin writes to the President how 'indiscreet' and 'imprudent' it was to tell the Cherokees that the laws should be executed, and calls upon the President indirectly, to make the amende honorable to the sovereignty of Georgia, and recall or explain away the indiscreet' and 'imprudent' letter from the War Department. Well! No sooner said than done. The explanation is given;- and what is it? Why, forsooth, the War Department and Mr. Commissioner Herring meant precisely the contrary of what the words used by Mr. Herring usually mean.  When the Department said they would send the military to 'remove the intruders' they meant that they would send them 'not' to remove the intruders! Why send them then? We presume the order to the District Attorney is 'prosecute those who return,' are explained in the same way-that he is not to prosecute! What a pity that Mr. Commissioner Herring forgot that little adverb, 'not!'.  Strange what a difference these little insignificant letters can make in an affair between two sovereignties!  Peace or war, or, what is of still more importance, the Presidency of the United States, may depend upon their presence or absence.

We are glad, however, to find, that the State of Georgia, recurring to her sovereignty, has made the old hero back out of his proclamation and bloody bill-and Gov. Lumpkin may crow over the chieftain, and appropriate all his military and diplomatic honors to himself.  We presume the Governor will leave with the present incumbent all those he gained in the Cherokee negotiation. He, however, ought to have been content with his victory, and not have required that the retraction and explanation should pass 'through' him to the Cherokees. A little delicacy to the conquered party would not be unbecoming in the conqueror.

The Administration seems to have thought so too, and they would not take the Governor's hint. They made the explanation through the regular agents.

We suspect that the Cherokees will not be able to comprehend distinctly the nature of the protection which is to be granted to them, or how it should depend upon certain metes and bounds. They cannot, for example, comprehend why protection is offered against North Carolina, of whom they do not complain, and refused against Georgia, of whom they do. And still less will they be able to understand that, as soon as they have cause of complaint, against North Carolina, that at that moment the Government will recall its offer of protection, because then they will have no right to complain. In other words, as long as they have no cause of complaint they have a right to be protected; but as soon as they have cause, their right ceases!-Jackson-Van Buren moral and political metaphysics!

But it will be just as we said at first:-the bloody bill will sleep during the Cherokee controversy. Georgia will occupy the land, and extend her laws over the country, and the Cherokee Chiefs will get thrice the value of the land, and the United States will have to pay a few millions extra for the gratification of General Jackson's desire to crush South Carolina, and to get Georgia to vote for M. Van Buren.

We should like to see the letter to Col. Montgomery, of March 15, referred to by Commissioner Herring, in his letter to him of the first of May. How did the Colonel understand it? Did he construe it to mean what it did say or what it did not say? Was the little word

not put in or left out?

The accompanying remark of the Federal Union with the letters of Gov. Lumpkin, show conclusively that the whole manoeuvre is an electioneering one, for the benefit of the company.




      


Extract from the Missionary Herald.

'The grand motive, which induced Messrs. Worcester and Butler to expose themselves to the hardship and ignominious imprisonment which they have endured, was the good of the Cherokees. To the promotion of Christianity and civilization among them they had consecrated their lives. It was a sacred work, to which they felt commissioned as missionaries of the Lord Jesus, and they must not hastily retire from it, through fear of what they deemed oppression and violence, when there were laws, and tribunals, and magistrates, to whom they could appeal for protection. The apostles, it is believed, appealed in every similar case.- Their yielding would have discouraged the Cherokees, by virtually saying to them that the faith of the United States pledged to them, would be violated; ' that all the provisions made for their protection in the Constitution, treaties, and laws, of this Union would not be enforced; and that the missionaries did not to trust their own persons on these provisions.

Besides this great motive of doing good to the Cherokees, the missionaries in disregarding the law of the state of Georgia had some reference to the securing of their own rights as citizens of the United States and ministers of the gospel. These rights are invaluable to every man, as an individual. It may also be a duty, which a good man owes to his country and fellow citizens, to withstand what plainly appears to him to be oppression, and give opportunity for justice to be done by the execution of wholesome laws, even though detriment should come to himself.- The principle, that Christian duty requires every good man to retire before a threatened invasion of his rights would be dangerous in such a government as ours.  Equitable regard to the authority of the United States, under whose patronage and sanction they had been sent forth, and had labored, required them not hastily to abandon the work entrusted to them.

They have yielded none of the principles involved in these motives for the course of conduct they have pursued. They have not yielded the point, that they had originally a right to prosecute, unmolested, their labors among the Cherokees; that their views of the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, under which they acted, were correct; that they were right in appealing from the decision of the court of Georgia to the Supreme Court; that they had a just claim to immediate and unconditional release from imprisonment, in compliance with the decision and mandate of that Court, and that they might justly claim the further interposition of that court for their deliverance according to the due course of law.

Nor have they stopped short of accomplishing every object aimed at by them, which in their view, could possibly be accomplished by them, even if they should carry their suit to the utmost extremity.  The law under which their labors had been interrupted and their persons imprisoned, had been repealed, so that, by  their discharge they are able, without delay or fear of further molestation, to resume their missionary labors.  The Supreme Court in giving an opinion in the case of the missionaries, have incidently, but fully and explicitly, given an opinion respecting the meaning of the treaties and laws which have been made for protecting the rights of the Cherokees sustaining them in all which they have claimed. Whether this unhappy people will be reinstated in these rights, in conformity with the opinion of the Court, will be matter for future history to record.  The Court, also, by deciding unequivocally, in the face of the country, that the missionaries, in the controversy with the state of Georgia, had right and justice on their side, and that they had been arrested and imprisoned contrary to the Constitution and laws of the Union, have done all that the highest judicial tribunal in the nation could do to rescue their character from ignominy and reproach. In the present posture of our national affairs, it did not seem practicable to the missionaries, or to the Committee, to gain more. The ultimate result of this protracted and painful controversy, with prayerful and humble reliance on the wisdom of the divine administration, must be left with HIM, on whose hands the name of Zion is engraved, and who will cause all things to work together for good to those who love him.

In closing this article, it is due in justice, and it affords great pleasure that Col. Mills, the keeper of the penitentiary, continued his great and unvaried kindness to the imprisoned missionaries to the close of their confinement; and gave them every indulgence with respect to correspondence, visits from their friends, the arrangement for their labors, opportunities for instructing their fellow prisoners, and other things of similar nature, which could be expected by men in their circumstances from a Christian brother, and after their discharge he gratuitously furnished them the means of conveyance to their homes. From another gentleman of the state they have received numerous tokens of sympathy and kindness, which are duly appreciated by the missionaries and the Committee.

It is due to Messrs Worcester and Butler, also, to state that in resuming their labors among the Cherokees, they do it with the confidence of the Committee in their firmness, prudence, and devotedness to the missionary work entirely unimpaired.

_________________________

From the Federal Union

His Excellency Wilson Lumpkin,

Governor of the State of Georgia.

The undersigned, citizens of the State of New York, having bestowed much attention on the proceedings in the case of Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler, and viewing those proceedings as likely to affect the welfare of other States and the whole Union, feel it their duty to submit to your consideration, the result of their reflections on the subject. As the expressions of their opinions and wishes, springs from no feelings adverse to Georgia, on the contrary is prompted solely by a regard to what they sincerely believe to be the true interest of all parties, they flatter themselves you will not deem it either obtrusive or improper.

Permit us then to state, that, under all existing circumstances, we deem it a matter of great moment, that the prisoners referred to should be set at liberty, without delay, which as we suppose, can only be done by discharging them under a pardon emanating from the State authority-and such a pardon we earnestly recommend.

The result of the recent election must render it apparent, that the removal of the Cherokees is deemed expedient by the Nation; and under this impression, the undersigned are of opinion that very many persons, who have hitherto counteracted their removal, will now deem it their duty to cooperate in bringing it about; and they have reason to believe and confidently hope, that an influence will be applied to reconcile the tribe to such a result, by those very persons who have hitherto labored to prevent it.

Under such a change of circumstances, the under signed cannot see any possible advantage in the further confinement of the Missionaries. On the contrary they conceive that since it is apparent that the Indians must be removed, the release of the missionaries may be of use in reconciling the Indians to that measure. For we cannot believe, after what has taken place, that the missionaries, any more than ourselves, can doubt the expediency of acquiescing in the policy of the General Government, sustained, as it seems to have been, by the decision of the American people. In the present state of this question, and of our public affairs, every cause of irritation should be removed as speedily as possible; and as we sincerely believe that it is in your power by adopting the course suggested to render an immense service to the Nation, without injuring in the least the interests of your own State, we most respectfully solicit to the subject your early and favorable consideration .

We are, with sincere respect, your most obedient servants.

ELIPHALET NOTT,

W.C.MARCY,

R. HYDE WALWORTH

GREEN C BRONSON

SIMEON DEWITT

R. T. WELCH

B. F. BUTLER

S. VAN RENSSELEAR

DAVID SOUTHERLAND

JOHN SAVAGE

AB VAN VECHTER

JOHN LUDLOW

WILLIAM B. SPRAGUE

J. W. CAMPBELL

WILLIAM LOCKHEAD

ISAAC FERRIS

H. BLEEKER

Albany, December 17, 1833 (sic)




      


CHARLESTON, S.C. June 3.- Southern Indians.- The Cherokee Council assembled at Red Hill, on the 13th ult. to take into consideration the propriety of accepting the offer of the General Government, recently made them for their claims to lands on this side of the Mississippi, was generally attended on the part of the intelligent portion of the people, and very numerously attended by the common Indians. They remained in Council several days, upon this all important subject, and have at length dispersed without agreeing to the liberal proposition of the United States Government, which should have been by all means so very desirable to them.  This result is attributed, by the Auraria (Geo.) Herald, from which these particulars are taken, to a Chief named John Ross, who, it would appear, possesses much influence over the Indians, and is very unfavorable to the General Government, and to the people of Georgia in particular. Many of the most enlightened Chiefs are said to have advocated the acceptance of the proposition, and it is to be regretted that the 'Sons of the Forest' should have suffered themselves to be swayed by one who had more probably acted from personal motives, rather than the advantage of those whom he was advising.

The Milledgeville Federal Union states that the Indians have only postponed making a treaty, until the meeting of Congress, and to prevent any unnecessary delay after that time, an exploring party is to visit the Arkansas country during the present summer, and remarks, we 'believe that our Indian controversies are rapidly approaching an harmonious and satisfactory close.'___ Nat. Banner.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JULY 20, 1833

TO OUR FRIENDS ' SUBSCRIBERS.

We again have to apologize for the absence of our paper for nearly two months, owing to the reasons which we have heretofore assigned, and we presume known to many, of the difficulties of obtaining printers at this place, whenever there is a deficiency in our office. We are enabled now to assure our readers that in all probability, that this is the last of the kind that will be heard from us, and that our paper in future, will appear regularly. We have now obtained a competent printer who will in future present an improved typography of our sheet, of which the present number is a specimen. We would now solicit from the candid public from whom we hope to be sustained in our labors an increased number of subscribers to the Cherokee Phoenix.  The columns of this paper are measurably political, devoted in this branch of the paper to support Cherokee rights as recognized by the laws of the United States. It will detail the measures of the Government and Georgia towards the Cherokees. The controversy with the Cherokees have reached a crisis in our serious opinion that is big with consequences, and will be to the friends of good order and fair dealing, a case full of interest. It is in this light that we are induced to present our wants before the American people for patronage, and it is one we hesitate not to say, this paper will prove highly valuable and satisfactory to subscribers.

_____________________

THE WAY TO EXECUTE TREATIES.

Captain Gardner of the United States Army, of whom some notice had been given in a former number, have been and are now stationed in the nation near the Tennessee line with two companies of troops. In the latter part of April and early in May, this officer with a company of soldiers, made an excursion on the Tennessee line to remove intruders from Cherokee land. But few families were found on this line, perhaps 40 or 50.  Some of these families fled over the Georgia and Alabama lines, of the Cherokees lands for refuge; to take the benefit of the nullification doctrine. The effect of this process is making bad worse, removing intruders from Tennessee to Georgia to intrude on the Cherokees there, already too much oppressed and made unhappy by such people.  The remainder of these scums of society penetrated the mammoth cave at Necoojack, and have since made it their habitations.

Capt. Gardner applied the torch to their houses and wigwams, amounting to about 180, and then returned to their encampment at the gold mines on Croker Creek.

___________________

We call the attention of our readers to the correspondence between the Secretary of War with Gov. Lumpkin, Col. Montgomery, B. F. Curry and John Ridge, on the subject of removing intruders from the lands of the Cherokee Nation. We have had these documents under close inspection since the first of June, and but for the temporary suspension of the operations of our press, our views would have been given sooner. It is with deep regret that we are compelled to avow our convictions, that the difficulties which have arisen in the removal of intruders from within the limits of the Nation, have been created by John Ridge and a few others, who, we take it for granted, and proven abundantly, to our humble opinion, by the documents themselves; an interference of the most unjustifiable nature, to the accomplishment of an interesting object to the Cherokees, have arisen from this quarter.

We have heretofore published the letter of Secretary Cass, to the Cherokee Chief (Ross)* and others, a delegation of the Nation from the limits of Georgia (so called). We have tho't proper again to republish it, in order to present to the impartial reader an opportunity to form his own opinion.

We have likewise obtained from the Indian Agent, Col. Montgomery, a copy of the Secretary's order to him on the same subject, of March 15, marked C. which the Col. informed the writer of this article amounted to a general order, had it not been superseded by subsequent explanations.

On the return of the delegation from Washington, the Commissioner of the Indian Bureau, addressed a letter to them marked B. in which Mr. Herring states in substance; that a military force would  be sent to the assailed parts of the Cherokee lands and the intruders would be removed, and that in future the Secretary would endeavor to promote the interests of the Nation. This document was so understood because officially addressed to a delegation of the Nation, and this construction we presume is fully warranted by the Secretary's order to Col. Montgomery.

Gov. Lumpkin on information of this letter, addresses a supercilious one to Mr. Cass, and demands from him an explanation, to be made through him to the Cherokees, to counteract the mischievous influence of his reprehensible, and indiscreet letter.

In the meantime he of the curtain and others as appears from the tenor of the letter G.(sic) Ridge 'c. had addressed a letter to Mr. Cass, referring to the previous opinions of the President, in the communications of 2nd ' 20th of Feb.; and hence the irresistible inference from the face of this document, that Mr. Ridge had communicated to the honorable Secretary their desire to have him change his order for the expulsion of the intruders, or something of this character. If such was not the fact, would the Secretary withhold this letter from the public? The Secretary upon this communication, and after having failed two or three times a year to effect a treaty with the Cherokees, was induced in our opinion to suspend the execution of the order to Montgomery; and by cherishing this rising spec in the bright political sky of the Cherokees, deferred for the present carrying into effect the order already given,and was encouraged to await a favorable change in the public opinions of the Cherokees.

The Secretary then changes the whole aspect of things, by addressing letters to Gov. Lumpkin, Col. Montgomery, Ben. Curry, and John Ridge, and that the order for the removal of intruders was intended by the Department to operate on lands, only where the States have not extended their laws.

Ben. Curry is entrusted with a letter to Jno. Ridge ' Col. Montgomery, all of which were placed by the Secretary in the hands of Gov. Lumpkin, according to his demand as before stated. His excellency then on the eve of the Council at Red Hill, employed a courier with these letter, who set out to this Council, a distance of 220 miles, and as is well known here, the express failed in this vicinity, but a substitute succeeded in delivering the letters marked E. F. G. and appears to have been written at the same time, and for the same mail, excepting the letter D. which is one day later*. John Ridge and Col. received these letters during the session of the Council, and in concert with Curry made some movements to counteract the mischiefs which the War Minister had created, but finding it detrimental to his reputation abandoned the project at that time.

Again, last year on the return of the delegation from Washington, of which he was the most conspicuous member, a letter was written by Judge M'Lane, to the Cherokee chief (Ross) giving his views of the prospects of the Cherokees, and whether it was advisable for the Cherokees to maintain their ground. This high office of State, advised the Chief of the indisposition of the President to execute the treaties with the Cherokees and the welfare of the Cherokees would promote by a removal west of the Mississippi. The letter we are informed was written at the earnest solicitation of Mr. Ridge, while at the City on a special mission of the Cherokee Chief, to press on the government for the fulfillment in good faith the treaties with the Cherokees. In whatever light this act may be viewed, it is at least exceptionable to us, and placed aside of his subsequent co-operation with Curry and Gov. Lumpkin, the very men who is at this moment robbing our children of their inheritance, and from the face of the documents themselves we are constrained, after maintaining all the affections for him, to enable us to do him justice and consistently with the interests of the Nation and our cause to pronounce his proceedings one of the most consummate acts of treachery towards his country, that the annals of any nation affords. We expose this affair with much pain, after mature and careful consultation and sustained as we think we are by the irrefragable evidence of these documents, of which we think we are not mistaken, and having exposed similar acts of our people heretofore from this press, we have thought it our duty, as sentinels of the watch tower, to apprize the Cherokees of this small, but dark spot in our national virtue.

In conclusion, we have been unable to resist the chain of corroborating circumstances to which we have adverted, without suspicion; as having interposed obstacles to our relief from the arm of the United States. If the acts of the subject of these remarks could have presented a different view of the subject, we would ever been found on the side of its advocates.

In taking leave forever of this subject, those persons of our home readers who may think us mistaken in the views we have taken of this affair will find the columns of this paper open for communication.

_____________________

* The Secretary states to Gov. Lumpkin that these explanatory letters had been despatched to those persons, but is also to be observed that these same letters were brought by the Governor's express man.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.,

Mr. Hicks:- Sometime ago I called at the house of a Cherokee, where I heard a dialogue between a Georgian 'land hunter' and a Pennsylvanian. I send you the substance of it, as a specimen of the many sage things of the same kind, which I have often heard since the 'fortunate drawers' have come among us, like the locusts upon Egypt.

Pennsylvanian: Have you drawn a good lot of land?

Georgian. No! not very. A great deal of the land is mighty poor.

Pa. The Cherokees appear to be content with it. Is it not a pity to take it from them?

Ga. Yes! I allow Georgia should have paid the Cherokees for it before she touched it. But there is a great deal of powerful worthless land in the Nation.

Pa. The poorness of the land does not justify Georgia in taking it. I once heard a preacher say that the man who steals a shilling, is meaner than he who steals a thousand dollars, for he sins with less temptation.

Ga. Oh! but Georgia does not steal the land. It belongs to her.

Pa. When did it become hers?

Ga. Why, don't you know the United States promised it to her?

Pa. Did it ever belong to the United States?

Ga. Why, if they buy it it will.

Pa. True, but they have not bought. They have never given it to Georgia, nor could they give what does not belong to them.

Ga. But did not the General Government say that Georgia should have the country?

Pa. Yes. So soon as it could be purchased fairly from the Indians, but that time has not yet come.

Ga. But does not all this country belong to the United States?

Pa. Surely not. If it already belongs to them why are they continually urging the Cherokees to sell it to them? If I were to settle upon these lands, I would think that every stalk of corn that I raised would call me a robber.

Ga. Georgia does not take the lots upon which the Indians are settled. Every Cherokee holds his improvements.

Pa. So, if you have two horses it would be right for me to steal one of them, because forsooth, you do not ride two at the same time! Occupy all the unoccupied lands, and where will the stock range, and where will the new families formed by marriages among the young Cherokees live?

Ga. Why, that is their own look out.

Pa. The whole transaction is infamous and so you will see it at the day of judgment.

Ga. I told you at the first, that I did not approve of what Georgia has done. Don't (sic) that satisfy you? You still keep edging down upon me.

Pa. If you disapprove why do you partake?

Ga. I may as well have some of the lands as others.

Pa. So any robber might say, here is a traveller that will be robbed at any rate, I may as well have some of the money as others.  But how are the missionaries that you imprisoned coming on?

Ga. They are out.

Pa. Why were they in?

Ga. Because they would not take the oath of allegiance to Georgia.

Pa. Why was such an oath required.

Ga. It is required of all persons coming into Georgia, from any other states.

Pa. You mistake, the law requiring it,was probably made with direct reference to the ministers and teachers among the Cherokees.

Ga. But they were making all the money they could off the heathen.

Pa. And was it the business of Georgia to prevent that? But I think your assertion is not correct-here is a Cherokee girl that has been at school; let us ask her; Eliza, were you not two or three years in Dr. Butler's school

Eliza. Yes, longer than that.

Pa. Did they ever require any money of you?

Eliza. No, Sir.

Pa. How did the missionaries get out?

Ga. They petitioned the Governor, and took the oath of allegiance.

Pa. Here is Dr. Butler, one of them, he can tell us.

Dr. B. We did not petition the Governor; we made no acknowledgement; we took no oath; we would have died rather than have taken the oath of allegiance to Georgia.

Ga. Well, I was told so. How far do you call it to Ridges?

BRUCE.

Cherokee Nation, May 10th 1833.



_________________________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

GEORGIA COURTESY

A few evening ago, a stranger arrived at Hickory Log, about half a mile from Cherokee court house, a little village inhabited by Georgian intruders. While preaching in the house of a Cherokee, six men came in, and set (sic) with their hats on, 'till after the service, and then calling him out, entered into the following conversation.

We have a little business with you.

Stranger. What are your names gentlemen?

They.  Mine is John Daniel, mine is Key.  Here are Mr. Cox and Mr. Brock.

Daniel.  We are sent to arrest you.

Stranger. Who sent you?

Daniel.  Col. Williamson, commander of the Guard?

Key.  I have no ill will against you under the heavens, but was offered twenty dollars to be excused. I was just about to start to Macon.

Stranger. What is my offence.

Daniel.  By what authority do you preach to the Indians.

Stranger. I am authorized to preach, and have as much right as other ministers to preach to Cherokees.

Daniel.  Have you taken the oath of allegiance?

Stranger. The law that required that oath has been rescinded, ' where there is no law there is no transgression.

Key.  Will you go with any persons that have authority to take you?

Stranger. Yes, but I know no such authority can be produced.

Some of them withdrew for consultation, and the stranger walked into the house, and sat with composure 'till they returned.   After making many foolish ' impertinent remarks, ' ascertaining that they could not alarm, they retired.  It is due to state, that not more than one half of them were drunk or profane, and only one was so very drunk that he fell in the water. If any stranger delights in courtesy, let him visit Cherokee Court House. Such attentions to strangers greatly increase the confidence of the Cherokees in their friendship.

BRUCE.

________________

GEORGIAN PROMOTION.

What has become of the Pony Club? asked a Georgian the other evening. 'I believe,' replied a gentleman living in the nation, 'some of them have been selected Judges of the Inferior Courts in these new counties; one was whipped just before his election.'






      


INDIANS

The enterprising Cherokees spoken of in the following description of the civilization of Western Indians, were all brought up in this Nation and educated within a few years excepting Webber, who emigrated many years ago. If these men are civilized, then the Cherokees ought to be permitted to remain here, where it is the most proper place to civilize the rising generation.

From the Journal of Commerce.

THE INDIANS BEYOND THE ARKANSAS.- A letter from Major Hannum, sub-agent for the Quapaw Indians, which we find in the Arkansas Gazette, dated Pine Bluffs, May 27th, announces that a Supplementary treaty has been concluded between Mr. Schermerhorn, Commissioner on the part of the United States, and the Quapaw Indians residing in Jefferson County, (Arkansas) about 60 miles from Little Rock, by virtue of which they are to remove to the country fixed upon by the Government as the residence of the Indian tribes. From the same source, we learn that the conflicting boundaries of the territories allotted to the different tribes in that region, which had given rise to much uneasiness, have been adjusted to the satisfaction of all concerned.

The Indians, says the Major, are rapidly advancing to a state of civilization. Indeed, in many of their families you will find as much good economy and order, as is observed in a well regulated white family. They are giving up the chase, and turning their attention to the cultivation of the earth-a much more certain and sure method of procuring a support for their families, than to rely on the precarious chance of taking game.

The Indians have greatly improved their condition in moving West. They have a delightful country of good lands, with salines more than sufficient to produce salt for the entire Indian population, and white population of the Arkansas Territory. There are six salt establishments now in operation in the Cherokee country, viz: Rogers' Brown's and Van's on the Neosho; and Webber's, Mackay's, ' Guess' on the Illinois. I have been informed that Governor Houston has a very valuable saline on the Neosho, which if put in complete operation, would produce an immense quantity of salt.  It lies about 25 miles from Fort Gibson, has every advantage of water communication with the lower country.

The waters of the Neosho and Illinois are very transparent, and afford great quantities of the best kinds of fish.  The country inhabited by the Choctaws, Creeks, Cherokees, Osages, Senecas, Kaskaskias, Piankashaws, Weas, Peorias, Shawnees, Kansas, and Delawares, with the country yet to be given to the Indians east of the Mississippi, is greater in extent, and comprise more land, than the States of New York, New Jersey, and all the Eastern States together.

The Indian boundary extends from longitude 17, west from the City of Washington, to longitude 23 or the 00th degree from London.  The Choctaws have about sixteen millions acres of land; the Creeks about thirteen million acres of land, and the Cherokees about thirteen million five hundred thousand acres. The Osages have a country about fifty miles wide, and one hundred and fifty in extent. The Senecas have about one hundred thousand acres.




      


The following is a specimen of the stories that the Federal Union is in the constant habit of entertaining its readers.  If there has been a reaction in favor of a treaty, it must be found in the fiction of his own brain, we saw none in the Council. We have said heretofore no truth can be found in these Georgia papers on the Cherokee case, especially in one that advocates the principles of a ROBBER.

'THE CHEROKEES.'- We learn from a source entitled to the highest credit, that the attempts to prevent a treaty with the Cherokees, under the pretence that they would be benefitted by the act for the collection of the revenue, have resulted in a powerful reaction in favor of a treaty. The enemies of the President at Washington, affirmed that this revenue law would prevent a treaty; a portion of our representatives in Congress, on their return to the State, gave currency to the same charge against the administration; and Ross, the principal Chief, played a corresponding part among his countrymen.  But the President, with his characteristic frankness, and decision of character, has shown to the Cherokees their real situation: and a large majority of that hitherto deluded people, are now convinced that if they remain within the chartered limits of Georgia, they must submit to her laws. At the solicitations of Ross, and his partisans, the other chiefs have consented to postpone making a treaty, until the meeting of Congress; and to prevent any unnecessary delay after that time, an exploring party is to visit the Arkansas country during the present summer. We believe that our Indian controversies are rapidly approaching a harmonious and satisfactory close: and the people of Georgia will be on their guard, how they give credit to open accusations, or subtle insinuations against the President.' --Federal Union




      


From the New York American

Indians of South America.- C. Cushing, Esq. in his interesting Reminiscences of Spain makes these remarks:

The destiny of the Indian races in Spanish America has been widely and remarkably different from what is in the United States.  Here the aboriginal nations have little or no physical weight in the progress of events, and are scattered, in weak tribes over the face of the land, withering and dwindling before the overpowering beams of civilization. There, they constitute a large and important element in the population, aggregated into powerful masses, capable by themselves alone of exerting a decided influence upon affairs, whether as independent communities, or as the subjects of the Spanish Americans, a rank in the scale of public estimation from which no conceivable change of dynasty or governments can cast them down, and possessing importance which the late revolution has powerfully contributed to strengthen and perpetuate.

Of the independent nations, like the Araucos, and Abiponians, and the various other tribes in the vast interior regions of the continent, who have never bowed the neck under the Spanish yoke, the spirit, vigor and numbers are well known to be far from contemptible. The possession of that noble animal, the horse, especially by bestowing pastoral habits on the wanderers of the immense savannahs of the South has communicated an energy and a power of forcible and rapid impressions to the movements of the Indians, through the means of which, should they ever become concentrated by any common point of union, they would infinitely surpass, in barbaric splendor, the achievements of the ancient Peruvians and Mexicans. With these Arabs of the West, compare the Creeks, Cherokees, and other tribes in the United States, who, hemmed in by our fixed population, have no resource but either to adopt the manners of civilized neighbors, to be gradually extinguished, or to fly with the feeble remnants of their might beyond the Mississippi and how striking is the relative consequence of South Americans! These nomadic nations, therefore who sweep the verdant plains of the South, on steeds tameless and swift as the winds, uniting the errant propensities of the Indian hunter and the Tartar horsemen, are peculiar objects of interest to the philosophic observer of events intrinsic to America.

But other portions of the Indian population are fast attracting importance from quite different causes. Among these are the Peruvians, and the observation may serve as an apology for now rescuing from unmerited oblivion some of the obscurer incidents of their political history. They have been a despised and an oppressed race. The hand of power has fallen heavily upon them in every age, from the days of the conquest, when the lawless bands of Pizarro trampled on the nation, down through the tyranny of many provincial autocrat, to the time when Tupa Catari shook the walls of La Paz with the cry of liberty or death, and the limbs of Tupac Amaru were torn asunder by four wild horses, but a ray of hope smiles upon their future prospect.- The revolution has raised them in common with the other degraded castes, from the dust where they had been grovelling for centuries. In this democracy, rank must follow the lead of talent and in South America, men of Indian descent particularly those of mixed blood, begin to learn their consequence from the fortune of war.- Mulattoes and mestizos are amongst the best and bravest soldiers of the revolution; and some of them have arisen up on its stormy waters to that distinction which in times of civil commotion, it is impossible to withhold from superior qualities.  It may be long ere the multifarious and many colored classes which compose the population of the revolutionized countries, regular and systematic movement of our own more fortunate land.  But whether in peace or in war, in times of discord or of tranquility, a race of men, which rises to two-thirds of the whole population, which furnishes the laborers and mans the fleets and armies of a republican country, cannot easily relapse into insignificance, or into the state of abject servitude. And a permanent melioration of condition is therefore the necessary consequence of the actual position of the Peruvians.




      


LITTLE ROCK, (A.T.) April 24, 1833.

Judge Ellsworth, one of the United States Commissioners for settling difficulties, 'c. among the Indian tribes in the West, passed down on the steam boat Wyoming, last week, for Fort Gibson on his way to Washington City, and thence to Connecticut, from whence we understand, he designs returning to Fort Gibson in September next, with his lady.

We are much gratified to learn from Judge E. that the Commissioners have succeeded in bringing about a settlement of the differences (though not of a serious nature) that have existed for a long time between the Cherokees and Creeks relative to boundaries. It has been arranged to the satisfaction of both parties.

An arrangement has also been made with the Creeks, for a portion of their lands for the future residence of the Seminoles of Florida, who will form a separate band of the Creek Nation. It is expected that the latter tribe will commence removing next autumn.

At the Council with the Osages a majority of the nation were in favor of the Treaty proposed by the Commissioners, but as it was likely to produce dissatisfaction on the part of the balance of the nation , it was deemed advisable to defer the Treaty until fall, when another Council will be held, at which the Commissioners anticipate no difficulty in effecting a treaty to the satisfaction of all parties.- The object is to purchase a portion of the Osage lands, and remove them some one or two hundred miles northwest of their present location, and thereby make room for other Indians which the Government designs removing to the West.

Gov. Stokes and Mr. Schermerhorn, the other two Commissioners, will proceed shortly toward the Missouri River, for the purpose of holding Councils and making treaties with some of the Indians in that quarter; and, in August or September next, the three Commissioners will rendezvous at Fort Gibson, and proceed to the West, under an escort of U. S. Rangers for the purpose of holding Councils with the Pawnee, Comanche, and other roving tribes toward the Rocky Mountains, between whom and some of the tribes in the more immediate vicinity of our frontiers, continued wars have existed almost from time immemorial. All the tribes with which the Commissioners have had any intercourse, appeared to be friendly toward the United States, and desirous of cultivating a good understanding with our Government.- Arkansas Gazette.




      


From the New York Advertiser

BONAPARTE ' BLACK HAWK

When Bonaparte was dethroned by the allied powers of Europe, after the battle of Waterloo, he was obliged to take refuge on board a British ship of war in the Channel, thus throwing himself upon the clemency of his most persevering and powerful enemy, the British government.  Upon becoming possessed of the person of their most active, inveterate, and dangerous foe, it became a question of great importance, not only to Great British, but to the rest of Europe, in what manner he should be disposed of, with reference to the future peace and safety of that quarter of the globe. For the purpose of securing their object, the combined powers determined to remove him to a place so remote that he could never again disturb their peace, or endanger their safety. In pursuance of this determination, they transported him to a distant island in the ocean, far removed from every region where he could ever expect, even if at liberty, to do any mischief, ' particularly from the countries over which he had exercised despotic dominion for so many years, and on which he had inflicted the most unexampled distress. At the time of this memorable occurrence, the hardship and injustice of the case were exclaimed against by the friends of French republicanism in this country, and the allied sovereigns were execrated most cordially for their tyrannical conduct towards and enemy, of whom they were in great dread, and who had often reduced them to the necessity of accepting even their thrones from his generosity, after he had conquered them and humbled them at his foot-stool.

Last year, we had an Indian war in one of our remote and newly settled states. A tribe who had gradually lost a large part of their territory, and who probably thought the time was not far distant when they should be called upon to part with the remainder, and 'cross the Mississippi,' in a fit of desperation commenced hostilities, and for a while threatened the neighboring country with the horrors of a sanguinary war. And such was the excitement among the inhabitants, that the most prompt and decided measures for their security became necessary and troops were ordered over from the Atlantic coast to the remote borders of the Union, to check the progress of the vindictive enemy. The war, as was to be expected, was terminated by the conquest of the savages; and eventually their brave and patriotic chief, Black Hawk, became a prisoner in the hands of his white and more civilized enemies. After due deliberation, in order to prevent future mischief, and to guard the peace and safety of the inhabitants of that part of the country, it was determined to remove this uncivilized hero to a place of security, where he could be kept and guarded as a state prisoner, or in softer phrase, as a hostage, to ensure the tranquility of the inhabitants upon the distant borders of United States.  Accordingly, the captive chief, with his companions in adversity, had at the last advices (sic) arrived at the seat of government, on the way to Fort Monroe, at old Point Comfort, the place of his confinement.

We do not recollect having seen the slightest remark of disapprobation from any quarter, of the manner in which this Indian Bonaparte has been treated by his conquerors. If Black Hawk was cruel, so was Bonaparte; if Black Hawk was treacherous and vindictive so was Bonaparte; if Black Hawk was ambitious, so was Bonaparte; if Black Hawk was disposed to disturb the peace, and shed the blood of those who stood in the way of his ambition, so was Bonaparte. In what then do the principles of the two cases essentially differ? Black Hawk doubtless considered himself as fighting for his own and his nation's rights, in defence of his own unquestionable dominions, and for the soil on which he was born and to which he was attached by the strongest affection of which his nature was susceptible. Bonaparte was not even a native of France-ambition was the motive to all his conduct, and his renown grew out of the most bloody wars, and the prosecution of the most extraordinary system of military oppression and tyranny, that the history of modern ages contains. We have no doubt that Black Hawk's moral principles, tried by the savage standard, were of a higher cast than Bonaparte's when estimated by the rules of civilization and Christianity.

We should like to hear the opinions of casuists on the relative merits of these two cases. That of Bonaparte must be acknowledged to have been of a more splendid and astounding character, than that of Black Hawk. But this is not the moral view of the cases. In what respect was it more reprehensible in the allied powers of Europe, who had been involved for a long course of years in the most destructive and desolating wars that modern history records, carried on by the exercise of the most remorseless tyranny that the civilized world had ever experienced, to place the author of all this misery, when they had him in their power, in a situation where he could never more disturb their tranquility, than for our government to remove this savage chief, who had made war upon one corner of their territory, to a region many hundred miles distant, for fear he might at some future day break the peace, and endanger the security of a small portion of the Union?




      


Auraria.- A village with the name has sprung up within the last twelve months, the woods of the Georgia gold region. It is situated on the ridge dividing the waters of the Chestatee and Etoah Rivers in the county of Lumpkin, formerly the county of Cherokee. That the Georgians should endeavor to blot out of their remembrance the very name of CHEROKEE, is not at all wonderful, for it must haunt them, as the ghost of Banquoerst (sic) haunted the guilty Macbeth; but they can no more remove the stain of Cherokee oppression than they could extinguish the recollections of the Yazoo affair, by burning up the records. The taste however which selected the name of Lumpkin, to designate the county, in place of Cherokee, cannot be sufficiently admired. What a delightful euphony in the sound of Lumpkin!-but we think it would be an improvement to call it 'Tony Lumpkin County'- in as much as we regard the hopeful son of Madam Hardcastle as a much more respectable character than the graceless individual to whom the name maybe supposed to refer.

Auraria too!-so very descriptive, and withal so very euphonious as to consist entirely of vowels and liquids, without the interruption of a single consonant to break the continuity of sound! Yet here, also, our evil genius leads us to suggest an emendation. Auraria is a title that alludes only to the produce which that a region yields. A more appropriate name should indicate the title by which it was acquired. Let it therefore be called Infernia-Furtaria-Raptoria-Latronia, or any other significant appellation by which the mode of its acquisition may be directly carried down to posterity. -   New York Spectator.




      


From the Missionary Herald.

Messrs Worcester and Butler's reasons for their course in relation to the proceedings of the State of Georgia.

In the Herald for March, at p. 100, an account was given of the transactions connected with the discharge of Messrs. Worcester and Butler from the Georgia Penitentiary. A letter has since been received from them giving their own views in relation to these and previous transactions, which justice to them, and the subject requires should be published. It was written in February last, and is as follows:

It has seemed to us that it might not be amiss to address a letter to you, with leave to make it public if it be thought expedient, giving a summary view of the grounds on which we have acted from the beginning to the end of the late controversy between ourselves and the state of Georgia.

We were residing among the Cherokees for the purpose of communicating to them the knowledge of the way of salvation, in obedience to the command of our Redeemer to preach the gospel to every creature.  This object we were aiming to accomplish by means of public preaching and exhortation, by the publication of the written word of God, and other religious books in the native language, and through the medium of schools. In this residence and these labors,we had the sanction of the Government of the United States, and of the Cherokee Nation.

While we were peaceably engaged in these labors, a law was enacted by the state of Georgia, asserting jurisdiction over the territory where we resided, and forbidding the residence of white men after a specified date, unless they should have taken an oath to support the Constitution and laws of the state, and to demean themselves uprightly as citizens thereof, under penalty for four years confinement in the penitentiary.  This oath the following considerations forbade us to take.

The oath required would have been understood on all hands, not only as including, but as particularly intending, an obligation to support the jurisdiction of the state over the Cherokee people; since the recognition of this jurisdiction was the immediate design of the requirement.

We had always considered the Cherokees as possessing both a natural and conventional right to govern themselves, subject only to such limitations of sovereignty as were expressed in existing treaties between them and the United States.

As we understood this right of self government to be secured to the Cherokees by their treaties with the General Government, and oath to support those laws which deprived them of this right would have been inconsistent with an understanding which existed between ourselves and the General Government, that we should respect those treaties as the supreme law of the land.

We supposed ourselves required by the word of God to respect the rightfully constituted authorities of the place where we resided. This principle would require us to acknowledge, either the jurisdiction of Georgia, or that of the Cherokees, whichever was the rightfully constituted authority; for both claimed jurisdiction as to the same matters, and both claims, therefore, could not be acknowledged. Supposing that the Cherokee government was of rightful authority, and oath inconsistent with the recognition of that authority would have been a violation of the injunction to regard the powers that be. We are the more particular on this point, because, by a petito principii, the requirements of scripture to which we refer, have often been urged as demanding of us that allegiance to the state of Georgia, which the oath would have recognized.  Scripture could not require us to recognize at the same time two conflicting authorities.

The extension of the jurisdiction of the state over the Cherokees we regard as unjust and oppressive; and we could not swear to uphold that injustice and oppression.

Believing that the lawful jurisdiction of the state did not extend to the territory where we resided, and having never lived under its jurisdiction, we did not suppose ourselves to be citizens of the state.  An oath to demean ourselves uprightly as citizens would be an acknowledgment under oath that we were such-a virtual declaration upon oath of what we did not believe to be true, and therefore perjury. This utterly precluded the possibility of our taking the oath.

In these circumstances and with these views, our only alternative was, either to be banished from our homes, and from the field of our interesting and important labors, or to suffer temporary imprisonment, and appeal to the justice of our country in defence of our constitutional rights, in defence of the cause of religion as involved in the privilege of publishing to all men the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, and in defence of the rights of a much injured people.

We will next state the reasons by which we were induced to adopt the latter alternative.

We had no doubt of our civil right to refuse obedience to the law in question, appealing to the Supreme Court of the United States to sustain us in that refusal.  We regarded the law as manifestly unconstitutional, and therefore no law; and we could not see to what purpose the Constitution should forbid the enactment of such and such laws, if when those laws are enacted, any individual, who suffers by them, may not rightfully appeal to the judicial tribunals against their operations.

We did not see that our character as missionaries either exonerated us from the obligations or divested us of the rights of American citizens.

Not only our rights as citizens, but our rights as missionaries were infringed. It is said, indeed, that we were not forbidden to preach the gospel in the disputed territory. True-but every one must perceive that the prohibition of the residence of missionaries within a given territory is a great RESTRAINT upon preaching the gospel there. The law did prohibit the residence of missionaries, except upon terms to which no missionary who was then laboring in the territory in question, with a single exception, could conscientiously accede. If submitted to it was to break up several important missionary stations.  It was greatly to hinder the preaching of the gospel. It was to put an almost entire stop to one important branch of missionary labor, viz, that of training up of youth under the influence of the gospel by means of mission schools. And another most important branch, in which one of us was engaged, the translating and publishing the written word of God, could not, under existing circumstances, be successfully prosecuted, except at a place within the prohibited territory.  This labor must be interrupted by removal.

And the law not only did operate, but it was designed to operate, as an interruption to missionary labors. We do not make this statement without grounds. We have good reason for believing that the expulsion of missionaries was the particular object of the law.  This opposition to missionaries was grounded in part upon the mistaken apprehension that we were endeavoring to persuade the Cherokees not to remove. But this was not all. The authorities of the state had charged it upon the Government of the United States, as a violation of the compact with Georgia, that they had caused the Cherokees to be instructed, because their progress in knowledge and in civilization had the effect to attach them to their home, and render them unwilling to part with those lands, which the United States were conditionally bound to purchase for the use of the state. The authorities of the state were therefore opposed to the instruction of the Indians within her chartered limits, and wished to expel the missionaries because they communicated that instruction. We did not consider the desire of the state to obtain the lands of the Cherokees as a sufficient reason why they should be left to perish through ignorance; and, believing that the laws of our country were on our side, we were disposed to contend for the right of continuing among them our labors for their temporal, and especially their eternal welfare.

The rights of thousands were involved with our own.  We have already said that we regard the extension of the jurisdiction of the state over the Cherokees as a most unjust and oppressive. We believed that the design of their extension was to force the Cherokees away from the soil which was their own, and which, so long as they were disposed, they had a perfect right to retain. The effect upon the Cherokees, we believed, would be ruinous. And as their rights and ours were involved in the same question, we felt that, in maintaining our own, we were maintaining theirs also. The constitutional question involved appeared to us so plain, that we could not expect any other than a decision in our favor, when our cause should come before the Supreme Court; and we could not but hope that, when that court should have sustained by its decision the rights of the Cherokees, those rights would be defended by every department of the national government, and this unhappy people be saved from the oppression under which they groaned. We fell (sic), therefore, that Christian philanthropy demanded a temporary sacrifice of our personal liberty, in order to obtain a decision of so much importance to thousands of our fellow men.

(Concluded in our next.)




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JULY 27, 1833

SUFFERINGS OF CHEROKEE LADIES.

About the first of this month, near this place, Mr. Dukes, the Sheriff of Coweta County, came to this place and took lodgings at a tavern of Wm. Tarvin. Next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn. On his way, he called at a house where there were two women. Mrs. Oosunaley and Mrs. Foster, both married women, and called for a drink of water. He alighted, and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosunaley, who being in a delicate condition. Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter. Duke, (sic) finding his attempt frustrated, took from his coat, a pocket book, and offered his injured hosts satisfaction. They attempted to destroy his pocket book and contents, but failed.  Duke (sic) held in his hand a heavy horse whip, which he used on these poor women, with all his force, until Algiers itself would sicken at the stripes he inflicted. Mrs Oosunaley presented herself to the Magistrate here for redress, and exhibited to him her wounds. But he being a proselyte of the new school, told her he was not the person to relieve her, and that no Indian testimony could be received. The honorable Sheriff has been here since but no justice for the much abused females.

_______________

EMIGRATION

We are informed by the person who has been acting as linguist for an enrolling agent, that the President has again opened emigration for those Cherokees who may wish to join their deluded brethren west of the Mississippi. After giving the Cherokees a respite of 8 or 9 months, and a failure at a treaty, the President has, after discharging the Mississippian warriors, thought proper to remove and add to our oppression by sending some pests, and nuisances to our society. It is needless for us to advise our brethren on this point.  Improve your lands, educate your children, inculcate in them religion, and morality, it will attain for you felicity unknown in the western wilds.

______________________

COMPACT BETWEEN U. S. ' GEORGIA

Thirty-two years have elapsed since this famous compact was negotiated and concluded between the United States on the one part, and the State of Georgia on the other. In this instrument the General Government made its bounden duty, to the latter, to extinguish the Indian title to all the lands within the limits of Georgia, as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms to the United States. In the execution of this compact, the Federal Government have steadily and successfully to the year 1830, with large disbursements from its treasury, extinguished for Georgia many millions of acres, all the lands of the Creek's within the limits of that State. With the Cherokees, the Government has likewise obtained fairly, about one million acres of excellent and valuable lands, now comprising the counties of Gwinnett, Hall, and Habersham, affording at this time the most valuable gold mines in the United States. The remainder of the lands of the Cherokees within the limits of this State, unextinguished, is computed at five millions of acres. The United States have entered into treaties with the Cherokees, in which they have guaranteed forever to the Cherokees all the lands not ceded. The Supreme Court have decided on these same treaties to be the supreme law of the land.  The present administration of the Government, with all the combination of schemes the wit of man can invent to enable it to accomplish an object pending between an equal sovereign have, after placing the Cherokees in duress and unexampled oppression by the State of Georgia, successively failed in purchasing and extinguishing the lands we have before stated. Hence we are enabled to state and repeat what we have before said, with the utmost confidence, that no treaty can be effected with the Cherokees for their removal west of the Mississippi. In the mean time Georgia has conveyed these lands and granted them to her citizens, or in other words, robbed the Cherokees of this large property, without any remuneration to the aboriginal owners whatever. If the Cherokees refuse to sell, the Georgians receives the exclusive benefit of these lands. But if the Cherokees would treat, then, in this case, the President is wiling to give them an indemnity for the property. The adjustment of the affair on the latter principle, is utterly impracticable. The best of these lands have been bought up on speculation from the fortunate drawers, by large and wealthy companies that have been formed in Georgia. The question now arises and it is respectfully submitted to the America people, whether it is to the interest of the Federal Government in prosecuting its policy towards the Cherokees to aggrandize the State of Georgia, or to put to rest by a definitive adjustment or compromise, by awarding an equivalent sum to the drawers and those who have purchased on speculation, and thereby enable the Cherokees to enjoy the land of their fathers, and the inheritance of their children. We believe the time is propitious, and an opportunity is now presented to the Government, to have this protracted controversy honorably adjusted without further oppressing the Cherokees, on the principles pointed out. We have conversed freely with those companies who have engrossed these lands, and have invariably admitted their incumbrance of the Cherokee title. This course, is, we think, inviting to the Government,-no purchase can be made of the Cherokees, it will be cheaper to the Government to award Georgia a sum. The Cherokees in this Nation are a small tribe, of 15,000 or 16,000 in number.  They have been at peace with the white man nearly half a century, no detriment to the Government can arise from their local situation. Our rights are dear to us, and the property wrested is large. The door is now open whereby Georgia can be satisfied, justice demands that the Cherokees' rights should be sustained.

We shall advert to this subject again.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

C. N. 21st July, 1833

Mr. Editor:- I have for the last ten years, seen the doing of Uncle Sam as he is proudly named, to the Indian tribes. At first, I thought it was a mere ruse de politique of those who contended that a people confessedly aboriginal only had an usufruct right to their national soil; finding however that honest Uncle Sam spurns contemptuously such imputations, I have looked a little into Raleigh, Hackney, and others, to see how they understood the matter, and if possible, learn the meaning of these high-sounding words, equity, equality, indefensible, and unalienable, as applied by such fellows as Madison, Jefferson, 'c. The result of my inquiries, is that they knew nothing at all about the matter, and although the Cherokees ' other Nations, have held their present residence from a time which 'the memory of man passeth not,' and that too, from long before Uncle Sam, or Uncle John Bull, either, were ever heard of, still this makes no difference all these

aboriginals are tenants, 'in soccage and not in capite' according to the decree of King James, made when he sent out a band of buccaneers to pilfer in the name of royalty.  I have not been able to find precisely what are the services they are bound to perform, because I can find no deed or contract between the parties, on which his Majesty could have predicted his charter, but I presume, from the manner in which the present lords of the Manor conduct themselves, that the natives are obliged to clear and fence lands, build comfortable houses, such as Ross's and Springplace, 'c. drive off all the varmint, and then give up these improvements to some of our Uncle's needy sons. You will perhaps think me mistaken here, and tell me to look at the dozen or fifteen treaties which have been made expressly to define these matters.  I have read every one of them together with President Washington, Monroe, Adams, yes, and Old Hickory's talk with Ridge.  But that's all nothing, not of any account, these were a mere humbug intended to gull the public and tie up the arms of the Indians. Perhaps you doubt this; it is however as true as that the Paxton boys broke the jail and  murdered some Moravian Indians, put there for safety in the old French War; or that a fellow called Col. Williamson, and others murdered about an hundred of the same Indians in the old Revolution, or that Spring-place, the oldest Missionary establishment in this nation, has been seized by a set of vagabonds, and converted into a tippling establishment; or_______ but this is enough.  Some indeed have expressed astonishment that Uncle Sam will be, as he certainly has been, guilty of littleness of holding these lands under the grant of King James, whilst he denies that, and all other monarch's title to any part of this continent, and throws whole volumes out in defence of equality of rights, unalienable rights, paramount law, treaties, 'c.

This is even true also, and the astonishment of these boobies arise from hence, they do not perceive the vast difference between meum et tuum; they do not inquire into the cuiboni of the matter. King James verily did issue his patent under the broad seal of the Empire of Britain, in which patent he granted away vast tracts of land, including the Cherokees, which he had never seen and almost doubted their entity, to be held as part, and parcel of his royal majesty's manor of E. Greenwich. On, and by virtue of this same grant his successor took on several pranky moods some years ago, such as arrogating to himself the command in certain matters; occasionally putting his lion's paw in Johnathan's (sic) pocket, 'c. but the young rowdy seized his daddy by his venerable beard, and cut it off with his jack-knife; and he uses this same beard of his old father as a flag, when he wished to rally his bows for a row at sea or land, at this present day. Lest the boy in his impertinent pet should further abuse the old man, he gave up his right to all that part of the manor of Greenwich west of the Atlantic. It is time Jonathan had driven the old man out and denied his title to it in toto, but he was then in a great rage and did not mind his P's and Q's. On reflection, he has allowed King James' title and under it claims the whole aboriginal country,and that he will have it may be inferred from the fact that he has seized some how or other all the lands of all the Nations from Maine to Florida, and out far in the West. It is all folly to jabber and quibble with him about right; he understands meum et tuum; he wants these lands and will have them.

Now this being the case, and the Atlantic being nearest, it is foolish in the Indians to plod so far over the swamps infested by troops of alligators and clouded by swarms of mosquitos, to find a pond large enough to drown themselves, for nothing else can satisfy Uncle Sam's family but the total extinction of Indians, and the sequestration of their estates, so I advise them and you too, sir, to pack up parch corn enough to last you to Apalachy (sic) bay, or the mouth of Oakmulgee, call in the first penniless vagabond, each one of you can see, surrender to him all our worldly gear, and move off to the sea, jump in head-foremost and creep down the throat of the first marine monster you can find. If you will put this in practice, I think it likely that Congress will appropriate a whole quarter section of land to rear a monument to your memory, and another to have your funeral requiem sung in the Capital; it is also probable, that Old Hickory might issue a laudatory proclamation on the subject. In fault of all these, you may be sure of plenty of whiskey 'c. on the way, and no opposition, especially, if you can persuade Dr. Butler, and Mr. Worcester, Clauder and the rest of the Missionaries, to lead you to the jumping off place.

Now Mr. Editor, I entreat that you will not deceive yourselves, by specious appearances. You may suppose some amelioration will ensue from Missionary attempts to civilize and Christianize Indians.  Do you not know that it is held as an axiom that our Indians cannot be civilized, cannot be taught science, 'c.  Have you not seen the destruction or sequestration of all the Missionary stations in Georgia and among the Choctaws, and many other places for years past. The thing is plain. These establishments are tolerated, and in some sort supported, wherever it is thought useful to keep Indians quiet, to amuse them with a prospect of rising in the moral scale; but as soon as more land is wanted, no matter where, or which tribe, or in what situation, they must go; their missionaries are imprisoned, insulted by law, cats-paws and minions; their persons abused, motives traduced, and their labors destroyed. This has been the course for half a century; it is now, and will hereafter be the course of conduct pursued to them, and to the Indians. There is but one other efficient course to save the Indians, and that is almost hopeless, but would certainly be useful not only to Indians, but to all Uncle Sam's family. It is to select out three or four dozen such fellows as the Gov. of Georgia, and those who hold his notions of justice, honor, humanity, and law, and put them in the care of some such teacher as Black Hawk, to learn lessons on these subjects, and then to restore them to their stations. Or perhaps it might not be amiss to establish a lecturer of the Winebagoes at Washington to teach the great ones how to give the quid pro quo.

P******






      


INDIANS

From the Missionary Herald.

Messrs Worcester and Butler's Reasons for their course in

relation to the proceedings of the State of Georgia.

CONCLUDED

The faith and justice of our nation were at hazard.  That faith and justice were pledged for the protection of the Cherokees and their rights; but that pledge was apparently about to be forfeited, that faith to be broken, and an act of flagrant robbery to be committed upon a defenseless people, with the sanction of our national authorities. Whether this should be done was not a question of mere political expediency but of clear moral obligation-a question of right or wrong-of keeping or violating the commands of God, of obtaining, as a nation, Divine favor, or incurring Divine vengeance. We hoped that a decision of the Supreme Court might be the occasion of arresting the hand of oppression-of averting from our beloved country the guilt of covenant breaking, and robbery, and the vengeance of heaven. We did not know but these consequences might depend upon our maintaining our ground, and appealing to the highest judicial tribunal of our country in our defence. While suffering for this object, we felt that we were suffering for righteousness' sake.  And we feared that, if we should shrink from that suffering in such circumstances, we should be partakers of the guilt in question. We wished, if the people among whom we had labored in the work of the gospel were to sink under the weight of oppression and injustice, to be found guiltless not only of participation, but even of acquiescence.

Way (sic) then it may be asked, if we were impelled  by a sense of duty to make our appeal to the Supreme Court, did we not insist to the last upon the execution of its decision?  Not, we answer, from any change in our views, but on account of changing circumstances.

The law which had prohibited our residence in the former field of our labors had been repealed. We had no longer to contend for the right of laboring among the Cherokees without restraint in the work of the gospel.

There was no longer any hope, by our perseverance, of securing the rights of the Cherokees, or preserving the faith of our country. The Supreme Court had given a decision in our favor, which recognized the rights of the Cherokees; but it still rested with the Executive Government, whether those rights should be protected, and it had become certain that the Executive would not protect them. The utmost we could expect from that source was interference to the extent of executing the mandates of the court; and as those mandates could extend only to the cases before court, the execution on them would only effect our release from confinement, without benefitting the Cherokee Nation.



The leading motives, therefore, which first induced us to make our appeal, existed no longer. In the meantime, however, other motives had incidentally arisen.  The supreme judicial tribunal of our country had given its decision in our favor, and the state which held us in unlawful ' oppressive servitude was trampling the authority of that tribunal under her feet. Did not patriotism, therefore, require us to insist upon the maintenance of the authority of the court? For a time it was our impression that it did. But we had to consider that:

3. Any advantage, to be derived from our preverance (sic), as to maintaining the authority of the Supreme Court, was  extremely doubtful. The state had placed herself in an attitude of resistance, which it appeared evident that nothing but force could overcome; that force could not be obtained without the agency of the President of the United States; and we had as much reason to believe that the President would not interfere.

4. Had it been ever so plain that our cause could and would be maintained by force of arms, and however plain it is that, in case of our perseverance, it would become the duty of the Executive to maintain at all hazards the authority of the law, it was not so clear that it was our duty to insist upon this course. It is no sacrifice of the authority of the law, for an individual to yield his lawful right, rather than that blood should be spilt in his defence. While the right of preaching the gospel without restraint, and the question of grand moral obligation respecting the rights of the Cherokees and the faith of our country were depending, we felt it to be our duty to go forward; but the aspect of the case was changed, when the former of these was no longer to be contended for, and our further perseverance could not affect the latter.

5. The political aspect of our country was in other respects such as to render it doubtful, in our apprehension, whether the public would not sustain injury by the prosecution of our appeal.

6. As far as our personal liberty was concerned, it were better to suffer unjustly, than to seek redress at the hazard of civil war.

7. We had the assurance of an unconditional release, provided we should desist from the attempt to obtain that release by force. This assurance came, not from any solicitation on our part. We made no solicitation, no overture, no compromise.  But we were often and earnestly solicited by persons in the confidence of the governor to desist from the prosecution, and assured that if we did so, we should not long remain in prison. So long ago as last August we were told by C. I. Mills, that the governor had expressed to him his intention to release us as soon as the Cherokees should form a treaty of cession, or as the state should have taken actual possession of the territory by the operation of existing laws and added 'You may tell them so.' After we had given notice of our intention to move the Supreme Court for further process, Gen. Coffee and Judge Schley, two members elect of Congress, earnestly solicited us to recall the notice, and said that, though they were not sent to us, and did not give the assurance officially yet they had conversed with the governor on the subject, and knew his views; and we might be assured that, if we should withdraw our suit, we should be discharged without any concession or condition, or even an application to the governor, before many weeks. Mr. Cuthbert, another gentleman in the confidence of the governor, and who had also solicited us to withdraw the suit, told us that he had received the most unqualified assurance from the governor, that if we did so, we should be discharged immediately after the adjournment of the Supreme Court. Mr. Forsyth had called on our counsel, Mr. Wirt, for the purpose of bringing about the same object, and had expressed his full confidence, though he said he was not empowered to give any pledge from the governor to that effect, that we should be discharged immediately on the governor's receiving information that no motion would be made before the court. We at first believed, and have since been informed, that Mr. Forsyth was authorized by the governor to give Mr. Wirt such assurance.

Since our release the question has been asked, What had the missionaries gained by suffering imprisonment, and appealing to the Supreme Court? _ This inquiry may deserve a reply.

1. Suppose we have gained nothing. Ought we therefore to repent of having made the attempt?  Are we never to make efforts and sacrifices for the accomplishment of an important object, without the certainty of success? Or when we have done it, and failed, are we therefore to wish we had not done it?  No. If we have gained nothing else, we have at least gained a very cheerful testimony of our consciences, that  we have done what we could, for the prevention of injustice, oppression and robbery, and the preservation of the nation faith.

_______________

*We ought, perhaps, here to say, that Mr. Wirt did not give us any advice on the subject preferring, as he said, to sustain to us simply the relation of legal counsel.

2. If we have not gained, we have at least not lost the privilege of laboring among the Cherokees in the work of the gospel.

3. We have gained in behalf of the Cherokees a decision of the Supreme Court, which, although it does not avail for the protection of their present rights, may nevertheless have a very important bearing on their future prosperity-a decision worth far more than the sacrifices we have made to obtain it.

We do not repent of what we have done. We greatly rejoice in it. And now that we are free, it gives us consolation to reflect that we have not obtained our freedom by any abandonment of principle, or by ceasing to bear our testimony against the injustice of the measures by which the Cherokees are deprived of their possessions. We felt it to be due to the cause of justice in announcing to the authorities of the state our determination to prosecute the case no further, to declare our unaltered conviction of the correctness of the principles on which we have acted. Having made the declaration then, we feel a freedom which we should not otherwise feel in making it now.

We know not but we shall be considered as having used language unjustifiably severe, in this communication, respecting the proceedings of the state of Georgia; but our own vindication appears to require that we speak of things as they are in our own view. The nature of the proceedings by which the defenseless Indians are deprived of their possessions appears to us very plain. We wish certainly to avoid opprobrious language, but we cannot see why, when we have felt ourselves called upon to oppose a torrent of iniquity, we should attempt to gloss over that iniquity by giving it names too smooth to express the truth. And we feel unwilling to retire from the contest into which we have been led, without giving our decided testimony against what it is impossible for us to regard in any other light than injustice, oppression, and robbery. Towards the state of Georgia or her authorities we are conscious of no vindictive feelings. It is our unceasing prayer that her transgressions and the transgressions of our countrymen be forgiven, and those judgements of heaven averted, which there is too much reason to fear.

We are yours with much esteem and affection.

S.A. Worcester,

Elizur Butler.




      


From the New York Spectator.

It is known that artists of eminence have taken portraits of Black Hawk, his son, and The Prophet. Mr. Ford, Mr. Sully, and several others, have produced, it is said, very striking likenesses of the Chief. The following anecdote is related in the Richmond Enquirer:-

'It is said, that the Indians, while they were at Old Point, conducted themselves with the greatest propriety. Old Hawk's handsome son was very fond of the company of the beautiful American Squaws. He is passionately attached to music-and, on one occasion, after listening with the most profound attention to the strains of the piano forte as its keys were touched by a young lady he suddenly jumped up, and drawing a brilliant ring from his finger, presented it with many compliments to his fair companion.  She declined it with an air of great politeness-but the Young Hawk was much mortified at the refusal, and still more at the idea of having transgressed some established rule of American etiquette.'

A favorable specimen of original eloquence is presented in the following address of Black Hawk to Col. Eustis, the officer in command at Fort Monroe, and in the subsequent colloquy between them, just before their departure for the North, on their way to their homes. It is also interesting, as it indicates the pacific feelings now entertained by the Indian Chiefs, and which we hope no further encroachment upon their rights will rouse into hostile action. That Col Eustis, by his kindness and attention, had won the personal friendship and respect of the Chieftain, is also evident from the tone and spirit of the address:-

'Brother-I have come on my part and in behalf of my companions to bid you farewell. Our Great Father* has been pleased to permit us to return to our hunting grounds. We have buried the tomahawk, and the sound of the rifle will hereafter only bring death to the deer and the buffalo.

Brother-You have treated the red man very kindly-your squaws have made them presents and you have given them plenty to eat and drink.  The memory of your friendship will remain till the Great Spirit says it is time for Black Hawk to sing his death song.

Brother-Your houses are as numerous as the leaves upon the trees, and your young warriors like the sands upon the shores of the big lake which rolls before us. The red man has but few houses and few warriors, but the red man has a heart which throbs as warmly as the heart of the white brother.

Brother- The Great Spirit has given us our hunting grounds, and the skin of the deer which we kill there is his favorite, for its color is white, and that is the emblem of peace.

This hunting dress and the feathers of the eagle are white. Accept them my brother. I have given one like this to the White Otter+. Accept it as a memorial of Black Hawk. When he is far away, this will serve to remind you of him. May the Great Spirit bless you and your children.  Farewell.'

To this Col. Eustis made the following appropriate and apparently heartfelt reply:-

'Friend and brother-It was the will of the Great Spirit and the fortune of war which placed you in my hands. If I had met you in the field of battle, it would have been my duty to my country and my white brethren to have taken your life. But the Great Spirit placed you in my hands as a captive-and the white man never attacks an unarmed foe. I have therefore treated you with all the kindness in my power, and I hope you have not suffered any inconvenience during your residence with us. And now that you are at liberty to return home and rejoin your tribe, believe me I sympathize heartily in your emotions of joy. You offer me your hand-say that it is a pledge of friendship, and give an assurance that you will give no further trouble to our white neighbors.'

Black Hawk said, 'Brother-The Great Spirit punishes those who deceive us, and my faith is now pledged.'

The Colonel proceeded-'Brother-it is well-you have seen much of our power, and will behold a great deal more before you reach your own country. Remember, then, and teach your young men that the red man's best interest is to be friendly to the whites, and to their great father, the President. He will afford them his protection if they do so.'

'I receive with pleasure this hunting dress, and shall value it much more so, because it was given to me by Black Hawk.  Accept this belt of wampum on my part as a remembrance, and bond of our friendship.- May you live in peace ever after with your children.-Farewell.'

A few words more were spoken on either side, but they were unimportant and consisted merely of friendly wishes and congratulations. Before he departed, he received from the Colonel';s lady, who was present at the interview, with several friends, a splendid bead bag, with which he appeared very much pleased, and said he would carry it safely to his squaw, who would be delighted to receive it.

On his visit to Philadelphia he witnessed the vast multitude who thronged the streets to gaze at Gen. Jackson. The Intelligencer of that city says that he and his friends leaned upon the window, and looked down upon the dense mass below with interest, but not with amazement. The crowd which had increased to a tremendous extent, gazed upon the singular array at the windows with silent curiosity; and, at length, Black Hawk, observing this, signified his desire to make a speech.

'Black Hawk,' said the old warrior, 'once thought he could conquer the whites. His heart grew bitter, and his hand strong. He unburied the tomahawk; and he led his people to fight. He fought hard. He was no coward. He spilled much blood. But the white men were mighty. They were many as the leaves of the forest; and Black Hawk and his people failed. He was sorry that the tomahawk had been raised.  He had been a prisoner. He saw the strength of the white men. They were very many. The Indians are but few. They are not cowards-they are brave-but they are few. He was sorry that they had gone to war. While the Great Spirit above, and he pointed on high kept his heart as it is now was, he would be the friend of the white man.- He would remain in peace.  He would go to his people and speak the good of the white man. He would tell them they were as the leaves of the forest-very many-very strong-and he would fight no more. Black Hawk is the white man's friend.'

___________

* i.e. the President.

+ The White Otter means General Atkinson-called so by the Indians because his hair is particularly white and silky.




      


From Poulson's Advertiser

THE INDIAN ' THE ECHO.

A Fragment from the Indian Traditions.

'Comest thou my father' said Sabawasqua as the ghost of his father came wandering along over the battle field. 'I come' said the shadow 'from the halls of Nowonett. Go my son-rest on the green banks of the Quantumyonkant beyond the lake of Shawbewem.' But I am not, my father, as I was when the new sun shone upon me on the plains of Pagyem.  I am faint with the loss of blood-I am weak, who was once strong-I am low who have heaped the dead upon the plan (sic) and rolled upon the habitation of mine enemies like the torrent from the Suncook.' 'Rest then my son' said the shadow-'rest on thy bed of blood. I will go and prepare for thee--I will make ready for thy reception.' The shadow disappeared and the Sabawasqua closed his eyes in silence.

It was now midnight and the pale moon shed her rays dimly around him, affording just light enough for Indian superstition to play upon his half opened eye and disordered brain. Again he closed his eyes; and again his breast swelled with horror.  But sleep bore down upon his eyelids and his blood ceased to flow. He was again awakened by the sound of a distant vaying (or Indian whistle) and finding his strength somewhat renewed-he raised himself from the ground-and leaning on his faithful bow, walked slowly to a large flat rock that projected out over the bed of the Cocheco. 

This was his favorite seat in the days of mid-summer. The day came slowly along-and morning was somewhat cloudy. The succeeding day was hot and the black clouds arose in the west and the thunder rolled in the distant darkness. The Indian sat like a statue-he felt he was failing-he knew he should not behold tomorrow's sun. The storm came-the forest mowed down before it. The hills tottered, the mountains trembled, and the lightnings darted across the sky. The Indian beheld the wheeling skies unmoved-he looked upon the confusion of the heavens calmly and observed the strife of the angry elements without fear.

The sky was again cleared and a hollow silence hung over the deep forest that surrounded him. But still the wild echo chanted her song and responded to the birds of the grove-to the murmuring streams and the sweet voices of nature's children.

The Indian raised his aching head and thus began:-'Come, Sampeiro, faithful dog-come to thy master. Thou art all that is now left of the many friends of Sabawasqua. The dog drew near and laid down by his master, who was then preparing to speak.  He thus began. 'This is the end-this is the glory of man-he is but a shadow-his life is like the morning dew.'

And the echo answered. 'Like the morning dew.'

Awed at a sound so unexpected, he stopt (sic) a moment!-but being a man of courage, and a stranger to fear, he went on.

'As the sun comes up out of the blue waters and climbs to the heights of the sky-so came I from childhood-so climbed I to the highest seat of human greatness. But I am passing away-I am going down.'

And the echo answered, 'going down.'

I have been great among the nations of red men.- I was the sun of my tribe. I came down from the heights Monadnock, like a broken cloud on the head of mine enemies. I led my tribe to the fight-I was strong as the mountain oak.  We met on the plain yonder as the broken clouds rush in wrath over the parting skies. I devoured mine enemies as a lion-I swept them away as the leaves of autumn. But they killed my friends-they sent them to the Shanbewen. I too must follow them-I must go soon.'

And the echo answered 'Go soon.'

Suppose this voice to be that of some departed friend talking to him, his feelings were raised to an uncommon height, and he almost forgot that his end was fast approaching.

Again he said- 'How do we pass away. We crowd along to the faying(sic) like sheep over the fallen hedge-like the blue waves of the deep. Soon our voices will be silent, soon we shall be veyump (forgotten). Who shall be left to remember us-who shall weep over the wild flowers that wave over our silence? Alas! there is none to remember-none to weep?'

And the echo answered, 'None to weep.'

'I am tired of my life and I will go to the house of my father. He will rejoice to see me come.'

And the echo answered,'Come.'

'I will come Sire' said he-and he slowly arose and dropped himself into the depths below.-The dark waters closed over the mighty Sabawasqua-and the surface was as smooth as tho none were there.- No more was seen of him for he arose not again.  He could not bear to live alone-for he was in the valley of bones-among the habitations of the dead. He is no more-now the breezes whisper around his cold seat of stone-and the wild cocheco exults over his bleaching bones.

When the storm comes down upon the plain - when the trees wave their forearms in the blast-when the mighty oaks clench their strong fingers together and bows loudly down before the tempest,- even then fancy hears his voice among the rough music of the elements--even then his form is seemingly there among the clouds and mists that wonder along the river's bank.

He was the last of his tribe; in him was seen the perfections of Indian greatness--in him was marked the true points of the Indian character.

KAMAVAGARAH.




      


The Seminole Agent, we have been informed, has returned with the chiefs of that tribe from exploring the country of the Arkansas, allotted to our red brethren as their future permanent resting place.  They are much pleased with both the climate, and character of the soil, and have ratified the provisional treaty made with Col. Gadsden last spring. By this arrangement, the Territory of Florida will be speedily freed of her red population, and a very desirable district of the country equally adapted to the cultivation of sugar, cotton, and the tropical fruits, will be opened to the enterprize of emigrants. While we bring this subject to the notice of those, who may be disposed to emigrate to the sunny South, we feel gratified that the opportunity afforded is the work of one of our fellow citizens, who we trust enjoys in his newly adapted home, all the consideration his labors entitle him to.

Charleston Courier.




      


The Sac Indians, who were delivered up by their chief, Ke-o-kuk, to the civil authorities of Jackson County, Illinois, for the murder of Masten, have been discharged, the Grand Jury not having found a bill against them. The Jacksonville Banner gives the following curious history of this affair:- N. Y. American.

'When the agent went to Ke-o-kuk to demand the murderers, under instructions from the War Department, he informed the agent that they were out of his reach, but would consult with his tribe what course to take in the premises. He called them together, and having stated to them that their great father would send an armed force into their nation to take the murderers, which could cause strife and bloodshed, which it was his desire to prevent, four young men of the tribe (they who were discharged) proffered themselves as voluntary offerings to appease the vengeance of their great father, and consented that they should be given up to the agent as the offenders. They were accordingly taken by Ke-o-kuk to the agent, who had them immediately confined in jail to await their trial. At court, Ke-o-kuk and other Indians of his tribe appeared, and the old chief was made a witness on the part of the prosecution; and, before the grand jury, he stated that these young men were not the persons who committed the murder, that they were out of his reach, having fled from his tribe; and that the supposed they would be satisfied, if any four of his young men should be delivered up to their justice, not doubting but the same principles governed his white brethren that obtained among the Indians. This testimony, of course, discharged the prisoners. The people were much excited at this termination of the business; and the grand jury, in the exercise of their powers, handed to the court a presentment, the object of which was, as we understand, to request the President to take the necessary measures to procure the murderers, with testimony sufficient to convict them, and presenting the agent for accepting the men who were discharged, and requesting him not to accept any others than the real murderers, whose names were obtained from Ke-o-kuk, and bills of indictment found against them. The idea of Ke-o-kuk, and the young men was, that the judge would sentence them to be hung immediately-they ad no other expectation. In this view of the case, they showed more devotion to their tribe, and more firmness, than could be found, under similar circumstances, among the most enlightened and civilized portion of the community. It is needless to add, that they manifested great joy at their unexpected deliverance.

Messrs Gatewood, Field, and C. S. Hempstead, attended as counsel for the prisoners.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 3, 1833

YAZOO SPECULATION.

We have been somewhat indifferent to give credence to rumors that have been current in this place, of the association of Gov. Lumpkin, with a company of speculators who have been engrossing on speculation, the Cherokee lands, drawn for in the land lottery of Georgia. But on a proper enquiry of the sources from which this charge has emanated, it is sufficient authority for us to state, that our incredulity have to give place to a correct foundation of the fact-that his Excellency has been engaged with a company for buying up Cherokee lands. It may be proper to know the manner in which his Excellency has been acting. A rival purchaser applied to him for a grant to a lot of land that was incumbered with an Indian's improvement, which he peremptorily refused to give. But so soon as one of his company bargained for the same lot, the seal and grant of the Commander of the Georgia Navy was immediately delivered. It is to be presumed that scrip money from Uncle Sam, is the ostensible object; and it is on the other hand painful to see the President of the United States using such tools as Gov. Lumpkin, to distress the Cherokees.






      


INDIANS

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

April 17, 1832

MY FRIENDS,- Your great Father, the President of United States has recently been informed, that a change has probably taken place in the sentiments you have heretofore entertained, on the subject of a removal to the country west of the Mississippi, and that propositions from the Government having that object in view, would be favorably received by you.  Satisfied as the President is, that this measure can alone secure to you permanent prosperity and lay the solid foundations of your future improvement and civilization, and prepared as he has ever been to make you offers, which shall be not only be just but liberal, he as instructed me to address you upon this subject, and to make known to you the stipulations he is willing to grant, so far as his authority extends. I have therefore to request, that you will take the matter into your serious consideration, and communicate to me your alternate decision.

The President is willing to enter into an arrangement, for your removal west of the Mississippi upon the following general principles.

1. That a country, sufficiently extensive and fertile, shall be distinctly marked out, west of the Territory of Arkansas, for you and your brethren, where they now are.

2. That this country shall be conveyed to you by patent, under the provisions of the act of May 28, 1830, and that it shall be forever without the boundaries of any state or Territory.

3. That you shall have the powers of self-government so far as may be compatible with that general supervisory authority, which it is necessary Congress should exercise over you.

4. That you shall have the privilege of appointing an agent, who shall reside at Washington, to communicate your claims and wishes to the Government, and who shall be paid by the United States.

5. That if Congress assent to the measure, you shall be allowed a delegate to that body, and shall also, when your improvement and other circumstances will permit, and when Congress think proper, be placed in the relation of a Territory.

6. That all white persons, unless specially authorized by laws of the United States shall be excluded from your country.

7. That you shall remove to your new country, at the expense of United States, in either of the following modes you prefer.

1. By a commutation to be allowed to individuals or families.

2. By persons, to be appointed and paid by the United States.

3. By an arrangement to be made among yourselves, by which some of those, who are competent to the undertaking, may remove all our people, at a rate to be fixed.

8. That subsistence shall be provided by the United States for the term of one year, after you reach your destination.

9. That an annuity, proportioned to the value of the cession you may make, be secured to you.

10. That all the improvements upon the ceded territory, which add real value to the land, be appraised and paid for.

11. That ample provision be made for the support of schools,and teachers, and of blacksmiths 'c.; for the supply of steel and iron, and for the erection of mills, school houses, churches, council houses, and houses for a few of your principal chiefs.

12. That a rifle and equipments be given to each male adult; that a quantity of blankets be allowed to your families, together with axes, ploughs, hoes,wheels, cards ' looms.

13. That your stock be valued, and paid for by the United States.

14. That the annuities, due to you by former treaties be paid to you, west of the Mississippi.

15. That provision be made for your orphan children.

16. That protection be guaranteed to you against the hostile efforts of any other Indians.

17. It is the wish of the President, that all our people should remove, and he is therefore unwilling that any reservations of land should be made in the territory. Still he would not make this an indispensable condition, but would agree, should it be found necessary that reservations should be made for a few of your people, insinuations and under circumstances rendering such a measure proper, and within the scope of his legal authority. But, our people must distinctly understand, that those who remain will become citizens of the state in which they may reside, and that all the relations between them and the United States, founded upon their previous circumstances as Indians must cease.

These are the general terms I have been directed by the President to offer to you. They form the outline of an arrangement, which can be filled up when you are prepared to enter into a negotiation the details, and any other stipulations you may ask; will more properly be discussed and determined, when your views of the matter are known, and the ultimate mode of proceeding adopted.

If you are prepared to assume these propositions as the basis of a negotiation, you can appoint your Agents to come on to this place, clothed with authority to act, or the President will appoint commissioners to meet you in council, and conclude the affair.

I cannot but hope, that you will see, in this frank and liberal offers full evidence of the desire of the President, that the difficulties of our present situation may be removed, and your future destinies placed beyond the reach of those causes, which have occasioned such misery to the Indian race.

Shut your ears I entreat you, to bad counsel if any such should be offered to you, whatever may be told you, it is impossible you can remain where you now are and prosper, and if you persist in the efforts,the time of regret will come, but will come I am afraid after the most serious injury to yourselves.

Your Friend,

LEWIS CASS.

To the Cherokee East of the Mississippi.

________________

NO. 1

The undersigned, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, East of the Mississippi,presents, his respects to the Honorable Secretary of War, and informs him of his arrival together with the Delegation of said Nation, composed of Messrs. Richard Taylor, John F. Baldridge, and Joseph Vann. And who with himself, would be happy to pay their respects to the President of the United States, and likewise to the Honorable Secretary of War, whenever it shall be convenient to receive them.

Very Respectfully, I am, 'c. 'c.

JNO. ROSS.

'The Indian Queen Hotel,' Washington City, Jan. 8th, 1833.'

_______________

No. 2.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

January 9, 1833.

Sir:- In answer to your letter of the 8th instant, I have to observe that if you will be here tomorrow at half past 11 o'clock together, with the Cherokee delegation, I will accompany you to the President's at twelve.

Very Respectfully,

LEWIS CASS.

Mr. John Ross, Washington.

______________

No. 1.

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY,

January 28th, 1833.

The Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War,

Sir:_ Having exhibited before you the authority under which we have been delegated by the Cherokee Nation to visit the seat of Government. We will now take occasion to lay before you, for the consideration of the President, a brief view of the existing state of things in relation to our national affairs; and also to make known the feeling of the Cherokee people; in doing so, it is not deemed necessary to go into a detailed narrative of the numerous circumstances attending the facts, nor are we disposed to enter into a prolix discussion of the justice and merits of those rights for which we have so earnestly sought for the interposition of the protecting arm of the General Government. It is sufficient to state, that it has been the lot of our nation to differ in opinion with the constituted authorities of this Government in regard to that system of policy having for its object the general removal of all the Indian tribes west of the river Mississippi, ' that it has been our misfortune to find the President of the United States entertaining views adverse to ours upon the question of those rights, which our nation claims and heretofore have peaceably enjoyed from time immemorial, and which have been solemnly recognized by the Treaties now existing with the U. States. In the course of these events, the State of Georgia assumed to herself the right to extend and exercise jurisdiction over all that portion of our Territory called 'the chartered limits of Georgia'; the nature and effects of the laws adopted by her Legislature to operate upon our people, are well known. Our nation being strenuously opposed to a change of location, and the officers of the Government having withheld the enforcement of the intercourse act of Congress and the treaties, for our protection-our nation was driven to the necessity of employing Counsellors at law for alerting our legal right before the courts of the United States; and we have had the consolation amidst our difficulties to see that we have not been deceived in the opinion entertained of those rights, when the Supreme Judicial tribunal of the country decided that the laws of Georgia extending jurisdiction over our Territory are repugnant to the laws, Treaties,and Constitution of the United States, and were null and void. Yet with deep regret have we witnessed and felt the illegal proceedings of Georgia with increasing severity, at the same time the protecting arm of the Federal Government withdrawn, and the annuity stipend due to our nation by treaties withheld-and from the mere claim of the right to exercise jurisdiction, the right of surveying, disposing of and occupying our lands by force have since been asserted by Georgia, and measures are now in train for the consummation of the unjust deed. In this peculiar state of affairs, our nation in the summer of last year, received through your Department certain propositions from the President containing the basis upon which the Government was willing to negotiate a treaty for our Territory east of the Mississippi; and in reply thereto, the General Council of the Nation informed the President that the sentiments of the Cherokee people on that subject remained the same as has before been expressed, and that the basis of his propositions was objectionable and that owing to the peculiar state of things, the Nation was in duress; but, let him remove all the difficulties complained of and to afford that necessary protection which had been solemnly guaranteed in our treaties, and then, the exercise of that privilege which is so essential to freedom would place the nation in a condition to reflect, speak and act freely 'c. 'c. Some time thereafter a letter directed to 'the Cherokees East of the Mississippi,' from Mr. Robb the chief clerk of your department was received through the Agent acknowledging the receipt of this letter and who stated that you was (sic) then at that time on a tour of Lake Erie and to which place the letter had been forwarded and that no doubt that you would reply to it, but no further communication from you has since been received. Mr. Chester however, under instruction from the Department attended our General Council in October last, and urged a reconsideration of the same propositions which had before been submitted and replied to; and who, as you have been apprised, was given to understand that a delegation would be appointed to attend to the business of the Nation before the Government of the United States on all subjects relating to its interests.

Now, in the discharge of the duties entrusted to us, we ask leave to say, that notwithstanding the various perplexities which the Cherokee people have experienced under the course of policy pursued towards our nation, they are unshaken in their objections to a removal west of the river Mississippi; and on the question of our rights and the justice of our cause, their minds are equally unchangeable. However, we are fully sensible that justice and weakness cannot control the array of oppressive power; and when we anticipate the calamitous effects of such power, we do not fail to see the equal clearness that a removal under existing circumstances, beyond that 'Fa-of (sic) Rivers in the west, would but produce consequences no less fatal.

Therefore we can never consent to be the instrument of a suicidal act to our Nation's welfare and happiness.- The dilemma of this momentous problem then, must devolve upon the justice, the magnanimity and the honor of the great republic to decide the ultimate issue. At our interview the President as well as yourself took occasion to express deep solicitude on the part of the Government to adjust the difficulties which so much disturb the peace and tranquility of our Nation-here, you will please to allow us to repeat the expression of a corresponding desire on the part of our nation-and at the same time to take the liberty of suggesting for the consideration of the President, whether, it would not be practicable for the Government to satisfy the claims of Georgia through the individuals of that state who may have drawn lots of lands in our Territory, in the lotteries of that state, by granting the mother lands of the United States lying within the limits of the territories and states of the union, or in some other way. We would respectfully ask you further to state fully the views and disposition of  the President, how far and in what manner is he disposed to put a final end to the difficulties created by Georgia with our nation? And also if the annuity due to our nation will not now be directed to be paid over to us as heretofore, likewise please to inform us, what disposition has been made of the lands reserved under the treaty of 1819 for the purpose of raising a school fund for our nation, and if sold, to state the amount of the proceeds and also the application made of the same.

With considerations of respect, we have the Honor to be,

Sir, your Ob't Serv'ts

Signed Jno Ross

R. Taylor

Jno. F. Baldridge

Jos. Vann.

________________

NO. 2

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

February 2d, 1833

GENTLEMEN:- Your letter of the 28th ult. was received to-day, and has been submitted to the President. His views I shall proceed to communicate to you.

I have already said to you in conversation, and I now repeat in writing, that the President looks with great anxiety and solicitation to your situation. Without entering into any historical summary of events which have led to the existing state of things, it is enough for our present purposes to know that your position is an embarrassing one, and that a change is called for by every consideration of present convenience, and of future security. And I have no hesitation in saying that the Government is very desirous of entering into a satisfactory arrangement, by which all your difficulties will be terminated, and the prosperity of your people fixed upon a permanent basis. I am well convinced however these objects can only be attained by a cession of our possessory rights in Georgia, and by your removal to the country west of the Mississippi, nor can I foresee any cause of apprehension as you do, that such removal will be injurious either in its immediate or remote consequences. A mild climate, a fertile soil, an inviting and extensive country,a Government of your own, adequate protection against other Indians and against our own citizens, pecuniary means amply sufficient for your removal, subsistence and comfortable establishment, and for such purposes of general concern as may appear necessary. all these, within the limits of a reasonable expectation are freely offered to you, and I cannot therefore see that the subject presents itself in the melancholy light in which you view it. Immense numbers of our own citizens if similarly situated, would be happy to accept these offers. I trust you will on reflection come to the conclusion that the course now indicated, is not only the best for our people under the circumstances in which they are placed, but that under much more prosperous circumstances it would not be an unfortunate one.

The President's message to the Senate, of Feb'ry 22, 1831, has been already communicated to you. That message entered so freely into the subject of the existing relations between the Indian tribes and the States in which they reside, that any further answer did not seem necessary to your letter, declining to accept the proposition made to you last season. The whole views of the Government had been previously made known to you, and nothing would have been gained by continuing the correspondence after your positive refusal to accept as the basis the offers which had been made to you. Mr. Chester, as you correctly state, was authorized to attend your Council and to communicate the wishes of the Department. He did so but the result was fruitless.

I do not see that any practicable plan could be adopted by which the revisionary rights held under the State of Georgia could be purchased upon such terms as would satisfy the Government in entering into a stipulation to that effect, nor would it at all remove the difficulties and embarrassments of your condition. You would still be subject to the laws of Georgia, surrounded by our settlements and exposed to all those evils which have always attended the Indian race which placed in immediate contact with the white population. It is only by removing from these that you can expect to avoid the fate which has swept away so many Indian tribes.  Certainly some sacrifices may well be encountered in effecting this object, but I trust and believe they will be slight and temporary. The greatest sacrifices will be made by those of your people who are the most intelligent and have made the most comfortable provision for themselves in their present residence. To the great body of your tribe, I am convinced the change would be immediately beneficial. Our accounts from the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, are most encouraging. A report from the Commissioner now in that country states that the Cherokees will have twenty-five thousand bushels of corn to dispose of after reserving enough for their own consumption, and that their condition and prospects are truly fortunate. I presume that each of the individuals composing this delegation is among the small portion of the tribe which is comfortably established in Georgia. I may appeal to their better feelings whether a transfer of their residence essential as it is to the existence of their people,ought not to be cheerfully made, under existing circumstances. Whether the inducement now held out both of a pecuniary and of a political character, are not sufficient to justify every one of your people in entering into the arrangements which have been proposed. Certain it is, that with a year's subsistence, provided after their arrival West of the Mississippi, and with the other aid which has been promised, there is not a Cherokee of mature age, and in a state of health who could not provide comfortably for his support.

You request me to inform you what are the views and disposition of the President relating to your affairs; I do not know that I can answer you this question, more fully than by referring you to the propositions already submitted to your tribe. The President is anxious to close all the difficulties with you, to provide for your removal and establishment in the West, and to stipulate for such pecuniary considerations as may appear to be just. All this has been fully indicated to you, and I am instructed to say that I am prepared to enter into a negotiation with you, and to conduct it in a spirit of liberal justice, and with a strong desire that it may terminate successfully.

With respect to your annuities, I would observe that there are none withheld from you. The Government has engaged to pay certain annuities to the Cherokees.  Whether these shall be paid to persons representing the tribe, or the individuals composing it, as the treaties do not provide, the government is at liberty to determine. It has long been the practice in other quarters of the country,to pay the annuities to all persons who attend to receive them. Looking to the fund as a joint one to be divided in equal proportions by the Agents of the Government, who can thus see that there is a just distribution, and that individuals are protected in their rights, who could not protect themselves.  This practice has been recently extended to all the tribes, and the President sees no reason why it should be departed from. In the treaty concluded with the Creeks, in this place in March last, a stipulation was inserted at their request that their annuities should be paid in such manner as the tribe might direct. They have since directed that the annuities should be paid to the Chiefs, and they have so been paid. Such a provision,if you wish it, might be inserted in any arrangement entered into with you.

Your enquiry concerning the school fund under the treaty of 1819, will be answered by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as soon as the necessary information can be collected.

In conclusion, permit me to remark, that should you be disposed to accept as a basis the propositions which have been made to you, and to enter into an arrangement accordingly, I must request that the necessary details maybe arranged in personal interviews and not by a written correspondence. My time is so occupied that I cannot adopt the latter mode. To expedite business, I am willing to meet you any evening and to discuss the subject, and to devote every evening to it until the matter is finished.

Very respectfully,

I am Gentlemen

Your ob't serv't

LEWIS CASS.

Messrs. John Ross, R. Taylor, John F. Baldridge, Joseph Vann.

___________________

NO. 1

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office, Indian Affairs

February 14th, 1833

GENTLEMEN:- In answer to that part of your communication of the 28th ulte, addressed to the Secretary of War and by him referred to this office. I have the honor to state, that of the Cherokee land reserved by the treaties of the 25th of October 1805, and the 27th of February 1819, and the 27th of February 1819, and ceded to the United States in trust for the Cherokee nation as a School fund, there have been sold 29,823.33-100 acres, as appears from the returns made from the land office at Huntsville, and that the proceeds of sale amounted on the 31th (sic) of December last to $45,230,62(sic) according to information received from the Commissioner of the General land office; which sum is now in the Treasury of the United State, and will be vested, and the dividend or interest thereof will be appropriated, pursuant to the 4th Article of the said treaty of the 27th February 1819.

I am Gentlemen,

With high respect,

Your humble serv't

ELBERT HERRING

John Ross and others, Cherokee Delegation

BROWN' HOTEL.

_____________________

NO. 3

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY,

February 14th, 1833

Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry of War,

Sir:- yours in reply to ours of the 28th ult. communicating the views of the President has been maturely deliberated; ' in duty to our nation we feel ourselves bound to respond to the same.  We are told 'that the President looks with great anxiety and solicitation to our situation, that he knows our position is an embarrassing one, and that a change is called for by every consideration of present convenience and future security. And that the Government is desirous of entering into a satisfactory arrangement by which all our difficulties will be terminated, and the prosperity of our people fixed upon a permanent basis. Yet we are assured that you are well convinced, these objects can only be attained by a cession of our possessory rights in Georgia and by our removal to the country west of the Mississippi, that you can foresee the cause of apprehension as we do, that such removal will be injurious either in its immediate or remote consequences. A mild climate, a fertile soil, an inviting and extensive country, a government of our own, adequate protection against other tribes and against your own citizens within a reasonable expectation are freely offered to us; you cannot therefore see that the subject present itself in the melancholy light in which we view it.' You have also referred to the President's message to the Senate of February 22d 1831, to show his views on the subject of the existing relations between the Indian tribes and the states in which they reside. In viewing the principles upon which these views are predicated we have been impelled to look into those upon which the primitive and conventional rights of the Cherokee Nation have been recognized and established by the solemn acts of this Government, and it is with deep regret and great diffidence we are constrained to say that in this scheme of Indian removal we can see of more of expediency and policy to get rid of them, than to perpetuate their race upon any permanent fundamental principle. Were it possible for you to be placed or to imagine yourself for a moment to be in the peculiar situation in which we stand, with the existing treaties and laws and the subsequent acts of the Government all before your eyes, you cannot but see and feel as we do. It is impossible then for us to see that by a removal in the country west of the Mississippi all our difficulties would be terminated and the prosperity of our people fixed upon a permanent basis. Would not a removal to the country west of the Mississippi upon lands of the United States by the Indian tribes under the provisions of the act of congress denationalize their character as distinct communities? By what tenure would such tribes occupy the lands to be assigned to them? Is not the fee simple title vested in and will be retained by the United States?  What kind of a government of their own then is it designed for them to establish? And how is it possible for the United States to afford them more adequate protection against your own citizens there, than where we are? These questions have never as yet been definitely settled down upon any fundamental law of Congress, that we know of; and we cannot avoid believing that the present system of policy towards the Indians, is founded upon contingencies growing out of the interest and desires of the states; without regarding the permanent prosperity and happiness of the Indians. We intend no reflection upon the Government in thus frankly communicating our views, but we deem it essential to a perfect understanding of the subject. As to the climate, soil and extent of country to which you have alluded, and the future prospects of the Cherokees who are living there, our people are correctly informed on these points from personal observations and otherwise.--- Withal they have no wish to remove there. What then would be the consequence of a whole nation of people driven by the force of necessity to leave their native land for a distant one in a strange and an inhospitable region and there to experience the sad effects of injured disappointments; to what source could they seek indemnity for their injuries? And what tribunal will there redress their wrongs; for in vain will our nation have appealed to the protecting arm of the General Government to fulfil treaty obligations, to shield our suffering people against illegal encroachments, and in vain till our supreme judicial tribunal have declared a verdict in favor of our nation against the exercise of usurped power on the part of State authority. In the suggestion which we took the liberty to submit for the consideration of the President, that some practicable arrangement might be entered into between the United States ' Georgia to relieve our nation of its present embarrassments, we had entertained no doubt that with a corresponding desire on the part of the General Government such an arrangement could be effected, and in that event, that Georgia would not be permitted to subject our people to the obedience of her laws, in as much as the Supreme Court of the United States had already pronounced the exercise of her jurisdiction over our territory and people to be unconstitutional and void; and we are at a loss, to see the ground you have taken in arriving to the opinion that we would still be subject to the laws of Georgia. We cannot subscribe to correctness of the idea, which has so frequently been recurred to by the advocates of Indian removal, that the evils which had befallen and swept away the numerous tribes that once inhabited the old states are to be traced to the mere circumstance of their contiguity to the white population-but we humbly conceive that the true causes of their extinction are to be found in the catalogue of wrongs which have been heaped upon their ignorance and credulity, by the superior policy of the white man when dictated by avarice and cupidity.  You appeal to our better feelings in regard to the situation of our people and suggest that under existing circumstances some sacrifices may well be encountered in removing from a contract with a white population, in order to escape the fate which has swept away so many Indian tribes-should the doctrine that Indian tribes should be the doctrine that Indian tribes cannot exist contiguously to a white population prevail and they be compelled to remove west of the states and territories of this republic, what is to prevent a similar removal of them from there for the same reason?  We can only plead, let equal justice be done between the red and the white man, and so long as the faith of contracts is preserved inviolate, there will be no just cause for complaints, much less for aggressions on the right of the one or the other, and that so far as our (individually) sense of right justice ' honor will dictate to us a course to meet the wishes, the interest and the permanent prosperity and happiness of our nation; that no pecuniary sacrifices or human suffering ever so great can or will deter us from encountering them.

Contrary to treaty stipulations and the intercourse Act of 1802, there are numerous white families who have intruded upon the lands of our Nation, within the chartered limits of the several adjoining States, and the repeated complaints made of the same to the Agent, had not been  regarded, and the trespassers, instead of being removed, have greatly increased in numbers, and are daily multiplying. We are constrained to bring this grievous subject before the Department, that the evil be corrected. In addition to these there are others who threatens to overrun and dispossess our Nation of its territory, under the sanction of State authorities.- Under the assumption of the right to exercise jurisdiction, it is known that Georgia has passed Legislative Acts to survey and draw a lottery for the occupation of our lands, and which in part, have been carried into effect-and without the timely interposition of this Government, will doubtless rob us of our lands. Can this be permitted, or will the President extend the Constitutional arm of the Government to save us from this impending calamity? His determination upon this delicate and important question, we most respectfully solicit. Also, if we are to understand from your communication, that the propositions submitted through Mr Chester, and which have been rejected by the General Council of our Nation, as containing the only basis upon which the Government will relieve our Nation of the injustice of State oppression. On the subject of our annuities, you reply 'that none are withheld from us.' 'That the Government has engaged to pay certain annuities to the Cherokees. Whether these are to be paid to persons representing the tribe or the individuals composing it, as the treaties do not provide, the Government is at liberty to determine.' The view you have taken of this subject is at variance with the true intent and meaning of these treaties, as all the former practices of the Government in relation thereto, will show. The United States of America through their Commissioners Plenipotentiary entered into certain treaties with the Chiefs, Headmen, 'c. of the Cherokee Nation who were duly authorized and empowered, by said Nation; and in consideration for sundry cessions of lands, there are certain articles stipulated in these treaties to be paid to the Cherokee Nation, and the usual practice of the Government in paying those annuities, has always been through the United States Agent, to the authorities of the Cherokee Nation, and by them disposed of as the Legislative Council thereof think fit to direct for the public welfare. Upon the complaints of several discontented Chiefs of the upper Cherokee Towns, to the Government, Mr. Jefferson, the then President of the United States, on the 4th day of May, 1808 spoke to them in writing thus-'You complain that you do not receive your just proportion of the annuities we pay your Nation, that the Chiefs of the Lower Towns take far more than their share, my children, this distribution is made by the authority of the Cherokee Nation,  and according to their own rules, over which we have no control. We do our duty in delivering the annuities to the Headmen of the Nation, and we pretend to no authority over them, to no right of directing how they are to be distributed.' For the last thirteen years, the Cherokee Nation have had a treasurer, and into whose hands the annuities have been paid by the Agents of the United States, and for the faithful performance of the duties assigned to his office, the Treasurer has executed a bond with ample securities, in the penal sum of fifty thousand dollars. The annuities due for the two last years, the Agent has refused to pay them over to the Treasurer, as usual; notwithstanding the written request of the great mass of our people to do so.- And upon his failing to induce the individuals of our nation to accept of this money agreeably to the direction of the Department these annuities have since been deposited in the United States Branch Bank at Nashville to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States. Under these circumstances we felt justified in saying that our annuities are withheld from us. Since the unconstitutional proceedings of Georgia towards our nation our public expenses have greatly increased, consequently debt have been incurred for the payment of which the faith of our nation stands pledged-and we trust that the President will see in this, good reasons for directing the annuities to be paid over to us as heretofore-for we can see no possible advantage in the Government controlling the application of these annuities contrary to the interest and desire of our nation, when they constitute a debt from the United States to the Cherokee Nation. No complaints having been made to the Government by our nation against the dishonesty or misapplication of this annuity stipend by our own constituted authorities, on the contrary they have required the Agent to pay it over as usual; and without intending any reflection we feel justified in saying that the Cherokee people feel as much respect for, and have as great confidence in the justice and integrity of their own public men as they can possible entertain towards the pubic Agents of this Government in their nation.

With great respect we have the honor to be,

Sir, your ob't serv'ts

John Ross

Richard Taylor

John F. Baldridge

Joseph Vann

_______________________

NO 5.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Feb'ry 20, 183333(sic)

GENTLEMEN,- I have received your letter of the 11th inst, but having, as already explained to you, but little time to continue a correspondence, promising no useful result, I must be brief in my answer.

All the considerations, connected with your situation and prospects, have been so long and so much discussed, that it seems wholly unnecessary to review the subject. So far as regards the questions specifically stated by you, respecting the political situation you would occupy west of the Mississippi, the tenure of the lands, the kind of government 'c. you will find, in the papers heretofore communicated from this department, satisfactory explanations; and anything further that may be necessary shall be frankly stated in any personal interviews, should there be a prospect of a satisfactory adjustment of the affair.

You are fully aware of the President's views of his constitutional duty. He considers that he has no right to arrest the laws of Georgia, within the limits of that State, nor can he rake any measures to procure such a result. And possessory right, independent of jurisdiction, which you may claim, does not fall within the provision of the Intercourse Act of 1802, and its supplements, and consequently does not present a case within the authority of the President to determine.

I have nothing to add on the subject of the annuities, but that the President's views are unchanged.

I will add, that I should be very glad to meet you, and to discuss this subject, in the confident hope that arrangements may be made, which will be satisfactory to our people, and terminate all the difficulties, in which they are now involved.

Very respectfully,

I am Gentlemen

your ob't serv't

LEWIS CASS

Messrs, John Ross, R. Taylor, J. F. Baldridge, Jos. Vann.

_______________________

To the Committee and Council, in General Council Convened.

FRIENDS AND FELLOW CITIZENS:

It has been deemed advisable to convene you for the purpose of making you acquainted with the proceedings of the late delegation to the seat of the American Government in order that you may be prepared to make them known to the people of your respective Districts, as it is important that they should at all times, be correctly informed of our public affairs. From the documents herewith submitted, you will perceive that the business of the Mission was brought directly before the executive branch for deliberation and action.  It may be proper to state some of the reasons which influenced the delegation on this occasion in confining themselves exclusively to this course, when it is known that the President hitherto had disclaimed any right to interpose his authority against the illegal and highly oppressive encroachments of Georgia.

It was evident however, that the President in pursuing this course was actuated more from motives of policy to effect our removal than to sustain us in our just rights; and as the Supreme Court of the United States having decided the question of cause favorable and the President in his proclamation to the people of South Carolina, on the subjects of Nullification and Secession, having promptly declared the Supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States over State authority, there was every reason to believe that he would ultimately enforce the treaties and Intercourse Act for our protection. Under this persuasion it was thought best not to agitate the question of our affairs before Congress at that time by presenting another memorial,it being a short session, and moreover the principles of Nullification and Secession which were agitated by South Carolina, having been submitted before both houses of Congress by the President, and that the final action of the General Government upon that important controversy could not fail to affect the Georgia proceedings towards us also, as the principle upon which they are based being nothing more nor less than that of Nullification, and the only difference in the principle as maintained by South Carolina and Georgia, is that that the former has only asserted it in theory, when the latter has reduced it to practice.  A law has finally been passed extending the powers of the Federal Judiciary and vesting the President of the United States with sufficient power to suppress the practical operation of this unconstitutional and ruinous principle.- Whether this Nation will be benefitted by the decisive action of Congress on this subject or not, is a question which will depend much upon the unity of sentiment and action of the Cherokee people themselves, as well as on the wisdom and integrity of their representatives.

Should it become necessary, I will in a subsequent communication, express my views in regard to our public affairs in more general terms.

JNO. ROSS.

RED CLAY, CHEROKEE NATION,

May 13th 1833.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 10, 1833

We have commenced with this number the publication of the Correspondence of the Cherokee Delegation with the Secretary of War, on the subject of the difficulties in which the Cherokees are placed by the policy of the Federal Government, and we are compelled to defer the remainder to our following numbers. We have published these same propositions of a Treaty before; but as the present measurers of the Government being based on these propositions, it is thought best to re-publish them, in order to a full understanding of the state of the Cherokee case. We shall conclude these documents by the resolutions of the Council, in May last, and transmitted to the President of the United States.

____________________

ALLEN NEWEL, Post Master of West Brookfield, Mass. is Agent for the Cherokee Phoenix, to whom payments may be made by those whose accounts remain unpaid in that State.






      


RELIGIOUS

From the Religious Intelligencer.

THE NORTH WESTERN INDIANS.

We copy from the Christian Advocate and Journal, of New York, the following extract of a letter from Mr. PERSIS SKINNER, and assistant missionary of the American Board at Mackinaw. The letter is addressed to the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church, calling upon it for aid in prosecuting missions among the Indians at the north-west, and giving some minute and important particulars in relation to the efforts of the Church of Rome to plant itself and secure a firm foothold in the western country. We know that many doubts are entertained on this subject, and people are incredulous to the facts which are so often presented; and it is this incredulity which makes the danger greater, and the success of the Catholics more certain.  For our own part, we have every assurance that the See of Rome is looking at the future subjugation of this country to its spiritual power, as one of the brightest hopes (perhaps the brightest) that shines above its darkening horizon; and we are confirmed in our fears not only by the self-denying and rigorous efforts made by the Catholics at the West, but by the increasing aversion to true religion which is so extensively manifested in our country, and in the prevalence of a skeptical and licentious 'liberality among our citizens.'

The letter of Mr. Skinner, though designed more particularly for our Methodist brethren, we hope will have the effect to stir up members of other denominations also, to increase efforts for the Indians.

'I suppose sir, it would be only saying what you already know, were I to tell you the Catholics are vigorously penetrating the Indian country, (as we call the region north and west of Mackinaw,) rendering the darkness which now envelopes it, 'still more dark.'  Wherever they go, they carry with them so much of the imposing and mysterious ceremony, that they are but too successful in prejudicing the Indians so strongly against the 'new religion,'

as they call the Protestant, that they seem effectually to close and bar every avenue by which the missionary might hope to gain access to them. Now, I would ask, are there none in your church who are willing to sacrifice and suffer as much for the cause of truth as the Catholics are for error and superstition?'

At Parbrierosh, the nearest Indian settlement to the Mississippi, a Catholic priest has established himself, who is a European, and I doubt not, reared more delicately than most our American preachers; and yet he is content to be deprived of all refined society, and nearly all which can be termed civilized. I believe that there is not one individual in thirty miles of his station who can speak English, except his interpreter, who is half Indian.

'He has built a house, and lives as others around live; and the fruits of his toil and self-denial are, almost a whole settlement of the most noble, interesting Indians inhabiting this region, converted to the Catholic faith.'

'Only a few years since, (I believe three) they earnestly begged for Protestant teachers-were convinced of their need of instruction-encouraged to hope for it, and then disappointed, until weary of pressing their suit, they applied to the Catholics, and were successful. The result is what might have been expected-the exchange of pagan rites and superstitions for the doubly cruel yoke of popish dominion. O! what heart warmed with the love of God, would not bleed over a people thus blinded by false doctrine, hastening on to eternity, and separated by insuperable barriers from the 'way of life?' Even now, in the present life, they groan under the intolerable burden, and often say, 'The way to heaven is a hard way--so much penance to be performed, and so many Latin phrases to be learned, they sometimes almost despair.' And yet they are terrified at the idea of seeking another way; it being a prominent part of their teacher's duty to persuade them, that to change their religion would be to ensure to themselves eternal wrath.'

'Looking at their present situation, it does indeed seem that, as a people they must live and die as they are, and perish, unless someone possessing the spirit which animated a Whitefield, a Wesley, a Martin, and Elliot, and others, go to their help.'

'There is also a priest at this place, an Italian, said to belong to an opulent family in Rome, who, with the usual characteristics of Italians of rank, viz, effeminacy, refinement, and luxury; is content to board with an Indian woman, and accommodate himself to circumstances, for the sake of extending the church of Rome. He is indeed a faithful servant of his master, and manifests a zeal, and patience, and perseverance, which Christians would do well to imitate. In coming to Mississippi, he certainly must have sacrificed almost all that renders life dear; home, kindred, and friends were forsaken, and the elegant, refined society, and country, evidently dear to his heart as life itself, exchanged for a home on this lonely island, with no society but the rude, uncivilized French and Indians. He now looks back upon the city of Rome, the home of his childhood, as the Eden of this world, the counterpart of heaven; but expresses no desire to return. He seems to feel, that to aid in establishing the Roman supremacy in this country, is an object to which no other is paramount. All personal suffering in view of this,seems, in his view, unworthy to be named. Though young and effeminate, he displays a hardihood which few ministers evince in time of difficulty.'

Now, sir, I would again ask-are there none in your church who are willing to make the same sacrifices? I would be grateful for what has been done. The Methodists have done much in Canada, and are still doing much; but there is a great field to be occupied, I feel like getting at your feet, and calling upon you, as the Lord's watchmen, to cast your eyes over this land of darkness, as you stand on the walls of Zion, and then tell me 'what of the night?'

'After passing the Sault de St. Marie, (only 19 miles from Mackinaw,) your eyes will meet with no messenger of the Lord of Hosts, until you reach La Point,m on the south west side of the Lake Superior, a distance of 500 miles. There you will find brothers Hall and Boutwell, laboring alone in the wilderness.  From thence you pass on a few hundred miles farther, and you will see brother Ayre toiling alone, without any to hold up his hands, or encourage his heart. From this place you may go, (if steering directly north,) to the Pole-you may pass thousands of wandering, perishing Indians; but you will find none to direct them to the Lamb of God.'

'If you look west of Mackinaw, where, sir, will your eye rest on one whose business it is to direct the multitudes who inhabit that region to Him who is the way, and the only way to Heaven? Again I ask; 'Watchmen, what of the night?'  Can you send more help to us?  Candid, firm, self denying, devoted Methodists are what we want. The missionary who goes among the Indians, must be  a man after God's own heart, one willing and able to endure hardships, and toil, and want, and privations of every kind. Brother Hall whom I have before mentioned, says, 'As the people of his charge will not come to him, he must go to them;' and in order to do this, he has often to travel many miles on foot, in the wilderness, over swamps and rivers, and he must lodge, if necessary, in wigwams-must carry his food on his back, or eat such as the Indians give him: and this has to be done not only once or twice, but constantly, summer or winter, cold or hot, wet or dry:- The Indians must be followed from place to place in their wanderings.'




      


INDIANS

No. 6

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY,

February 26th, 1833

The Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War,

Sir:- The accompanying papers contains the proceedings of the Cherokee people who reside within that portion of our territory lying within the chartered limits of Tennessee, at their public meetings held in consequence of certain rumor in reference to the design of John Walker Jr. in coming on to this place; and as that individual has since arrived and been some time in this city, and being uninformed of the specific objects of his visit-and in order to meet the request of those of our fellow citizens who have transmitted through us their protest against any improper interference or unauthorized action of said Walker in regard to the affairs of the Nation, we have deemed it our duty to lay the same before your Department.

It has ever been the desire of the constituted authorities of our nation that harmony and good feeling should exist among the people, to secure the interest and welfare of the whole community. And with this feeling they have always endeavored to allay such excitements as are calculated to produce consequences of an unpleasant character.

With considerations of respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient servants.

Signed, JOHN ROSS

RICHARD TAYLOR

JOHN F. BALDRIDGE,

JOSEPH VANN.

_______________

NO.7

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office, Indian Affairs,

February 27th, 1833

Gentlemen,- I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of 26th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War, accompanied by certain papers in reference to JOHN WALKER, Jr.

I have the honor to be,

With high respect,

Your ob't serv't

ELBERT HERRING.

 Messrs. John Ross and others, Delegates, 'c.

Brown's Hotel.

_______________

NO. 3

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY.

March 1st, 1833.

To the Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War.

Sir,--I deem it proper to advise you that the Delegation find it to be inconvenient to themselves to call on you this morning for the purpose of waiting on the President agreeably to your suggestion.  In consequence of which, we have deemed it most proper to address the President a note asking him to state at what time it will be most convenient to himself to see us on the business appertaining to the general concerns of our Nation.

In behalf of the Cherokee Delegation.

I am Sir, Your ob't serv't

JOHN ROSS.

____________________

NO. 9.

BROWN'S HOTEL WASHINGTON CITY,

March 1st, 1833

 To His Excellency Andrew Jackson,

 President of the United States.

Sir:- In behalf of the Cherokee Delegation, I beg leave to state, that so far as we have had the honor to confer with the Secretary of War upon matters touching the general concerns of our Nation, nothing of a satisfactory character has taken place; nor, is it possible for us to see that anything permanently beneficial to the future tranquility and happiness of our nation can ever grow out of the principle upon which the propositions offered us are based. - The Delegation would therefore respectfully solicit and interview with you, previous to our departure for our homes, and also request to be informed on what day and hour will it be most convenient to yourself to see and converse with us on the momentous concerns of our Nation.

Very respectfully, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Ob't Humble Serv't

JNO ROSS.

In behalf of the Cherokee Delegation.

____________________

NO. 10.

Sir:- The President requests me to say in answer to your note of this date that he will be glad to have an interview with you for the purpose of considering the important concerns of your Nation; but that he is now so much pressed by public business that he cannot appoint an earlier time than Tuesday next at 10 o'clock for the interview. If this appointment will be agreeable to you he will expect you in that day 'c.

ANDREW J. DONELSON,

1st March, 1833

Mr. John Ross, Delegate of the Cherokee Nation

___________

NO. 11

Sir:- The appointment made by the President for an interview with the Cherokee Delegation on Tuesday, next at 10 o'clock is accepted. You will therefore please to signify the sam to him accordingly.

Very respectfully,

I am Sir, Yours 'c.

JNO. ROSS

March 2d, 1833

Andrew J. Donelson, Esq. Sec'ry Executive Department.

_______________

NO. 12

Washington City,

March 8th 1833.

The Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry of War,

Sir,- The subject of intrusion on the lands of the Cherokee Nation by the citizens of the United States as you well know, is a fruitful source of unpleasant complaints. The injuries sustained by our citizens from the unlawful practice within the chartered limits of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Alabama have been great and are daily increasing.

And not withstanding we have been so repeatedly assured by the Department that the intruders would be removed from our lands by virtue of the Intercourse Act, where the state laws did not interfere with the exercise of State authority on the part of the General Government-yet strange as it seem to be, it is nevertheless true, that these complaints have not been made to cease by any effectual order from the Department, to the Agent. However, when we reflect and see that the Agent (Col. Montgomery) has himself countenanced ' permitted his own son-in-law, John Hardwick to reside in the nation and to cultivate Cherokee land in the vicinity of the Agency, regardless of the remonstrances of our General Council, it is a circumstance not so much to be wondered at, that he should indulge other intruders who have only followed the example of his son-in-law. From recent information there are many white families who have removed into the Nation, and are now intruding on our lands within the chartered limits of Tennessee: to these facts we would respectfully call the attention of the Department and urge that a speedy and effectual order be given for their immediate removal-should you feel disposed to ascertain from other sources the truth of what we have stated in relation to the conduct of the agent and the situation of John Hardwick, we would respectfully refer you to Capt. Day and Lieut. Dancy the disbursing officers who were lately stationed at the agency. We take leave further to state that there are some individual claims for improvements abandoned on the lands ceded by the Treaties of 1817 ' 1819 which have never been valued and reported upon by the assisting agents. -We would therefore request that you will authorize and direct the Agent or some other person to have said claims collected and reported upon to the Department that the claimants may receive their just compensation for their improvements agreeably to the stipulation of the aforesaid Treaties.

We are very respectfully,

Your Ob't Serv'ts

Jno Ross,

Richard Taylor,

Jno. F. Baldridge,

Joseph Vann.

______________

NO. 18

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office Indian Affairs,

March 14, 1833.

Sir:- Your letter of the 8th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War on the subject of intrusion in Cherokee land by white citizens, has been referred to this office for reply.

It cannot be denied, that your complaints are well founded, and that you have sustained injuries for the rapacity and lawless conduct of our citizens. It is however in some degree an unvoidable (sic) evil incident to the present condition of your tribe, and no blame is fairly attributable to the Department on that account. It is due to the Secretary of War to say, that soon as he received notice of intruders having presented themselves on your land, he gave orders for their expulsion.  These orders will now be repeated, and a military force will forthwith be dispatched to the assailed parts of your country, for the purpose of expelling and keeping off intruders. And orders will also be given to the District Attorney of the United States to prosecute for trespass all such as may dare to return after their expulsion. You cannot consider it a misplaced assurance, ' it is made with the utmost sincerity, that the Department cherishes deep solicitude for the welfare of your Nation, and will to the extent of its power, endeavor to promote it.

With high respect.

Your Humble Serv't

ELBERT HERRING

Messrs. Jon. Ross, ' Others (sic) Cherokee Delegates.




      


Indians in Massachusetts--Scattered remnants of the aborigines still linger in various parts of the State: but chiefly in the South-eastern quarter, about Buzzard's Bay, and on the Island of Martha's Vineyard. Their united number are about 750. They are all under the guardianship of the State government, and are not allowed to alienate their lands, but by the consent of the overseers appointed by the State to look after their interests. The Society for the propagation of the gospel among the Indians, furnishes them with ministers and teachers. At Marshpee and Martha's Vineyard are settlements containing 660 souls, who own 18,000 acres of land in common. They are all except 50 or 60, of mixed blood, mostly by intermarriage with blacks. Some of them have gardens, cultivated fields, but their chief sources of income are the wood on their lands, the pipe clay of the island, and pasturing the cattle of the whites. Many of the young men are employed in the whale and other fisheries, and are skilful and industrious. They have forgotten their ancient names and nearly all the Indian language, most of the children read and write.-Taunlea Gazette.




      


Indian Names- There is no danger that the red men will be forgotten.- Eight of the States, not to mention the territories, have Indian names. They are Massachusetts, Connecticut, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi. So have all the great bays and harbors on the coast of the Union, the Penobscot, Casco, Narraganset, Chesapeake, 'c. So have the rivers, the Kennebec, Saco, Connecticut, Merrimac, Mohawk, Susquehannah, Koanoke (sic), Potomac, most of the Southern streams, all the great waters of the West, the Northern Lakes. In a word, the whole breadth of the country is charged with the indelible memory of the brave race whose canoes and cabins, fittest emblems of their own vanishing frailty, have been swept like themselves from the face of the land.- Boston Mercantile Journal.




      


From the North American Review

Extract from Thatcher's Indian Biography

'This is a very interesting chapter in the history of man; and no one will read this work, without acknowledging that the subject has fallen into the right hands. There is much to awaken interest and sympathy in the character of this unfortunate race, who, with manners and habits essentially savage, exhibited some traits of refined and elevated feeling, and who, when brought into direct contrast with cultivated men, were, in some respects, able to put civilization to shame. For such a people, once great and powerful, to pass away from the soil possessed by them and their fathers; for those who once made others tremble, to dwindle away to weak and helpless remnants, scattered here and there upon the face of a country, changed in such a manner, as to make their destruction sure, and whose only trust is in the protection of persons, who feel most interested to oppress them, is a destiny well calculated to excite the compassion of those, whose benevolence is not limited to family or nation, but comprehends alike the Samaritan and the Jew. But to carry this feeling so far, as to express regret that a civilization has extended; to maintain, that it would have been better that the country should still be a hunting ground, instead of being divided into cities and villages; to speak as if the accidental vices of civilized life are so many and great, that barbarism would be better, is carrying this sympathy much farther than good sense and reason would be disposed to go. Wherever civilization comes in conflict with barbarism, we mean, with a race which has no active principle of government within it, it is the order of nature that a barbarism shall give way; the savage either ceases to be a savage, or retreats before the rising flood; justice and humanity do not require the civilized to conform to his habits, nor to abandon the country; for in that case, no room on earth would ever be found for cultivated man.  But justice and humanity do require, that the rights of the weaker party shall be respected, that no advantage shall be taken of superior strength to injure nor oppress them; that avenues shall be opened, by which they may enter into the privileges of civilization if they will; and that a civilization shall be recommended to them in every possible way, instead of being associated in their minds with violence and wrongs. We do not hold our fathers responsible for the extinction of the Indian race, for we see not how it could have been prevented; but we fear that there were instances, in which they violated the laws of justice and humanity in their dealings with their neighbors, and if so, the other party should not labor under perpetual reproach for the sake of vindicating their reputation. There is enough in their character for which their descendants may reasonably be proud, and if they deserve blame in this instance, let them bear it; but let the cases of oppression charged upon them be investigated, for sympathy in such cases is poorly qualified to act the judicial part; it takes too much for granted, and trusts as readily to feeling, as to evidence and examination. Mr. Thatcher has touched these cases with a delicate and discriminating hand; in a popular narrative, he could not enter into the subject very largely; we would suggest to his consideration, whether a work of permanent value as an authority is not required. The separate sketches of tribes and individuals, which he has given, might easily be woven into a philosophical history, and it would give us pleasure to see it done by one so industrious and impartial, who has the talent withal of giving it so much attraction.'

'We do not by any means admit, that the Indians met with later times, in a case already too well known to the world, and justified only by those who are blinded by local interest and party passion.  Our fathers meant to do them substantial justice, and they failed, it was owing to jealousy and suspicion; it was not because they coveted their lands and were willing to descend to base means to possess them. When such cases are represented as in all respects the same, and attempts are made to involve the pilgrims in such a condemnation, it is time to repel the charge and to show their injustice if they were guilty of anything mean, avaricious, and grasping; to show also, that if their jealousy of the Indians made them unjust to them, they stood in a relation to them in which no people can ever stand again. Much may be forgiven to their feeling of weakness; they did not presume upon their power.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 17, 1833

The Enrolling Agents of the Government for emigrating the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, have been unusually industrious in the discharge of their duties. They have visited numerous, and indeed nearly every Indian family in this section of the Nation, but their progress in obtaining signers to their miserable scroll, is of the most discouraging kind. In this district, (Coosowattee,) containing a population of about 8000 Cherokees, they have obtained the signatures of Thomas Wilson and family, of embarrassed circumstances, and Yonah Ookillah, single. A third is of a widow lady from Georgia, (white woman). Of enrolling Georgians for emigration we have no objections, if no advantages were intended to be obtained over the Cherokee people. The enrollment now applied for by these pale faces consists in a two fold object. When the Indian signs himself for removing to the West they likewise obtain his consent to say 'that the propositions of the treaty are liberal,' of which we published in our last number. This transaction is nothing more nor less than negotiating with individuals, and to create an argument for the President that the Cherokees are willing to treat, and to procrastinate the executing of his treaties with us. The Cherokees have become cautious of this deception, and are as fearful of them as the bills on the broken banks of Georgia.

When these agents will have failed, as certainly will be the case, in getting signers to subserve the objects of the Government, then those who have enrolled, we predict will be removed in the same manner that the enrolled Creeks were--on their own footing, and to absolute starvation.

________________________

The following communications of Mr. Ridge ' Co., to the Secretary of War and the editor of this paper, are reluctantly given to our readers, for the reason of having no evidence that the former is a true copy of the original. The communication to the War Department, is furnished, it is presumed, with a view as a rebutment to the statement which was made in this paper in part, predicated on this letter. Having excluded further attention to this subject under the editorial head, I proceed in my own name, and as a matter of right, to communicate briefly my thoughts, as the production from the reading of this letter. The secret motives which induced Mr. Ridge ' Co. to open a correspondence with Mr. Cass, can only be fully developed by themselves; but so far as they have been elicited to me, they are as visible as the sun's face, and wholly incompatible with his most solemn obligations to the Nation. Mr. Ridge had been solemnly sworn to sustain the policy of the Nation towards the General Government during the existence of our difficulties, and to no other could he give his support with any degree of propriety. A letter had been received by the Principal Chief from the Secretary of War, promising the removal of intruders from the assailed parts of the Nation, which was construed to embrace the limits of Georgia and Alabama, as within these were the only portion of territories assailed, according to the reading of the letter. At this view of the subject, Mr. Ridge ' Co. places themselves before the Cherokee authorities at the very moment a correspondence was existing with the Secretary of War, ' with this letter, details to him the former opinions of the President, as if they had been forgotten, and an answer to them in time for the Council is earnestly requested. An answer then in the affirmative of the letter to the Cherokee Chief, with the obvious meaning, could not be implied in Mr. Ridge's to Mr. Cass, because of such no additional benefit could arise-the Council had the letter on this point. If the reading of Mr. Cass's letter was questionable, the promised troops were then marching to the Nation, their operations would have settled the existing doubts. Again, Mr. Ridge ' Co. were attached to the constituted authorities of the Nation,the proper organ of information to the Cherokees, but it appears that it was deemed unfit as a medium of communication and consultation, it was thought most lawful perhaps to show a face, aside of the existing authorities, and the secretary would reciprocate to it, as it was by the letter changing the whole aspect of a favorable change. It is in this view of the affair that I am constrained to look upon the sudden change as the fruits of Mr. Ridge ' Co.'s interference, and to arrive at any other, would be the falsification of conscience. Very much might be said on both sides, and to make the matter short, there is an alternative which if adopted, would be highly beneficial to all parties. Let Mr. Ridge state that he has never opposed directly of indirectly the policy of the Nation, towards the United States; as for any other course, it will not be noticed, the Indians mind would turn from it with abhorrence.

ELIJAH HICKS.

______________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

Running Waters, August 3, 1833

Mr. Elijah Hicks,--You have accused me of having committed the most consummate treachery to my country that the annals of any nation affords. You say this 'upon consultation.' Until you bring to light 'respectable gentleman, who shall come forward and lift his head out,' to make the charge, I shall do no more than to furnish you a copy of the letter addressed to the War Department, as the answer thereto has been read by many in manuscript, and as it is now published in the Phoenix, should you presume it safe to the 'watch tower' upon which you stand, perhaps you ought to publish Judge M'Lean's letter, on my advice, to which you have alluded, as one of the circumstances that has had the mighty influence of weaning your 'affections' from me.

JOHN RIDGE.

________________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

HEAD OF COOSA, CH. NA.

April 5th, 1833

Hon. Lewis Cass, Secretary of War,

Sir,- During the session of our last General Council, a Delegation was appointed on the part of this Nation to visit Washington City, for the purpose of endeavoring to obtain from the Government the protection, for which in vain we have so long and ardently sought. This Delegation, after an absence of some months, have returned to their Nation, and a part of the undersigned have seen and read the communications which in the discharge of the trust reposed in them, were addressed to you, and your replies to the same. In answer to the appeal made to the Executive, for the restoration to our people of those rights which the exercise of State authority within our limits have deprived them, they were referred to a message sent by the President of the Senate in 1831, upon a special call made by that body for information, why the Act of Congress of 1802, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian Tribes, 'c. was not executed among the Cherokees; and were informed also that the opinions of the President had undergone a change. A promise however was given for the removal of such citizens of the United States as have intruded upon lands within the chartered limits of Tennessee and North Carolina, disclaiming, (according to the principles of the message alluded to,) any authority to enforce the provisions of that Act within that portion of our territory over which the States of Georgia and Alabama have extended their jurisdiction. Since the return of the Delegation, a letter has been received by Mr. Ross, dated the 24th March, and signed by 'Elbert Herring, Office of Indian Affairs.' This letter acknowledges the receipt of a letter from Mr. Ross, of the 8th March, and as well as recollected, admits that we have experienced much hardships from intrusions, promises that a military force, will shortly be ordered into the Nation from Charleston, to expel the intruders, and that the District Attorney will be instructed, in case they return, to institute suits of prosecution, under the Act of 1802, 'c. The object therefore of the communication, is to ascertain the extent of the protection to be afforded by the military authority, under the pledge given by Judge Herring in his letter to the Delegation. According to the reading of that letter it is considered by many that the views of the Executive may have undergone a change, and that the action of this force will not be confined to any particular portion of our country, but that its blessings will be felt throughout. Under this view of the subject, considering the peculiar and unhappy condition of our people it will not be a matter of surprise for you to learn, that this favorable prospect has been hailed with feelings of much joy and gratulations. Aware, sir, how much we trespass upon your time, we would most respectfully enquire whether indeed our 'Great Father' has thus kindly thought of us, and will thus kindly exercise these paternal feelings which some of the undersigned have often heard him express toward the Cherokees. If we doubt the extent of this protection, it is only by taking in connection this, with the letters from your Department to which we have already made reference. A meeting of our General Council will take place on the 13th of May to deliberate on the affairs of the Nation; and we trust that the information sought for, will not be thought unworthy of the immediate attention of the Department.

With sentiments of high regard, we have the honor to be most respectfully your ob't serv'ts.

John Ridge

W. S. Coodey

Major Ridge

William Hicks

John Fields.




      


Hawk and Lion--The exhibition in the eastern cites, of Black Hawk and General Jackson at the same time produced some consequences that were not expected by the managers. The mobs ran after Gen. Jackson, but they ran after Black Hawk also; and one was shown to be about as popular as the other-judging by the curiosity which was excited to get a sight of both. It was rather mortifying to the court editors, after their grandiloquent flourishes about the same 'enthusiasm of the people' in their reception of the President, to see the enthusiasm manifested towards a wild Indian from the woods. It was therefore determined that the Black Hawk caravan should be ordered upon a different route, so as not to interfere with the success of the menagerie of Kendall and Co., in their route through New England; and so Mister Hawk was sent home from New York by the Canal and Lakes, while the Roaring Lion and Reynold the Fox kept on 'down East.--Dayton Journal.






      


From the New York Observer.

FLAT HEAD INDIAN MISSION.

In the Christian Advocate and Journal of last week, we find the following letter from the Rev. Wilbur Fisk, giving information respecting the measures adopted by the New England Methodist Conference in relation to the contemplated Mission to the Flatheads. Our readers will rejoice to learn that before the close of the year 1834, these interesting heathens will probably hear the gospel invitation in their own language.

Middletown, June 17, 1833

Dear Brethren,- A brother in Christ as I doubt not he is, signing himself, a 'Presbyterian,' has recently written me on the subject of the Flat Head mission. He says of himself, 'that he procures a livelihood by the hand of daily labor, but desires to bear some humble part in our contemplated dispensation of mercy, to this tribe, by appropriating $5 to these brethren who will obey the injunction of our Lord,' and asks for further information on the subject of this mission. Now for the information of this brother, and all others who may be interested, I would say, that our esteemed brother, Jason Lee, was appointed by Bishop Hedding at the late session of the New England Conference, for that mission. Brother Lee is one whom all who know him judge well qualified for that enterprize. He is the man on whom my mind rested when the subject of this mission was first agitated.  I know him well, and can most cordially recommend him to all friends of the enterprize, as one worthy of their confidence-and he certainly needs their prayers. Some other person or persons will be selected to go with him. The present plan is to have the missionaries leave here in the Fall, and reach some of our most western ports in their route, so as to start next March for the mountains. With his usual health, Brother Lee will be able to keep pace with the veteran hunter, in climbing the Rocky Mountains.- Mules will probably be taken to carry over the necessaries for the mission. The principle expense will be the outfit. This will consist of the necessary clothing, the mules, the tools, the seeds for agricultural purposes, and some articles that will be valuable in the Indian country, either as presents or to procure the natives the necessaries of life. When they get to their field of labor, they must live with the natives, and rise as they can elevate the wild man with them.

As some have supposed that what was said some weeks since by me, in a short communication in the Advocate was a kind of prohibition to any other who felt a wish to participate in this work, I would here say this was not my design. The Youth's Missionary Society here stand pledged to this mission, but they do not refuse to share the work with others who wish to aid in it, and they may need such valuable sympathy and cooperation, especially if the Mission should consist of three, as has been recently talked of. May the God of missions bless the undertaking. W. FISK.




      


INDIANS

METHODIST NATIVE MISSIONARIES

Yesterday our native brethren, Peter Jones, John Sunday, John Cashbeach, and John Taunchey, arrived in town from St. Marie, Lake Superior, by way of Lake Huron, Panatanguishine, and Lake Simcoe. The three latter have been absent in the Indian country more than a year. Sunday spent eight months at Ke-wa-we-nan Bay, up Lake Superior, about 300 miles north of this. The tribes among whom he labored are depraved and savage, and he met with much opposition and discouragement at first, but keeping in view the salvation of his brethren, and the injunction of his Divine Master to 'teach all nations,' he at length, by unremitting attention and faithful perseverance, succeeded in the conversion of ten of his pagan brethren. These he formed into a class, for mutual edification and encouragement in the duties of religion. Others it is said, have given up their pagan rites and drunken habits, and are seeking for the comforts and happiness of the Christian religion.

Cashbeach has extended his labors to the straights of Michigan, and the Ot-ta-was on the east shore of Michigan. Taunchey has labored with some success at St. Marie; several have been converted during the past winter. The zeal and perseverance of these native Missionaries are highly commendable, and their labors have been crowned with the divine blessing.

Thomas Frazar, Thomas McGee, and Wm. Herkimer, take the place of Sunday and his company, while these return to their families at Grape Island and Rice Lake.--York, U.C.  Guardian.




      


From the Encyclopedia Americana

TSULAKEES, or TSALAKEES(sometimes also written (Tealagis) the proper name of the Indian tribe whom we commonly term Cherokees. Their territory originally comprised more than half of what is now the State of Tennessee, the southern part of Kentucky, the south-west corner of Virginia, a considerable portion of the two Carolinas, a large part of Georgia, and the northern part of Alabama. This tract probably contained more than 35,000,000 acres. Between the close of the Revolutionary war and the year 1820, the Cherokees sold to the United States, at different times, more than three quarters of their possessions, and now retain less than 8,000,000 acres, of which Georgia claims 5,000,000 acres as falling within that state, and Alabama nearly 1,000,000 of the residue. The remainder, if a division takes place, will go to Tennessee and North Carolina.  Their population is increasing. In eighteen years, ending in 1825, their numbers, including those who emigrated to the Arkansas, had increased more than 7,000 or sixty per-cent, which varies little from the common rate of increase among the white inhabitants of the Southern States.- The number of native Cherokees of pure and mixed blood, east of the Mississippi, was at that time 13,563, and 147 white men and 73 white women had intermarried with them, and resided among them. The number of African slaves, was 1277. The population is now (1832) 15,060, of whom over 1200 are African slaves.  Agriculture and many of the arts of civilized life have been introduced among them, and their progress in civilization has been very considerable. In 1825, they possessed 79,342 domestic animals (horses, cattle, swine, and sheep,) 762 looms, 2486 spinning wheels, 172 wagons, 2943 ploughs, ten saw-mills, thirty-one grist mills, 62 blacksmiths' shops, eight cotton gins, eighteen schools, nine turnpike roads, eighteen ferries, and twenty public roads, being a great increase above the returns of 1809. A well organized system of government has been established. The executive consists of a principal chief and assistant, with three executive counsellors, all elected by the legislative body. The legislature consists of two bodies, a national committee and a national council, the former containing sixteen members, the latter twenty-four. The members are chosen for the term of two years, by the qualified electors in their several districts. These electors include all free male citizens who have attained the age of eighteen years, except persons of African origin. The rules respecting the nature and powers of the legislature in general, are similar to those of the several states in the Union. Each of the two bodies has a negative on the other, and together they are styled the General Council of the Cherokee Nation. The chief and his assistant hold their offices for four years. The executive counsellors are chosen annually. The judiciary consists of a supreme court, and of circuit and inferior courts. The members of the supreme court hold their offices for four years. There is also a public treasury, a printing office, and a newspaper, the Cherokee Phoenix, commences in February, 1828, and edited by a Cherokee. This newspaper is printed partly in the Cherokee character, invented by Guess.*  The press is owned and directed by the Cherokee government. They have founts of types in the Cherokee character. The Gospel of Matthew and a collection of hymns, translated by Mr. Worcester, one of the missionaries, have been printed in this character.  Intermarriages have in many instances taken place between the Cherokees and the whites in the neighborhood, and many of the half breeds have large plantations, and carry on agriculture with more spirit than the full blooded Cherokees. There are very different degrees of improvement among the members of the tribe. Some families have risen to a level with the white population of the United States, while the improvement of others has just commenced. In general, those of mixed blood are in advance of the full blooded Indians. Not less than a quarter of the people are probably in a greater or less degree of mixed blood. The dress of most of the Cherokees is substantially the same as that of the whites around them. A great part of their clothing is manufactured by themselves, though not a little is of the fabrics of New England and foreign countries-calico, broadcloths, silk.- The greater part are clothed principally in cotton, and many families make their own cotton out of which the women make substantial cloth. Cultivation by the plough is almost universal, most families raise enough to supply their own wants and many have considerable quantities for sale. Suffering for want of food is said to be as rare among the Cherokees as in any other part of the civilized world. None of them depend, in any considerable degree on game for support. The Cherokees live chiefly in villages, and their dwellings are mostly comfortable log cabins, with chimneys, and generally floored.  Many of the houses in the nation are decent buildings of two stories, and some are even handsome dwellings of painted wood or brick. Polygamy is becoming r are, and women are no longer treated as servants, but are allowed their proper place. Superstition is rapidly declining, and the ancient traditions are fading from memory, so that it is difficult to collect them. Conjuring, however, is still practiced to a considerable extent. In regard to intemperance, the Cherokees would not suffer by a comparison with the white population around them.-The laws rigorously exclude intoxicating liquors from all public assemblies, and otherwise restrict their use. They have among them temperance societies on the principle of entire abstinence. The civil officers enforce the laws against the introduction of ardent spirits, and fine transgressors. In regard to education, the missionaries is a report dated Dec. 29 1830 (see (Missionary Herald for March, 1831)  state that they have the names of 200 Cherokee men and youths whom they believe to have attained an English education sufficient for the transaction of ordinary business. This number does not include females, and many men and youths who can barely read and write. An increasing anxiety among the people for the education of their children is very apparent. The missionary schools contain about 500 children, learning English. A majority of the persons between childhood and middle age can read their own language in Guess's alphabet, with greater or less facility. In regard to religion, the mass of the people have externally embraced Christianity; and there is regular preaching at several places, both by missionaries and natives. How far the schools and the preaching have been interrupted by the agitations at present prevailing, we cannot say.- During the  two last years (1831 and 1832) the Cherokees have been greatly agitated by political troubles. Their government has been hindered in its operations, their laws counteracted by the extension of the jurisdiction of Georgia, over their territory; many of their citizens have been imprisoned, and the nation has been threatened with banishment. The missionaries of the board of foreign missions have been prohibited to reside among them by the laws of Georgia. Four of them were arrested in the summer of 1831, for not removing; and two of them, Mr. Worcester and Mr. Butler, have been, for the same cause, tried and sentenced by the court of Georgia for four years to the Georgia penitentiary, where they are now confined. The Georgians have made a law authorizing the Governor to have the Cherokee lands surveyed and divided by lottery. The government of the United States are endeavoring to effect the removal of the Cherokees from their lands by treaty-the only mode in which they can legitimately deal with them, as they have already recognized their independence by several treaties; and their rights under these treaties have been lately confirmed by a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, in January, 1831. The terms offered them are an extensive and fertile territory west of the Arkansas, to be secured to them by patent, and to be for ever beyond the boundaries of any state of territory, where they are to be allowed to exercise all the powers of self-government compatible with a general supervision of Congress over them, to appoint an agent to reside at Washington, to send a delegate to Congress, and to be recognized, when Congress shall deem proper, as a  territory. The General Council of the Cherokees, however, have declined accepting the proposal.- The Cherokees of the Arkansas are those who, since the year 1804, removed, at different times, from the east of the Mississippi to a tract on the north bank of the Arkansas River, between lon. 94 degrees and 95 degrees W; population about 5,000. The greater part of this emigration took place between 1816 and 1820. There is a missionary station among them.- By a treaty concluded in May, 1828, they agreed to remove still farther west. This portion of the Cherokees has also made considerable progress in agriculture and the arts of civilized life.- For further information, see the different numbers of the Missionary Herald and the Cherokee Phoenix;  the Decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the Cherokee Case published at Philadelphia, 1831;) also  Essays on the present Crisis in the Condition of the American Indians  (Boston, 1829). For information respecting the language of the Cherokees, see Indian Languages (appendix, end of vol, vi.)

* The inventor and the invention are thus described in the Cherokee Phoenix:- Mr. Guess is, in appearance and habits, a full Cherokee, though his grandfather on his father's side was a white man. He has no knowledge of any language but the Cherokee. He was led to think on the subject of writing the Cherokee language by the conversation of some young men, who said that the whites could put a talk on paper, and send it to any distance, and it would be understood. In attempting to invent a Cherokee character, he at first could think of no way but that of giving each word a particular sign. He pursued this plan for about a year, and made several thousand characters. He then became convinced that this was not the right mode, and, after trying several other methods, at length conceived the idea of dividing the words into parts.  He now soon found that the same characters would apply in different words, so that their number would be comparatively small. After putting down and learning all the syllables that he could think of, he would listen to speeches and the conversation of strangers, and whenever a word occurred which had a part or syllable in it which was not on his list, he would bear it in mind 'til he had made a character for it. In this way he soon discovered all the syllables in the language. In forming his characters, he made some use of the English letters, as he found them in a spelling book in his possession. After commencing upon the last mentioned plan,he is said to have completed his system in about a month, having reduced al the sounds in the language to eighty-five characters.- Mr. Guess was considerably advanced in life when he made this invention.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 24, 1833

Our readers are referred below to the secret set of instructions from the War Department, to Ben. Curry, which we have been enabled to obtain through a friend for their Government in prosecuting the present system of operations for removing the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, and we request the public to receive it as a true copy. It will be perceived that the President is altogether opposed to the suggestion of the Agent, of sending a party of Cherokees to look out a country to which he proposes removing them, least by enabling them to see the country, and knowing it to be altogether unsuitable for the permanent location of the Cherokees, would only tend to defeat the intentions of the Government towards them. It is here proven by the President himself, that the West is not a good country for the Cherokees, and prefers to thrust them there in the same way that a man would leap into the dark. It is this injustice to which we are opposed, and it is painful to see the Chief Magistrate of a great people persisting in a system of measurers having for its accomplishment cruelty and oppression.

It appears that the President has now resorted, after having matured the Cherokee case to its extremity, to desperate measures, to intimidate them into a treaty. It is proposed now by those golden instruction from the White House, and previously nullifying our treaties to take the opinion of the Attorney General of the right of the Government to remove certain Chiefs of the Nation, who had received reservations in fee in some of the last treaties with the Government.  If one sentence can be found in these treaties prejudicial to these Chiefs, it is to be magnified; and the treaties to be binding under the Constitution, and attempts probably will be made to drive the Cherokee Chiefs from the lands of their fathers and from their Nation. Otherwise they are not binding, the States having superseded them by legislation. It is here to be remarked, that if the Attorney General has decided this question of the principles of his holiness, the Pope, the Supreme Court have also decided that the Cherokees are a distinct Community and a Nation; having a right to admit into their nation whom they please, and that we are fully entitled to the benefits of that decision. If the President has placed himself in a narrow place in forcing his policy of removing the Cherokees, and cannot extricate himself from it with honor, the hardships of the case cannot be expressed with the English language, when he is looking for treaty authorities to punish the Cherokee Chiefs for their virtues.

As it is not our intention to enter into a discussion fully of the merits of these instructions, but submit them to the honest reader, we are constrained to remark, in conclusion, that they cannot be reconciled to the correspondence which we have published recently--there the president has recognized Mr. Ross to be the Chief of the Cherokee Nation, whom it is now contemplated to remove.

It will likewise be seen by these instructions that those who may enroll, shall also be entitled to the benefits proportionably to their numbers, of the school fund of this Nation, and of which in the late correspondence the President has promised that it shall be applied pursuant to the treaty of 1819. We would here respectfully enquire to whom has the truth been told?

As our Indian compositor is absent, our home readers are requested to explain the instructions.

__________________

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

June 22, 1833

Sir:- In relation to the project for the removal of the Cherokees, heretofore submitted by you to the Secretary of War, I am instructed to communicate to you the views of the President on that subject.  The President is opposed to sending an exploring party of Cherokees to examine the country allotted to their tribe west of the Mississippi; as a measure involving very considerable expense, and not promising much benefit, the probability is that the generality of the Cherokees are sufficiently informed upon that subject, and their real or pretended reluctance to remove, does not rest upon their ignorance or dislike of that country.

He is also at present, opposed to the appointment of commissioners, believing it to be premature, and thinking that by precipitancy, we may defeat the whole object in view, and deprive ourselves of the power of doing what we would otherwise been able to do.

The opinion of the Attorney General will be taken touching the power of the Gen'l Government, to remove the reservees under the treaties of 1817-19. If he should be of the opinion that the Government has the power, instructions will be given for that purpose, and the reservees will be informed of the views of the Department, and advised to remove peaceably by the first of January next, after his return you shall be advised of his opinion, he being now absent.

In the meantime, you are hereby authorized to remove, at the public expense, such reservees; as wish to go west of the Mississippi,

You will proceed with the enrolling business, and Gov. Lumpkin, to whom a copy of this letter has been transmitted, has been requested to appoint two assistant enrolling agents, to receive the same compensation as was allowed last year.

Enrolling books must be prepared in the following form.  A memorandum must be inserted, purporting that the subscriber assents to a treaty with the United States, upon the terms heretofore offered by the President, to their people, and that if no treaty should be made in the course of the next fall or early in the winter, then the subscribers will cede to the United States all their right and interest in the Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi, upon the following conditions.

That they shall receive, so far as Congress shall make the necessary appropriations, the ascertained value of their improvements, on their arrival west of the Mississippi.

That they shall be removed and subsisted for one year, at the expense of the United States.

That they shall be entitled to all such stipulations as may be hereafter made in favor of those who do not now remove, excepting so far as such stipulations may depend on the cession of rights of improvements which the subscribers have been previously allowed compensation.

That they shall have their full share of the three years of annuity now remaining unpaid, and they shall be entitled to their just proportion of the school reservation under the treaties of 1817 '-19.

The object of this, as you will perceive, is to place them who will now enroll and emigrate on the same level with those who may follow them to the West; the Government being desirous to expedite their removal, and render to them all equal justice. In the progress of this business I will thank you to communicate freely with the Department, and make such further suggestions as you may suppose will conduce to the benefit of the Cherokees and the advancement of the benevolent views of the Government, in endeavoring to effect their removal. You will be pleased to communicate to your assistant enrolling agents, such directions,  in conformity to these instructions, as you may deem necessary for their information and government, in the enrolling business.

I am, sir, with great respect,

Your ob't serv't

(Signed) JOHN ROBB

Acting Secretary of War.

Maj. Benj. F. Curry, Calhoun, Tennessee.

___________________________

The following advertisement taken from the Nashville Banner, and handed us by a friend, is a specimen of the small falsehood, not uncommon with our adversaries, but intended to do our office much injury. This same P. M. we consider a dangerous incumbent of this office. He has refused to deliver to us our exchange papers several times, for the only reason that this paper was not published regularly some time ago. He was informed that the Phoenix was not discontinued, and yet in the face of this notice, he has gratuitously and officially advised editors on this point without authority and perfectly untrue.

Our nashville contemporaries and elsewhere, will please renew the exchange with us, as without them we cannot do well for our western news.

_____________

Post-Office NEW ECHOTA, GA.

June 16th, 1833

EDITORS of Newspapers that exchange with the CHEROKEE PHOENIX, will please stop sending their papers directed to it in exchange as it is discontinued.

WM. J. TARVIN.




      


$20 REWARD

RAN AWAY from the subscriber, living in Lowndes county, Alabama, on the 8th of May last, two negro men, named MARION ' PLUMMER. Marion is 23 years old, five feet six or seven inches high, dark complected.  Plummer is 18 years old, five feet six or seven inches high, spare made, complexion black.

The above reward will be given to any person  who will secure said negroes in and Jail, so that I get them, and give information to me at Lowndesborough, Ala.

The Expositor, the Cherokee Phoenix, and the Knoxville Republican, will please insert the above for one month, and forward their accounts to me at Lowndesboro, Ala. for payment.

NATHANIEL REESE.

August 24--1m.




      


From the New York American.

The following letter from the last number of the Turf Register, though addressed chiefly to Sportsmen, contains a description of the mounted Indians of the West, that is eminently graphic and picturesque:

Cantonment Jesup, Lou. July 15, 1832.

Mr. Editor- The modern turf horse is said to be deficient in the power of endurance and ability to carry weight, which were so eminently possessed by the immediate descendants of the Arabian, Barb and Turkish horses, which produced the unrivalled English stock. My object is to direct the attention of America breeders to a stock of horses possessing good wind, great powers of endurance, and hardy constitutions, with fine bony, sinewy limbs. They are indigenous to our continent; and if the experiment I recommend, of crossing them with our bred horses, succeed, will preclude the necessity of recurring to the present race of horses in England, which is doubtless degenerate. I allude to the wild or prairie horse, inhabiting the southwest region of our continent, and roaming amid the immense grassy plains of that section, and to this race, partially tamed by the savage tribes of the country. No one who has seen the Osages galloping over their boundless prairies, under their fervid sun, and maintaining this gait for hours; viewed their muscular and handsome steeds, and compared his own jaded nag with the bounding and restless animals around him, but has confessed the superiority of their horses over ours. In July, 1829, the writer accompanied a party of gentlemen on a visit to Clermore's band of Osages, on the Verdigris River, a tributary of the Arkansas. A runner having been despatched to apprize them of our intention, upon arriving within two miles of the town, we halted to await their welcome. In a moment they were in commotion, and the chiefs and principal warriors (in number about a hundred) mounted, and approaching at full speed; bearing lances, and shields painted of various colors, and otherwise adorned; their heads surmounted with helmets of feathers and red and blue cloth; their arms and legs clasped by tinkling bands: some naked, with the exception of the breach clout; others clothed in the favorite dress of the Indian, a blue frock, with red collar and cuffs; and another portion with only the painted blanket streaming from their shoulders; sounding their war cry, and advancing rapidly and tumultuously; rushing in among us to give a welcome, and then wheeling their horses on the vast surrounding plain, in mimic pursuit of each other. They presented a most joyous, novel, and splendid barbaric spectacle. Here it was that my admiration of their horses was first excited; for this was the first opportunity I had to viewing their good horses. Among them were three or four, evidently of the same family; on one of which Clermore himself rode. They were of a beautiful cream color, with black manes and tails; a dark stripe along the back and dark or black legs from the knees down; not over fifteen hands in height, but of compact. A mahogany bay, of this size and form, caught my eye, as possessing a most superior walk. One brave sported a Pawnee head dress, horse, and other spoils, taken in battle. The stallion was of a very dark and peculiar iron grey, tall and slender, but a most beautiful animal. There is now at Cantonment Gibson a wild mare, caught by the Osages when on a hunt. She is white, with a neck like a stallion; finely formed in every respect; of great length of body, and having remarkably fine limbs. Every attempt has been made to break her, but with indifferent success; she having thrown, at their imminent hazard, all her riders. She has produced a likely, but small brown bay filly, by one of the worthless Cherokee ponies about the garrison. When we consider the firm, elastic soil, excellent herbage, and fervid sun of the plains over which these horses roam-the question, what advantages in soil, climate or food, the dessert or mountain Arabian horse possesses over them, naturally presents itself. They ought to possess, in an equal degree the flinty hardiness of limbs, speed, 'c. of the Arabian. But one reason can be given for the superiority of the latter, (if they be in fact superior,) viz: that the Arabs have been more careful in perpetuating a good strain and in suffering no inferior cross. But from the fact of the Osages prizing very highly their good horses,and the reluctance with which they part from them, together with my observing a particular family of horses among the chiefs, induce the conclusion that a peculiar breed exists among them; and I submit to sportsmen, whether an experiment, with a few of their stallions and mares, is unworthy a trial. Assuredly there are in our country gentlemen of fortune, enterprize, and patriotism enough,to make the experiment; and though the immediate cross with the blood horse should not evince speed enough to make first rate turf horses, yet their stamina would, by judicious crossing, produce those fine saddle and draft horses, which a late writer (Mason) asserts the Virginia turf horse of the present day rarely produces. Should the experiment be made, (and there are so many mares and stallions of every degree of excellence and blood, in Virginia and Kentucky especially that it might be conducted without bearing too onerously upon an individual sportsmen), it should not be abandoned in despair, though the first or second cross should not equal expectation. When we recollect the perseverance, repeated trials, and number of years, devoted by a Duke of Cumberland, before he succeeded in obtaining a superior stock of horses; and the pertinacity of an Earl of Oxford, in establishing the truth of a theory, by continuing a cross (of greyhounds) to the eighth removed, ere he attained the degree of perfection anticipated, we should be incited to attempt and continue our experiments. In order, Mr. Editor, that breeders may know what facilities they would meet with, and be enabled to form some idea of the expense they would have to incur, I will state the most expeditious mode of, and best season for reaching the country of the Osages.- From January to June the Arkansas has water enough for the steamboats which ply from the mouth of White River and New Orleans to ascend to Cantonment Gibson. The post is by water, about six hundred and fifty miles from the Mississippi by land, about three hundred and fifty. Clermore's village is distant from it fifty-five miles. Forty miles from the garrison is the residence of their trader, Col. A. P. Choteau, of St. Louis; a gentleman whose predilection for the sports of the turf would induce him to exert his great influence to persuade the chiefs to part with their best horses. I cannot at this moment, refer to the Indian laws, but think they prohibit any purchase from the tribes without the sanction of their agent. The agent of the Osages is Mr. Humtramck, who resides at White Hair's Town, situated on the Osage River, a tributary of the Missouri. But, upon application, doubtless the President or Secretary of War would authorize and attempt at purchase.

A SUBSCRIBER.






      


INDIANS

From the New York American.

_______, Alabama, July ______,

You have probably seen in the public prints that the Government have been making another fruitless effort to conclude a Treaty with the Creek Indians, for the final cession of their lands in this State, (Alabama) with the benevolent object of removing them to Arkansas, beyond the sphere of State jurisdiction and the operation of those laws which already press very heavily upon them, and will undoubtedly, in the course of a very few years reduce this once powerful tribe to a state of utter misery and destitution. The manner in which the views of the General Government have been thwarted, is described below, in a letter supposed dropped on the Council Ground by one of the numerous throng of sharpers and speculators that were in attendance: the facts selected may be relied on as authentic. I know of no medium through which this information may be conveyed, preferable to the columns of your excellent paper. ALPHA.

Some suggestions as to the best and most speedy modes of acquiring property upon the Indian frontier, having especial reference to the Creek Nation, whose territory was lately (1832) ceded to the United States.

Imprimis, Organize companies or associations, as numerous as possible, to purchase lands or other property from the ignorant savages, appoint agents, or managers, and let them have stores in the Indian country. 2d. Then let the company place their joint funds in the hands of these agents, with power to make all contracts, and pay the Indians in goods at high prices, say from 80 to 100 per cent above cost. Allow these agents to give their own notes, in their own names, not in that of the Company) for part or the whole price of the property they may purchase, and have other emissaries, (inferior, because less paid than the first mentioned) at hand, to depreciate and undervalue the agent's note, as soon as convenient after they are received by the Indian vender, and to purchase them at the lowest possible price.  The lowest heard of is a note purporting to be for $100, and which was purchased of the Indian holder for 12 1/2 cent!* 3d. Take a receipt for (as the Indian believes) a small sum advanced, as part payment for his reserve, but make it include the whole consideration stipulated to be paid for it. An example of this mode of acquiring lands, is as follows:- a person was to pay an Indian $166 for a half section, (320 acres). He paid $3, and took the Indian's receipt for $160 +.

4. Another good mode is to take an Indian's bond to make over his reserve to you; let the bond be made as binding as possible on the Indian to perform his part of the contract, but be careful not to inform him of its conditions, or the ready means (through the State laws) for enforcing it. Next proceed to purchase as many Reservations of land as possible at a high average price, say $600 the half section, (a high price must be pretended to be given, in order to impress the Government or its agents with the idea that the transaction is perfectly fair) and give your note, if anything, for the consideration money.  But when the purchaser has and character to lose, let the contract be made in another's name, who is insolvent both in character and purse, and let it be a condition in the note, that if the Reservation be granted to the Indian, and the land should be worth it, the price stipulated shall be paid; but if not, that the land shall be valued.  The consequence is evident; in any case the land will be valued at a very low price by your white friends, and you will have to pay but little for it; or should you think it proper not to pay the Indian anything, either plead insolvency or say that the note has been paid; be under no fears for the result, as the Indians are incompetent with esses (sic) against the whites.

5. Still another plan is to raise claims against Indians who live within the jurisdiction as a Justice of the Peace; then lug him before him. If possible let the Justice reside in Pike or Barbour County, Ala., as the minions of the law in those counties have great and deserved reputation for their skill in these matters. It is immaterial whether the Indian is worth anything or not; obtain a 'judgment' in your favor. This can be done very easily, as in one case purporting to be for $49 75, the upright justice taxed the 'costs' at $38,++ being fourfold! then send out a Constable to levy on the property of any Indian he finds. I have before stated that Indians are incompetent witnesses, and are seldom able to 'prove property,' which requires white testimony, and therefore cannot redress their wrong, as some squeamish people fancy them, as if an Indian savage could have any rights!  But to recur to the levying system.  I will relate an instance which I witnessed the other day. A white man had a note, good or bad, against an Indian man, for some 10 or 20 dollars.  The Indian was absent, and had no property. Did the Constable return empty handed? By no means: he seized a cow belonging to an Indian woman, and drove it off and sold it.  To be sure 'twas all the property the girl possessed; but it matters not--she could not prove her property by white testimony--and therefore had to put up with her loss.

6. The next, and perhaps most successful mode is, to sell goods on credit at ten times the cost to any Indian you can, and then present your accounts to the Town Chiefs, and obtain motes or drafts for the amount; next procure an order from the Chiefs to burn the books and accounts. This they will readily give, as all Indians have a salutary horror and dread of any 'paper,' as they call it, made by white men. At the time f paying the annuities, or of disbursing money by the government among the Indians, present your account: if it is not allowed by the United States Agents you have a ready remedy by having a writ prepared, ready to enforce payment. It will not be considered amiss to make the notes or drafts for many times the amount stated to the Chiefs, as the sum for which the note is made. The Indians cannot read; and as you of course will have none other than friends, if any one present, they will keep secret.

7. Another easy way is to pretend great friendship towards the Red people, and procure what the Indian thinks is a 'power of attorney' to attend to his business with the whites; but let the supposed power be his 'deed' or 'bill of sale' for land or negroes. This has been done with signal success in many instances. N.B. The best and safest agents to employ in this business are the Indian negroes: pay them well and they will work well: besides, they have no silly notions of honesty, 'c. and their evidence is not valid in law. And,

8. Another approved plan is to bribe the Chiefs to make notes or drafts on their people, and agree to give them a part of the money when collected. Let all those who are engaged in any of the aforementioned practices keep a sharp look out, and if they discover any white person about who is disposed to put the Indian on their guard against their philanthropic intentions, send out agents (the Indian negroes make excellent ones) and warn the red people to be ware of him as he come among them to swindle them, 'c.

9. And lastly.  Above all things, inculcate strenuously upon the minds of the Indians that they must not emigrate or sell their lands to the United States, that the General Government only wishes to cheat them and they (the speculators) will take good care of them, and support them, 'c, 'c.

I had almost forgotten a very pleasant and efficient way of facilitating your views; it is this: provide a dark haired black-eyed damsel, to solace your leisure hours, and you acquire the character of an 'Indian Countryman,' and in right of your wife can claim Reserves from the State, and thus combine profit and pleasure.

Lest my friend, you may think any of the above practices at all illegal, you have a salvo for your conscience, (a foolish thing by the way) in considering that you are borne out and encouraged in them by State enactments; for, owing to the ignorance of the Indians, their incompetency as witnesses in any suit in which a white man is concerned, and their consequent inability to assert their rights, these enactments must be considered as a legislative sanction of speculations upon them.

The above suggestions point out the most direct way to acquire fortunes without labor, and without any silly qualms of conscience for, as the red man is our enemy, the sooner he is exterminated, or put out of the pale of society no matter by what means, (for the end sanctifies them,_) the better for all.

Yours truly,

John Wideawake

To Mr. Inexperience Shaper (sic).

____________________

* A fact

+ This actually occurred

++ Fact-and can be proved




      


From the Maryville Intelligencer.

THE UNITED BRETHREN.

Candy's Creek,

May 13, 1833

Dear Sir:- If you consider the following brief notice from Mr. Heckwelder's narrative, worthy the attention of your readers, they are at your disposal. Respectfully, yours,

D.S.B.

In his introduction, Mr. H. observes 'The course which the missionaries, who dwelt with Indians, had to pursue, was plainly marked out to them. They did not go among those people for the sake of earthly gain, neither to serve a party.  Their sole object was that of bringing them the good tidings that Christ had come into this world-suffered and died on the cross for the sins of mankind, and to teach them the way of salvation. Under this commission, they considered themselves as serving the God of peace who himself had promised a blessing on peace makers.'

The United Brethren commenced their missionary labors among the Indians, A.D. 1732 in Georgia; but in consequence of the war between Great Britain and Spain, A.D. 1739, they were obliged to abandon this field of labor.

On the 16th of July, A.D. 1740, their missionary Christian Henry Rauch arrived at New York. Is instructions were, 'not in any wise to interfere with the labors of other missionaries or ministers, or cause any disturbance among them; but silently to observe whether any of the heathen were, by the grace of God, prepared to receive and believe the word of life.- That if even only one was to be found desirous of hearing, to him the gospel should be preached; for God must give the heathen ears to hear the gospel, and hearts to receive it.'  The missionary, soon after his arrival, went to the Indian town, Shekomeko, and commenced his labors among the Mahigans (sic); and on the 22d day of Feb. 1742, the three first converts were baptized. The same year twenty-six more were added to their number.  More laborers were sent, and another mission commenced at Scatticok, on Kent River, in Connecticut; and a number more converted, mostly of the Wampano tribe. These settlements built themselves each a place of worship, in which they daily met for divine service. Scarcely three years had elapsed, before their white neighbors had began to trouble and even persecute them. In the beginning they had represented the Indians to the missionaries, as a race of savages, incapable of embracing Christianity, or of leading a Christian life; and that it was next to madness to think of living among them. But now, when it was manifest that a number of them had embraced Christianity, and did lead a Christian life, they would not permit them to enjoy Christian privileges. Every device was resorted to to have these missionaries banished out of the country. Some even offered liquor to any Indian who would kill them. The next step they took was to charge the missionaries with being an evil minded, designing people, and disaffected to the government.  Inconsequence of which, they were taken from one place to another to be examined, sometimes by a magistrate, and  at other times by minsters. Two of them were kept for sometime at New Midford, while the others were ordered to Poughkeepsie, and there mal-treated, until at length, being brought before the Governor of Connecticut, were declared innocent and discharged.- They were then accused of being Papists, and traitors, in alliance with the French, 'c. Therefore on the 15th of Dec. 1744, a sheriff and two justices of the peace, came to Shekomeko, and in the name of the Governor and Council of New York, forbade all meetings of the Brethren, and commanded them to appear at Poughkeepsie on the 7th of that month.

As the Brethren were conscientiously scrupulous about taking an oath, their accusers prevailed on the Governor of New York, to have them examined before him. This being done they were discharged as innocent. Yet the senior missionary, Buttner, having been ordered to Poughkeepsie, was obliged to go, though in ill health from previous abuse.  Here, after waiting and suffering with cold for several days, he was discharged.

In October of that year, the Assembly of New York passed the two following acts, viz; one by which all suspicious persons were required to take the oath of allegiance, or leave the Province; the other positively forbidding the brethren to instruct the Indians.- The brethren, now like strangers in the land, dare not meet with their Indian congregation for divine service, nor even abide with them where they were; yet had to delay their departure on account of the sickness of the senior missionary.  Gottlieh Buttner, who on the 23d of Feb. 1746 departed this life. The Indian brethren having taken the burial duties and ceremonies upon themselves since the white brethren, (their teachers,) dare not officiate, purchased linens, dressed his corpse nicely in white, and interred his remains with Christian solemnity in the burying ground at Shekomeko-watering his grave with their tears. Soon after, the remaining missionary Martin Mack, his wife and the widow of the deceased, took a final farewell of their congregation, and set out for Bethlehem-from whence the Indian congregation frequently received visits, till they were all removed. During the two last years of the brethren's laboring at this place, sixty-two persons were baptized. The departure of the missionaries, however, did not satisfy the surrounding whites.  They threatened to destroy the town, and endeavored to obtain a death warrant for the whole congregation; until at length, the poor people were obliged to flee for their lives to Bethlehem; leaving their lands, improvements, 'c. without the least prospect of recompense.

______________________

ARKANSAS CHOCTAWS.

Extract from a letter of Mr. Williams,

dated at Bethalbara, April 4, 1833

MEETINGS AND ADDITIONS TO THE CHURCH.- Since January, I have been occupied for the most part in pastoral labors. This work has greatly increased on my hands since the arrival of the new emigrants. The believers who lately settled within my bounds have felt the effects of their journey on their own hearts; and an intercourse with them has had a chilling influence on the hearts of the church members here; so that for nearly three months the religious prospects were not so flattering as for some time previous.  It was but too apparent that because iniquity abounded the love of many had waxen cold. But when the enemy came in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord lifted a standard against him. Our poor endeavors to stir up their pure minds by way of remembrance of former mercies, have not been entirely fruitless; though, alas! some of the church members had indeed left their first love.- Meetings were appointed and held in different neighborhoods, but often thinly attended when we hoped it would be otherwise. At length a sacramental meeting was appointed, which commenced on the 29th of March and closed on the 1st inst. Three weeks previous to this meeting, however, increasing feeling was manifest under the preaching of the word, and at evening conference meetings.  The still small voice was heard, and some backsliders, and a few others manifested a special concern for their souls, and seem determined to seek the favor of God.- Still a great number of the believers showed too little interest in these things until our last meeting which I hope was the time or release to some captive souls. If there were no new cases of conversion, yet many were warmed, many harps were taken down from the willows and tuned anew.

The church session had endeavored to prepare for the meeting,was far as practicable, by examining candidates before hand. Much time was spent and some good was affected by the means, all tending to prepare the minds of the session, of the candidates, and of the congregation which was present at most of the examinations, for the ordinances of God's house. In had the  aid of two Methodist brethren and Mr. Hotchkin, in dispensing the word of life to a very large congregation. On the Sabbath, after suitable instruction on the subject, three new elders were ordained, and forty-four candidates made a public profession of their faith in Christ, and entered into covenant with this church. Nine of this number being persons not belonging to the church in the old nation, were baptized. The others had all been members of the Mayhew church, but were not received here without a careful examination. Some who applied for admission to the church were deferred; others were providentially detained from attending the meeting. Three indeed of those who had been accepted by the session, were thus detained.  About one hundred and fifteen persons sat down together at the table of our Redeemed, and his presence made it a feast of fat things to many who had been almost famished I suppose there were present at least a hundred persons who had never heard the gospel, or witnessed any such scenes before. The whole assembly could not consist of less than five hundred persons. In the evening, although but few of those not members of the church attended, fifteen were found to come over to the Lord's side, after hearing a sermon on the words of Moses, Exodus xxxi, i, 26. Twelve infant children were dedicated to the Lord by baptism on the same evening. Verily it is good to be there. Many things conspired to make the meeting and exercises deeply interesting. If ever I could have wished the sun and moon to stand still, that the day might be prolonged, it was last Sabbath; so that those multitudes who had never heard, and many more who, though they had often heard, had not embraced the gospel, might have been particularly instructed, and as it were, compelled to come in. It is believed that a number of those who retired to their homes at sunset, were almost persuaded to become Christians.  This meeting was held within one mile and a half of this station, at our new meeting house, which was built by the natives, and was solemnly dedicated to God on the Sabbath previous to the sacramental meeting.

Although I have mentioned these favorable appearances, I would not raise expectation too high. Satan is very active at this particular time. But I am not only supported, but comforted, and my confidence in God is stronger than ever. Our chief has not become very friendly, and at our meeting assured his countrymen that it was wholly in vain to oppose, or to attempt to obstruct the progress of the gospel.

It is an interesting fact that the Christian females hold weekly meetings in different neighborhoods. Miss Clough generally meets with those on the east of the river, and Mr. Williams with those on the west side. Some of their meetings are very solemn indeed. As many as twelve prayers have been offered before they would separate, besides singing, reading the scriptures, and exhortation. Indeed there are many precious people under my charge-dear to me as bearing the image of Jesus. In view of the vast and increasing responsibility resting upon me, I am led at exclaim, 'Who is sufficient for these things.'




      


From the Albany Temperance Record.

Mr. Editor,- I am very happy to cast in my mice to aid the powerful machinery which you are putting in motion, though the light rhymes which I send are but as an insect on the chariot wheels, hastening, I trust, to victory.

First gift to the Indians at Albany.

Albany was first visited by its discoverer, Capt. Hudson, on the 19 of September, 1609. The frank and generous natives, made his people everywhere welcome, and they in return, made their hearts gay with wine and aqua vitae, till some became intoxicated, and greatly astonished the others.-[Watson's Historie Tales of the Olden Times.]

They come '-They come'- the pallid race,

The red men gather from the chase,

From forest shade, and light canoe,

They throng that 'water-bird' to view,

Whose mighty wings that near the shore,

Perchance their great Manitto bore.

Frank is their welcome to the band,

The ready smile,-the open hand,

The proffer'd fruits, with gladness prest,

The purple plumb in downy vest,

The clustering grape,-the sheaf of gold,

The untaught greeting, warm and bold.

But by what gifts, what token strong

Dip Europe's sons renown'd in song.

Mark their first visit to the child

Of simple faith, and daring wild!

A cup'-a cup'- but who may tell

What deadly dregs within its swell?

The sickening eye,-the burning cheek.

The reeling form, strange speak,

And on the turf of verdant eye,

In brief and maddening trances they lie;-

Type of the woes that soon must sweep

Their blasted race away,

Down to oblivion dark and deep,

With none their hopeless wrong to weep,

Or mourn their sad decay.

Yes, when the Old World hastening prest

Her friendships on its infant west,

The boon she thought, the pledge she gave

Was poison and a drunkard's grave.

But thou, fair city, thron'd in pride,

Queen of the Hudson's silvertide,

Well hast thou by the deeds effac'd

This stain upon thine annal trac'd.

Well has thou by the zeal to aid

Temperance, since early trespass paid:

And as the kneeling form that prest

A Savior's tears lav'd feet was blest,

So hast thou shown, with victor sway,

That love which washes sin away.

Hartford, June 26th 1833. L.H.S.




      


From Poulson's Advertiser.

The Seneca and Onondaga Indians.- At the Annual council of the chiefs and headmen of the Seneca and Onondaga Nations of Indians, convened at the Council House, at Buffalo Creek, in the State of New York, on the 8th of June, A.D. 1833 all the chiefs and head men of the Seneca Reservations in the state being present-Judge Striker the Indian Agent, introduced the propositions heretofore made to them by the Secretary of War of the United States, in relation to sending a delegation to witness the survey and examine lands at Green Bay, and to accept the same lands if they should deem it expedient. And after many days' discussion and debate, and after mature deliberation, a large majority of the council passed the following resolutions:

Resolved, That we, the chiefs and head men of the Seneca and Onondaga Nations of Indians, are now possessed of lands within this state amply sufficient for ourselves and our children, and that we have no inclination whatever to remove therefrom.

Resolved, That we will not accept the propositions made to us by the Secretary of War, through our agent, to appoint a delegation to witness a survey of lands at Green Bay, nor will we in anywise (sic) interest ourselves concerning said proposition.

Signed- Corn Planter, Gov. Black Snake, James Robinson, John Pierce, White Seneca, Little Johnson, Big Kettle, Israel Jemison, Jimmy Johnson, Charles O'Beal, William Patterson, Jacob Black Snake, George Kilbuck, Long John, George Bennett, Samuel Gordon, Captain Snow, Tommy Jimmy, Doxtator, John Snow of Cataraugus; Green Blanket, John Hudson, Blue Sky, Young Chief, John Looke, Isaac Davis, Black Smith Chief, John Sky, George Kenjaktadih, Daniel Two Guns, Thompson S. Harris Jr., Mark Charles, White Chief, Captain Jonas, Captain Cole, Captain Peters, Col. Smith, Samuel George, George Button, Capt. Jones, Chief Warrior, Blue Eyes, Levi Halftown, Jack Show, George Deer, Two Guns, George Red Eye




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 31, 1833

The following statement of Col. Duke in defence of the charges which we alleged against him, of committing an outrage on a Cherokee woman, is partly confirmed by himself, but wholly denies the criminal attempt on the woman, which we stated he had made, and pronounces the Editor, in his preface to this statement, of charging him with a base and malicious falsehood. That part of his communication is inadmissable, it being written in a language unfit for the public eye, but the statement of facts, as he calls them, is contained in the part admitted. If it was true, that the women drew by the ends, some bank bills from his pocket book and envelope, without taking either of these, and from within his pocket, in open day light, and unseen; as an officer of the peace, it would have been Col. Duke's incumbent duty to have had these Indians legally arrested and punished, without so unmercifully treating them as set forth by his statement. We fear the most credulous, will doubt his version of the story, but the development of truth being the object of our labors, we are willing to give to our readers both sides of the question.

________________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

COL. DUKE'S STATEMENT

On Friday, the 5th day of July, as I was travelling about one and a half miles from the New Echota Ferry, Murray County, I called at an Indian house immediately on the side of the road.- Two Cherokee women and three of four children were setting near the door, eating apples. I tied my horse to a fence or stake near the door, on entering the house the women both arose and offered me their seats, I sat down immediately in the door and commenced eating some of the apples, which were near me in a basket. After having remained n the house some fifteen or twenty minutes, I felt in my pocket for my handkerchief, and could not find it, I then felt for my pocketbook, and on examination, found that there had been stolen from it eighteen dollars, which were in bills placed in lengthwise, and ends out of the pocketbook, and both which were in the outside pocket of a frock coat, and very large. I immediately charged the woman who had given me her seat, as she had retired immediately behind me. I showed her a piece of paper in which the money was partially enveloped, and gave her to understand she had my money, which by their actions (I suppose, they both denied). I told them I would return over the river to Esq. Tarvin's and get a warrant, which had no effect in causing them to give me the money. I then searched a basket of calico which set near the woman I suspected, and at the bottom found my handkerchief. I then struck her four or five times with a whip, which caused her to throw me the money which was rolled up closely. I then went to my horse, and a view of leaving, but was followed by the other woman, who caught my horse by the bridle and held it until I struck her twice with the whip, she then let go, and I left immediately. On Sunday thereafter, I again passed the house on my return, in company with a young man from Augusta, Geo. when I came to the house, the woman who had taken the money was absent but another Cherokee woman was there who spoke English. She asked me what I had whipped that woman for the other day. I informed her I whipped them for stealing my money, and taking hold of my horse by the bridle, to which she replied they intended returning it to you. I then reigned my horse around for the purpose of leaving, when to my surprise the woman who I had whipped, threw at me with a stick and struck me, I then alighted from my horse, and gave her ten or twelve severe cuts with the whip, the other woman entreated me to desist, and I rode off with the gentleman above mentioned.

DAVID DUKE.






      


INDIANS

SPEECH

Of the Hon. Isaac C. Bates, Representative from Massachusetts, delivered in the House of Representatives, on the bill for the removal of the Indians. May 19, 1833

Mr. Speaker: I shall take it for granted that the States which have passed laws subjecting the Indian tribes to their jurisdiction, mean what, by their legislative acts, they say they mean: and that the laws which they have passed, are to be enforced. I reject even the supposition, that these laws are made not to be executed, but in mockery-to be used, is an expedient, a contrivance-the means of driving a bargain. Upon such an attempt, come from what quarter it may-States or individuals-the House would frown indignantly. This granted, I affirm, that the bill before us does not meet the exigency of the case, nor present fairly and fully the question upon which we are to decide.

There are, at the South, several tribes of Indians-the Cherokees, Creeks, Chickasaws, and Choctaws- with whom the United States stand in this relation, viz: They are under the protection of the United States.  The boundary is defined between them and the people of the United States, which no white man is at liberty to pass without a license under the authority of the United Sates. In short, they hold the guaranty of the United States, in all the solemn forms of a treaty stipulation, by which the faith of a nation can be pledged, to protect and defend them. The States of Georgia, Mississippi, and Alabama, have passed laws, as these tribes say, directly violating their territorial and national rights. Take the law of Georgia as an exemplification of the laws of the three States. The eighth section makes it penal for a Cherokee to 'endeavor' to prevent one of his tribe from emigrating. A father, therefore, may not influence his child, nor a guardian his ward. No Sir; he thus exposes himself to four years confinement to hard labor. What will men, who are fathers, or not fathers; what will men who are free, say to this?

The fifteenth section enacts, 'that no Indian, or descendant of an Indian, within the Cherokee Nation of Indians, shall be a competent witness in any court of Georgia, in a suite in which a white man is a party, unless such white man resides within said nation.'- While Georgia makes the Indians citizens, or subjects, she does not leave them to the common law to be excluded for infamy, interest, or incompetency of any kind; but she proscribes the nation-and that without reference to the character, talent,or capacity of individuals, whether Christian or heathen, civilized or savage. They are all turned off the stand by one general sweeping interdict of law. Now, sir, whatever may be the form of the constitution of Georgia, if it sanctions this act it is a despotism. Tiberius never dictated an act in its essence more tyrannical or in its character more unjust. And to take away the only apology that any man could offer-the incapacity of the people to testify-this very law admits their capacity by admitting them to be witnesses if the party to the suit be resident within the Cherokee Nation. But this is not the worst feature of the law, if worse can be.

By the seventh section, 'all laws, ordinances, orders, and regulations of any kind whatever are declared to be null and void as if the same had never existed;' thus resolving the nation into its original elements; making as if it never had been all that combines and forms men into states, nations or tribes; dissolving all ties but those of nature. Mr. Speaker, I beg the House to realize the measure, the extent and scope of this unrivalled, outrageous act of usurped dominion. Bring it home. Let it be said to you-to the United States of America-that 'all your laws, ordinances, orders and regulations, shall be null as if they had never existed!'  Let it be said by a nation that was weak when you were strong; that it had grown up by your side; that had increased while you decreased! Let a nation say that it had lived by your permission; that had pledged itself for your protection and defence! Does it change the case to change the name? Has the Cherokee no attachment to the simple forms of government he has matured and improved; to the customs and regulations of his fathers? Does he not feel? Is he not a man?

In this condition of things, the Indians applied to the President. He told them, as he tells us in his message, 'That if they remain within the limits of the United States, they must be subject to the laws; that they will be protected in their possessions which they have improved but that it seemed to him absurd and visionary to suppose their claims can be allowed to tracts of country merely because they have seen them from the mountain or passed them in the chase.' And thus the subject is presented to Congress, both by the President and the Indians, for consideration.  The sympathies of the public having become interested- for, sir, nature is the ally of the weak against the strong-numerous memorials came in from every part of the United States, and the whole subject is referred to your committee on Indian affairs. That committee report a bill making an appropriation of five hundred thousand dollars,

to begin with for the removal of the Indians to the west of the Mississippi. The chiefs say, that is no answer to their inquiry.  They desire to know, whether they must submit to the laws of Georgia and to such laws whether she has a right to abrogate their government, and dissolve their nation? The President has told them they must, but has referred the subject to us. They tell us they cannot decide the question of removal, until they know their rights where they are, and not only the Indian chiefs, but the American people, expect us to answer. Here is money for your removal, we say. That is the only answer we deign to give them. Well, say they, if you will not tell us directly what our rights are, will you allow us to remind you of your duties? Will you defend your boundary, and protect us where we are, as you agreed to do? The President has said he will not. They urge upon the consideration of Congress the impossibility of deciding what they will do, until they know what their condition is to be where they are-- whether they must submit to such a law or not-whether they are to retain their lands, or whether Georgia, who has not even 'seen them from the mountains, nor passed them in the chase,' is to have them. Sir, they produce to you your treaty with them. Is this your signature and seal? Is this your promise? Will you keep it? If you will not, will you give us back the lands we let you have for it? The President answers No; and the Congress of the United States answers, Here is money for your removal. We dare not, in the face of the American people, directly affirm the answer of the President; and, therefore, we evade the question, and hope to hide ourselves in the folds of this bill, when the scrutiny shall be made for us. Sir, who so blind as not to see that, by implication, direct and inevitable, you affirm the decision of the President, by giving him the means to carry that decision into effect? You decide that the Indians are the citizens of Georgia, subject to her jurisdiction, and that you will not defend the boundary, nor protect them.  This you decide obliquely, at a time when the crisis in the affairs of the Indian nations, and the affairs of the your own honor, too, requires that you should speak out. You cooperate with Georgia-you give effect to her laws--you put the Indians aside, and trample your treaties with them in the dust. And it will be in vain you tell the world you did not set fire to the city, when you saw it burning, and would not put it out, though you was (sic) its hired patrol and watch.

In passing this bill, therefore, the House decide that the Indians are the citizens of Georgia, subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia; and that we cannot interfere to protect them. Now, sir, I deny it all. I affirm the contrary. I maintain that the Indians are not the citizens of Georgia, nor subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia; but that they are sovereign; that we are pledged to protect them in the enjoyment of their sovereignty; and that Georgia has no right that stands in the way of it.--Sir, the great men, who have gone before us in the business, were not so uninstructed in their duties as to be thus put in the wrong by those who have now the administration of affairs.

I shall not go with the gentleman from Tennessee, (Mr. Bell) to the other side of the Mississippi, either for the purpose of ascertaining whether the trees can be made to grow for the use of the emigrant Indians, where none ever grew before, or whether the emigrants themselves will form a convenient barrier between our own settlements and the tribes of Indians west of them; or if convenient, whether they may not have an objection of becoming a breast work to be shot at, or shot through, for our accommodation; or, in a region where there are now frequent victims to famine, whether an addition of such a promiscuous and wild population will not be likely to augment the evil. No sir; for if this bill pass, our faith is gone, our honor violated, and there is nothing left worth a wise man's thought.

I take liberty to enter my protest against the appeal that has been to party feeling in this discussion. If that is to be invoked and enlisted, the destiny of these nations is fixed. It is a spirit that has no heart, no sympathy, no relenting. Truth may pour her radiance upon its visions, and it sees not.  Distress may utter her cry, and it hears not. Often has it stained and scaffold with the blood of the innocent. Nor is the sectarian influence that has been called in aid of this measure by the notable gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Lumpkin) less to be deprecated. For, although, at this age of the world, it is not seen actually planting the stake and lighting the fire, yet it is akin to the persecutions of a former age. And it would be as much in place, in the high court of law at the other end of the capitol, to appeal to the sectarian and party feelings of the judges as a correct rule of decision, as to make the appeal to honorable gentlemen here. Sir, this is not a question upon the life or liberty of an individual, but upon the fate of nations. How then can any man, in such a case, and in such an assembly, dare to make the appeal, and hope to be forgiven! What a reflection upon the honor and integrity of this House! Sir, it is not a party question. No man can make it such, until he can quench the last spark of honor in his breast, and stop the currant of feeling in the heart, and put out the light of truth in the mind, and stifle the voice of conscience in the soul.  Sir, it is our right to decide this question, it is our duty to decide it upon principle-a right in trust for our constituents and country, and a duty imposed upon us by relations which we cannot change, and from which we cannot escape, coming down upon us from above, and springing up before us from beneath, and flowing in from all around us. Let this question, therefore, be decided upon a full and broad survey of its merits, and its merits only.

My positions are, that the Cherokees are not the tenants of Georgia, nor subject to her jurisdiction, but that they are the sole proprietors of the territory they occupy, whether as hunting ground or otherwise, and are sovereign; and that the United States are pledged to defend their boundary, and to protect them in all their rights and privileges as a nation.

I suppose it will be admitted, that the Cherokees are a distinct class of men, from the Georgians, that they were once sovereign, and that the presumption is they are sovereign still.--The onus probandi, as the profession say, is therefore upon Georgia. If she claims the right of dictating law to this nation, once sovereign, it is for her to show whence she derived it.

With this view of the subject, I propose to go back to the origin of the State of Georgia, and briefly to trace her history to the Revolution, to see what her rights then were in relation to the Indians, as admitted and established by compact. This will preclude the necessity of enquiring as to natural rights.

In 1732, Georgia was a part of South Carolina.  And in order to erect a barrier against the Indians and Spaniards in Florida, upon the frontier of South Carolina, George II, by patent, created a corporation, styled the 'Trustees for establishing the colony of Georgia in America,' to hold for his use all the land between the Atlantic and the South Sea, as it was then termed, within the degrees of latitude and the boundaries therein given. No individual was to hold more than fifty acres. The command of the militia was given to the Governor of South Carolina. In this patent, nothing is said of the Indians. In 1752, it was surrendered. Oglethrope, who was the active agent of the corporation, in 1733 arrived in Georgia with a hundred and fourteen emigrants, men, women and children, and selected the site of Savannah, as the most eligible place for a lodgement, where he erected a fort. The Upper and Lower Creeks were then twenty-five thousand strong. In order to get a title to some land, he employed a female of the half-blood the wife of a trader, to whom he made liberal presents, and gave a salary of a hundred pounds a year. She assembled fifty Indian chiefs, and prepared them to accede to Oglethrope's proposition of a treaty. They ceded, with some reservations, all the land to the head of tide water, within the limits of the patent. That treaty admits that the Indians owned the land, and were sovereign.  They were treated with as 'the headmen of the Creek Nation:' and the land, in express terms is said to be theirs. 'Although this land belongs to us,' the Creeks say, yet, in consideration the Georgians have come for the good of our wives and children, and 'to teach us what is straight' we make the cession. At Coweta, in 1739, another treaty, preceded by large presents, was made, in which the boundaries of the first cession were more particularly defined; and the trustees declare, 'that the English shall not enlarge or take any other lands except those granted by the Creek Nation.' In 1752, at Mobile, at a convention of Indian nations, Captain Steuart, the Indian agent, told them, 'that the boundaries of their hunting grounds should be accurately fixed, and no settlement permitted upon them,' assuring them 'that all treaties would be faithfully kept.'  And at a meeting at Augusta, in 1763 to which Captain Steuart's 'talk' was preliminary, a further cession of land was made by the Creeks and Cherokees in payment of the debts they had contracted. The Governors of the four Southern States were present.- As showing clearly how this subject was viewed by them in 1767, we find the Indians complaining to the Governor of Georgia of encroachments upon their lands; and they ask him 'how it could be expected of them to govern their young warriors, if he could not restrain the white people?' In 1773 they ceded another tract of land, and it was then agreed, 'that the bounds fixed by the treaty should be the mark of division between his majesty's subjects and the said Indian nations.'

The Indian boundary limited the territory of the colonists on the west.- Within this they had a right to indicate law; beyond this they had no right to do it. If they, or the king, their master, had such right, then the Indians were bound to submit. A right implies a duty. Now, who will pretend, that if the king had passed a law abrogating their customs, and making them amenable to the courts of Georgia, the Indians would not have had a right to resist? If the Cherokees were subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia, then, prior to the treaty of 1763, the Indians beyond the Rocky Mountains were, (for the charter extended to the Pacific Ocean) some of whom had never heard of the English nation or king. Who will pretend that he had a right to subject them to his laws? He might have had the power to conquer them, but he had no right to do it. This would have been a right to rob and murder.

The Indian boundary is sometimes called the 'line of ordinary jurisdiction,' implying an extraordinary jurisdiction beyond it. What was that?- by the right of discovery, settled by compact among the discovering nations, and since confirmed by treaties with most of the Indians themselves, the King of Great Britain had the sole and exclusive right of purchasing of the Indian nations their title to the land lying in that part of America, which had been assigned to him. We call it the right of pre-emption. The king never attempted or claimed anything more. I affirm, therefore, that, with this exception, the Indian boundary was the boundary of the jurisdiction of both king and colony. I affirm, further, that the Indian nations were the sole and absolute owners of the land which they had not ceded, and which lay west of the Indian boundary, subject only to this restriction upon the right of alienation. Accordingly, the king, in his proclamation of 1763, disclaims any other right to it. He says,  'it is but just and reasonable, and essential to our interest, 'c. that the tribes of Indians who live under our protection' (as they now live under the protection of the United States) 'should not be disturbed in their possessions, which, not having been purchased by us, or ceded to us, are reserved to them: we do, therefore, declare that no governor or commander shall survey or grant them, and that they are reserved to the Indians.' The king does not rest the right of the Indian nations to these lands upon concession, gift, or grant, indulgence, or expediency, but upon the broad and solid basis of the 'justice and reasonableness' of their unalienated title; a due regard for which principles will be found always to comport with a wise policy.

Before I pass from this period, as the whites commonly speak for the Indians, it is but right, when we can, to let them speak for themselves. I refer to the negotiation at Lancaster, in 1744. The Governor of Maryland claimed some of their land by possession.  Canasateego--'When you mentioned the affair of the land yesterday, you went back to old times, and told us you had had the province of Maryland above one hundred years in comparison of the length of time since our claim began-since we came out of the ground?  For we must tell you that, long before one hundred years, our ancestors came out of this ground, and their children have remained here ever since. You came out of the ground beyond the seas; but here you must allow us to be your elder brothers, and the lands to belong to us long before you knew anything of them.'

To Virginia, who claimed some of their lands by conquest, another chief answered-'Though great things are well remembered by us, we do not remember that we were ever conquered by the great king, or that we have been employed by him to conquer others. If it was so, it is beyond our memory,- We do remember we were employed by Maryland to conquer the Conostogas; and the second time we were at war with them, we carried them all off.'

The House will perceive what the views of these people were of their right to their land, and what their notions were of possession and conquest. I think it clear, therefore, that before the Revolution, the Cherokees were not the citizens of Georgia, nor subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia, nor tenants at the will of Georgia.

When the troubles with Great Britain came on, Congress immediately assumed the direction of the Indian relations, as of nations distinct from the States, and independent of them. After a short session for other purposes, in the autumn of 1774, Congress met in May, 1775, and in June a committee was appointed to make an appeal to the Indian nations. They were addressed thus, by order of Congress:

'Brothers and friends: this is a family quarrel between us and Old England, Indians are not concerned in it.'

In the same month, the Indian tribes were arranged into three departments; and commissioners were appointed to treat with them 'in behalf of the United States, to preserve peace with them, and prevent their taking part in the commotions of the times.'

In January, 1776, rules for Indian intercourse were established, interdicting all 'trade with them without a license.'

In 1777, another 'talk' was addressed to them, reaffirming that they ought to take no part in the war between the United States and Great Britain, and stating also, that although the 'Cherokees had been prevailed upon to strike us, they had seen their error, had repented, and we had forgiven them, and renewed our ancient covenant chain with them.'

In 1778, a treaty with the Delaware Nation was concluded at Fort Pitt. The parties to it were 'The United States of North America and the Delaware Nation.' It stipulated: That there shall be peace; and the troops of the United States may pass 'through the country of the Delaware Nation,' upon paying the full value of the supplies they may have. It further provides, that, 'whereas the enemies of the United States have endeavored, by every artifice, to possess the Indians with an opinion that it is our design to extirpate them, and take possession of their country-to obviate such false suggestions, the United States guaranty to said nation of Delawares, and their heirs, all their territorial rights, in the fullest and most ample manner, as bounded by former treaties;' and they further provide for a confederacy of tribes, of which the Delaware Nation was to be the head, and to have a representative in Congress.

Here is recognition enough of the rights of Indians.  And, to put an end to the false suggestion, which none but an enemy could make, assistance is given, by treaty, binding upon the whole country, that their territorial rights shall be defended, in the fullest and most ample manner, as antecedently defined.

(To be continued.)




      


From the Maryville Intelligencer

THE UNITED BRETHREN.

The Christian congregation from Shekomeko, having arrived at Bethlehem, built cottages in the vicinity of the Brethren's settlements, where their morning and evening prayers were regulated, and the service performed in the Mohigan language. This settlement was called Friedenshutten (tents of peace). But as the emigration continued, it was doubted whether an Indian town would support itself so near Bethlehem, and therefore the Brethren purchased land beyond the Blue Mountains, on which the Christians settled, and built a regular town and chapel, and called it Gnadenshutten. This settlement, having the gospel daily preached, was the means of exciting the attention of the Delawares, many of whom were converted and added to the church.

In 1717, the Brethren by invitation visited the Delawares at their village, near twenty miles from Bethlehem.- Many of these were converted,- favored with a teacher and school, till 1751, when they joined the congregation at Gnadenshutten. Here a new church was erected, the first being too small, as the congregation now consisted of 500 souls. Schools for the children of both sexes were put under proper regulations. The missionary teachers, mechanics, 'C. had their buildings about half a mile distant from the town. These, on the 24th of Nov. 1755 were burnt by the hostile Indians, (fighting for the French) and eleven persons killed, viz. seven men, three women and one child.  Only two men, one woman and a boy escaped. The Christian Indians were from home on a hunting expedition. When they returned, they were removed from Gnadenshutten to Bethlehem; and on the first of Jan. 1756 the town was burnt by the hostile Indians.

In 1757, the Christian Indians commenced building a new town, two miles from Bethlehem, and called it Nain. In 1762, they had all the necessary buildings for themselves and their missionary completed; and also a chapel, which was consecrated on the 18th of October. This congregation increased so rapidly that it was soon found necessary to begin another establishment. The Brethren, therefore, purchased 1400 acres of land, beyond the Blue Mountain, and a new settlement was begun with thirty baptized Indians of the Delaware tribe, and the place called Wechquetank.

In the fall of 1793, reports of hostile Indians about the lakes, greatly exasperated the whites about Bethlehem; soldiers were raised for the defence of the country. Some of these soldiers when drinking murdered four of the inoffensive Indians of Wechquetank, viz. a man, his wife, and child, and a female friend.  Soon after an armed mob threatened to kill ever Indian there and at Nain. The missionary finding that entreaties had no effect on this enraged mob, found it necessary for the congregation to break up and retire to Nazareth for safety; which they did on the 11th October, leaving their harvest and many of their cattle behind.

The Christian Indians at Nain, though but little more than a mile from Bethlehem, durst not go there, and were obliged to keep a watch, both by day and night in their nation; and also to place guards at the chapel doors during service, from apprehension of being surprised and murdered while assembled for Divine worship. Every morning their joys were renewed at seeing each other again, after the fears of the night. On the 19th of October, Pienatus, a harmless Indian, and the son of aged and venerable parents, was seized and taken to Philadelphia and imprisoned.

As the Christian Indians could not rest in peace or safety, either in their own town, or in Bethlehem, the Governor ordered them to Philadelphia for protection. Here they arrived on the 11th of November, having on the 8th attended a farewell sermon in the church at Bethlehem, preached by the Bishop, Peter Beohler, from Ps.5:8

The soldiers would not admit them into barracks, though the Governor had ordered it. They were, therefore, kept in the street from 10 o'clock, A.M. until 3 p.m.  In the meantime a great mob assembled round them, deriding, reviling and charging them with all the outrages committed by the enemy; and at the same time threatening to kill them on the spot.  To all which they were silent, relying on the Providence of God, to whom alone they afterwards ascribed their preservation. They were for a time secured from the mob in the common jail, and afterwards sent to Providence Island, where the missionaries held with them daily meetings.

About this time, fifty-seven white men from Paxton, sat (sic) out to attack and destroy a small town of peaceable and inoffensive Indians, in Conestoga, near Lancaster, where they had resided more than a century; and whose ancestors were those who welcomed Wm. Penn, on his first arrival in this country, presenting him venison, 'c. These Indians were not all at home, but the mob murdered those who were at home-men, women and children. The rest learning what had befallen their friends and relations, fled to Lancaster for protection, and were there placed in the jail for safety.  The mob, however, soon arrived-broke open the door; and most cruelly murdered every one, and threw their bodies into the yard, with a dreadful shout as if they had gained a great victory, threatening with the same fate, all the Christian Indians on Providence Island.  Sir Heckewelder here introduces an extract of a letter from a respectable gentleman, relative to the above murder. 'There are,' says he, 'few if any murders to be compared with the cruel murder committed on the Conestoga Indians, in the jail at Lancaster in 1763 by the Paxton boys, (as they were then called). From fifteen to twenty Indians, report stated, were placed there for protection. A regiment of Highlanders were, at the time quartered at the barracks in the town, and yet these murderers were permitted to break open the doors of the city jail and commit the horrid deed. The first notice I had of this affair, was, that while at my father's store, near the court house, I saw a number of people running down street towards the jail which enticed me and other lads to follow them. At about sixty or eighty yards from the jail, we met from twenty-five to thirty men, well mounted on horses, and with rifles, tomahawks, and scalping knives for murder.

I ran into the prison yard, and there, O what a horrid sight presented itself to my view!! Near the back door of the prison, lay an old Indian and his squaw, particularly well known and esteemed by the people of the town, on account of his plain and friendly conduct. His name was Will Sock, near him and his squaw, lay two children of about the age of three years, whose heads were split with the tomahawk, and their scalps all taken off. Towards the middle of the jail yard, along the west side of the wall lay a stout Indian, whom I particularly noticed to have been shot in the breast, his legs were chopped with the tomahawk, his hands cut off, and finally a rifle ball discharged in his mouth, so that his head was blown to atoms, and the brains were splashed against, and yet hanging to the wall, for three or four feet around. In this manner lay the whole of them, men, women,and children; shot, scalped, and hacked to pieces.'

Though the Governor forbid such outrages, and offered $200 to any one who should bring the two ring leaders of the party to justice, yet it soon became evident that even in Philadelphia, many were in secret connection with these ring leaders, who paid so little regard to the Governor's orders, that they not only publicly walked the street, but even presented themselves in front of the Governor's house, deridingly bidding him defiance.




      


From the New York American.

The New Testament, translated into the Chippewa language, by Dr. Edwin James of the United States Army, has just been published at Albany, by Packard ' Van Benthuysen. We have seen a copy of it. It is well printed, presenting the Chippewa words in our ordinary type; its uses therefore is confined to missionaries, or Indians conversant with our alphabet. As however the instruction of the Indians must in every event be oral, so very few of them being able to read, this forms no objection to this mode of printing. Moreover it was the only practicable one, as there is no Chippewa alphabet. The language however is common to the Six Nations, and is, it is said, understood by the Southwestern Indians. If so, this Testament may be read to the greater part of the Indian tribes of our borders.

Dr. James has, we understand, devoted more than ten years to this work,-which the highest motives alone, it is obvious, could have prompted him to undertake; for neither profit nor literary fame can be anticipated from such an enterprize. He has in the course of his official duties, been much among, and seen much of the Indians. He is looked upon by one of their Chiefs, at least, will appear from the annexed copy of a letter addressed to him by Thegud, a Chief of the band of Chippewas living at Tukquimenon, on the south shore of Lake Superior.

BOWWETING, May 12, 1833.

My Brother- Now I cause this letter to be written to you. I wish to tell you my thoughts. I was very sorry when I heard that you had gone away. I wish I had watched to have seen you. But I am yet alive. It pleases our Great Father in Heaven that I should still live here on earth. And also of you I yet hear the sound of your living. I think great thanks that we are both yet alive. Perhaps we may not expect to see each other again on this earth. Do thou take heed also to this our religion. I do not say this as distrusting you. I only am to be pitied, I was too long lost; and even now I am very much afraid of those things that destroyed us. But as much as I can now do, that I may talk carefully to our Great Father in Heaven, this is what I say to you now.

And I tell you now how I have lived. I lost one of my children. Afterwards I thought I could never be comforted, I had so loved my child. But I thank Him that is above that he thought good to leave me my other children. I am very much pleased at what the whites have done here at Bowweting. Truly they have had compassion on us. I am not now such as I used to be before I prayed. I do not now wish for those things I used to wish for. Now those that are here at Bowweting are to me as my own brothers. I tell you also that teachers are more and more abundant at Bowweting, but there are still many wicked men rejecting prayer [religion]. This is all I say to you. I request that you also will send to me your thinking. I salute all your family.

THEGUD.-




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, SEPTEMBER 7,(sic) 1833

The instruction of the President to his enrolling agents, which appeared in our 28th number, we have been induced to review, and remark upon certain passages that were not fully comprehended by us.  The system of measures under which these agents are acting, has for its great object the negotiation of a treaty with individuals, and on this principle, the Government, as a great mountain in labor to remove an atom in its center, by turning on its base, is now making a hopeless and snail pace progress in making treaties with individuals. It appears that the President has given himself to the 1st of January to make a treaty with the Cherokees. But should this contemplation fail, then, in that case, those who have enrolled will cede all their interest in the soil, to the United States. But it appears this cession is only nominal, and the consideration to be given them, depends upon contingencies: by a treaty with those remaining. If no treaty is made to give effect to this cession, then in this case, the emigrants will receive pay for the valuation of their improvements, so fast as Congress makes the appropriations. This is the meaning of the secret letter from the White House, and the President might as well undertake to empty the Pacific Ocean into the Atlantic, as to remove the Cherokees by enrollments, and when he has appointed Georgians who are robbing us of our dearest rights. We repeat again, what we have often said, that no treaty can be made with the body politic of the Cherokees.






      


INDIANS

SPEECH

Of the Hon. Isaac C. Bates, Representative from Massachusetts, delivered in the House of Representatives, on the bill for the removal of the Indians, May 19, 1833.

CONTINUED

Now, Sir, let it be recollected, that, during this period, all the states, by their agents, acting, under their authority ' with their sanction and approbation, adopted these measures.  They may, therefore, be considered a fair and decisive indication of what was then thought to be our Indian relations. In no respect were the Indians treated as citizens or subjects, but as sovereign tribes or nations, with the power of making peace or war at pleasure, much less as tenants at the will of the States-one, many, or all of them.

When the Articles of Confederation were adopted, in 177_, or finally by all the States, in 1781, 'the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the trade and managing all the affairs of the Indians, not members of any of the States' was given to the United States. In connection with the clause in a provision, 'that the legislative right of any State within its own limits be not infringed or violated.' The argument is, that the Cherokees were the citizens of Georgia, and subject to her jurisdiction. From this article it is clear there were Indians with whom the United States had trade to regulate, and affairs to manage, who were not members of any State.  If not the Cherokees, who were they?  The land from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, within the limits of the United States, was within the geographical boundary of some one of the States. According to the position of Georgia, therefore, there were no such tribes.  Reliance is placed upon the proviso, as controlling the express grant; and if no effect could be given to the proviso, consistent with grant, there might be something to the suggestion. But while the 'power of entering into treaties and alliances' is given in the same section there is a proviso, 'that the legislative power of the States shall not be restrained from imposing duties and prohibiting the exportation and importation of goods.' These articles were permanent; and it was not to be foreseen what these tribes night become. With the same view the proviso, in relation to them might have been adopted. Or it might have been (the term Indians  being used, and not Indian nations) in order to restrain Congress from interfering with such of them as were dispersed among the inhabitants of the States. Or, again, it might have been to restrain Congress from controlling the laws of the States in relation to the people of these Indian nations, when within the acknowledged limits and jurisdiction of the States. Or, mainly, it might have been out of abundant caution, without any distinctly contemplated object. Effect enough can be given to sustain the proviso, without annulling the power granted.  And this grant plainly proves that there were Indian nations or tribes, who were not members of any of the States; and if so the Cherokees do not belong to Georgia. What Congress understood by the article is clear, for, immediately after the confederation of 1781, it passed a resolve approving of the appointment of the commissioners by General Greene, to negotiate a treaty with the Cherokee Indians; and the whole course of its legislation, down to the adoption of the Constitution in 1788, shows the same thing.

In 1783, the Secretary of War was directed to notify the Indian nations, 'that the United States were disposed to enter into friendly treaties with the different tribes.' This was in May, after the peace. In September, Congress issued a proclamation, prohibiting settlements 'on lands inhabited and claimed by Indians, without the limits and jurisdiction of any particular State;' and prohibiting the purchase of such lands, without an express 'authority from the United States in Congress assembled.' What lands were these, without the limits, and without the jurisdiction, too, of any State? In October, Congress resolved that a convention should be holden of the different tribes, for the purpose of receiving them 'into the favor and protection of the United States,' and of establishing 'boundary lines of property to divide the settlements of the citizens from the Indian villages and hunting grounds.' In 1784, another resolve was passed, to expedite the holding of treaties; and in 1785, particularly with the Cherokees and Indians to the southward of them.  This is the resolve under which the treaties of Hopewell were held.- The commissioners were appointed for the purpose of making peace; they went under the protection of an armed force; they went with presents. IT was a peace we sought, not the Indian nations. After the treaties of Hopewell were concluded with the different tribes, the Indian departments were recognized, and another resolve was passed in 1786, regulating Indian intercourse. No citizen was to reside among or trade with the Indians, without a license. And in 1786, upon application of Georgia herself, the Creeks were informed, that if they persisted in refusing to treat with the United States, an armed force would be called out to protect the frontiers.

I do not find a remonstrance, or an objection even, by any of the States, to the powers assumed and exercised by Congress in relation to the Indian nations, except as to the Treaty of Hopewell with the Cherokees; and that Congress enforced, notwithstanding, by a proclamation in September, 1788 deeming a treaty binding upon the United States, and upon Georgia as one of the United States.

In this condition of things, the Constitution was adopted; and instead of the clause in the Articles of Confederation, with the limitation and the proviso, a general, unlimited, unqualified power is given to Congress, 'to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes,' and as fully and unconditionally as with 'foreign nations,' or 'among the several States.'

This article in the Constitution established my position, that the Indians were not members of the States, nor subject to their jurisdiction; but were sovereign nations, with whom the United States had a commerce to regulate. If, as affirmed, they were members of the State of Georgia--citizens or subjects- then the grant of power was to regulate commerce among the several States and the members thereof; which is power never claimed nor admitted. Congress deals only with States; the states with their citizens or subjects. Congress, therefore, has the power, in express terms, to proscribe all the forms of intercourse between the United states and the Indian tribes, or to interdict it altogether, as the exigency may require, in the same sense, and to the same extent, as it has with foreign nations.

In 1790, the first Indian intercourse law, under the Constitution, was passed, forbidding all trade between the citizens of the United States and the Indians, except by persons duly licensed. The fifth section provides, that if any citizen of the United States go into any town belonging to a nation of Indians, and there commit a crime, he shall be punished as if said crime had been committed within the jurisdiction of a State.  Is not this decisive, that the Cherokees are not citizens of Georgia? nor within the jurisdiction of Georgia.

The act of 1796 defines the boundary of the Indian tribes, and makes it penal for any citizen of the United States to pass it without a license.

Another act was passed in 1799, substantially of the same import.

These acts were temporary, and the provisions of them were embodied in the act of 1802, which was made permanent. It is now in full force, and has been, ever since its enactment.- The only provisions, in either this or the antecedent acts, objected to, were a part of the fifth section of the act of 1796, relating to the forfeiture of lands, and the sixth section, punishing with death the murderer of an Indian. These provisions were, among other things, the foundation of a remonstrance to Congress by Georgia. The objectionable feature of the fifth section was omitted, and the sixth section was retained, in the act of 1802. This act has been in force, and has been enforced by all the States, as a wise and constitutional law. Well, Sir, this reaffirms the Indian boundary as then established and defined by the Indian treaties. It provides that no person shall pass it not even the Governor of Georgia, much less his bailiffs, without authority from the United States. It forbids all settlements by the whites on the Indian lands, and invests the army with power to arrest and bring offenders to punishment.  It made void all grants by Indian nations, or individuals, unless sanctioned by Congress; and it commissions the President to see it faithfully executed. It will be perceived at a glance, that if the Indians were the citizens of Georgia, or subject to her jurisdiction, the whole range of this act is unconstitutional. Congress can make no such internal regulations among the inhabitants of a State as it contemplates.

The act of Georgia itself, 'to extend her laws over the territory in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians,' is the most decisive proof that they were not within her jurisdiction before.  The general laws of the State were without limitation. Of their own force, as soon as passed, they pervaded and covered the whole extent and circumference of her jurisdiction. And yet a special act is now necessary to give them effect among the Cherokees! Why this?   Because they were not within her jurisdiction before. They were honest laws, and knew that their commission and power ceased at the Indian boundary, beyond which they had no right to go, and beyond which no citizen of Georgia could go to execute them. If Congress has power, under the Constitution, to regulate commerce with foreign nations, to say by whom, and under what restrictions, it may be carried on; to interdict it altogether, even; it has the right as to the Indian tribes.- And having done it, Georgia is bound by it, unless she be above law, and so not subject to law.

She is bound also by treaties which the United States have made with the Cherokees.  The POWER to make treaties is in these words:

'The President shall have power by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided two thirds of the Senate concur.'

The effect of treaties is declared in these words:

'All treaties, made, or which shall be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.'

It has been intimated, to get rid of the effect of our Indian treaties, that they are not treaties. What then is a treaty? Hamilton says, 'Treaties are contracts with nations, which have the force of law, but derive it from the obligations of good faith'- 'Agreements between a sovereign and sovereign.'- another name for a bargain, but a bargain between those who are sovereign.

The treaties between the United States and the Cherokees were negotiated as treaties, and treaties between nations competent to make treaties. They were ratified as treaties. There were called treaties, not only by us, but by the French, Spanish, and English, before our time. They were admitted to be treaties by Georgia. But whether treaties or not, it is of no importance, because indisputably they are what was meant and intended by the term as used in the Constitution; they are the thing that was to have the power and force given to it in the Constitution; to control State laws and State Constitutions. How, then, can we say to the Indian nations, that what we called treaties, and ratified as treaties, were not in fact treaties?

I will call the attention of the House to the Treaty of Hopewell, in 1785.- This was a treaty in force when the Constitution was adopted. It was a treaty then 'made' and 'all treaties made, or which should be made,': 'c., were to be the supreme law of the land. These are the words of the Constitution.  Georgia, by adopting the Constitution, agreed at least, to this treaty. Nor is there the slightest foundation for the suggestion that she did not intend to affirm this treaty.- Let it be recollected that this treaty was not only uniformly called a treaty, known as such, but of all other treaties, 'this was most likely to be distinctly in view; 1st, Because it was a subject of her remonstrance in 1786; 2d, because the boundary to which it related has been a matter of perpetual dispute between her and the United States; and a 3d. Because, when she adopted the Constitution, the proclamation of Congress was then before the people, requiring submission to this very treaty, and calling upon the army to enforce it against the citizens of Georgia. Of all subjects, therefore, which Georgia had openly and fully in view, this was the most prominent, made so by the important contemporaneous events which affected that State individually. But, independent of all this, it is enough that it was then deemed a treaty, and, as such, was made the supreme law of the land. Now, what is it?

1. It is negotiated by plenipotentiaries on both sides.

2. The United States give peace to the Cherokees, and receive them into favor and protection.

3. A mutual restoration of prisoners, 'c., is agreed upon.

4. The boundary between the Cherokees and the citizens of the United States (within 'the United States of America'- the technical corporate name of the confederation, excluding the idea that the hunting grounds lay in Georgia) is stated in these terms, 'the boundary allotted, 'c. is and shall be the following,' going on to state it.- Now, Sir, what form of words can add anything to the strength of the covenant or guaranty involved in the phrase 'is and shall be,' and that without limitation as to time? The guaranty in the Treaty of Holston is nothing more than this. It binds the United States, and Georgia with them, and will bind forever, unless the Cherokees choose to remit the obligation.

5. The citizens of the United States who had settled, or should attempt to settle, westward of the boundary established by that treaty, are outlawed, and left to the Indians to punish as they please.  What, then, becomes of the right claimed by Georgia to take possession of this whole country, and annex to it the continuous counties of that State?

6. Congress 'shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their affairs in such a manner as they shall think proper.' This article, which has been the subject of some criticism elsewhere, is in the very words of the power given to Congress upon this particular subject, in the Articles of Confederation, with this difference, that, instead of saying 'regulating trade and managing affairs with the Indians,' it makes a wrong collocation of the words, and says, 'regulating trade with the Indians and managing all their affairs,' the intent obviously being to make the Indians agree that Congress should have the power to regulate the trade of the United States, and manage the affairs of the States individually, or collectively, or both, with them. Congress had no power to go further. The treaties at Hopewell with the Choctaws ' Chickasaws are expressed in the same terms. They were probably written by Governor Blount, who attests them, and hence the similarity.

The object for which this power is given to the United States is set fourth in the same article, viz: 'For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries and oppressions on the part of the citizens.' By what authority then does Georgia, in the face of this treaty, abrogate all their laws, usages, and customs, subject them to her laws, and throw their country open to the inroads, injuries and oppressions of her own citizens?  And what becomes of the guaranty of boundary, and of the protection the United States promised them?

7. Retaliation is not to be practiced on either side, 'except for a manifest violation of this treaty; and then it shall be preceded by a demand of justice; and, if refused, by a declaration of hostilities.'  This, sir, looks very much like sovereignty.

I have said that this treaty was affirmed, by the adoption of the Constitution, as a 'treaty made,' and is still in force. To remove all doubt upon this subject, I have only to remark that, by the Treaty of Philadelphia, in 1795, at Tellico in 1799, and again in 1804, and at the Cherokee agency in 1817, by General Jackson, this Treaty of Hopewell is recognized as a treaty in force and perpetuated. But this is not all. In August, 1790, after the Constitution was adopted, Washington addressed the following note to the Senate.

'I shall conceive myself bound to execute the powers entrusted to my by the Constitution, to carry into effect the faithful execution the Treaty of Hopewell, unless it shall be thought proper to attempt to arrange a new boundary with the Cherokees, embracing the settlements and compensating the Cherokees for the cessions they shall make on the occasion.' The white people had encroached upon the Cherokees contrary to the Treaty of Hopewell, and the question was whether to expel them by force, or purchase the land they occupied, and so by agreement changing the boundary ____d by the Treaty of Hopewell. He goes on- 'Is it the judgement of the Senate that overtures shall be made to the Cherokees to arrange a new boundary so as to embrace the settlements made by the white people since the Treaty of Hopewell.' The Senate answer- 'That they do advise and consent that the President cause the treaty of Hopewell to be carried into effect according to its terms; or enter into arrangements for a further cession of territory from the Cherokees, at his discretion.'

Hence the House see that this treaty was not only confirmed by the Constitution, but during the first Congress under the Constitution it was recognized as a treaty in force; and without any change, except as to the boundary, which has varied with the subsequent cessions of territory, it still remains a treaty in force. It had no limitation as to time; and if it be not now in force, let the advocates of this bill tell us when, where, and how it was abrogated.

The Treaty of Holston with the Cherokee Nation, of 1791, was accordingly negotiated, by which a further cession of land was obtained, and thereby the necessity of removing the intruders obviated.  A new boundary was established, or course, 'and in order to preclude forever all disputes relative to said boundary, the same shall be ascertained, says the treaty, and marked plainly.' And by the seventh article, 'The United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.' Here they (sic) guaranty in the Treaty of Hopewell is reiterated in a more distinct and solemn form; for it will be found that Washington, when he asked the advice of the Senate, to which I have alluded, and in prospect of this identical Treaty of Holston, put this question, 'Shall the United States stipulate solemnity to the guaranty the new boundary which may be arranged?'  And the Senate answer, 'That in case a new boundary, other than that in the Treaty of Hopewell be made, the Senate do advise and consent solemnly to guaranty the same.'  Sir, treaties cannot be annulled at pleasure. There may not be good faith enough in the parties to keep them, but their obligations live. What answer can you give the Cherokee Nation when now called upon to redeem this pledge? to make good your guaranty of this boundary, and to prevent the partition of their nation, and the annexation of its parts to Georgia? The President has told us, 'they must submit.'  This bill tell us so, and tells the world so. Submit, or remove, is the language. This Treaty of Holston, the ninth article, further stipulated, 'that no citizens of the United States should go into the Cherokee country without a passport,' the barriers of which are all prostrate, and any man may now go at pleasure into it, or over it, unless this government interpose.

Another treaty was concluded at Philadelphia in 1794, and another at Tellico in 1798, by which the Cherokees cede more land, and by which the United States, 'in consideration of the cession made, say to the Cherokee Nation, that they will continue the guaranty of the remainder of their country forever, as made and contained in former treaties'- Hopewell; Holston, ' Philadelphia. This is found in the sixth article of the Treaty of Tellico.- In the face of these admissions on our part, who will venture to say that the Cherokees are the citizens, the tenants at will, of Georgia? or subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia? Who does not see that they were sovereign? the sole, the admitted proprietors of the 'country we guarantied to them forever'--we, the United States of America!

The same stipulations as to boundary, settlement, trade, and generally as to intercourse, are contained in these treaties, as are comprised in the law of 1802, and show conclusively, not only that the Cherokees are not subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia, but they interpose the most insurmountable obstacles to an assumption of it by Georgia. And I feel justified in affirming that, unless the laws of the United States, and treaties under which we hold millions of acres of land-laws and treaties never questioned until it became necessary to deny their authority to sustain this claim-are a dead letter, the sovereignty of the Cherokees is recognized, and the protection of them guarantied.

(To be continued.)




      


NO. 1.

(COPY)

HEAD OF COOSA,

CHEROKEE NATION,

May, 22d, 1833

 Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry of War,

Sir in pursuance of a resolution of the General Council which terminated its session on the 20th inst. at Red Clay, I hasten to transmit you herewith for the information of the President certain resolutions adopted by the Council as an expression of its sentiments on the public affairs of this Nation. In laying them before the President, you will please to permit me through you, to assure him that the peace and happiness of the Cherokee people requires repose, by removing the perplexing difficulties which have so long disturbed their welfare.  And that whilst a course of irritating excitement is kept up, the distress of the nation may be increased, but yet, it is evident that the object desired to be attained can never be realized by the observance of it. Should the reason able expectation of the Council be favorably regarded by the President and all further proceedings suspended, he may, rest assured, that no effort, on my part shall be wanting in co-operating with the proper authorities of this nation for the adoption of measures with the view to a final termination of all difficulties; to ensure a calm deliberation upon this important subject, it is indispensably necessary that harmony and tranquility should prevail among the people. You will therefore please to communicate to me the determination of the President on the subject, as soon as convenient.

I have the Honor to be, Sir,

Your Ob't H'ble Serv't

(Signed) JOHN ROSS.

____________

NO. 2

(copy)

Resolutions of the General Council, concerning the present state of National Affairs, transmitted to the Secretary of War for the information of the President of the United States, May 20th 1833

Whereas the several communications embracing the correspondence between the late Delegation to Washington and the Honorable Secretary of War in reference to the public affairs of this Nation having been read in General Council and the Principal Chief having fully stated, in the presence of said delegation, the several conversations had with the President and Secretary on this subject; the following resolutions be and are hereby adopted as an expression of the sentiments of the Council in relation thereto.

Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council Convened, That the portion maintained by the delegation in support of the rights of this Nation be and is hereby approved.

Resolved, That the Council view with regret the evasive and unsatisfactory manner in which the Hon. Secretary has replied to the several subjects introduced before him by the Delegation. The question of our national rights having been so clearly recognized and established by every department of the General Government, and as defined by various subsisting treaties, laws enacted in the spirit of those treaties, and decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States; the Cherokees cannot but feel with deep regret and sensibility the evil consequences arising from the oppressions by state authorities and the entire suspension of fulfillment on the part of the Government of those solemn pledges so repeatedly made for their protection.



Resolved, That under existing circumstances the nation is in a state of duress, and that until removed it cannot properly exercise that freedom of deliberation and action so desirable and necessary for the final termination of present difficulties, and being convinced that the country west of the Mississippi to which the Government has invited the removal of the Cherokees, as a nation, under the present unsettled policy of the Government in relation to the Indian tribes; and should they be compelled by the force of circumstances contrary to every principle of justice and humanity to leave the 'land of their Fathers' the Council can determine no other alternative promising relief than a removal beyond the limits of the United States; but having confidence yet in the good faith of the Government of the United States and no desire to remove west of the Mississippi nor to leave the limits of the United States and being solicitous to have a speedy termination of present difficulties.

Resolved, That the basis and terms of the late proposition is offered by the Government being objectionable and aware of the limited powers of the President, it is inexpedient for the nation at present, to determine, as a final resort, that course necessary to be pursued, until some further act of the ensuing Congress in relation to this important matter.

Be it further Resolved, That if the President will cause all further illegal proceedings on the part of Georgia and Alabama to cease within the limits of this nation, and will suspend further proceedings through the Agents of the Government, the proper authorities of this nation with a view to the final termination of all difficulties will adopt such measures as will bring before the General Government at the next session of Congress this subject upon such fair and honorable principles, as, in their opinion, justice and magnanimity will not fail to sanction.

Be it further Resolved, That the Principal Chief be and he is hereby requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing resolutions to the Honorable Secretary of War for the information of the President of the United States.

RICH'D TAYLOR, Pres't N. Com.

his

Concurred-GOING X SNAKE

mark

Speaker of Council.

Approved- JOHN ROSS

Principal Chief.

Wm. ROGERS, Clerk N. Com.

A. M'COY, Clerk Council.

In General Council, Red Clay Cherokee Nation, May 20th  1833

________________

NO. 3

(COPY)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

June 20th 1833

Sir,- I am instructed to inform you, that your letter of the 22nd ult. has been received and submitted to the President.

The President considers it useless to continue any farther correspondence on the subject of the Cherokee difficulties.  Neither in the propositions, you have transmitted nor in the spirit in which they are dictated, does he see any hope of a change in the councils and conduct of those, who have obtained an ascendancy over the unhappy Cherokee people. The terms already offered are extremely liberal. And it is believed they are satisfactory to the citizens of the United States, and would be so to the Cherokees, were they permitted to exercise their own judgment in the matter. No essential alterations will be made in them, and if the event is unfortunate for your people, the fault must rest with those, who have acquired their confidence and now mislead them

Very respectfully, I am, Sir, Your Ob't Serv't

JOHN ROBB.

Acting Secretary of War.

Mr. John Ross

Head of Coosa, Cherokee Nation.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, SEPTEMBER 21. 1833

The unavoidable absence of the Editor prevented us from issuing our paper last week. The first side of the paper was put to press last week accounts for the difference in the date of that side and under this head.

________________

Will some friend of the enrolling agents inform us, the cause of suspending their operations, since they have given the Cherokees their secret letter, and the number of Georgians they have enrolled since we noticed them.

____________________

The Resolutions of the Council which we had promised to our readers will be found below, together with the letter of the Principal Chief to the Secretary of War, and his answer severally thereto.- It will be perceived by these resolutions adopted by the representatives of the Cherokee people that they maintain the same position in regard to their rights as they have always done, and have decidedly and earnestly called upon the Executive of the Union to remove from the Nation, the power of the States which places them in duress, in order to restore them to liberty,to enabled (sic) them to deliberate freely on the momentous concerns of their Nation.- But the answer of the President by the Acting Secretary of War to the Chief considers it useless to continue a correspondence on the Cherokee case, as no hope now remains of a change in the councils of those who have mislead the unhappy Cherokees It may be fairly asked here by whom have the Cherokees been made unhappy? The Cherokees flourished under the administrations of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, and so soon as the salutary policy of these great ceased to exist, and the treaties of the Government with the Cherokees, were given over by the President to the new powers of the surrounding states, then in the language of Mr. Robb was commenced the unhappiness of the Cherokee people. It is not our intention knowingly to deceive our readers, but it is our immoveable impression that this seeming censure of the Secretary on the leaders of the Cherokee people is gratuitous, and not the true sentiments of the President, but equivocating on his acquiescence to the resolutions. The President addressed his liberal propositions to the Cherokees last year, and have been known to them since, but they have twice in the General Council convened been rejected. Again, In the first paragraph of the secret instruction to his enrolling Agents, the President say, the reluctance of the generality of the Cherokees to remove west does not rest upon their ignorance or dislike of that country?  No intimation is here given, that the opposition of the Cherokees to the measures of the President is controlled  by those who have obtained an ascendancy over the Cherokees. Therefore we conclude the sentiments of the Acting Secretary is not of that character to put to rest forever the action of the Government in this case, prejudicial to the rights of the Cherokees.

Again: Secretary Cass in his communication to the Cherokees Chief (Ross) of March 14th says that 'the complaints of the Cherokees are well grounded and that the Department cherished deep solicitude for the welfare of the Nation, and that it would endeavor to promote it.' Now it would appear from these passages that the Government at that time possessed full and correct information of the true feelings of the Cherokees, which were not created by the ascendancy of their leaders, and we cannot discover upon what authority the Secretary should, after having the resolutions of the National Council before him cast the reflection on those chiefs whom the choice of the Cherokees have placed them to preside over their affairs.

The Secretary then speaks of the 'liberal terms of the propositions, and are satisfactory to the American people, and would be so to the Cherokees were they to exercise their own judgment.'  Upon the admission of the people of the U. S. to the benefits of these proposition to the Cherokees were they accepted, we shall render no objections. But before the government could consistently hold up to the Cherokees its liberality in regard to the new treaty, is it not the incumbent and paramount duty of the President, first to prove it by carrying into effect ' in good faith his 17 treaties with us! We sincerely hope that the fragments of these prostrated treaties may sincerely be considered, their obligations renewed, the Cherokees permitted to exercise their own free will, before these honest chiefs are blamed for calling on the President of the U. S. for the fulfillment of his bond with us.






      


INDIANS

SPEECH

Of the Hon. Isaac C. Bates, Representative from Massachusetts, delivered in the House of Representatives on the bill for the removal of the Indians, May 19, 1833

CONCLUDED

At this stage in the progress of my remarks, allow me to advert to the origin of the claim on the part of Georgia, with a view to a consideration of the settlement of it in 1802.

I have already remarked, that, at the commencement of the Revolution, the Indian boundary in the different States was the boundary of their ordinary jurisdiction, and included the lands which had been purchased of the Indians, as the aboriginal proprietors of them.  In the progress of the war, a question arose as to the wild lands west of the boundary, and east of the Mississippi.  Some of the States, having no particular title to these lands, being severed from them by other interjacent States, had, nevertheless, a deep interest in this question. An extract from the Journal of Congress, in 1783 will show how this matter was viewed by one side, at least at that time. It is by way of recital, 'Whereas the territory (of the United States) comprehends a large extent of country lying without the lines, limits, or acknowledged boundaries of any of the United States, over which, or any part of which, no State can, or ought to exercise any sovereign, legislative, or jurisdictional faculty, the same having been acquired under the confederation, and by the joint and united efforts of all: and whereas several of the States acceded to the confederation under the idea that a country unsettled at the commencement of this war, claimed by the British crown, it wrested from the common enemy, by the blood and treasure of the thirteen States, should be considered as a common property,' therefore, Resolved, 'c.  Nothing was done by Congress upon this proposition. The other States, however, ceded their right to these lands, under certain limitations and reservations not material to be stated, to become a common fund for the benefit of the United States.* Georgia held on, and claimed as her own the immense and valuable tract of land lying between the Atlantic and the Mississippi, a part of which now constitutes the States of Alabama and Mississippi. This was gained by the War of the Revolution, the expense of which was apportioned among the States according to 'the white, black, and mulatto population,' excluding Indians: and during the confederation, according to the 'value of the land in each State granted or surveyed for any person,' excluding the wild lands.- While Virginia paid eight hundred thousand dollars, and Massachusetts eight hundred and twenty thousand, Georgia paid sixty thousand only.

Immediately, after the preliminaries of peace, Georgia undertook to fortify her claim, and passed an act declaring that the boundary of Georgia 'does, and did, and of a right ought to extend to the Mississippi,' resting the right to such an extent of boundary upon her charter, and the Articles of Confederation. The charter had been given up long before, and therefore no claim cloud be  sustained under that; and it is clear the confederation settled nothing in relation to the title to these lands.  Georgia, in her constitution of 1793, after setting forth her boundary as in the act of 1783, declares that 'all the territory without the present temporary line, and within the limits aforesaid (that is, between the Indian boundary and the Mississippi,) is now, and of right, the property of the free citizens of this State.' By this same article authority is given to sell to the United States the land lying west of the Chattahooche, and to procure an extinguishment of Indian claims to the land east of that river.  The boundary of the ordinary jurisdiction of Georgia- 'the temporary line'- is here recognized in her constitution and the Cherokee country as lying without that boundary, as also the right of the Cherokees thereto. The purpose of Georgia was to establish in herself the right of pre-emption, as adverse to the right claimed by the United States.

After twenty years dispute upon this subject, in 1802, commissioners mutually appointed by the United States of the one part, and Georgia of the other, settled this much agitated and long disputed subject. Georgia ceded to the United States the land west of the Chattahooche, now Alabama and Mississippi, the United States paying her one million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and taking it subject to certain other claims, and among them the Yazoo claim, for which we have paid about five millions. The United States ceded to Georgia the land lying east of said river, or the line of cession, whatever it was, and west of the Indian boundary, or the boundary of her ordinary jurisdiction, and engaged to extinguish the Indian title to it 'as early as the same could be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms.' The words of cession were, 'the United States cede to the State of Georgia whatever claim right or title they may have to the jurisdiction or soil of any lands' describing them. It is an assignment, or release of the right which the United States had to the jurisdiction and the soil. Now, sir, what was that? Not a right to dictate laws to the Cherokees! not a right to cancel their laws and customs; not a right to invade, cut up, and distribute their country at pleasure. No, sir; the United States never claimed, nor had, nor exercised that right.  All our obligations to the Cherokees by treaties, laws, and long established intercourse, were incompatible with it. Not the federative obligation we were under to protect the Cherokees. That was, in no sense, a jurisdictional right, but an obligation, growing out of treaty stipulations-a trust, personal and confidential, to be exercised by the United States, and not assignable or removable, but by the consent of the Cherokees. Nor was it intended to be 'ceded;' for it has been recognized in ten successive treaties, since the cession, still existing in the United States. It was a trust, for assuming which the United States received an equivalent-for which they were paid. It conferred no favor, but imposed an obligation- one, therefore, that Georgia would not have been willing to receive if the United States could have transferred it.  What was it, then? Simply and solely the right of pre-emption. This was all the 'claim, right, or title,' the United States had to the 'soil'. And the right to protect that right of pre-emption-to defend it, if need be, in any way in which it might be assailed-was all the claim, right or title the United States could, or did assign, or attempt to assign,to Georgia.  But this whole country was then subject to the Indian title, possessed by the Indian nations, under the government of the Indian laws, such as they were, and fully and absolutely, with the limitations I have named, and those not at all affecting their sovereignty. In this condition of things the United States stipulated with Georgia to extinguish the Indian title. When?  When it could be done peaceably-by treaty, not force-by cession, not usurpation-with the free consent, not against the will of the Cherokees. Here was no stipulation on the part of the United States, express or implied, to adopt any expedient to hasten the extinguishment of their title,which would not be open, fair, and honorable; not even when it could be done 'peaceably,' unless on 'reasonable terms'- for a fair equivalent-not at all events and hazards: -not an obligation absolute but conditional. And if the Cherokees refuse to sell and to leave their country, the United States are under no obligation to Georgia, other than to keep up a standing offer of reasonable terms to the Cherokees. This certainly is the case, if we subject the compact to any rule of right reason, by which contracts with individuals are governed. The land was not hers before. The compact is an inadmission (sic) of it. It is not to become hers until the event happens that is to make it hers; and that is the extinguishment of the Indian title. Conformably to this view both parties acted, for the twenty-six years next succeeding the compact. If Georgia be now right, the Intercourse Law of 1802, which was in force when her compact was made, was a direct invasion of her sovereignty. Did she ask for its repeal? No, sir. Her courts enforced it, and have done so ever since. The treaties then existing were also upon her present assumption and invasion of her sovereignty, interdicting the governor from passing a line within her own jurisdiction from entering or leaving the city of Savannah, for example.  Did she require that they should be modified or annulled? Not only no stipulation was made on this subject, when it was under examination by the commissioners, but no request even. And until very lately, she has acquiesced in them, and in ten other successive treaties of the same character made since, taking the fruits of them without an intimation to the Indian nations that they were void, or that they were parting with their land for nothing. Now, sir, I say this question- this long disputed, and, if your please, vexed question-is settled; is not open to re-examination by Georgia. If there be force in law, or force in treaties, or force in contract, this question is settled, and Georgia is bound and estopped on this subject.

But, admitting the right of pre-emption to these lands to be in Georgia, without restriction or limitation, by virtue of the compact of 1802, and that she may extinguish the Indian title, let us see how she may do it under the compact, by which she claims the right to do it. This is supposing her not bound by the laws or treaties of the United States, but by the act she affirms and under which she claims.

One article of that compact was, that the ordinance of 1787, 'in all its parts, should extend to the territory contained in the act of cession,' except in one particular, not material here to be considered. One part of that ordinance of 1787 was, that 'the utmost good faith should always be observed towards the Indians, their lands and property should never be taken from them without their consent; and in their  property, rights, and liberty, they never should be invaded or disturbed, unless in just and lawful wars, authorized by Congress, but laws founded in justice and humanity should from time to time be made for preventing wrongs being done to them, and for preserving peace and friendship with them.' Another part of the compact was, that, whenever any new States, that might be formed out of the territory so ceded, should be admitted into the Union, 'it should be on equal footing with the original States, in all respects whatever.'

This article in the ordinance of 1787 in relation to the Indians, is declaratory of the rule of justice and policy to which all the States are subject, and by which they are to be governed; as the new States are to come into the Union 'on equal terms with the old States in all respects whatever,' entitled to the same privileges, and subject to the same duties. When, therefore, the old States, require of the new 'to make laws to prevent wrongs being done to the Indians,-that good faith shall always be observed, that their property, rights and liberty shall not be invaded,' it is an admission that they are under the same obligations. Indeed, these are such principles of natural justice as bind all men, whether declared or not. They, at least, are not unconstitutional principles. Now, sir, can anything be more clear than that Georgia here admits that the Indians have land-have property-have rights-have liberty? that, in the enjoyment of them, they are never to be invaded nor disturbed? or, if at all, only in just and lawful wars, authorized by Congress? This is what Georgia concedes to, and affirms of the Indians west of the line of cession-a line that runs through the Cherokee Nation. This is what she imposes upon the new States as a fundamental law of their being, subject to which they come into the Union.  If true of the natives of Alabama and Mississippi, is it not true also of the natives belonging to the same nation on the east as well as on the west side of the line of cession? of Georgia as well as of Alabama and Mississippi? Does this compact make a distinction among the people of the same tribe? or between the lands they have seen from the mountains or passed in the chase, and those they have cultivate?  The Cherokees have not only this land, property, and liberty, and these rights here spoken of, but, in these they are never to be invaded nor disturbed by any State; never, except in a war declared by Congress. How then can Georgia extinguish the Indian title, take possession of the Indian lands without their consent, unless she violates her own compact,as well as the laws and treaties of the United States? But has she not disturbed the Cherokee's Nation,and invaded their property, rights and liberty? If by an act to make 'all the laws, ordinances, orders and regulations of a nation,' as if they had never been; if to subject the people of it to alien laws, and, at the same time, to exclude in any suit the evidence of the laws, usages and customs upon which their property, rights, and liberty all rest as upon their basis, and without which there can be no property, or distinction of property, or rights, or liberty,-by not disturbing and invading their property, rights and liberty, will you tell me, sir, what is? If this is not something more than making laws, founded in justice and humanity, to prevent wrongs being done to them, what would be?

Mr. Speaker, there is not an act of Georgia, since Oglethorpe first planted his foot upon the site of Savannah, when duly considered; there is, not a resolve, ordinance or law of Congress; there is not a treaty of the United States with the Indian tribes, that does not tend to establish the fact, that the Indians are the proprietors of the lands and hunting grounds they claim, subject only to the restriction upon their right of alienation. You might have put the question to every man in this nation, or child on the frontier, and he would have told you so, until the legislation of the States, aided by interest, instructed him otherwise. What then becomes of the tenancy at will-of sufferance as asserted by Georgia? Not one act, law or treaty that does not establish the fact that the Cherokees are sovereign. Sir, when were they otherwise? In what field were they conquered? Produce the proof. But were there something in the shape of evidence, it would be controlled by a single, undisputed, admitted fact-here is the nation, until his invasion of it, still sovereign. There is no tradition that has not been lost in its descent, that it was ever otherwise than sovereign. The pyramids of Egypt, upon their own broad and solid foundations are no better proof of themselves, than the Cherokee Nation is of its sovereignty. Sir, the emblems** of it were sparkling in the sun, when the white men, who now inhabit Georgia, and all who ever did, were in the loins of their European ancestry; and the bird that bore these emblems aloft in the upper skies-the region that clouds never darkened-was not more the king of birds, than the Cherokees were the lords of the country in which they dwelt, acknowledging no supremacy but that of the Great Spirit, and awed by no power but his-absolute, erect,and indomitable, as any creatures upon the earth the Deity ever formed.

But it is said the Constitution forbids the 'erection of a new State within the jurisdiction of another State,' and therefore the Cherokee government cannot be tolerated. Before I examined the subject, I was embarrassed by this consideration. But it will be found that this article was drawn with great caution and forecast, and for the very purpose of saving these little sovereignties of the aboriginal inhabitants. In the first place, as has been clearly shown in this debate, they are not a 'State' within the meaning of the Constitution.  In the next place, they are not a 'new State.' They were sovereignties when the Constitution was adopted. Therefore the existence and toleration of them was then as such a violation of the Constitution as it is now.  According to the Georgia doctrine, the government of the United States was then bound to do what it is now doing; that is, to put an end to the Cherokee Nation. In the third place, if a 'new State', it is not a State formed 'within the jurisdiction' of Georgia. The Constitution does not say, in the often repeated phrase, 'within the chartered limits' of 'geographical limits,' of Georgia. No such thing. The Indian boundary is the limit of the jurisdiction of Georgia. No such thing. The Indian boundary is the limit of the jurisdiction of Georgia,- The other lines indicate the extent of country to which she claims the right of pre-emption, and by every new purchase, of adding to her territory, and thus extending the limits of her jurisdiction.

These equivocal terms were rejected, and the word 'jurisdiction' was substituted by the framers of the Constitution, extending to the Indian boundary only, and being so considered by Georgia herself, down to the time of this dispute. Now, I take it upon myself to say, that, after the adoption of the Constitution, there was no pretence for affirming that the Cherokees were within the jurisdiction or Georgia.

What the views of the framers of that instrument were in relation of these remnants of once mighty nations, I cannot say. Probably they looked forward to the time when they would melt away or mingle with the current of white population, or pass off in some other form. Certain I am it was not their intention that 'in their property, rights or liberty they should ever be invaded or disturbed.'  This our ancestors said in 1787, and placed it on record, and Georgia said the same in 1802. The Cherokee Nation is not therefore a new State, formed within the 'jurisdiction of Georgia.'

I do not remark upon the improvement made in the Cherokee form of government; for any man of sense must see that that can make no difference.- The more perfect the system, the better; and the less the trouble from it.

It has been said also, that the United States have not extinguished the Indian title to the lands in question, as agreed at the cession. I have already remarked upon the conditions of the obligations then entered into; and it is a full answer to this complaint to say, that the United States have extinguished the title until the Indians have refused to cede another acre, and that they have been always ready and willing, and are now ready to do it, if the Indians will consent to it.

Then again, it is said that the indisposition to sell is the result of the civilization of the Cherokees, and that that has been brought about by the agency of the government. The answer to this is, that the United States were under obligations to do what they have done, prior to the compact of 1802; and this was known to Georgia, and she took the stipulation, subject to this obligation, which she distinctly recognized in her own compact.

Again, it has been argued against some of the treaties guarantying this country to the Cherokees, that the 'just claims of the State of Georgia were prejudiced' there by, contrary to the Constitution. This is begging the question; for Georgia has no 'just claim' to the Cherokee country, and therefore none is prejudiced. Georgia, has no right, constitutional or any other, that is incompatible with the engagements you have made to the Indian nations, or that is invaded by any law you have passed 'to prevent wrongs being done to them, or to preserve peace and friendship with them.'

Sir, you cannot take a step in the argument towards the result contended for by the friends of this bill, without blotting out a treaty, or tearing a seal from your bond. I give to the bill the connection which it has in fact, whatever may be said to the contrary, with the laws of the States to which it is subsidiary, and with the decision of the President, that the Indians must submit or remove. Now, sir, I say you are bound to protect them where they are, if they claim it at you hands; that you violate no right of the States in doing it, and will violate the rights of the Indian nations by not doing it; that when the United States, in consideration of the cession of land made by the Cherokees to this government, guarantied to them the 'remainder of their country forever,' you meant something by it. Sir, it is in vain to talk upon the question; impossible patiently to discuss it. If you have honor, it is pledged; if you have truth, it is pledged; if you have faith, it is pledged;- a nation's faith, and truth, and honor! and to whom pledged?  To the weak, the defenseless, the dependent. Fidem Anglorum in Foedcre eligimus, they say to you. Selecting your faith and no other,-you would not have it otherwise,-we reposed our trust and confidence in you, and you alone. And, for what pledged? Wherever you open our eyes, you see it, and wherever you plant your foot upon the earth, you stand upon it. And by whom pledged? By a nation in its youth, a republic, boastful of its liberty may it never be unmindful of its honor. Sir your decision upon this subject is not to be rolled up in the scroll of your journal, and forgotten. The transaction of this day, with the events it will give rise to, will stand out upon the canvass in all future delineations of this quarter of the globe, putting your deeds of glory in the shade. You will see it everywhere- on the page of history, in the essay of the moralist, in the tract of the jurist. You will see it in the vision of the poet; you will feel it in the sting of the satirist; you will encounter it in the indignant frowns of the friends of liberty and the rights of man, wherever despotism has not subdued to its dominion the very look. You will meet it upon the stage; you will read it in the novel and the eyes of your children's children, throughout all generations, will gush with tears as they run over the story, unless the oblivion of another age of darkness should come over the world, and blot out the record and the memory of it. And, sir, you will meet it at the bar above. The Cherokees, if they are men, cannot submit to such laws and such degradation. They must go.  Urged by such persuasions, they must consent to go. If you will not interfere in their behalf, the result is inevitable-the object will be accomplished. When the Cherokee takes his last look on the cabin he has reared-of the field he has cultivated-of the ground that covers the ashes of his fathers for unknown generations, and of his family and friends, and leaves all to the desecrated by the greedy and obtrusive borderer- Sir, I will not venture upon the description of this scene of a nation's exit and exile. I will only say-I would not encounter the secret, silent prayer that should be breathed from the heart of one of these sufferers, armed with the energy that faith and hope would give it, if there be a God that avenges the wrongs of the injured, for all the land the sun has looked upon. These children of nature will go to the stake, and bid you strike without the motion of a muscle; but if they can bear this; if they have reduced whatever there is of earth about them, in such a subjection to the spirit within, as to bear this, we are the men to go into the wilderness and leave them here as our betters.

Mr. Speaker, there are many collateral arguments, bearing upon the main point of this discussion, that I intended to have  urged, and many directly in my way, that I have passed over, and most of them I have but touched. But full of interest as this question is, I dare not venture longer upon the patience of the House. At this age of the world, and in view of what the original possessors of this continent have been, and what we were,and of what they have become,and we are; anything but the deep and lasting infamy-so say nothing of the appalling guilt-of a breach of faith with the Indian tribes. If the great men who have gone before us were so improvident as to involve the United States in contradictory and incompatible obligations, a breach of faith with all the world besides, rather than these our confiding neighbors. If we must be made to blush, let it be before our equals. Let there be at least dignity in our humiliation, and-something besides unmixed selfishness, and domineering cowardice, in the act that produces it.

* New York ceded in 1781, Virginia, in 1784, Massachuasetts, in 1785, Connecticut, in 1786, South Carolina, in 1787, North Carolina, in 1789, Georgia, in 1802.

** The feathers of the Eagle




      


From the Independent Citizen

FROM ARKANSAS

We have been favored with the perusal of a letter from the Arkansas territory, (Cherokee country) bearing date June 25, which states that a great mount of rain had fallen there during the latter part of May. The writer says that it commenced about the middle of May, and continued to rain for two weeks, almost without intermission-raising the Arkansas River to such a height as has never been seen by the oldest settlers in that section of country The writer states that, so destructive has been this flood, nearly all the people who lived upon the river have been ruined.  Several buildings, on each side of the river, are said to have been swept away; and on the bottoms, near several of the creeks, every house has been washed away, Cantonment Gibson was almost overflowed; and all the fork of the Canadian was inundated. At the latter place, a large amount of stock, of almost every kind, was washed away; and it is said, that so powerful was the force of the water, the course of the river at Fort Smith was changed entirely-making its way through the farm of Mr. Alexander, and carrying before it almost his whole property.- Mr. John Rogers is said to have lost 1700 bushels of salt; and his works are destroyed.  Mr. Webber is said to have lost in stock 'c. at least $3,000, besides a small black boy, who was drowned.

We would have noticed this letter last week, but were not sufficiently at leisure.




      


Randolph- The Philadelphia Enquirer relates the following anecdote:- During the session of Congress of 1825, John Randolph, then in Congress, boarded at Dobson's No. 2, near the capitol, Washington. Among other members then residing there, were Mr. Barbour of Va. Messrs. Macon, Hall, Branch, and Speight of North Carolina; Mr. Cobb, of Georgia; Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky, 'c. On one occasion, the conversation at dinner turned upon the Indians of Georgia, application had just been made to the General Government from the State for their removal beyond its limits.-- Mr. Cobb became animated in the argument, even to exasperation, and declared 'that Mr. Monroe and Congress might have the Indians sent away or not, as they pleased, or dispose of them in any other way they thought proper: but that by G_d they should not remain in Georgia!'

Mr. Randolph, who had hitherto taken little share in the conversation, then remarked, with that coolness and point for which he was so remarkable, that 'if there was a superintending Providence above, he trusted his thunders would not be idle, while they were driving those poor creatures from the homes and graves of their forefathers.'




      


Extract from the North American Review.

WILLIAM PENN.

One of the greatest triumphs of this extraordinary man was his influence with the Indians; and since our relations with this unfortunate race are likely to produce excitement for years to come, his example cannot be too often cited. The only charm by which he acquired so much influence over them, was by treating them with uniform justice; and perhaps it would be well for states and individuals, who complain of them as bad neighbors, to try the same novel experiment, and see whether it may not be attended with similar success. In his letter to the Free Society of traders, Penn gives an account of this unfortunate race, as descriptive as that which Tacitus gives of the Germans.  After speaking of their habits and manners, he says 'do not abuse them, but let them have justice and you win them.' He purchased from them the land to which he held a title from the King of England, and strictly enjoined it as a duty of inhabitants and surveyors, not to take possession of any land which they claimed, till he had first, at his own cost, satisfied them for the same.- The modern practice of assuming jurisdiction over them was then unknown; and had it been otherwise, his conscience might have been too unaccommodating to allow him to take advantage of that ingenious discovery: it is gratifying to reflect that he has lost nothing by his course, but on the contrary stands considerably higher than he otherwise would in the estimation of the world. The Indians always regarded him with respect and affection, and he kept up a frequent intercourse with them in order to confirm their good will. Thus palisades and block-houses, the usual defence of frontier settlements, were rendered unnecessary; so far from having any disposition to molest them, the Indians sometimes carried their kindness to excess.  Thus we are told that Mr. Carver, the first settler at Byberry, was in distress for food. As none was to be had nearer than Newcastle, he prepared to go thither, and sent his children meantime to beg the hospitality of the Indians, which they not only granted, but took all the boys trousers, tied up the legs, and sent them back to the parents filled with corn. It is not till a comparatively late period, that the aborigines have disappeared. Tedyuscung, a Delaware chief, was a frequent visitor in Philadelphia so late as 1760.  Governor Dickenson speaks of negotiating a treaty at Albany, on which occasion this chief undertook to address the assembly; his wife, who was present, spoke to them in the most gently and silvery tones imaginable, in the Indian tongue, with her eyes fixed steadfastly on the ground; every one was enchanted with the sweetness of her voice and manner. On inquiring of Tedyuscung, who spoke English fluently, what his wife had said, he answered, 'Ho! she is but a poor weak woman! She told me it was unworthy the dignity of a great king like me, to present myself drunk before the great council of the nation.' The last chief of the Delawares near Philadelphia was Isaac Still, a man of sense and character, who had been much employed by the whites as an agent and interpreter among the Indians. He dwelt with his people in wigwams on Logan's place for a time, but as soon as he could, collected the remains of his tribe, to lead them to the Wabash, 'far away' as he said, 'from war and rum.' A person who witnessed their march, with Still, a fine looking man, ornamented with feathers, at their head, described it as an imposing scene; thus, in 1775, the last vestige of the Leni Lenape disappeared from the region. This writer however tells us that one, called Old Indian Hannah, was living in the present century on the Brandywine, and retained a high and haughty spirit to the last.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, SEPTEMBER 28, 1833

ERRATA

Several material errors escaped our notice, in consequence of running over our proof sheets rather hastily, contained in the third resolve of the General Council. We therefore republish the whole section.

In our editorial, last paragraph 14th line for sincerely read seriously.

__________

Resolved, That under existing circumstances the nation is in a state of duress, and that until removed it cannot properly exercise that freedom of deliberation and action so desirable and necessary for the final termination of present difficulties, and being convinced that the country west of the Mississippi to which the Government has invited the removal of the nation, is such, as cannot better the future prospects and welfare of the Cherokees, as a nation, under the present unsettled policy of the Government in relation to the Indian tribes; and should they be compelled by the force of circumstances contrary to every principle of justice and humanity to leave the 'land of their Fathers' the Council can determine no other alternative promising relief than a removal beyond the limits of the United States; but having confidence yet in the good faith of the Government of the United States and no desire to remove west of the Mississippi nor to leave the limits of the United States and being solicitous to have a speedy termination of present difficulties.






      


INDIANS

From the Mobile Commercial Register.

We are indebted to the agent of the Marshall of this district, for the following letter of instructions from the Secretary of War, and the opinion of the Attorney General of the United States on the questions growing out of the conduct of intruders upon the Creek Indians' lands in this State. We hasten to lay them before our readers.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

August 26th, 1833

Sir:- I have received from Mr. Austill, reports of his proceedings in carrying into effect the instructions of this department, for removing intruders from the tract of country ceded to the United States by the Creek Indians, March 24th, 1832. I regret to perceive the difficulties he has had to contend with, in the execution of his duty. It is surprising that actual claims should be set up to take possession of the land, and that the indulgence which the government has granted to settlers, should be considered as conferring upon them positive rights.

That the Indians have been seriously injured, there can be doubt, and as little that it is the duty of the United States, faithfully to carry into effect the treaty which has been formed. I cannot but hope that every citizen of Alabama will appreciate the obligations which have been incurred, and will refrain from any act tending to violate the treaty.

It is evident from the report of Mr. Austill, that the indulgence which has been granted to actual settlers, has been very injurious to the Indians.

Individuals are favored by some of the Creeks, and are obnoxious to others, and it appears that the Chiefs have made great objections to any arrangement allowing settlers to remain upon the land. Under these circumstances, the president directs that so far as persons now in the ceded Territory, have conducted in conformity with the views taken in my letter to Messrs McCoy, Clay, and Mardis, enclosed to you December 10th, 1832, and have been permitted by the Deputy Marshall to remain until this time, that they are allowed to continue unmolested, still refraining from injuring the Indians, until their crops are gathered, and after that period you will require them without delay to move beyond the ceded territory. It is utterly inexpedient with the experience which has been had on this subject and the evils are threatened, longer to continue the indulgence heretofore granted. All other white persons living on those lands, and not coming within the above description, will be removed without distinction and without delay.

In consequence of the suggestion of Mr. Austill, I have asked and obtained the opinion of the Attorney General on this subject generally; and I transmit a copy of it, that you may give it general publicity, in order that all persons interested may see how unfounded is any claim to hold possession of this land, or legally to resist the instructions of the Government for the removal of the intruders. You are authorized to publish this opinion, together with such portion of your instructions as you may think necessary, in such newspapers in Alabama, as you may think best calculated to give general information.

While the Government have a solemn duty to perform towards the Indians, which they cannot and will not neglect,they are still anxious that it should be performed with as little injury to our citizens as possible. You will take care therefore that the subject is fully explained and understood, and will use as much forbearance as is consistent with the execution of your duty, before a resort is had to actual force, ' when force is applied, it will be limited to the actual removal of intruders from the ceded territory.

You will transmit without delay to the district Attorney of the Southern District of Alabama, the names of all persons who hereafter intrude upon or who now live upon the ceded land, and refuse to remove agreeably to your requisition, together with the names of the witnesses who can prove the necessary facts; and the District Attorney has been instructed to commence an immediate prosecuting against all such persons. This measure is considered so important to the accomplishment of the object, that you will not neglect it under any circumstances, or in any case.

Mr. Austill has directed that instructions may be given to prevent the sale of whiskey upon the Creek lands, stating that the practice prevails to a great extent to the ruin of the Indians.  However useful such a measure might be, it is not considered competent for the Executive to direct it. The only power vested in the President is to remove the intruders from the public lands. The state of Alabama has jurisdiction over that district of country, and her Legislature can only provide a remedy for this evil, and how courts of justice enforce it.

I have also transmitted to Mr. Austill a copy of this letter.

Instructions have been given to add another company to the force now employed in this duty.

Very respectfully, I am Sir,

Your obedient servant.

LEWIS CASS.

Robert L. Crawford, Esq.

Marshall of the S. Dist. of Ala.

_________

(COPY)

ATTORNEY'S GENERAL'S

Office, August 22.

Sir:- In answer to the enquiry continued in  your letter of August 19, I have the honor to state, that in my opinion the President may lawfully direct the Marshal of the District and employ such military force as he may judge necessary and proper to remove intruders from the lands in Alabama, ceded by the Creek Indians to the United States by treaty of the 28th March 1832,

The treaty with the Creek Indians provides that a survey shall be made of the land ceded to the United States, and after the survey is completed, certain rights of selection are preserved to ninety of the principal chiefs ' heads of families. The survey is not yet completed, and consequently no selections have been made, the fifth article of that treaty provides 'That all intruders upon the country thereby ceded shall be removed therefrom, in the same manner as intruders may be removed by law from other public lands, until the country is surveyed and the selections made.'

The white men who have entered upon this land are unquestionably intruders, within the meaning of this law. The lands belong to the United States and to chiefs of the Creek Nation could not give any permission to any white men to settle on them, without the consent of the United States. But the chiefs, it appears, have given to them no such permission, and desire their removal; and the only excuse alleged for these intrusions is the license of individual Indians to white men to settle on the land of the United States, must be utterly nugatory and void. And the men who have entered and taken possession under pretense of such permissions, are intruders on the lands of the United Sates.

The question is, can the United States use the military force to remove them? The language of the act of March 3, 1807, is too plain to be mistaken. It gives the President, by express words, the power 'to employ such military force as he may judge necessary and proper,' to remove persons who may intrude upon any lands ceded or secured to the United States, by any treaty made with a foreign nation, and by a cession from any state to the United States.

The reasoning for confining the act of Congress to cessions of this description, is sufficiently obvious. All of the large and unsettled tracts of country which belong to the United States, were acquired either by treaty with foreign nations or by cession from one of the states. And it was only on lands of that description, that any evil could arise from intrusions and settlements, of sufficient importance to the public, to make it advisable to use the summary and forcible remedy authorized by the act of Congress. The lands on which these intrusions have been made, are certainly embraced both by the words and spirit and the object of the law. For it was ceded to the United States by the State of Georgia, and is a portion of the unsettled country which the act of 1807 was designed to protect.

The words of the law being plain, and clearly embracing in its provisions the lands in question, what legal objection can there be in its prompt and faithful execution?  Had not Congress the power to pass such a law?

It is true that these lands lie in the state of Alabama, and that state has extended its laws, and the jurisdiction of its tribunals over the whole territory included by its limits. But that circumstance cannot render this act of Congress unconstitutional and uncooperative in that State. For the act of Congress produces no conflict of jurisdiction or of sovereignty with the state of Alabama. It proposes to defend the possessions of the United States against wrong doers who without any pretence of title, and in open violation of the rights of the United States, intrude upon the public property,and appropriate it to their own use. And if there is any conflict, it is only with persons of this description and not with the state of Alabama, or the proper authority of that state.

The power of Congress to pass this law, has, I believe, long been regarded as a settled point, and the government have acted upon it accordingly.

I have now before me two opinions given in the year 1821 by one of my predecessors in this office- one of the opinions being in relation to the public lands in the state of Illinois, and the other in Mississippi; and in both of these cases the right of the United States to execute the law, is treated as undoubted. And in this very case, the treaty with the Creek Indians pledges the United States to act upon this law in the removal of intruders, and the Senate by ratifying the treaty have shown that in the judgment of that body, there was no constitutional objection to the exercise of the power.  Indeed it can hardly be supposed by any one, that the United States have not the same right that an individual possesses to defend their lawful possessions by force against a trespasser.- Must they surrender up the public property whenever lawless violence attempts to seize upon it. Some of the forts and arsenals, and lighthouses, are, I understand, upon lands which have been purchased from individuals, without any cession of jurisdiction from the state in which they lie. It cannot be imagined that the United States are bound to stand idle and see their possessions wrested from them-and then be put to their action of ejectment to regain possession of their forts, arsenals, and lighthouses, or bound to resort a replevin to recover the public arms and accoutrements, or an action of trover to obtain compensation in damages for their loss. Such a proposition would strike every one as utterly untenable, Yet it would be quite as unreasonable to require them to suffer without resistance, the most valuable bodies of vacant land, which they hold in different states, to be overrun and seized on by lawless intruders, and put the United States to the necessity of ejectment or other legal proceedings against each separate individual in order to regain the possession. The public domain would be of no value; or worse than of no value; if such a doctrine could be maintained. It is clear that a private individual may defend the possession of his property against a wrongdoer who attempts to drive him of it, and may lawfully use any force necessary for that purpose.

There can be reason why a government holding property should be denied the same right.  And the act of March 3, 1807, does no more than provide the means necessary to defend the possession of the public property and authorizes the President to use them.

The fact that these intruders are now on the land and have been for some time, cannot alter the question. The United States have never abandoned their possession- and the intruders have never acquired a lawful possession against them-they were mere trespasses from the beginning, and continue so to the present time, and have no better right now, than they had at the moment when they first entered. The lawful possession is still in the United States, and may in my opinion be defended against such trespassers, according to the directions of the act of 1807, by the removal of the intruders by military force.

The papers are herewith returned-

I am sir, 'c.

(Signed) R. B. TANEY

To the Hon. The Secretary of War.

````




      


From the Flag of the Union.

The following is a copy of a letter addressed by Governor Gayle to the Secretary of War, in relation to the killing of H. Owen, a United States' soldier. It being a matter of public moment, we solicited a copy of the letter for publication.

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT

Tuscaloose, 29th Aug. 1833

Sir:- An attempt by the Deputy Marshal of the southern district of Alabama to remove an individual by the name of Owens, from premises, alleged to belong to an Indian, has resulted in the death of the supposed trespasser. A detachment of the United States' soldiers on the requisition of the Deputy Marshal, was placed under his direction, and the deceased was shot b y one of these soldiers. The frequent incursions of this officer with an armed force, among our inhabitants, residing in the country acquired from the Creeks, with the purpose of settling disputes between them and the Indians, have produced very general dissatisfaction, which, since the killing of Owens, has risen to an excitement, that if not quieted, will lead to excess equally unpleasant to the General Government, and to the authorities of this State.

It is not my purpose to show that the conduct of the Marshal was improper, or that an offence has been committed against our laws, but to request that the Government refer the complaints of the Indians, to a tribunal less objectionable than that of the Marshal with an armed soldiery.

At the last session of the General Assembly of this state, the whole of the Creek country within the limits of the state, was laid off into counties, which were organized so as to give full and complete effect and operation to our laws. It was understood that no objection would be raised by the government to its settlement by the white people, provided they abstained from intruding upon the reservation secured to the Indians by the treaty of the 24th of March 1832. The fifth article of that treaty, by obvious construction, permits settlements upon any of the lands ceded, except reservations 'after the country is surveyed, ' the selections made.'  The Indians therefore cannot resort to those settlements as a ground of just complaint; and it would not be difficult to show that intruders even upon the selections, cannot legally be removed by the Marshal.

I lay it down as a correct position, that where the government has disposed of its lands, all disputes and controversies relating to their title, or to the right to their possession, are referable only to the judicial tribunals of the country. I do not deem it necessary, however, to discuss this point at present, relying as I do upon the disposition of the President, to cause the treaty to be carried into effect by such means only, as are clearly authorized by the Constitution and laws. Encouraged by the treaty, by the laws of this state, and by the express permission of the government, to settle upon and occupy those lands, a population has moved upon them, equally respectable with that of other sections of the state and to which, in point of numbers, the Indians bear but a small proportion. In their present situation, they cannot be regarded as a distinct tribe, for as such, they have disappeared, ' been lost in the large community now in possession of their ancient birth right.  They are permitted by the treaty to sell their reservations, with the approbation of the President, and it is quite notorious, that many of them have sold and otherwise disposed of them.  They have entered into contracts with their white neighbors, as well in relation to other matters, as their lands; and upon inquiry, it will be found, that in many instances, their dissatisfaction and complaints arise out of these contracts. I these cases, it will not be pretended, that any authority can be conferred on the Marshal to interfere. They form the proper object of judicial investigation, and courts are competent, and at all times opened to decide them. By the laws of this State, whenever an individual is entitled to the possession of lands, he can, by a summary proceeding before a Justice of the Peace, expel an intruder or trespasser within a few days. I transmit to you herewith our statute upon this subject.  It has for many years been in force and has fully accomplished the purposes for which it was intended.

Whatever may be the opinion of the President, as to the powers of the government to eject intruders by force, without the forms of law, I am persuaded, that under existing circumstances, he will concur in the opinion, that this law will be equally effectual,and that the Marshal at the head of a band of armed soldiers, in the bosom of a peaceable, orderly, and quite community,cannot, and ought not to be permitted to settle questions, that are in their character strictly and properly legal.

With distinguished consideration, I have the honor to be your ob't ser'vt.

JOHN GAYLE.

Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War.

_________________

INDIAN AFFAIRS.- In relation to the unfortunate death of Colonel Hardeman Owen, who was killed lately by a party of United States' soldiers, at his residence in the Creek Nation, the Flag of the Union of Thursday last, says: 'We are authorized to say, that the Governor of Alabama has requested the Marshal to abstain from any further interference between the citizens of the new counties and the Indians. He has received letters of complaint from individuals of high respectability, and has addressed a communication to the War Department, requesting that the troops may be withdrawn.  The Governor does not recognize any authority in the Marshal, or the troops of the United States, to settle disputes between our white and Indian population, and has come to the determination to prevent by all proper means, a mode of proceeding so repugnant to the constitution ' laws of the state. The utmost confidence is entertained that the President has no disposition to incommode our citizens, and that the troops will be withdrawn at the request of the Governor.' - Journal of Commerce.




      


New Echota, 1st March, 1833

Dear Sir:-* *                * *

The following is a copy of a letter from Mr. Wirt to Mr. Seargent, dated at Baltimore, December 22, 1832.-

Southern Recorder.



 My Dear Sir,- I have just had a visit from Mr. Forsyth of Georgia, on the subject of the Missionaries, the purpose of which I am at liberty to communicate to you for the purpose of consultation. It seems that there is a desire to separate the Georgia question from that of South Carolina, that the President may have only one on his hands to settle at a time.*    * *   *

Mr. Forsyth says that he saw Governor Lumpkin about three weeks ago-that he said he considered the penal laws of Georgia, prohibiting white persons from living among the Cherokees, without the consent of Georgia, or without having taken the oath of allegiance of Georgia, as virtually repealed by the recent laws of that State, for laying off that territory into counties, and incorporating it practically with the state; and that he was very desirous to get rid of the missionaries by a pardon ,an unconditional pardon- and Mr. Forsyth thinks he would have done so before now, had it not been for the notice he received of our intention to move the subject farther before the Supreme Court: that if he were, under this notice, to pardon them, it would seem to be extorted by his fears of the effect of this notice, and would destroy his standing in Georgia, where submission to the Supreme Court would destroy any man-that if Mr. Forsyth were at liberty to write to the Governor, and tell him that the motion was not to be made, that he, Mr. F. had no doubt, he would discharge the missionaries at once; and the object of his visit was to ascertain from me, whether, under these circumstances, I felt at liberty to say that the motion would not be made. He went on to say farther, that if the motion was made and proceedings followed under the authority of the Supreme Court, or even if the motion was made, he believed the men would have to serve out their time. I told him that I was acting merely as one of their counsel in the case-that the notice had been given, and that the motion would be accordingly made, unless we should be differently instructed by our clients, or by the Board of Missions-that I had no authority to change the direction which the case had taken; that I would, however write you on the subject, and consult you as to the propriety of our interference on the matter, though I could not myself perceive that we could properly interfere-that the authority of the Supreme Court was in question, which I thought, ought to be vindicated--but that nevertheless, I would willingly obey any instructions from our clients to forbear the motion.

Mr. Forsyth disclaimed any authority from Governor Lumpkin or any one else, to seek his interview, or enter into any arrangements.  He acted from public motives,- from a desire to remove any cause or imaginary cause of sympathy between Georgia and South Carolina. He thought the cases were not at all alike; yet that there were many persons in Georgia, and out of Georgia, who thought it a common cause, and were strongly disposed, for this reason, to support South Carolina, in her nullifying course; that a great majority of the people of Georgia were anti-nullifiers; and that if her own (Georgia's) question were settled there would be a removal of all possible cause of her uniting in the South Carolina policy. He said he supposed I knew the course the President would hold with regard to Georgia, he thought he did; though he had no direct assurance to that effect, but only inferred it from his past course-that if the Supreme Court were to move again in the case, the President, he took it for granted, would not interfere; he hoped he would not, for if he did, Georgia would join South Carolina which he hoped would never be the case. But he did not see what we could do- the Supreme Court could not issue a habeas corpus- if they awarded a mandamus, the State Judge would not obey it-or if he did, would come and say very politely, that he had no intention to treat the Supreme Court with contempt or disrespect-that he was only obeying a statute of his own State, when it was his duty to obey-that, disclaiming all contempt, the Supreme Court could not punish him, but must discharge him; and the remaining two years of the missionaries must expire while this process was going on; that I must see we could not get along without the support of the President; and I knew as well as he, whether we had any reason to count on his support.

He wished me, finally, to inform him, as soon as I could, whether this motion was to be pressed or not. He had no objection to my writing to you, or to the Missionary Board, all that had passed between us, and to mention his name.

He said that the missionaries themselves, considering all the moral influence of public opinion was attained by the decision of the Supreme Court, had been disposed to accept a conditional pardon last Spring-but were prevented by the Board at Boston, who advised them that to accept a pardon, would be to admit their guilt, which he seemed to consider totally unfounded [In regard to what is stated in this last paragraph, Mr Forsyth was mistaken. S.A. W.]

I asked him what assurance he had that the missionaries would be discharged, even if the motion were withdrawn. He said that he could only give his opinion that it would certainly be so- that I must know how anxious Gov. Lumpkin would naturally be to get rid of them, 'c. 'c.

Is it worthwhile to communicate this letter to the Board of Missions at Boston? If so, you are welcome to send it on.

Meantime let me know what you think of the matter.  It seems to me that it is a case for our clients and the Board of Missions. Mr. Forsyth says that the pardon if granted, will be unconditional, and will be sent, not to the missionaries, but to the keeper of the Penitentiary, who will have instructions to discharge them. This he said in reply to a suggestion from me, that I did not believe they would accept a pardon in any shape.

Please acknowledge the receipt of this, and let me have your opinion.

Yours Respectfully,

WM. WIRT.




      


From the Maryville Intelligencer

THE UNITED BRETHREN

Soon after the arrival of the Christian Indians at Shoenbrun, the rules of the congregation, as agreed to, and approved by the national assistants, were read and accepted by the whole congregation.  [It will be remembered that in the United Brethren's settlements among the heathen, congregation and church are distinct. One embracing all who desire instruction, ' their children, the other only true believers.] They were as follows.

1. We will know of no other God, nor worship any other but Him, who has created us, and redeemed us with his most precious blood.

2. We will rest from all labor on Sundays, and attend the usual meetings on that day for divine service.

3. We will honor father and mother, and support them in age and in distress.

4. No one shall be permitted to dwell with us without the consent of our teachers.

5. No thieves, murderers, drunkards, adulterers, and whoremongers, shall be suffered among us.

6. No one that attendeth dances, sacrifices, or heathenish festivals, can live among us.

7. We will renounce all juggles, lies, and deceits of Satan.

8. No one using witchcraft in hunting, shall be suffered among us.

9. We will be obedient to our teachers, and to the helpers, (national assistants) who are appointed to see that good order be kept both in, and out of town.

10. We will not be idle and lazy, nor tell lies of one another, nor strike each other. We will live peaceable together.

11. Whosoever does any harm to another's cattle, goods or effects, 'c., shall pay the damage.

12. A man shall have only one wife,-love her, and provide for her, ' the children. Likewise a woman shall have but one husband,and be obedient unto him; she shall also take care of the children and be cleanly in all things.

13 We will not permit any rum or spiritus liquor to be brought into our towns. If strangers or trades happen to bring any, the helpers are to take it into their possession, and take care not to deliver it to them till they set off again.

14. None of the inhabitants shall run in debt to traders, nor receive goods on commission for traders, without the consent of the helpers.

15 No one is to go on a journey or long hunt, without informing the ministry or stewards of it.

16 Young people are not to marry without the consent of their parents, and taking their advice.

17. If the helpers apply to the inhabitants for assistance, in doing work for the benefit of the place, such as building meeting or school houses, clearing or fencing lands 'c., they are to be obedient.

18. All necessary contributions for the public, ought cheerfully to be attended to.

19. No man inclining to go to war,-which is the shedding of blood, can remain among us.

20. Whosoever purchases goods or articles of warriors, knowing at the time that such have been stolen, or plundered, must leave us. We look upon this as giving encouragement to murder and theft.

According to custom these rules were, at the commencement of every year, read in public meeting; and no new member, or applicant, could be permitted to live in the congregation without making a solemn promise that he or she would strictly conform to them. When any one residing in the congregation gave offence, it was the duty of the helpers, to admonish such person in a friendly manner; but where such admonition proved ineffectual, then to concert together for the purpose publicly putting him, her, or them out of the society, and dismissing such altogether from the place. Next to these rules, other necessary and proper regulations were made and adopted; for instance, respecting the daily meetings,- the duty of church wardens,- schools,- attending to visitors, and the attention to be paid to the poor, sick, or distressed; and with regard to the contributions to be made from time to time for the benefit of the congregation at large, as also individuals in the same, unable to support themselves, or furnish the necessary attire for the deceased, so that the corpse of the poorest person in that community was dressed as decently as the wealthy.

That part of the congregation of the Mohigan tribe, who had spent the winter at Beaver Creek, now came on, and settled ten miles below Shoenbrun, where they built a town and called it Gradenhutten.

The Christian Indians who left Friedenshutten in 1770 and formed a settlement on Big Beaver, were now, in 1773 obliged to leave their beautiful village, and join their brethren at Shoenbrun.

The work of God, now prospered, and numbers were added to the church and congregation, so that the Christian Indians at Shoenbrun, and Gradenhutten, somewhat smaller. Both were built of hewn timber, with shingle roofs, and a cupola and bell. The town being regularly laid out, the streets wide, and kept clean, and the cattle kept out by means of fences, gave the whole a neat appearance. The Gradenhutten congregation having no resident minister, sent several Indian brethren to Bethlehem for their beloved former teacher Schmeik and his wife, for whom they had built a convenient house.  These arrived on the 18th August, 1773.

The year 1774, was a year of trial to the Indian congregations, on account of a war which broke out between the Senecas and Shawnees, and the Virginians; in which it become well known that the whites were the aggressors. The whole country on the Ohio River, had already drawn the attention of the neighboring provinces, who generally forming themselves into parties, would rove through the country n search of land, and some, careless of watching over their conduct, or destitute of both honor and humanity, would join a rabble, who maintained that to kill an Indian, was the same as killing a bear of buffalo,and would fire on Indians that came across them by the way. Nay, more, some white men would decoy such Indians as lived across the river, to come over for the purpose of joining them in hilarity, and would then fall on and murder them. Some of the murdered were of the family of Logan.- The Indians at length determined to take revenge on the long knives (Virginians) 'for, said they, they are a barbarous people.' Some were for killing every white man they could see till they obtained revenge.  They kept on the look out for traders to kill them; but these had generally fled the country. Some however had been taken under the protection of some friendly Shawnees Indians, who afterwards conducted them safely to Pittsburgh.  These good people, however, Oh! shameful to relate! were, on their return, waylaid by some of those white vagabonds,- fired upon, and one man shot in the breast, though fortunately, with his wound bleeding, he reached Shoenbrun.

This war soon terminated, and as an expression of gratitude for returning peace, the Christian Indians set apart the 6th day of Nov. as a day of thanksgiving and prayer.

In 1775, the congregations increased so that the chapel at Shoenbrun, though large, was too small. In this year two native assistants departed this life; the one John, a Delaware, and the other Joshua, a Mohigan, and one of the first baptized on 1742.

In April 1776, a third mission settlement was begun, with eight families, under their faithful leader, David Leiesberger, and the writer of this narrative (Mr. Heckewelder) as his assistant. They laid off a town, thirty miles from Shoenbrun, and called it Lichtenau. The Christian Indians had increased so that their number in 1775, was 414 persons.  And at Lichtenau new members were soon added. Nothing deterred those who believed they had an inward call, from joining the congregation.  The schools at the three settlements were kept up regularly, and a new school book, prepared by Mr. Ziesberger, had been introduced. D. S. B.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, OCTOBER 5, 1833

We are informed from an authentic source, that a Special Agent under authority from the President of the United States, clothed with full powers, for entering into a treaty with the Cherokees, has arrived at the Cherokee Agency, awaiting the session of the General Council, which convenes at Red Clay on the 2d Monday of this month. We expressed our opinion sometime since, of the difficult position in which the President had placed himself in regard to the Cherokee case, and had adopted a system of operations to enroll the Cherokees, by appointing three agents for that purpose,and finding the progress of this measure, upon the whole, unprofitable, we may safely presume, gave rise to the appointment of the fourth. The disposition of the Cherokees with regard to a new treaty, has been unalterable fixed, from which they will not move, while justice has been loudly complaining of the flagrant violations of the seventeen existing treaties. The Cherokees have been placed by circumstances in a novel and peculiar situation. They have purchased fairly the protection of their rights from the General Government, whose interposition at this crisis, has been refused. The great principles involved, and the value of the property, has compelled the Cherokees, however humiliating it may be, to entreat the Government to re-instate them to their original rights. But in the meantime oppression and agents have increased to enable the Government to force a treaty, while the former is pleading for relief, the latter has likewise made at its object to beg and tease for a treaty. This is the disgusting fruits of the humane policy, and we hope the Commissioner may have full authority to remove the great encroachment on the Cherokees, to the honor of the Government.






      


INDIANS.

TENNESSEE LEGISLATURE.

'It has been recently communicated to me, that a respectable portion of our citizens residing in the counties bordering on the Cherokee Nation, are desirous that the laws of the State should be extended over the Indians within our limits; and in compliance with their wishes, I have thought it to be my duty to present the subject for your consideration.'

'As the act of Congress of eighteen hundred and two, only extends to the `regulating of trade and intercourse with the Indians,' it is thought questionable whether any authority exists to punish crimes committed within that portion of our State to which the Indian title has not been extinguished; nor is it believed that there is authority to enforce civil contracts. If this view of the subject be correct, it seems to me that the power of the State to pass laws for the punishment of crimes committed within its limits, or to coerce the payment of debts, cannot be well doubted. In acting upon this subject, I am persuaded you will pursue that course which will best comport with the rights and interests of the parties concerned.'

From the National Banner.

The Select committee to which was referred so much of the Governor's Message as relates to the extension of the laws of the State of Tennessee, to her southern limits, Report:

That in deliberating on the subject submitted to their consideration, grave and important as it is, they have chiefly directed their investigations, to the influence which the measure they propose will have upon both the tranquility of the State and the just supremacy of her laws, and the comfort and happiness of that portion of the Indians whose condition it is designed to affect.

The former it is conceded should not be acquired at the expense of justice; nor should blessings however enduring be harshly forced upon a people, who have not the capacity and intelligence to appreciate them. Beneficence and humanity lose half their charms, when the recipient of unwilling favors, does not comprehend the value of the intended kindness.

The peculiar features which characterize the relations, existing between the Federal Government and the neighboring Indians-the power and the greatness of one, contrasted with the weakness of the other, ought likewise to admonish us that magnanimity and forbearance, should mingle freely with every act of the Legislature that concerns their rights and privileges.

The law of force never has, nor never should govern except in extreme cases, emanating from their follies and their pernicious delusions, leading as they frequently do, to insufferable outrages.  The committee trust indeed, that they would be among the last to propose, and the first to resist any acts of violence or unnecessary legislation on the part of the State of Tennessee, and with becoming submission to the opinions of others, who may think differently, they do not conceive any of the principles here conceded will be violated by the policy they venture to advocate.

In proposing as they do by the bill herewith reported, to extend the authority of our laws over the whole of the acknowledged limits of the State, and thereby subjecting to their jurisdiction, the scattered mixed and degraded population, who inhabit the remnant of the Indian lands, they seek to remove an evil, that has only been thus long perpetuated, by a few designing chiefs, regardless of its unhappy effects upon the miserable people over whom they rule, and as is confidently believed, contrary to the wishes of the largest portion of those who understand their true condition.  Motives of state aggrandizement, will not they trust, under any difference of opinion, be urged as a reason for the policy recommended. The territory in question is not of value sufficient to excite the cupidity of the most avaricious government. There may be extent of country sufficient to constitute one county and make perhaps the one half of another; but it is mostly broken, mountainous and sterile, and without any of the mineral advantages that have of late given so much importance to lands lying a little farther east.- Considerations of the most exalted character, (they repeat it) predicted upon undeniable facts (some of them within the observation of individual members of the committee) present indisputable arguments in favor of speedy civil reform in the condition of this people.- Deprived of the blessing of law and government, and yet oppressed by their most extensive outward forms, they are held in abject and servile control, by a few cunning and artful men, who arbitrarily assume to themselves, every civil and spiritual station, and in pretended exercise of religion and justice, make a solemn mockery of both- perverting both to the most selfish of human purposes.

In such a state of things, as may readily be conceived, whilst the weak are endeavoring to escape from or to overthrow the strong, internal divisions, misrule and distraction spring up. The dominant party unwilling to yield to, or to part from the wretches, who minister to their wealth, their lust and ambition, enact the most sanguinary laws against resistance or migration. If the naked, half starved savage (such is the condition of this unhappy population) enrolls himself for removal beyond the Mississippi, where a contended and flourishing half of his nation already reside, and where in a healthy, genial and fertile soil, there is abundant room for the whole tribe, he is cruelly punished with stripes.  Should he consent to cede any portion of the territory in question, his life is the forfeit. Thus it is by superadding 'pains and penalties' to the natural attachments which bind even the wandering savage to his native, uncultivated wilds, the artful 'chief' of an ignorant band, maintains his usurpations of general government and against the best interests of the deluded Indian; and hence, the strange spectacle now too long endured, of a small community dwelling within our jurisdiction and within view of our court houses, where anarchy, crime, and violence pass unnoticed and unpunished.

The committee would respectfully submit in behalf of their citizens, whose lots have been cast on the borders of this anomalous empire, if the mischiefs to which they are daily subjected present no argument in favor of the measures now recommended? Have they no claims upon the protection and interference of the legislature? Whilst sympathizing for acts of pretended violence, perpetrated on the 'Indian' shall it be forgotten that the 'white man' too has some rights; and if he has, shall he be any longer postponed, in order to gratify the insatiate avarice and ambition of a few lawless 'chiefs' tyrannizing over an ignorant horde? How long is it to be endured, that this sanctuary of vice and crime shall remain open, a safe refuge for the old offender whose multiplied enormities have nearly betrayed him to the vengeance of the law, or as a school whither the young beginner in depravity may repair to learn the most successful lessons of moral turpitude.

It is time that the evils here adverted to should be arrested, and the protecting influence of government felt, where its shadow only has existed before. It is too late, the committee verily believe, for any false notions of humanity now to interpose and arrest the just exercise of legislative authority upon this subject.  All the states bordering on the Cherokee tribe, have extended their laws, and taken jurisdiction with their several chartered limits. This policy, though debatable in its incipient stages, has now become the settled usage of the country-and in any action upon the subject we are only left to inquire-what shall Tennessee do, in view of the circumstances surrounding her, to preserve her own internal tranquility?

To forebear longer, the committee believe, would be to invite every species of aggression within our acknowledged limits, and to proclaim to all the lovers of disorder and misrule, that an asylum was provided for them within the jurisdictional limits of one of the sovereign states of the Union. This, the committee believe, would be as unwise as it would be unjust, and finally tend to the overthrow of the Cherokee tribe itself. National honor and the progressive improvement of society demand indeed liberal and generous provisions of law, and that the statute book should go more, for the requirement of obedience in the 'white man' than the exaction of 'dues' or 'duties' from the 'red man.'

In further elucidation of this subject, the committee state the fact to be, that not less than three of this tribe have been by special acts of the legislature, admitted to all the privileges of citizenship in the state of Tennessee; one of whom is, at this time acting, as post master under the authority of the general government, and all of whom are now residing within the limits of the country, over which our laws are proposed to be extended- a negative pregnant at least that they reside within the jurisdictional limits of the state of Tennessee.

Of our constitutional right to take jurisdiction of crimes and contracts, as recommended in the Message of the Governor, the Committee entertain no doubts, it were useless, if they possessed the ability to elaborate a question of power which has already distinguished the pens of some of our most eminent statesmen. As the best and most conclusive argument at their command, and one which it is believed speaks the sentiments and opinions of the present able and popular administration; the committee have concluded to accompany this report, with a discussion which appeared in a Northern Journal, in the winter if 18, then and ever since attributed to a Gentleman, whose talents and integrity have gained the confidence of the nation and his Government.  This paper with other documents and 'A bill' are respectfully submitted to the wisdom and consideration of the House.




      


From the American Daily Advertiser

BLACK HAWK'S RECEPTION.

There is, perhaps, no subject so melancholy interesting, or more touchingly sublime, than the meeting of long absent friends.  There are a thousand receptions crowding upon the mind at the moment the scenes of other days, when all was calm and sunshine- the anxious hopes and fears for each other's welfare- and, finally, the pleasing delight of meeting once more together.

We have witnessed many such meetings-we have seen the parent ' child after a long separation, greet each other on their meeting-and we have seen the faithful and affectionate spouse receive the partner in her bosom, and welcome him home, in smiles and tears, in joy and anguish.- But, we have never yet witnessed any meeting of friends more fraught with melancholy intellect than that of Black Hawk and the Sacs and Foxes.

On his arrival at Rock Island, the ex-chief had his tent pitched on the bank of the Mississippi near the agency,-and on the next morning Ke-o-kuk ' the other chiefs, with a large party of their young men arrived, for the purpose of receiving him. They encamped immediately in front of Black Hawk's tent, on the opposite bank of the river. Preparations were soon made on both sides for the meeting. A number of canoes were lashed together to convey the braves and the warriors to the other shore, a flag was hoisted, and the sound of the muffled drum was heard, which was a signal of their departure. Ke-o-kuk and the chiefs, moved slowly, in front,- and on reaching the shore, formed their young men into a kind of hallow square.  Ke-o-kuk then made a short address to his people. He said:

'The Great Spirit had been kind to them-He had listened to their petitions-He had granted their requests-and they ought all to be thankful.-They had petitioned their Great Father to release Black Hawk and the other prisoners, and he has now sent them home to enjoy their liberty.  The Great Spirit has changed the heart of the old chief-gave him a good one, and sent him back to his friends.  Let the past be buried deep in the earth. Whilst his heart was wrong he had done many very bad things, but, he hoped, now, after having travelled through many of the big towns, where he had been before him, he could see the folly of his past conduct, and would know how to govern himself in future.'

Ke-o-kuk then advanced, with folded arms, sedately to the tent of Black Hawk, shook hands and took seats in the tent; after which, the line moved slowly forward, ' each took the Hawk by the hand.  Not a word was spoken until all had presented themselves.- Ke-o-kuk then broke silence, and each commenced congratulating the other.

There were many among them who had lost friends and relations during the late war, and when they called to mind that this old warrior had led them on to the battle field, on which they had perished, it harrowed up their souls, and created within them feelings of painful remembrance. The tear of sorrow was seen to steal down their cheeks, and the throbbing of the heart plainly evinced the painful feelings of the mind. Here were those who had affectionate relations and kind friends-who had heard related the painful story of their death-and before them sat the chief who had led them onward to the glory scene. For their departed friends the tear of sorrow gushed from their eye-lids, the palpitating heart throbbed with melancholy sympathy; but not a word of censure, or a whisper of reproach was cast upon the old chief. For he too, had cause to lament, both the loss of friends and the loss of power.

Time was when he stood high in the councils of the nation-where he could call around him his braves and warriors, (among whom he was chief,) and, at his nod, led them onward 'to the tented field and battle gore.' But now, how different his situation! How changed his circumstances! Thrown from the lofty summit of his greatness, without rank and without power! Placed under obligations to those chiefs (whom he could never recognize as equals) even for his liberty!-and then, the reflection that so many of his brave warriors who had fought by his side had fell (sic) in battle,- and whose bones now lie bleached on the rugged earth without a mound, and with nought but the canopy of Heaven for a covering, must, and did, produce within him feelings of the deepest mortification and humiliation.

TESTOR.

Rock Island, August  1833.




      


From the Flint's Indian Wars of the West

INDIAN ANTIQUITIES

Among the second class of Indian antiquities may be classed the idols, vases, and culinary utensils, of which such numbers are found in the western country, as that they are no longer regarded as curiosities. The beautiful three headed idol, the most remarkable specimen of Indian pottery and molding that has yet been found, was taken from a mound in Tennessee. It consists of three heads proportions of considerable accuracy, representing countenances of different expressions and ages.  The whole workmanship is surprising, when viewed in reference to the common notion of Indian art.- We possessed a beautiful and perfect specimen of Indian pottery in the shape of a drinking gourd. The aperture represented the mouth of a squaw, which the thirst drinker would naturally kiss with a degree of eager appetite. In digging a ditch round a garden below Saint Charles, in the forks between the Mississippi and Missouri, we came upon great quantities of fragments of this ware. Much of it in fine preservation has been dug from the chalk banks below the mouth of the Ohio. It is found in fact everywhere between the Pittsburgh, Lake Superior, and New Mexico. The material is clay, with a considerable intermixture of sand, sometimes flinty, sometimes calcareous, but generally of a snowy whiteness. They were all molded by the hand without any aid from the potter's wheel. The shapes of natural objects were happily imitated, and they were hardened by the heat of the sun. Sculptured and inscribed rocks are among the most common of Indian antiquities. On the side of a mountain in Tennessee, are the marks of the footsteps of men and horses in the limestone, in great numbers and as though they were the tracks of an army.  Some of the tracks show, as if the party had slipped in miry clay. All have the appearance of being an actual impress in soft clay, which afterwards hardened to stone, retaining a perfect impression. Characters of grert (sic) freshness of coloring are marked upon many of the high bluffs that impend the western rivers. Inscriptions of this sort are found in Missouri, on the Illinois, and various other places. A remarkable track of human foot was found in a solid block of limestone, on the bank of the Mississippi, at St. Louis. The most ancient traditions of the west do not touch the origin of these mounds or characters. 'The recent excavation of the Louisville and Portland Canal, afforded an impressive display of ancient remains. In the alluvial stratum immediately above the compact bed of slate limestone, and from nineteen to upwards of twenty feet below the surface, brick hearths were brought to view, with the coals of the last social domestic fires still visible.  The bricks, as we have heard them described, were hard and regular, differing from those of the present make, in being proportion to their width and thickness. Along with the organic remains of animals, similar to those found at Big Bone Lick, were skeletons of men in great numbers. Among others, was that of a man standing erect in the earth, one arm raised to an angle of forty-five degrees with the shoulder, and holding in the hand a semi-globular, or rather elliptical stone, striated with gay colors, beautifully polished, and of the size of half an orange.'




      


The Cherokee Lands.- The Cherokee Phoenix says, that large land companies have bought of many individuals the lots of land which they drew in the Georgia lottery; and that it would now be much cheaper for the United States to redeem all these possessions given by lottery, so that Georgia citizens can no longer claim them, then to purchase the whole territory of the Cherokees.  The title of Georgia to sell these lands might indeed be thus extinguished, but this would not exclude her from extending her government over the Indians. Would the Cherokees consent to become citizens, and abandon their independent government, and would Georgia entitle them to all the privileges of citizenship, this might be the best way of giving Georgia an indemnification and settling all existing difficulties Georgia having divided the lands to her inhabitants can claim no more that the U. S. shall extinguish for them the Indian title; and the United States might purchase and restore the whole to the Cherokees probably for three or four millions of dollars.--Philadelphiaian




      


From the Cherokee Intelligencer

THE CHEROKEES.

The friends of Georgia must look to the removal of the Cherokees with increasing interest; nothing, connected with this subject can be more desirable to them, than that they should leave our limits for a place more suited to their mode of life. The enrolling agents, Major Curry and Colonel Hardin, are actively engaged; the former, however, has for sometime been rendered unfit for the arduous duties of his office by indisposition, this circumstance has consequently thrown an undue weight of toil on the latter.

Some facts that we published a short time since, relating to the Cherokee reservees, seem to have excited considerable interest amongst that class. Upon further research, it is discovered that about two thousand individuals of that part of this tribe, now in Georgia, have heretofore enrolled for the West, while Governor M'Minn was agent, and under the stipulations of the Treaty of 1817; they received upwards of nine thousand dollars for their improvements besides guns, blankets, kettles, traps, 'c., and yet they incumber some of the best lands in this section of the state, and yet the drawers of these lands are forbid their enjoyment. Although we see in this act of Georgia the utmost forbearance and indulgence towards this numerous class of Cherokees, yet do these same individuals join the enemies of Georgia and are found in their reproach, jeers and charges; we hope Georgia will no longer do injustice to her white citizens for the gratification of her red enemies.

The incumbents to which we have reference begin to discover much uneasiness about their situations; they, suppose, very reasonably, that Georgia will authorize the issuing grants for the lands they occupy, in which event their stay here will be short.

It will be the duty of every member of the ensuing legislature to be well informed upon this very interesting topic; we wish no injustice done to a solitary individual of the Cherokee tribe by an over anxiety to put the drawer in possession of his property, on the other hand we believe that grants should issue for all tracts of the description we have been contemplating. There is another class of persons connected to this tribe, we mean white men having Indian families, that will require to be more particularly noticed by the Legislature. It has been adjudged that 'if a person is an Indian for one he must be an Indian for all purposes' if so, a white man is a party, hence he is incompetent to hold an office, to serve on jurors, to vote at elections, to pay taxes or to be called upon to perform any duty or exercise any privilege, common to the citizens of Georgia. If, however, they are not to be considered as Indians, then should grants be issued for the lands upon which they have intruded; hitherto, we believe they have only been considered as Indians for the purpose of holding land.

The enrolling goes on prosperously, the enrollment of a large number of persons and families amongst whom are some important individuals, in the northern and eastern parts of the circuit, is much beyond what was expected.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, OCTOBER 19, 1833

We omitted to notice in due time the reception of the 'Encyclopedia Americana' in twelve volumes, published in Philadelphia, by Carey, Lea ' Carey, and Edited by Francis Lieber.  From the hasty glance we have had of this extensive work, and by us some articles copied, the Editor has furnished to the American readers certainly, one of the most useful Dictionaries of the Arts, Sciences, History, Politics, 'c., which could only be devised by a person competent to the task, and of a highly cultivated author.

This work was presented to the Cherokee Nation by Mr. James H. Handy of Scotland. We shall endeavor to make numerous extracts from this work for the miscellaneous part of our paper, such as in our opinion, will be interesting to our readers, and will be credited to that work.

_______________

We may safely congratulate our readers on the favorable termination to the Nation, of our struggles for sovereignty, with the State of Alabama, in consequence of that state having extended its jurisdiction over that part of the Cherokee territory lying within its limits. It is, we believe, generally known that the Cherokee Government within these limits had been superseded by that of Alabama, and the vacant lands settled upon by the whites. At a Circuit Court of September term, for the county of St. Clair, his Honor Judge Adair, presiding, came up for trial, a Cherokee Indian, indicted for the murder of an Indian in the Cherokee territory, in Alabama. The Counsel for the Nation filed a plea to the jurisdiction of Alabama, as repugnant to the treaties, 'c., of the United States. Judge Adair remarked, that he was sworn to support the Constitution and Treaties of the United States, and would be strictly governed by them. In an elaborate opinion, as we are informed, Judge Adair has declared the laws of Alabama over the Cherokees, null and void, and repugnant to the treaties and laws of the United States. We shall publish the opinion so soon as we can obtain a copy.

________________

Our readers will find in another part of our paper, the movements of the Tennessee Legislature, towards the extension of its jurisdiction over the Cherokee Nation, assumed to be within the limits of that State. To the views of Gov. Carroll, in submitting the subject before the Legislature, we shall make no serious objections. His Excellency, we are glad, find the authority of the State questionable, to punish crimes committed within the Nation. If none exist now, and the act of Congress of 1802, regulating trade 'c. with the Indian tribes is virtually in force and fully implied by his Excellency, and the position of the Cherokees remain unchanged, we are sure that he has fixed such principles in this case as ought to debar him forever of sanctioning a law, to force the jurisdiction of the State over the Cherokees; for by this act, no white person can enter the Cherokee territory without a passport from the agent.

The report of the Select Committee favorable to the jurisdiction of the State, we are sorry to find is based upon the most insulting misrepresentations and considerations to justify a measure, in our opinion, intended solely for the cooperation of the intricate measures of the President, to force a treaty on the Cherokees, that have ever emanated from an enlightened Legislature, not excepting the letter of Mr. Robb, acting Secretary of War, to the Principal Chief.

The Legislature at its last session failed to pass an act for the extension of its laws over the Cherokees, but chose, as we presume, and the words of a Lawyer, 'to hold and see Georgia skinning the flanks of the Cherokees.' Now that Georgia has finished, Tennessee draws the sharp dagger of usurpation to civilize the starved and naked savages which the lynx sighted legislators have lately discovered in the Cherokee Nation, and like the finishing stroke of the painters brush, will strip the remaining life of the side of the other. The report is written in a style of language soft; it is the brazen serpent charity; but it is the fiery flying serpent slander. The principal motives impelling the committee to introduce civil reforms among the Cherokees are the existence of nakedness, starvation, and the sanguinary punishments inflicted on persons removing west of the Mississippi. Of these allegations, of the desperate circumstances of the Cherokees, we can only say, they are perfectly untrue.- They are extremely ungenerous, uttered as they are towards an unoffending people. It is only a pretext and a hobby, by which to effect the passage of its jurisdiction over the Cherokees. We cannot see as the Committee do, the justification of the state in her course, on the broad ground of the customs of the other states.  France conquered Algiers on the ground of the latter abetting the pirates of the seas, and becoming a nuisance to her neighbors. Would France then be justified to turn robber? We presume every member of the select committee would condemn France in such a capacity. Georgia has legislated over the Cherokees, and in the face of the world robbed them of their immense territory. If the great State of Tennessee, then could hold France culpable for becoming a robber, there appears to be the most wilful inconsistency in the committee to take shelter in the cruelties of other states towards our race. But we fear they caught the electric of Major Jack Downing, 'We don't care for the Injins.'

__________________

We copy into this paper an article from the Cherokee Intelligencer, on the subject, as the Editor states, of some 2,000 Cherokees who it would seem, have been discovered to have enrolled 16 or 18 years ago, and the editor, Mr. Cobb, having established his paper in the Cherokee Nation, with the title of `Cherokee' for the benefit of No. 1, by advertisements, 'c. for the Yazoo Speculators, (in our acceptation, robbers) have been gotten up ostensibly for a curse to the Cherokees-holds up his great integrity to law makers in Georgia, and that grants should be made to issue for those lots occupied by said Indians, on the ground of the relinquishment of their rights by enrollment. We had concluded that of Mr. Cobb's legal talents to furnish such an article, not sufficiently civilized for our readers, would have risen from it with hands as unclean, as if he had stooped to the puddle to wash his face. It is not true as it is stated in the Intelligencer, that 2,000 had enrolled in 1817. Admitting the statement to be correct, for the benefit of Georgia, what would that State gain by it? We challenge the writer to prove that five families of emigrants are living in Georgia, by such living testimony as will establish the fact. He cannot prove four families of that class who actually subscribed their names for emigration.  Again, admit the assertions to be true, for argument sake, and that every individual were living in Georgia; the treaty of 1819 1st article, by a large cession of territory to the Government, satisfied all the demands of Government on the Nation, for the emigrants and all that might hereafter go. After this treaty, the right of the Cherokees to admit whom they please, has never been questioned. The emigrants were under no penalty for remaining at their homes. Now Georgia is a party to this treaty, although she holds them nugatory, and anxious for more, no rational man will hesitate to admit, that Georgia has already received these very lands now claimed for the drawers, about sixteen years ago. We advise the editor to retract and tell the truth, evil communications will corrupt good manners. If however, truth is not mighty with him, and justice by a shadow, we must expect the Frog Town Surveyor to issue grants to those lots in question, in the same way of Joseph Vann's.

If the rights of persons to things has become an object of research with Mr. Cobb, it would be well for him to learn whether Gen. Coffee can be considered a legal member elect to the Congress of the United States. This gentleman was resident of the Cherokee Country so announced by the public journals of Georgia. The laws of the United States pronounce as outlawry against all white persons entering on the Cherokee lands without permission from the agent.  He was elected, we presume, on the merits of his master General ship, in chaining Cherokee boys for digging their own gold; and lodging them in jails. The Cherokees can have no right to send a representative to Congress, under the laws of the United States. Therefore, the fortunate drawers of Bogan's lottery would do well to pull the mote out of their own eyes.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

LUMPKIN COUNTY, GEO. Oct. 3, 1833

Mr. Hicks:- Sir, I think it my duty to publish a few lines in your paper, as a matter of justice to myself and fellow citizens. I have been informed that a gentleman, a Mr. Wm. Read, who has been a citizen of this Nation, but had relinquished his claim by emigration in 1831, and under the pretention of an emigrating officer, has visited Hightower recently, for the purpose of enrolling some two or three negro families; and one in particular, whose name is Fed, who has a white woman for his wife, and seven children, and it appears that they are about to come under the name of Cherokees, in order to be enrolled, and for the express purpose of having some of my improvements valued. I now forworn all persons engaged in the immediate employ of the United States, against valuing the place which he now lives on, for I claim the same as my right and property, or any other place that is known to be mine.

E. B. McLAUGHLIN.

_______________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

Mr. Hicks:- Sir, I have been a subscriber to your paper, though not in my own name, and it was with a feeling of regret and sorrow that I read several weeks since a notice in one of our papers, that the Cherokee Phoenix had stopped.  When I first subscribed to the Phoenix, my residence was at H_______. I am now located in F_______, about ten miles distance, but I did not leave-without first giving particular directions to have my paper forwarded regularly. I received but two numbers after my removal, and I began to fear that through carelessness, or something worse, or perhaps to save themselves trouble, they had sent the paper back to its original source. This I resolved should never be done with m consent, while a Cherokee remained on his own 'chartered limits.' or the justly complaining notes of the Phoenix were to be heard in our land-but they are acquitted in this matter. The publication of the paper, it appears, has been suspended for a few weeks, and is now resumed. When Mr. B____ was in our part of the country, I subscribed for two years; I now enclose the money for another two years. I wish it hereafter to be directed to Mrs. E. G____, F____.

'When I think of the wrongs of the Cherokees, I am grieved-but when I think of Him whose throne is the habitation of judgment and justice, though clouds and darkness surround him, and read that the effectual fervent prayer of the righteous man availeth much-and then revert to the character and conduct of your friends, the faithful and intrepid missionaries, I do not give up all for lost.

Moses prostrate before his Maker, the Red Sea before him-the mountains on each side, and the Egyptians behind, received no other answer than -'go forward'-and you know the result. It is a vivid picture of your circumstances, and God grant that your triumph, if not as miraculous, may be as complete as was that of his favored people.

With my best wishes for the success of your interesting paper, and a hope that its patronage may be equal to its merits.

Yours respectful.

P. S. Please to consider me a subscriber for life, and when my remittances cease I shall have 'gone to my final home.'






      


MESSAGE

OF THE PRINCIPAL CHIEF.

To the Committee ' Council.

In General Council Convened.

Friends ' Fellow Citizens- As representatives of the people, you have again assembled at the great Council fire, for the purpose of deliberating upon the important concerns of the nation; and to adopt such measures as the interest and welfare of your constituents shall, in your judgments, seem to require.

The resolutions adopted at your late call session, have been transmitted through the War Department, for the information of the President; and I now lay before you a copy of my letter to the Hon. Secretary of War, accompanying the same; also the letter of Mr. Robb, acting Secretary of War, in reply thereto, from which you will discover the manner, in which the frank expression of our solicitude for a speedy and final termination of existing difficulties, has been received and treated by the Executive branch of the General Government, there can be no doubt, however, from the very extraordinary language communicated thro' the acting Secretary, that the President has been grossly deceived, by means of some designing persons, possessing his confidence, or how could it be possible for him to assert with so much apparent earnestness, that we had misrepresented the sentiments of the Cherokee people, and were now misleading them, when it must be clear to the mind of every intelligent man, that, we can have no motive nor disposition to do either.

Our course has ever been a straight forward one, it is marked with candor and frankness. In the discussion of the question of our common cause, it became our duty to contend for, and sustain the rights of the nation, upon legal grounds, consequently the people became enlightened on the subject, from the developments made of those rights, and being true to their own interest they necessarily came to the determination to oppose that policy, which, in their opinion, is calculated to destroy their political rights, and bring ruin upon their peace and happiness. The question being now determined, by the highest judicial tribunal of the United States, in favor of our nation, and the very lucid opinion of that venerable court having been published before the world, it is not necessary that I should at this late day attempt by argument to show the correctness of that righteous decision. But, in as much as the President of the United States has thought proper not to enforce the treaties in conformity with that decision, nor to remove the duress of which the nation so justly complains, nor to suspend the oppressive proceedings of his own agents towards us; it has become my bounden duty to recommend you to take such steps as shall appear most proper to bring the whole subject before the approaching session of Congress, for a final action. The memorials which have been presented before that branch of the Government, on the part of this nation, together with the numerous petitions presented by citizens from various parts of the United States, in our behalf, have never been answered; and they are subject to be called up for action on a proper occasion, and from the peculiar situation of affairs at this time, that occasion seems to have arrived, which imperiously demands the final action of Congress on the subject without further delay.

By treaty, the United States, for important considerations, were induced to receive the Cherokee Nation under their protection, and in return, the Nation acknowledged itself to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whatsoever. It cannot be pretended, I trust, that the President by his own will, and without the consent of this nation, can ever absolve the United States from the sacred obligation of extending this protection, nor to transfer that protection to the sovereignty of individual states, as states by mutual concession in the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, having imparted to the Federal Government that power, they can never recall it, without the mutual consent of the proper parties. If, however, contrary to every principle of justice and humanity, the United States should, in the end, come to the determination, not to be bound by their treaties, and shall refuse to us the protecting arm of the General Government, and our citizens be compelled by the force of circumstances to abandon the land of 'their Fathers,' then, in the language of your resolution, I may with great sincerity, repeat, that we can 'determine no other alternative promising relief, than a removal beyond the limits of the United States.'  However, I confidently hope that this alternative may never present itself, as I cannot for a moment, permit myself to entertain so unfavorable opinion as to loose all confidence in the justice and good faith of the United States. It is nevertheless true, that our nation within the last four years, have experienced the sad effects of a temporizing and oppressive course of policy from that Government of which we have been taught to honor, as a faithful guardian; the event of the final result, is a circumstance which we should be prepared to meet in such a manner as the peace and permanent welfare of the nation demands.

It is a self evident truth, that no community can successfully surmount an opposing difficulty and attain the object of desire, unless the members thereof can and do exercise a controlling influence of common interest, so as to ensure harmony and perseverance among themselves by unity of sentiment and action, and the force of this truth, is equally applicable to nations; hence it is clear that we cannot be too strongly impressed with the necessity of pursuing that course which is best calculated to meet this views, interest, and welfare of the people. On all important questions, when a difference of opinion arise in regard to their rights and interest, the sentiments of the majority should prevail, and whatever measure is adopted by that majority for the public good, should be the duty of the minority to yield,and unite in the support of the measure, this is the rule of order, sanctioned by patriotism and virtue; whilst a contrary course would lead to faction, confusion and injury.

The resolutions of your last session to which I have referred, were unanimously adopted, and they have been communicated to the people through the medium of a special circular. So far as I have had the means of being informed, they fully accord with the sentiments of the people. Immediately after replying to my letter which accompanied those resolutions, the President took occasion to instruct, certain agents to open books for enrollment, and to traverse the country with interpreters for the purpose of urging individuals to register their names in favor of a treaty, on the  basis of the proposition offered, and which have been repeatedly rejected by the nation; and in the event that the nation should not enter into a treaty in the course of the Fall or the early part of the Winter, then they who may have registered their names, should emigrate to the country west of the Mississippi. It is a fact to be regretted, that there were a few individuals to be found by those Agents, who were so lost to their own true interests as to register their names on this occasion, and also, to exert an influence over others to betray their country's cause, and involve their own families into countless difficulties. It is also a fact worthy of notice, that such persons are generally found to be of those who constitute the denizens of the nation and in some instances, of those having no just claim to citizenship.

It affords me gratification to inform you, that in a recent decision by the Circuit Court of Alabama, in the county of St. Clair, and in a case of murder committed by a native Cherokee, upon another within the territorial limits of this nation; the law of that State extending jurisdiction within our limits, has been pronounced to be unconstitutional and void, ' for want of proper jurisdiction, the prisoner was discharged.

On the other hand, when I look into the leading cause which has produced the effusion of so much blood between our citizens in the course of the current year, I cannot refrain from the painful reflection, that it is to be traced to the intoxication and sale of intoxicating liquors in our country, by intruders, and that too, in violation of the laws of the United States, as well as of those of our own. But it has been our misfortune to experience the force of oppression and usurpation, and the consequent suspension in part of the execution of our laws, and also to witness the non-enforcement of the laws of the United States, prohibiting the sale of ardent spirits in the Indian country. It is the more to be regretted, when we see the laxity of duty on the part of those federal officers, whose incumbent duty it is to execute the laws on this subject, especially as the power of Congress to legislate on the subject of Indian trade, is made exclusive, and is so clearly defined by the Constitution of the United States. And, although, under existing circumstances it may not be within the immediate control of your legislative authority, to remedy the evil, yet I have thought it expedient and highly important to bring the subject before your serious consideration. I flatter myself that such good may be done by the force of example and persuasion, to check the growing evil; as it cannot be denied that it is by example and habit the conduct of men are in a great degree influenced. And when a moral force is exerted through the influence of that faithful monitor which the Great Being has implanted in the breast of man, it never fails to produce the happiest effect; whereas a contrary practice will beget the evil habit of indulging that appetite and propensity in everything wished for, and at length the energies of the mind will become resistless, as it were, in a state of supineness and stupidity; and the unfortunate victim is then exposed to drunkenness, gambling, cheating, stealing, lying, treachery, and many other arts of abomination. Intemperance in the use of ardent spirits must be admitted by all, to be one of the greatest evils that has ever visited our people, its ruinous effects are too visible to escape the observation of every reflecting mind, and from the peculiar situation of our affairs, it is the most deadly poison that can be introduced amongst us, to destroy the happiness of society, if encouraged, it will not fail to bring ruin upon the nation. I would therefore call upon you as representatives of the people, to resist the monster, with that stern and inflexible determination becoming the character of men, when actuated by the impulse of self-preservation, to overthrow a dangerous enemy by setting the example, and refraining from the use of intoxicating liquors, and exerting a proper influence by persuading others to do the same. I cannot doubt that the example would soon be followed and cherished by every patriot, for the good of his fellow citizens; by those means the property, the character, and lives of many may be saved, and the welfare of the nation promoted.

JOHN ROSS

Red Clay, C. N. Oct. 15, 1833.

________________

REPORT

The undersigned Committee on the state of the Nation, to whom was referred for consideration, the Message of the Principal Chief to the General Council beg leave to report, That to promote the object and desire of the Cherokee Nation the usual method has been to appoint a Delegation, entrusted with power to exercise all the diligence and wisdom in their ability to memorialize Congress, on the subjects of grievances by which our country is afflicted. To this Department of the General Government, and to the Executive, nothing of argument and the facts of grinding usurpation, which has been inflicted upon our people, have been omitted, to be addressed, in the strongest manner of which the wisdom of our Delegations could command. For more than four years past, emphatic declarations of denial, to protect our Nation, have been made to us by the President.  During this long period, our people, as individuals and as a Nation, have experienced innumerable trials. Our Brothers, the adjoining states, hitherto restrained by the force of treaty obligations, and the fostering care of the General Government, have overleaped their bounds, and have indirectly encouraged their citizens to assail our lives and bodies, and directly, in their legislative character, one of the states has gambled off by lottery, our lands, upon which we are depending for the support of our families. While Georgia has nullified laws, the Sate of Alabama has them, and legalized intrusion in its chartered limits. Superadded to this, undeserved injury in time of profound peace, our destiny has been to notice the gross violations of the dearest rights ever bestowed upon man, the rights of civil liberty. Not satisfied it would seem, in the great latitude the states directly interested in the acquisition of our lands, have taken to inflict upon us the sharp instruments of usurpation, they have poisoned them with the slanderous venom of vituperation.

Even now, the newspapers are filled with this sort of inhuman forerunner of state avidity from a quarter which we least expected from a select Committee of the Legislature of the State of Tennessee.  In the language of that Committee it is now not a debatable mater to assail Indian rights. To abstain from the expression of charges against our chiefs, which are to(sic) foul to be repeated by your Committee, would have comforted better, with the frankness of these would be very honest gentlemen politicians.

Your committee regret to perceive that the difficulties, which have grown up like the grass in the season of spring, in consequence of the withdrawal of the protection guarantied to us by treaty, are rapidly increasing, and the Cherokee Nation is besieged and assailed by the unholy combinations of interest and cupidity of the states immediately interested.  The treaties, laws, and the decision of the Supreme Court do not appear to have that moral influence with the President, or the American people which we desire. It is also evident that unless this influence is lighted up in the Executive and Legislative Departments of the United States' Government and properly respected by the officers filling those Departments, our own Government will gradually expire by the violent and usurping hands of the neighboring states. Here, the following views of the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, approving them as we do, may with propriety be embodied with the report to wit: 'Inasmuch as the President of the United States has thought proper not to enforce the treaties in conformity with that decision, (the Supreme Court) nor to remove the duress of which we so justly complain-nor to suspend the oppressive proceedings of his own agents towards us, it has become my bounden duty to recommend you to take such steps as shall appear most proper to bring the whole subject before the approaching Session of Congress for a final action. The memorials which have been presented before that branch of the Government, on the part of this Nation, together with the numerous petitions by citizens from various parts of the United States in our behalf have never been answered, and they are subject to be called up for action on a proper occasion, and from the peculiar situation of affairs at this time, that occasion seems to have arrived which imperiously demands the final action of Congress on the subject without farther delay. By treaty the United States for important considerations were induced to receive the Cherokee Nation under their protection, and in return, the Nation acknowledged itself to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whatever. It cannot be pretended, I trust, that the President by his own will, and without the consent of this Nation, can ever absolve the United States from the same obligation of extending this protection, nor to transfer that protection to the sovereignty of individual states. As the states by mutual concession in the adoption of the Constitution of the United States having imparted to the federal Government that power, they can never, (lawfully) recall it without the mutual consent of the proper parties. If however, contrary to every principle of justice and humanity, the United States should in the end come to the determination, not to be bound by their treaties, and shall refuse to us the protecting arm of the General Government-and our citizens be compelled by the force of circumstances to abandon the land of 'their Fathers' then in the language of your resolution, I may with great sincerity repeat that we can 'determine no other alternative promising relief than a removal beyond the limits of the United States.'   However I contently hope that this alternative may never present itself, as I cannot for a moment permit myself to entertain so unfavorably opinion as to lose all confidence in the justice and good faith of the United States. It is nevertheless true, that our nation within the last few years have experienced the sad effects of a temporizing and oppressive policy from that Government of which we have been taught to honor, as our faithful guardian- the event of the final result is (a circumstance) which we should be prepared to meet in such a manner as the peace and permanent welfare of the Nation demands. It is a self-evident truth that no community can successfully surmount an opposing difficulty and obtain the object of desire, unless the members thereof can and do exercise a controlling influence of common interest so as to ensure harmony and perseverance among themselves by unity of sentiment and action-and the force, of this truth is equally applicable to nations-hence it is clear that he cannot be too strongly impressed with the necessity of pursuing that course which is best calculated to meet the views interest and welfare of the people. On all important questions where a difference of opinion arises in regard to their rights and interest the sentiments of the majority should prevail- and whatever measure is adopted by that majority for the public good, should be the duty of the minority to yield and unite in the support of the measure-this is the rule of order sanctioned by patriotism and virtue, whilst a contrary course would lead to faction, confusion, and injury.

The Cherokee Nation has existed a long time, beyond the reach of the memory of living men. Upon its character no foul blot which can spread the blush of shame upon our cheeks, can attach itself. It is the last of the aboriginal nations, that now contends for its liberties, and it may now with great propriety be viewed by all the friends of justice and humanity as the Poland of America. It has been the lot of our Nation to depend for existence on the magnanimity and justice of the United States. We are too feeble in physical power to depend upon anything else. For more than four years, we have appealed to Congress as the Representatives of the United States to fulfil its obligations and faith. During this period we have nearly been robbed of all our property.  The Nation has passed the fiery furnace kindled expressly to burn out the attachment of our people to the land of their forefathers, and their affections to it are yet unsubdued. It is the lot of humanity to perish from the face of the earth.- We are all liable to die, and the places that know us, may know us no more in the world! The future historian may mark out where our hearts bled for our people and country, from the civil policy of the United States, but he shall never write on the page of truth, that to that policy we ever yielded the mode of approbation. They have too long tried us, if it be true that the United State have placed us on the rack of probation, and your Committee believe that if it is the intention of the United States to render justice to us in our present location, they can accomplish the duty which their sacred honor is pledged to perform during the next Session of Congress. If not, and the General Government never designs to carry the treaties with our Nation into effect, your Committee is of the opinion that frankness in the expression of that determination is due to us, their Representatives in General Congress assembled, which will convene the ensuing winter at Washington. Your committee are then of the opinion that the only method to obtain 'the final action' of Congress upon the grievous situation of the Nation is to appoint a delegation in whose wisdom and integrity we can confide to carry the subject of our difficulties for the consideration of that branch of the General Government, and if possible to draw from it a favorable resolution for the relief of our afflicted Nation.

JOHN RIDGE, Chairman

RICHARD FIELDS,

JOHN TIMSON,

DAVID VANN.

Red Clay 23d Oct. 1833.




      


INDIANS

From the National Intelligencer

CHEROKEE CHARACTER AND CONTROVERSY WITH ITS BEARINGS.

Georgia, Sept. 10, 1833

Messrs. GALES ' SEATON: You will allow me, I hope, to present, through your columns, a sketch of the Cherokee character, with a few hints upon the Cherokee Question, and its incidental bearing upon questions, rising and marching with a bold front, upon the fundamental principles of our common country. I select your paper as it is less tinctured with the bitter spirit of party rivalry, then either the Globe or the Telegraph. This position may possibly produce more reflection to matters of high import, such as the true interest of the country, as this peculiar crisis, demands, than if it appeared under the supposed dictation of the administration, or the mere love of opposition to all its measures.

The Cherokee Questions must be speedily settled by a treaty, or the Cherokees, as a tribe, will not only be abolished, but individually ruined. The settlements of the whites among them, with their grog shops, and their attendant oppressions, in the accumulation of property, will, if allowed to continue, sap and destroy the policy of the Government, and defeat the hopes of the Christian, from the rapid improvement of the Cherokees in attempting their redemption from the savage life, to religious and political liberty. If this be not affected, and an attempt be made to expel the whites from the country, the disaffection of the South towards the Union, but more particularly towards the North, will eventually result in a Revolution-any attempts at which, no human foresight, nothing less than the over ruling Spirit of Providence can count the dreadful consequences.

Circumstances forcibly present themselves to the American Statesman to pluck out the firebrand to silence local discords, to hush sectional jealousies, as all such feelings have but one tendency, to weaken attachment to the Union.

Georgia has now possession of the Indian territory, leaving the Indians no political rights, and but little more than the shadow of claim to their circumscribed homes. The Rubicon has been passed, how to withdraw the sufferers under such harsh measures from the field, with the least injury, is now the only question of either the Philanthropist or Statesman. As an American Citizen, alike adverse to the laws of Georgia and the course of the Federal Government, I am, from a full view of all the surrounding and embarrassing incidents, very urgent for such a treaty with the Cherokees, as will redound to the honor of the Government, and permanently give the Indians a home, with such political rights as their intellectual advancement and civilization will justify. I am well informed as regards the circumstances of the Cherokees. They were making speedy and salutary advances towards civilization, previous to the strong measure taken by Georgia. And I must here state, that no history of its contests for political power informs us of any instance in which the strong have treated the weak with less cruelty and more show of mercy than have hitherto been experienced by the invaded Indians. The Cherokees, relying hitherto upon their form of government, which was only social and municipal, have now become divided on the question of a treaty. Now all hope for the reassertion of their rights, or a recognition of them by the United States, are in a considerable abandoned.  John Ridge, and others, well informed and highly improved as well in the science of civil governments in the proper measures for the preservation of their brothers and countrymen as a nation are become the open advocates for a treaty. In this party, though greatly in the minority, we can rank a majority of the talented men of the nation, such as would be an ornament to our Government in proving the value of education among our savages friends.

John Ross, the principal chief, is opposed to a treaty, and has the great body of the Indians with him, and is, in my opinion, influenced by the same high spirit of patriotism to preserve his nation, that characterizes the talented Ridge, and his enlightened associates. Hard necessity has, however, divided these patriots, whose great ambition is, in my opinion, to be the first builders of a religious and enlightened government from a savage tribe, which our pilgrim fathers as recusants first established on the American soil. And this pure ambition of both parties must, before long, unite in the policy of a treaty with the United States, as the only alternative to relieve them from their present embarrassed situation.

The Cherokees have generally assumed the white man's dress. Agriculture is almost as common with them as the whites, although much less extensive.  None scarcely look to the hunter's life for support; looms and wheels, and cornfields, belong to almost every family.  As great a proportion of Cherokees now read their language as we find in many of the states, save where general education has been systematized by law. A great spirit for learning and for knowledge is now prevailing with them.  Boudinot is now engaged in the translation of the Bible into their native language. His native intellect, added to his erudition, well fits him for so honorable and praiseworthy efforts for his countrymen. Ridge and Boudinot are full-bloods of about 30 years of age.  These two men are well informed, sagacious, and every way qualified to lead onwards the intellectual advancement of their people. You will meet with few men in any country of their age, better suited for the accomplishment of the bold task they have determined on. There are many others of high promise among them. The last fifteen or twenty years have wrought almost miraculous improvement among the Cherokees. The most credulous would scarcely believe that such a change could be produced without an actual acquaintance with the facts.

I gave you this account of the Cherokees, that the Government may discover their fitness for political rights, and be induced to place them by a treaty on that elevated ground which will make them our allies forever.

The Sabbath is generally observed by them; churches and Sunday schools were spreading over the Nation. The accomplishment of their daughters has commenced. This is the best evidence of the receding darkness amidst the savage life. I have met with a few Cherokee ladies highly polished in the useful and elegant arts. The spirit of emulation among families invited by the rapid burst of knowledge that is breaking through the thick clouds of savage ignorance, seems to be stirring up the Indian to a spirit of imitation for the white man's customs. They seem to have a great talent for music. I am told they learn it with more facility than the whites. The violin is the most common; some few pianos are to be seen in the nation. It is with much difficulty that their former dances and ball plays can be attended with success. The best part of the females have abandoned their rude festivals, and nothing but the change of their Government, which places all power with the people, induces any part of the intellectual young men to attend the ball plays. But, somewhat like our candidates for popular favor, the aspiring office hunters mingle in all associations. Yet public sentiment is daily receding from these rude, though innocent plays. They have a great desire for large stocks of horses, 'c. the hunter range being nearly exhausted these have been very much reduced.

This hasty sketch of the Cherokee character is due to them, and it is due to the America public. They must and will treat. It is now their interest, as well as the interest of the Government, that they should leave their present homes.  Yet the ruling spirit of both parties will never consent to treat, unless their political rights are guarantied and fixed by the settled policy of the Government. No presents, no bribes, no appeals to their avarice, can induce either side from their present purpose of becoming an enlightened nation. If the Government would agree to a provision allowing them hereafter to be represented in Congress as a Territory, with the prospect of becoming, whenever Congress shall deem them fit, a member of the Union, this would, at once , calm the rugged waves that have so long threatened their nation with ruin. It would give point and action to the whole energies of the nation, and strengthen the ambition of the high attributes of the heart and head. In a struggle from barbarism to civil liberty, the tendency of these prospects would be very flattering.- The policy of the United State, placing all the Indian tribes in clustered settlements west of the Mississippi, certainly requires that the Government should mark, in characters not to be misunderstood, its guardian solicitude for their final prosperity.  The impress of our friendship should be decidedly laid in their hearts, by the policy of the Government; if its desire be to make and keep them our friends in peace, and our allies in war.  The evident tendency of this policy will give the future historian fresh matter to exult in the happy results upon mankind, spring up as the glorious production of American justice, based on and interwoven with American liberty.

The renown of our country, when its policy can escape the fangs and fetters of that jealous spirit of party and ambition incident to the popular elective franchise, is brightening with the hopes of the world for political emancipation.

None but recreants to its redeeming glory would throw a speck over the lustre of its redeeming and cheering qualities.

The friends of the Cherokees, to be consistent in their love for their welfare, must cease to urge the establishment of the Cherokee's rights of separate government. The peculiar crisis of Georgia and South Carolina furnishes striking examples that communities are so often led astray by their passions, as uncivilized Indians; and while thus mad and enraged are as much influenced by the local parties of their States, as the mere love of public justice. And it becomes the friends of the Union to remove, as far as practicable, all cause of dissension and commotion.

Many of the Cherokees already see that the peculiar attitude of the South towards the Union will prevent the Government from any interference with their case. They are well enough informed that the slave question, now agitating in Georgia and South Carolina, has excited a deeper and more sullen hostility than even the sectional tariff could do against the North; and hence it is manifest to many of the Cherokees, that the Government is restrained by the fear of internal commotion and dissension, from aiding them in the reassertion of their rights.  And they admit, as statesmen, regarding the peace and welfare of the country, that the policy, or rather course of the Government, is one that circumstances now press it not to recede from.  They also see that an attempt to expel the whites would make them the first victims of the revolution.- These considerations are gradually weaning the native love of the Indians from their present homes. They begin to inquire about the country promised them, and it requires but little more to incline the balance in favor of a removal of the nation. It is by no means uncommon in Georgia and South Carolina, to hear of a Southern and Northern, and sometimes of a Western confederacy.

These things are ominous of political storms, and the seeds of disunion have been sown in South Carolina and Georgia. When the bloody harvest will be reaped, no human foresight can reveal. The slave and Indian questions are the only themes of deep interest-the citizens of these states seem to act as if Yankees had hold of their negroes, and were dragging them off by violence. This is merging the proud chivalry of the South into a sordid appeal to avarice, the least honorable passion of the heart. This view of the real state of public sentiment is important to be understood by the pure constitutional patriots of the land.- Let the Government remove all causes of annoyance; and if shame and self reproach will not bring the people of the South back to their duty, the rod will have to be used among these petted children. But let it be the last dreadful remedy for such political heresies; mutual forbearance, and brotherly concessions, are the most to be preferred by every true patriot. Without the exercise and prevalence of such generous sentiments throughout the land, the Union will soon be a bloody arena; but with these patriotic views and feelings, American liberty, the political torch for the world;s freedom, will still blaze with a light that will increase in lustre with time, from the hallowed ramparts of our federal Union.

KNOX.

[The writer of the above communicates his name to us, but we do not know him. We give his article for what it is worth. He adds in a private note to us; 'I am a citizen of Tennessee, Knoxville.  I have been over and through this country, and the Indian territory, and state nothing but facts. I write this ill digested article at the request of the treaty party in the Nation. They cannot longer stand the injustice of the whites-they wish their true character better understood.']




      


From the Missionary Herald.

CHARACTER ' MODE OF LIFE OF THE OJIBWAS

On our arrival in this country, we found ourselves surrounded by a nation of barbarians who knew nothing of the Christian religion, or of civilization.- They live in the rudest state of savage life.  They subsist principally on the natural productions of the country which they inhabit, such as fish, wild meat, wild rice, and maple sugar. Many of the numerous lakes with which the country abounds afford considerable quantities of fish. The deer which is the principal dependence of a considerable portion of Indians for a part of the year, is found chiefly in the southern part of the Ojibwa country and on the borders of the Mississippi. Wild rice is found mostly in the interior; little grown near the shores of the lake.- Most of the bands cultivate some small garden during the summer, which is done entirely with the hoe. The hoe and the axe are the only farming tools they possess. The ground they select for cultivating is usually some sandy or alluvial spot which they can dig most easily, and which often repays but poorly for their labor. Some of the bands between this place and Red River, are said to raise considerable quantities of corn. Most of them put but little dependence upon this article for subsistence.

They are an extremely improvident people, seldom providing for future need. Consequently they often suffer extremely from want. Instances of starvation are of no infrequent occurrence in some parts of the country. They have no idea of the value of property, scarcely one possesses anything more than the scanty dress which covers him, and a few rude cooking and hunting utensils.  Nor have they ambition to possess anything more. Their highest aim is simply the means of feasting and barely clothes enough to cover themselves. Their food is of the coarsest kind. Their clothes are chiefly obtained of their traders in exchange for furs. They consist of coarse woolen blankets and other coarse cloths, which are wrought into garments in the rudest manner possible.  They are extremely indolent, especially the men and seldom engage in any kind of labor except when driven to it by necessity. The business of the men is chiefly hunting and fishing. Almost all other kinds of labor are performed by the women, such as cultivating their gardens, building lodges, making sugar, cutting and collecting fuel, which is all carried on the back, and all other kinds of drudgery. To personal cleanliness they are perfect strangers, and from experience at least, they have no idea of its comforts. Filth is the very element in which they must live and breathe.

They build no permanent houses, but live in small temporary lodges, which are simply a covering of bark tied to poles set in the ground. A hole is left in the center at the top for the smoke to pass out. These lodges are small and dirty. When they remove from one place to another they usually carry the covering of these lodges with them; and they not infrequently perform long journeys, taking along with them their lodges and other effects. The business of carrying the lodges belongs to the women.  You may frequently see them with a roll of that and other movables on the back, considerably exceeding in size a large barrel. When they arrive at the place where they wish to encamp, a house is erected in a very short time.

*        * *         * *     * *          *

Each band has its own chiefs and is independent of every other. Their government seems to partake more of republicanism than monarchy. It is properly neither. The head man acts more like an adviser than as a king. If he is a man of energy and independence, he often acquires considerable influence. But if he is not, or if for any reason he is unpopular wit his band, they do not much regard him.- A man who can acquire a name for bravery is sure to gain an influence; but a coward they look upon with contempt. The most powerful chiefs attain to rank and power, by some act of bravery in war. In any matter which shall effect the whole band, the chief will never act or give his opinion, till a council has been held with his men.- When they have been consulted, the chief replies for the whole, and you may understand that the whole are bound by his reply as much as if each one had spoken for himself.  Their orators, when they speak for the whole, always use the singular number, as if only one was concerned.  When any one band wants another to joint them in a war expedition against their enemies, the war pipe is sent.  This is the invitation. If it is accepted, the party is pledged to join in the expedition. The different bands seldom or never make war on each other. They are less savage and ferocious than many of our tribes which have been found on our frontiers. They have seldom been known to commit outrageous act of barbarity except when provoked to it. They seek revenge for murder by shedding blood.

The number of Ojibwas is unknown. Their manners and condition are much less affected by intercourse with white people, than those of any other frontier tribes.  The country which they inhabit above the Sault Ste. Marie, is an unbroken wilderness, which has never been traversed by the foot of civilized man, except to obtain the Indian's furs or to explore its rivers and lakes. Much of this extensive tract of country is poor and barren. Some parts of it possess a rich and fertile soil.  At present it offers but few inducements to settlers. It will be long before the tide of population, which is so rapidly rolling towards the west, will reach these northern regions. This circumstance is favorable to Christian effort in this country.

The trade with the Ojibwas who reside in the country claimed by the United States above the Sault Ste. Marie, is chiefly under the American Fur Company; that of those who reside within the British territories is carried on chiefly by the Hudson's Bay Company. The United States government exercise a control over the Ojibwa country claimed by them, so far as it relates to the residence of white people on it. No trader or any other person has a right to reside in the country, or to have intercourse with the Indians, without permission from a government agent. The restrictions of government in respect to the trade have a very salutary effect upon the character and condition of the Indians. The laws prohibit the introduction of distilled spirits into the Indian country.  Very little is now brought in, and the principal part of that is smuggled in. If there be no restrictions placed upon this article, no doubt large quantities would annually enter the country in consequence of which the Indians would suffer greatly.

The trade on the south and west side of Lake Superior, so far as it is under the American Fur Company, is conducted by four principal traders who have in their employ numerous clerks. There is no doubt that the trade carried on with these Indians is an advantage to them. Indeed they could not exist without it, in their present mode of life, and the scanty resources which the country at present affords. It is a precarious business to those who engage in it, and is attended with many perplexities and difficulties.

The Indian trade has been the occasion of introducing a large number of Canadian Frenchmen into the country. They are but a little removed, in point of intellectual or moral culture, or in their habits of life, from the Indians themselves.  Almost all of them are nominally Roman Catholics, but are extremely ignorant on religious subjects, as well as every other. Their habits of life and their tastes present no obstacles to their mixing with the Indians, and they seldom remain long in the country without cohabiting with a native.  The habit has become so common, that at present, a considerable share of the Indian population in some part of the country is of mixed blood. It should not be inferred from this language, that there are not many foreigners in the country united to natives in lawful marriage.- There is not more than one or two traders, or clerks, or common men so far as our knowledge extends, who has not a family of mixed blood, if he has any. The character and condition of the mixed population, with some exceptions, are such as to call for Christian benevolence and missionary effort no less than those of the Indian. With the exception of the trader's families, and a few others, this portion of the population are enjoying few more advantages for moral and intellectual culture, or for improvement of any kind, than the Indians.- Some of them live in habits like the Indians, and pursue the same wandering savage life. Those who live in habits more resembling those of civilized life, are too poor in many instances, to send their children out of the country for education, or even to support them in it, without assistance, even were schools provided.  The greater part of the mixed population who are elevated in name above the lowest heathen, call themselves Catholics.  But most of them do not know the difference between the Catholic and Protestant religions, and would make no objection to a school taught by Protestants. Some of them would gladly avail themselves of the advantage of such a school, if there were no other. If we could gain their confidence enough to secure their children to be taught, many would undoubtedly be induced to listen to the gospel.




      


From the Federal Union

Extract from Gov. Lumpkin's Message

The drawing of the Lotteries, which were in progress at the last session of the Legislature, was completed about the first of May last; and the act of the Legislature, providing for the organization of ten new counties out of the Territory thus disposed of, has been carried into effect-and we have now, a settled freehold population on every part of our Territory competent to the administration of our laws, so far as to secure most of the blessings of our system to those, whose enterprise has led them to become settlers in that interesting section of our State, hitherto the abode of a people wholly unqualified to enjoy the blessings of wise self government.  The accomplishment of this great and desirable object to our State, has been attended at every step with the most unrelenting and obstinate opposition. The unfortunate remnant of the Cherokees has, for years past, been made the dupes and instruments of selfish and ambitious politicians, whose restless spirits have urged them to acts of mischief degrading to humanity itself. In the early part of the present year, another earnest and liberal effort was made by the President of the United States to effect a treaty with the Cherokees, having for its object their entire removal beyond the Mississippi-which object, it is believed, was defeated alone, by a few of the interested half-breeds, who are evidently under the influence of political men, who stand opposed to the interest of the Indians, as well as that of the State. The failure to effect a treaty has not, however, prevented a continuance of our efforts to effect the object of removing the Indians, at as early a day as practicable. Another opportunity of enrollment for emigration has been extended to such as may be disposed to remove; and I am gratified to learn, that many of the intelligent and influential among them, have availed themselves of the liberal terms proposed. Therefore, the day cannot be distant, when the State will be entirely relieved from the perplexities occasioned by this portion of its population. It will, however, become the duty of the Legislature, at its present session, to revise and amend our laws providing for the government and protection of the Indians. Experience has already exposed many defects and ambiguities in the existing laws on this subject, which should be speedily remedied. In our anxiety to provide for the welfare and protect the right of this unfortunate race, we have, in some instances, given advantages to the native population over our white citizens; which advantages, when exercised under the influence of selfish counsels, become oppressive to our white population, who are certainly not less entitled to the protection of our laws, than the native race-however just may be their claims on the sympathies of an enlightened government.

Under our existing laws, the reservations of land secured to the natives during their pleasure, are in many instances unreasonably large, and ought to be curtailed by judicious legislation. I would also call the attention of the Legislature to another description of native claims, which involves considerations of the greatest importance to the interest and honor of the State. A class of individuals, chiefly of the white and mixed blood, and who claim the right of natives within the limits of Georgia, are persons, who, under the treaties of 1817 and 1819, took valuable fee-simple reservations of the best lands then ceded, under an expressed, written determination to become citizens of the United States-and consequently, abandoning all the claim of rights or privileges, as a part or portion of the Cherokee Nation.  Nevertheless, these persons have since sold and disposed of their reserved lands, thus taken for large considerations of money for their individual benefit; and have gone into the country still occupied by the remnant of the Cherokees, and have again made selections and settlements on the most valuable lands, or that portion of their people, who have not participated in an equal degree with themselves, in the benefits of the treaties referred to. Moreover, these very individuals, by their superior intelligence, and advantages of education, have had the address to regain an influence over the Cherokees-whom they had once abandoned to their fate-so far as to rule, govern, and influence them in all matters relating to their most important interest; and have been, for years past, and continue to be, the prime and efficient cause of preventing the Cherokees from yielding to the liberal and beneficent plans of the Federal Government, for removing them to the west of the Mississippi. The insolence, ' mischievous influence of these individuals should no longer receive the indulgence or countenance of extraordinary privileges from the General or State Government; but should be treated by both governments as intruders of the most assuming character. The lands, now in the occupancy of these persons under our existing laws, ought to be granted to the drawers; who are the rightful owners, and who have been restrained from the occupancy by the laws of the State now in force. These persons have already done their own people, the State of Georgia, and our common country, great and serious injury. They have been the dupes and instruments at home and abroad, of desperate, political agitators, whose factious spirits are unbridled by the restraints of virtuous patriotism.

___________________

The President is now engaged in an attempt to enroll individuals of the Cherokee Nation to remove West, and urge a treaty with the chiefs. The Phoenix says, he 'might as well undertake to empty the Pacific Ocean into the Atlantic, as to remove the Cherokees by enrollment, and when he has appointed Georgians who are robbing us of our rights. We repeat again, that 'no treaty can be made with the body politic of the Cherokees.' Still there is but little ground for hope that the Cherokees are not destined to destruction by the power of this Government, exerted in direct opposition to solemn treaty, and in face of a solemn decision of the highest judiciary power. The people are too much engaged in their own money getting concerns, in banks and making Presidents to attend to, and express publicly their views of wrong ' injustice committed against so small a community.- This is only one of the abuses of the Executive department, and any resolution of Congress, had they the independence to act; would be voted by a Republican President, who completely nullifies the decisions of both the Judicial and Legislative branches when not according precisely with his own views. A. Maj. Downing truly says, Gen Jackson is the Government.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, NOVEMBER 23, 1833

The national council convened at Red Clay, on the 14th Oct., and after the meeting of the two houses, and a full attendance of the members from all the Districts of the Nation, the Principal Chief delivered his speech to the General Council, which will be found on our first page.  Among the various acts of this Council and of general interest to the Cherokees, is the appointment of a delegation, to proceed to the Congress of the United States, pursuant to the Report of the Select Committee which follows the speech of the Chief. The council then proceeded to the consideration of various matters which came before them, and after the appointment of the following delegates, Messrs. John Ross, Richard Taylor, Daniel McCoy, Hare Conrad, and John Timson; the Council adjourned on the 1st Nov. to meet again on the second Monday of Oct. 1834. It is unnecessary for us to remark on the general policy of the Cherokees in regard to their grievances, and claims on the United States, as the documents which we publish, will show more clearly the disposition of the Cherokees at large, to which we invite the attention of the reader.

_______________

We publish a letter of Mr. John Rogers an influential chief among the Arkansas Cherokees to Mr. John Walker Jr. of this Nation. We admit this communication from Arkansas more especially for its suggestions to the injurious effects to our Nation in consequence of our people enrolling for emigration to that country. In the introduction of this correspondence into our paper, no motives of a conciliatory character to the measures of government are to be imputed to us. The writer of this letter appears to have seized upon an early opportunity, after the commencement of the present enrolling operations, as a philanthropist, to tell his brethren of this nation to beware of the measures of the Government. The great and laudable object which the writer has in view, is the harmony of the Cherokees. To whatever course the Cherokees may be driven by the arbitrary measures of the Government, let the Cherokees be united and 'let not one of you enroll.'

The enrollment of individuals is certainly to be deplored. By this process they disfranchise themselves by their own acts of their birthrights and liberties in the Cherokee country. Patriotism, the most conspicuous and inherent principle of every people on earth, is at once plunged into the hands of the enrolling agents, to be led down the rolling streams of the West, in a condition of perfect thraldom, to that country, where a distinguished Chief tells them not to come.  Persons who enroll themselves under the present measures, divests (sic) themselves of all political rights that they may have had in this nation; sold to the oppressor; and their destiny in the future, will be that of intruders on the lands of other Indians.

__________________

The New Hampshire Centinel, we are sorry to perceive, finds but little ground of hope for the relief of the Cherokees, by the administration of a Republican President of the United States. The reasons assigned are, the opposition to treaties-the decision of the Supreme Court-the avocations of the American people, in banking and president making, are engagements unfavorable to the expression of the public sense on the wrongs committed on the small Cherokee community.  The causes set forth as the prevention to the restoration of the liberties of the Cherokees, are obvious to all; but we think an independent journal should not relinquish, for these reasons, to the powers of usurpation, the most important cause that has occurred since the formation of the Federal Government. Suppose New York was to wrest from Connecticut its jurisdiction, and the landed property of its citizens, guaranteed as it is by the Constitution of the United States, to the latter State, would the people of the U. S. say that they were too busy in other matters to have the citizens of Connecticut redressed? It seems to us, to such palpable usurpation, the sons of George Washington would rush to the rescue. The relations of the U. S. and the Cherokees bears some analogy. The latter have placed themselves under the protection of the former, and its integrity has been guaranteed. The great question then comes up to be tested, promised protection, and before the world, will tacitly consent to our political annihilation. Our cause is a righteous one, the great principles at stake and the great property involved, impels us to go forward, and press upon Congress for a final action of the cause. If we mistake not, Congress has confirmed the integrity of our treaties, in a proviso to the Indian Bill, and the enforcing act settled the principles of State nullification, so that a simple resolve of Congress, we are sure, would move the President to sustain our rights.  A veto by the President in this case, seems to us out of the question. Upon Congress, then, the Cherokees confidently rely for protection, and if the enlightened representatives of the American people, should turn away from the eternal principles of right and rectitude, and fail to sustain our rights, then we can say, in the conscious rectitude of our acts, and the last tried patriots of the aboriginal race, that the faith of the republic has set behind a black cloud, to rise no more for us.

_______________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

Grand Saline, C. N. West Mississippi,

Sept. 29th 1833.

DEAR SIR:- I have had the pleasure of lately seeing a letter from you, to your old friend John Shepperd, it always affords me pleasure to hear from my friends, but I feel much mortified to hear of the course they are pursuing. I wrote some months ago to my friend Mr. Hicks, freely advising him of my opinion as relates to their present embarrassed situation in that country, and fully told to him how it was yet in their power to arrest the impending horrid fate, that was then, and is yet, hovering over them. But this was not for them to enroll themselves as emigrants to this country under the present provisions of the General Government, which is only to get them here, feed them one year and let them go; but my voice was to collect the people together, get them united, and make a permanent treaty with the United States, and thereby secure to themselves the country I described to them, which would afford them a comfortable asylum, from tyranny and oppression.

I wish you my friend, on the receipt of this, to call on Mr. Hicks, and ask him if he ever got my letter, if he did, you will see my sentiments on the subject of your affairs, in that part of the country, and I wish you also, to see as many of my old friends as is in your power, and advise them never to enroll under the present arrangements; there is no man feels more for his people that I do, nor feels more anxious to see them settled west of the Mississippi, to their satisfaction; but I feel distressed when I think of their coming off and throwing themselves entirely on the mercy of the Government, to provide land for them or not as they please. You all have an idea of their lenity, and therefore my advice is for not one of you ever to move, till you are provided for, by a permanent treaty; your coming a few at a time makes your situation worse, it weakens your nation, and therefore lessens your opportunity of making an advantageous treaty, which you can do, if you would all unite ' stick together.  I never have had any correspondence with you on this subject, but have seen a number of your letters to my friends in this country with which I am pleased, my views with regard to the emigration of our people are unbiased, clear of speculation, and only tend to the wish of their future welfare and prosperity; there is I fear two (sic) much speculation in view of some, for the good of all, but you are rest assured, that there is nothing on earth could afford me as much satisfaction as to see our two nations or more united, and living as we once did, before we knew what oppression was, which I hope, with a steady and diligent perseverance of your leading men, will yet be the case, but let union be their polar star, for the old proverb tells us, a house divided within itself will never stand.

We have just had a Council with six or seven tribes of Indians, and have united in the strongest bonds of friendship.

I will write to you more fully after our National Council, which comes on the 1st Monday in Oct. next.

Your friend,

JOHN ROGERS, jr.




      


NOTICE

STOLEN from the subscriber, on Monday the 11th inst, TWO HORSES, of the following description, (to wit:) one GREY horse, somewhat flea bitten, about fifteen and a half hands high, eight years old, right eye entirely out, branded T. trots and paces, but drags his hind feet when he trots or paces. The other, a BRIGHT CHESNUT (sic) SORREL, the same age, as the GREY, fifteen hands high, with a small blaze in his face, very small feet, heavy made, no brand recollected.

Any person apprehending the thief, and securing the horses, shall be liberally rewarded.

LEWIS BLACKBURN.

On the Federal Road, at Hightower, Nov. 14th 1833




      


INDIANS

From the N. Y. Advertiser.

State Sovereignty- We adverted recently to the difficulties in Alabama. growing out of the diverse action of the National Executive, in the two States of Alabama and Georgia. A case occurred, a few weeks since, which places this subject in a very strong light.  A Cherokee Indian, named Scott Man-killer, was arraigned before Judge Adair, of the Circuit Court of St. Clair County, in the state of Alabama, for the murder of his brother, Buck Mankiller.  A plea was filed, in his behalf, to the jurisdiction of the Court-stating in substance, that the said Scott Mankiller was a native of the Cherokee Nation of Indians-that the offence charged was committed in that nation-that he was amenable to the laws thereof, and not subject to the jurisdiction of the tribunal before which he was then arraigned.  The solicitor for the state put in a special replication to the effect that the offence was committed within the constitutional limits of the state of Alabama, and in that part of the so called Cherokee Nation, which had been attached to, and made part of, the county of St. Clair.

The principle point of the defence was, that the state of Alabama had no right to extend its jurisdiction over the Indian nations within its chartered limits; and the treaties of the United States with the Cherokees,and the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of the Missionaries, were adverted to, as sustaining that position. After long argument the judge sustained the plea to the jurisdiction of the Court, and discharged the defendant!

Thus we see that there is one law for Alabama, and another for Georgia. Of two Cherokees, indicted for similar crimes, one (Tassels) is hung- and the other (Mankiller) is discharged.- Over that portion of the Cherokee country, included within the territorial limits of Georgia, the laws of the Cherokees are nullified, and those of Georgia are supreme;- over the other portion of it, lying in Alabama, the laws of the natives are respected and those of the state inoperative.

That the decision of Judge Adair was correct, no rational doubt can be entertained-but if it was so, and shall be maintained to be so, by General Jackson, then can he do no less then to hang the Judges and Sheriff of Georgia, who spurned the mandate of the Supreme Court, and hurried Tassels to his grave.

__________________

Troubles in Alabama- It appears that the excitement in Alabama was, in reality, assumed a very serious aspect, and is likely to afford us another practical illustration of the beautiful theory of nullification. Governor Gayle, in a letter to the Secretary of War, has declared that the Treaty with the Creeks, of March 1832, 'is not law, can impose no obligation on the people of Alabama, and will be declared null and void by the legally constituted authorities.'

This treaty ceded to the United States, under certain conditions, all the Creek territory in Alabama.- The same territory had been previously ceded to the Government of Georgia, in her act of session of April the 24th 1802, seventeen years before the admission of Alabama into the Union as an independent state. The late treaty with the Creeks was ratified by the Senate of the United States as a measure of peculiar interest to Alabama, the operation of which would relieve her, in a very few years, of all the Indian population, and it was so considered and received by the people of Alabama and their representatives in Congress. This, therefore, is a still more flagrant case of opposition to the rights and authority of the general government than that of Georgia. An admission of the right asserted by the State in this instance, would put an end at once to all ownership or property of the government in the public lands throughout the Union.-Balto. Gazette.

__________________

THE ALABAMA DISPUTE.

The Globe states that, 'while the Indians insist upon the execution of the treaty, in good faith, and demand the removal of all intruders, in conformity with the law especially referred to in the treaty, the President has no alternative but to carry its stipulations into effect, or to acknowledge that the Government he administers is not competent to make treaties, in as much as he has no power to execute them.'  And it further says, that Governor Gayle 'must know that the present Chief Magistrate is not a man who will be deterred from the performance of a public trust by any parade and mustering of a military array, to prevent the due observance and complete execution of his duty.' American Daily Advertiser.

______________

From Alabama we have received, says the National Intelligencer, the following letter, under date of October 16, which gives a painful view of the state of affairs and of feeling in that agitated State.:-Ibid.

ALABAMA, Oct. 16th, 1833

We have arrived at a solemn crisis in our State at the present moment.- You are aware that the whole of the Creek Nation was some time since laid off into counties, and the Judges of our Circuit Courts ordered to hold courts in them accordingly. The case alluded to above is this: At the present term of said Court, held for Russel County, an indictment was found against some certain soldiers of Fort Mitchell for the murder of Col. Hardeman Owens, who was shot some time ago by the command of the Deputy Marshal, Mr. Austill, the Solicitor of the Circuit issued subpoenas for the file of men and for Major McIntosh, who is in command at the Fort, to appear at the Court to answer to the charge.  The Major refused to pay any regard to the mandate of the Court, and swore that he would not suffer any of the men to be arrested. The Court issued an attachment for the Major and men; the Sheriff was ordered by the Major not to touch him; he returned to the Court next day, and made oath that he could not take him, the Major; for fear of death. Upon this, the Court sent an express to our Governor for military power sufficient to arrest the Major, and to bring him and men before the Court.  The Governor will undoubtedly do it, as he, as well as the whole country here, are in a state of excitement against the General Government, and are determined to support the civil authorities even to the last ditch.- Union or no Union.'

_____________________

From the N. H. Sentinel.

The excited State of political parties in Georgia has brought out a letter from Mr. Wirt, one of the Counsel for the Georgia Missionaries, to Mr. Sergeant, his colleague, dated at Baltimore, Dec. 23, 1832.  It appears that Mr. Forsyth the Senator from Georgia, the President's friend and South Carolina Anti Nullifier, made a special visit to Mr. W. to devise ways and means to 'separate the Georgia question (as Mr. Wirt says)from that of South Carolina, that the President may have only one on his hands to settle at a time!' Mr. F. although disclaiming any authority from the Governor of Georgia, professes to know his most ardent wishes to get rid of the difficulty, by a rational plea for discharging them, and he has no doubt, that if the Missionaries, through their Counsel, stop farther proceedings in the Supreme Court, they will be forthwith set at liberty. Then the Georgians can rail against Nullification. It would also relieve the President, as there 'were many persons in Georgia, and out of Georgia, who thought if (the two cases) a common cause.'- There would then be no pretence for joining South Carolina, if this affair could be adjusted-otherwise Georgia and South Carolina might go together! So, in the end, the proceedings were stopped, the Missionaries released. the President relieved- and the honor of the parties, we suppose, received an additional polish- from a patent powder, however, composed in unequal parts of State pride, mortification, tyranny, humility, hypocrisy, expediency, 'c, 'c with a 1-1000th part of political honesty and integrity.

_____________________________

The following paragraph from the Hartford Times relates the termination of an affair which took place in Massachusetts a few months since. A little handful of Indians, the remnant of the powerful tribes which once inhabited that country, encouraged by the declamations about the rights of the Cherokees which they heard all around them, and instigated, it appears by their missionary, made an attempt to shake off the yoke of the whites and to vindicate to themselves the rights of an independent community. The officers of the law however very strangely interfered, the proceeding was summarily decided to be a breach of the peace, and the persons concerned were actually held worthy of punishment. We wonder that no more clamor has been made about this affair.  It is certainly as fine a topic for declamation about the natural and original rights of the ancient natives as the case of the Georgia Indians. The only difference is that their numbers are fewer, but this does not change the principle- We beg pardon-there is yet another difference-there is nothing to be gained in a political point of view by making a noise about the rights of the Massachusetts Indians, and therefore, the fountains of sympathy are left unscaled, and the tears which should have flowed for their fate remain unshed in the eyes of the journalists, essayists, and orators of the opposition.- The sole record of the attempt of this little bands of patriots to revive their ancient laws and customs is to be found in such paragraphs as the following- N. Y. Evening Post, 16th inst.

_________________

The Rev. Mr. Apes, the Missionary among the Mashpee Indians, in Massachusetts, has been sentenced to thirty days imprisonment, and ordered to recognize with one surety to keep the peace, for his attempts to establish the independence of the poor Indians. It is probable that the Georgia Missionaries will get up a great excitement against this tyrannical and oppressive act of the government of Massachusetts. They at least ought to do this to be consistent.-Hartford Times






      


INDIANS

From the Baltimore American

THE ALABAMA CONTROVERSY.

Ten columns of the Washington Globe of Saturday are filled with a correspondence between the Secretary of War, and Governor Gayle of Alabama, in relation to the embarrassing and painful state of affairs in the Creek country of that state. Our limits will not permit us to republish it entire, its importance demands that the material parts should be laid before our readers. Contemporary with this publication, we have received a proclamation of Governor Gayle, preparatory to an apprehended conflict with the forces of the General Government. He calls upon the 'civil officers' of the counties of the Creek Nation to be 'attentive to the people, upon whom any crimes may be committed, or upon whom or whose property there may exist well founded apprehensions that crimes are intended to be committed, by issuing all such warrants and other process as may be necessary to bring offenders to justice, particularly such as are guilty of murder, false imprisonment, house burning, robbery, forcible entries, and all such like heinous offenses,'- meaning by this description, the measures of the United States' Marshal to enforce the removal of trespassers. He further exhorts the people to aid the magistrates in the execution of all legal process, when duly called upon, and enjoins a 'ready obedience to any precept or process that may issue out of the Courts of the United States or of the State.'

The proclamation bears date on the 7th of October.

The documents in the Globe consists of a letter to Governor Gayle from the Secretary of War, dated Sept. 5; a reply from the Governor dated at Tuscaloosa, on the 2d of October, and a concluding letter from the Secretary of War, dated 22d instant, enclosing letters of Messrs. Gallatin, Crawford, and Calhoun, in similar cases, and a proclamation of Mr. Madison. We propose giving the substance of them, avoiding those repetitions which were unavoidable in an argument carried on by letter, where there is so much discrepancy in opinion, and so many disputed questions of fact. Before stating the points of difference, we ought to promise, by quoting the following articles, which is part of the treaty of 1832, by which the lands in question were ceded to the United States:-

Article 5th- 'All intruders upon the country hereby ceded shall be removed therefrom in the same manner as intruders may be removed by law from other public land until the country is surveyed, and the selections made; this article shall not operate upon that part of it not included in selections.- But intruders shall, in the manner before described, be removed from the selections, for the term of five years from the ratification of this treaty, or until the same are conveyed to white persons.

While the treaty was pending, the Creek Chiefs were anxious that the provisions of the Intercourse Act of 1802 should be extended to them;so that the whole jurisdiction should be assumed by the United States. This was refused. The State of Alabama has extended her jurisdiction over the lands, and divided them into nine counties under the names of Benton, Talledega, Randolph, Coosa, Tallapoosa, Chambers, Russell, Macon, and Barbour. These counties are duly organized. They contain a large number of inhabitants variously estimated from 20-30,000, who are in fact intruders upon the public lands, within the express meaning of the article of the treaty just quoted. The mode of removal is also prescribed by an Act of Congress, passed March 3d, 1807, entitled 'An act to prevent settlements being made on lands, ceded to the U. States, until authorized by law.'  This act provides for the interposition of the Marshal and the employment of military force, under the orders of the President, and furnishes the authority by virtue of which the proceedings in Alabama, in relation to this subject, have taken place.

The constitutionality of the act of 1807 is not controverted by the Governor. He merely disputes the correctness of the construction by the Government.

The above are, we believe, points upon which both parties are agreed.- We proceed to state, as summarily as we can, the grounds of difference.

The Secretary of War affirms that the law and the treaty impose an imperative duty upon the President to remove all trespassers.  He adds, as inducements to an active performance of his duty, that

'Since the ratification of this treaty, repeated representations have been made to this Department by the public Agents, by respectable individuals and by the Indians, that gross and wanton outrages have been committed upon the latter, by persons who have intruded upon the ceded lands.  It has been stated that the houses of the Indians have been forcibly taken possession of, and sometimes burnt, and the owners driven into the woods, that their fields and improvements have been wrested from them and occupied by white persons, that aggravated injuries have been committed upon the persons of the Indians, and that their horses; cattle, hogs, and other property have been forcibly taken from them. The appeals of the Chiefs to the Government to carry the treaty into effect, and to afford their people protection, have been repeated and forcible. They represent that their crops have been taken from them, and they look forward to a state of starvation, unless some decisive step is adopted in their favor.  And in addition to this, the Deputy Marshal reports that there are four hundred persons selling whiskey to the Indians upon the ceded lands.'

He further more says--

'There is not the slightest wish, unnecessarily to injure or oppress the settlers upon these lands. I am well aware of the hardships and inconveniences to which frontier settlers are exposed, and every reasonable allowance should be made for their position. When there are no other obligations intervening, settlements have extended over the public lands without inconvenience to the country; and without interference of the Government. But in this case the rights of others are concerned, and the executive is called upon to fulfil the obligations of a solemn treaty.'

Governor Gayle's reply to this is, that the Secretary's information is erroneous and unjust, and that although instances may be found 'not to any considerable extent,' of such as are mentioned, 'nine tenths of them have not interfered with the Indians and in the upper counties which are most populous, not a whisper of disaffection has been uttered.' He draws a fearful picture of the distress which will be caused by the execution of the orders of the Government, including a destruction of property to an incalculable amount, and an infliction upon the State of other 'great and irreparable injuries not less calamitous than those which would mark the invasion of a public enemy.'

The parties being at issue on these points of facts the Governor proceeds to contest in the first place the construction of the laws of 1807, adopted by the Secretary; and next the validity of the treaty, as incompatible with the sovereignty of Alabama. We abstract his leading views on both topics.

He argues that it was not the intention of Congress in passing the act of 1807, to restrain persons from settling the public lands who had no object in view beyond their cultivation. That the act was designed to meet a particular case-that of the claimants under the Yazoo contract, who took possession under color of title, with the view of putting the United States to the cost of suits at law, in the case of every individual claimant-and was not meant to embrace the case of settlers, without title, who cultivate the soil with the bona fide intention of purchasing. He quotes in corroboration a series of acts running through thirty years of the General Government, in which the fact of these outstanding and hostile claims is recited, and in which special exemptions and privileges and pre-emption rights are given, to actual settlers, engage in the cultivation of the soil.- He proceeds to insist that these acts 'show beyond dispute, that during this time it was the settled policy of the Government to encourage our citizens to settle and occupy the public lands, that the class of our population has always been esteemed highly meritorious, and that the exclusive right to purchase at private sale, has been extended to them in consideration of, and as a reward for the services they have rendered by these settlements in testing the value and productiveness of the soil; and in affording facilities to purchasers to examine it.'

He adds that 'these acts have been passed with the exception of that of 1800, subsequently to 1807, and if it be a crime to cultivate the public land, the Government has suborned our citizens to its perpetration, by offering them large rewards and conferring on them valuable privileges.'

His inference is that the Federal authorities have no right to apply the act of 1807 or use armed force, except against trespassers who claim to hold by adverse title to the United States, and not against ordinary settlers on the public lands.

Of the treaty itself, he affirms that by authorizing the application of the act of 1807 to the Creek case, it 'trenches upon the admitted jurisdiction of a State, and violates the constitutional rights of a citizen, and is not law-can impose no obligation upon the people-and will be declared null and void by the legally constituted authorities.'

His argument, though of some length in the original, is compressible within a few words.  The Indians within the State, are citizens of the State and subject to its jurisdiction; their property is, therefore, the property of the citizens; they have an indefeasible right to their improvements; and the treaty in another article sanctions it, by confirming their possessory title and when the locations are made, conferring it into a fee simple. The United States, then, have no interest, present or contingent, in these improvements, and have no more right to interfere than in any other case of private property.- The State tribunals are the only lawful authority, and the treaty which empowers the United States troops to interfere is an infringement upon State sovereignty, suspending the ordinary operation of its laws upon the person and property of the citizen. In another view of the subject, he contends that the enforcement of the orders of the Secretary of War will subvert the entire jurisdiction of the State over nine counties, by expelling under the general designation of 'all white persons,' all the civil officers, judges, and authorities of the State, who under the federal construction, must be 'trespassers.'

The unconditional part of the treaty, the Governor finds in that article by which the United States undertake to remove, by force, all intruders upon occupation of the Indians, 'until the country is surveyed and the selections made,'and also to remove them in the same manner 'from these selections, for the term of five years from the ratification of the treaty,' 'c.

In conclusion, the Governor calls upon the Secretary to abandon 'this project, so fatal in its tendency to civil liberty and so directly subversive of the acknowledged rights and sovereignty of the State of Alabama.'

We have thus thrown together the arguments of Governor Gayle. They are answered at length by Secretary Cass, in his letter of the 22nd ult. the leading points of which we present omitting the details and specific references to former acts of Congress.

He defends his construction to the act of 1807 by denying both the correctness of the Governor's quotations of precedents, and reasons of them as alleged for the present argument.

He cites the same laws, cited by Governor Gayle, to show that they extended not only to all persons claiming under color of title, but to 'settlements of all descriptions which would tend to obstruct the policy of the government in its disposal of the public domain.'  It is further urged that the questions of claim was introduced in indulgence to persons already in possession at the time of the passage of the act, but that to subsequent intruders, it was applicable and had been applied without distinction. Several acts of Congress are cited to show that this distinction had been frequently observed for the same purposes. He collects the provisions of the act of 1807 to show that the Governor quoted it inaccurately.

'I imagine there is a misapprehension upon this subject, which a more critical examination of the acts will remove. Its object was doubtless to prevent all unauthorized settlements upon the public land, whether made without or under color of title. If the former, the intruder was liable to be removed, and was subjected to a pecuniary penalty and to imprisonment. If the latter, in addition to eviction, to a penalty and to imprisonment, he forfeited all claim to the land, and his right passed to the United States. And the provisions of the Act are varied, so as to meet these different cases.'

Reciting these provisions, he adds:-

'In each of these cases, the provisions of the law apply; ' if they do not extend to all intrusions, with whatever motive, upon the lands of the United States, words have lost their meaning, and the Government, during successive administrations, have misunderstood their own duties, and the legal consequences which follow the act of intrusion.'

To the argument of the Governor, that acts had been repeatedly passed, in favor of settlers, showing the policy of the Government to encourage those engaged in the actual cultivation of the land, the Secretary replies, that they were temporary acts of favor, all of which have expired by their own limitations; that there is still a general law in force, providing penalties; and that these temporary legislative restrictions that have completed their own object are no longer in force, cannot terminate the general law,nor narrow its construction.

In further proof of the fact that the construction which would limit the act of March 3d, 1807, to the removal of intruders from the public lands, who claim the possession they occupy, is disproved by the practice of the Government in the administration of the law, he furnished the letters of Messrs. Gallatin, Crawford, and Calhoun, and the proclamation of Mr. Madison, of which direct the removal of intruders without distinction.

The Secretary takes but brief notice of the unconstitutionality of the treaty as alleged by the Governor, in the supposed case that the Indians have a possessory title, and will have a fee simple in their improvements where the locations are made; and that consequently the United States cannot of right consider them as public lands.- He waives all discussion of the rights of the Federal Government, after the locations are made. He contents himself with saying-

'That the land is the property of the United States, at any rate, till the locations are made, seems not to be denied by you, and if it is, the operation of the Act of March 3d, 1807 upon it, cannot be disputed, upon the principles I have endeavored to maintain.'

The objection that the treaty violates the 'jurisdictive rights' of the State of Alabama because it will expel among other trespassers, the whole civil organization of courts and civil police, is met frankly by the Secretary with an acknowledgement that it will undoubtedly produce great inconvenience-while he affirms that neither the inconvenience, nor the arguments derived from it, can be permitted 'to outweigh the positive requisitions of a solemn covenant, under which the United States acquired, and by virtue of which they hold the district in question; and which formed one of the principal inducements operating upon the Indians to make the cession .'

The right of the State to an exclusive jurisdiction over the district is admitted without qualification. It is admitted, also that the officers and courts, 'c., mentioned, may be necessary in order to exercise that jurisdiction.- But the points in question are-can the State, by extending her jurisdiction over the lands, thus justify any of its citizens in taking forcible possessio of them, in the United States?- Does the power to provide these officers and tribunals include the grant of a right to take property not belonging to them, to qualify them to act?- Do persons cease to be intruders against positive law, by being appointed to any of these duties?

The following are the Secretary's views of the separate rights of the parties:-

'The ownership of the land, and the authority to legislate over it, for the ordinary purposes of life embrace powers entirely distinct in themselves, and which in this case must be exercised by different tribunals. The United States constitute a great landholder possessing under the Constitution the right to 'make all needful rules and regulations concerning their territory and other property.' They have made a regulation, by which intruders upon their lands shall be removed, under the orders of the President, by a military force. In doing this, they do no more than an ordinary individual, who repels the forcible intruder, who comes to take possession of his house ' land! Such an individual, by the act of expulsion, exercises an authority acknowledged to be in him. But he exercises no act of jurisdiction. He performs none of these function of supreme authority, included in the very term itself, and essential to the very prerogative of dictating what the law shall be.  In like manner, the United States, while removing the settlers beyond the boundary of their possessions, assume no other control over him, and leave him to the ordinary operation of the State laws.

'It is no doubt convenient to have all the lands in the several States settled and cultivated. But this convenience must yield to those unalienable and imprescriptible rights of property, everywhere acknowledged among civilized nations, and no where held more sacred than in our own country;-rights which lie at the foundation of civil society, and which cannot be violated, without inflicting incurable wounds upon our institutions. I suppose it will be contended, that the General Government is less secure in its rights than an individual, and therefore by presenting the claims of the latter, I am but stating the case of the former.'

The conclusion of the Secretary is announced firmly-that the course taken by the authorities of the United States has been imposed upon them by 'the Constitution, by a treaty, and the laws,' and that 'it will not be departed from until the obligations created by these are faithfully fulfilled.' This course is thus designated:

'The troops of the United States are upon the land of the United States.- They are instructed to do this with as much moderation as possible.- Time has been given by the Marshal till the 15th of January next, for the peaceable inhabitants to remove. Even with a proper jealousy of the employment of a military force, which in other countries and in all ages has been so destructive to free institutions, I cannot see any danger to the republic, either from its action in this particular case, or from the precedents, which such a case may establish.'

___________________




      


From the New York Journal of Commerce.

 Trouble in Alabama.- The accounts from Alabama are of the gloomy character.  Coupled with the statement which we copy from the Washington Globe, they give reason to apprehend unpleasant results.  If the letter from Alabama is to be relied on, Governor Gayle will attempt to arrest by force the United States' troops who killed Col. Hardemen Owens, a citizen of Alabama, together with the commanding officer at Fort Mitchell, Major McIntosh. In this case blood will probably be shed; the Major having positive (sic) declared that he will not be arrested, or permit any of his men to be.- This unhappy state of things is a natural consequence of the temporizing course pursued by the General Government towards Georgia, when the latter trampled on the treaties with the Cherokee Indians, which the Government at Washington was bound to sustain and enforce. Georgia found the advantage of bullying, and Alabama is disposed to try the same weapon. How it will succeed, time must determine. One thing is certain, viz: that the General Government, in defending the Indians from intrusion, according to the treaty, is fulfilling a solemn duty, and ought to be supported by every good citizen. And even if no such treaty existed, it would be fully authorized to remove the intruders, on the ground that the lands intruded upon belong to the United States, having been ceded to the General Government by the treaty above referred to. If because public lands lie within the limits of a state, they are therefore put out of the control of the General Government, and if that Government has no right even to protect its own territory, we may as well give up all such public lands at once, to the states in which they are situated.  But this we shall not do. Neither shall we permit these lands to be wrested out of our hands by violence. If the governor of Alabama persists in the course he has adopted, we hope that Congress, which is about to convene, will extend the provisions of the Act of last session for the collection of the revenue, with such modifications as may be necessary, to and for the protection of the public lands. If the General Government is to be kicked about at pleasure by every state in the Union, we might as well have no Government. It can neither be respected at home nor abroad.




      


Indians- Col. Reynolds, together with a number of the Chiefs of the Chickasaw Nation, is now at this place. In a few days they intend crossing the river on their way to the West, in search of a suitable home for those Indians who wish to emigrate from their present country.

About one thousand Choctaws are now encamped in the vicinity of Memphis, under the superintendence of Major Armstrong.--They will cross the river in the steamer Archimedes. These Indians have determined to abandon the home of their fathers, and to adopt the country which has been selected by their brethren, who emigrated to the West about eighteen months since.- Mem. Times ' Adv.




      


From the Southern Recorder.

GEORGIA LEGISLATURE

Tuesday, Nov. 21.

The house then went into Committee of the whole on the bill to define the possessions of the Indians. [Preventing frauds in taking their reservations and confining them to the improvements they had at the time of survey, with so much woodland only as may be necessary for fencing, building, fuel, 'c.] The yeas and nays being called for on the passage.

Mr. Young of Oglethorpe requested some explanations.

Mr. Harris of Walton, explained at some length, the objects and tendencies of the bill.

Mr. Young approved of the rest of the bill, but was opposed to that part of it which proposed to circumscribe their possessions so closely. He said it was unjust and ruinous to the Indians.- When it was first determined upon to lottery off and occupy these lands, those who advocated that measure deemed the provision of the existing lottery act in favor of the Indians, as but just to them, and as strictly defining and limiting our right of encroachment. But now it seems they are to be enclosed by their fences, as these originally stood at the time of the survey of the country. Should these small enclosures prove too small to subsist a growing family, they must then remove or starve. All this feature of the bill, Mr. Y. said was utterly abhorrent to his feelings. True, in great humanity you do propose to let them cross their little bush fences to get a few rails or a little fire wood, whenever the tender mercies of the State's agent shall designate. But what awaits this prodigal waste of your bounty? Why allow them fuel to warm the body when the support of life is thus cut off.  The honorable member from Walton, urges as the only reason that strong legislation is required to expel them from the country. Sir, said Mr. Y. if this be the object, let us pursue it boldly and somewhat nobly.  Let us abandon this petit larceny policy and close their doors upon them once, or drive them before the bayonet to the Rocky Mountains. To me such a course would be infinitely more manly.  To that portion of the bill which directs the granting of the lots in the possession of the Indians who have taken reserves in former treaties, and having sold them, are now intruders upon the portion which fell to their countrymen. I do not object. Having taken by reserve their individual share of the lands, they cannot now complain, that they are not permitted to possess themselves of another and a double portion; and that the provision of the bill may not be lost by its association with one utterly objectionable and unjust. I move to recommit the bill. This motion was lost.

After some discussion on points of order the yeas and nays were called on the passage of the bill, and were yeas 85, nays 61.  The house then adjourned.

Monday, Nov. 25.

The House then took up the special order of the day, being the reconsidered bill to limit and define the possession of the Indians, and went into committee of the whole.

Mr. Harris of Walton, offered a substitute, which was read, and Mr. Harris moved that the committee agree to it. After some objections by Mr. Rogers to some features of the substitute, it was agreed to. The bill being reported to the chair, was taken up by sections, and a discussion ensued on the policy and details of the bill, then occupied the House till near the time of the adjournment. Messrs. Harris of Walton, Meriwether, Alford, Rogers, Cooper, and Starke, presented their views on various features of the bill. On the final question it was passed, and after rejecting a divorce bill of Passmore and Wife, the House adjourned.

[The object of the Indian bill is to limit the right of Indian possession, and allows as we understood it, to each Indian family, the whole tract improved land and that only as the surveyors lines may have thrown on other tracts. But grants are nevertheless issue to the drawers of the tracts reserved to the Indians.  The bill also provides against double reserves to the same Indians, against frauds by white people under Indian rights, and divests white men who have taken Indian wives, and become members of their nation, of all rights as citizens of Georgia.

________

A most interesting debate took place in the Senate on yesterday, on the bill to extend the State jurisdiction over the Indian territory within the limits of the State. The passage of the bill was opposed with great ability by Mr. Jornagin of Knox; and its passage was advocated with equal ability and zeal by Mr. Yerger, the senator from Davidson. As the able speeches of these gentlemen would shed much light on this vexed question, if made public, we will take great pleasure in laying them before our readers if we can procure copies for National Banner.

________________



 The Indian Territory.- The bill extending the jurisdiction of this State over the Indian territory, within our boundaries, has been finally passed into a law and ordered to be engrossed.-Ib.

____________

INDIAN BILL

A bill to extend the laws and jurisdiction of this State to its southern limits; was taken up: Mr. Yerger spoke in favor of the bill and Mr. Netherland in opposition to it.- Mr. Netherland proposed an amendment which was rejected. Mr. Cannon proposed an amendment, whereupon Mr. Frey moved the previous question, which prevailed, and the bill passed a third and last reading,  Ayes 12; Nays, 8.



 Ayes, Messrs Adams, Andrews, Chase, Coe, Foute, Frey, McMeans, Rayburn, Smith, Sims, Vernon and Yerger.-Ib.




      


Books in the Choctaw Language.- A new edition of the Choctaw Hymn book, consisting of 3,500 copies, has recently been printed.  The hymns have all been revised by Messrs.- Wright and Williams, and many new hymns added, enlarging the collection to 123; which, with some supplementary matter, fill 162 pages.  The former edition, printed in 1830, consisting of the same number of copies, has all been put into circulation among the people.

Mr. Bying has been employed most of the time during the last year or two, while the Choctaws have been in an unsettled state occasioned by their removal,in preparing books to aid in acquiring a knowledge of the Choctaw language. He has the materials for a Grammar of that language nearly collected and arranged. He has also in progress, a Choctaw Dictionary, containing more than 10,000 Choctaw words, arranged, with definitions in English; also an English Vocabulary, embracing 15,000 English words, selected from Webster's Dictionary, with Choctaw definitions.  He hopes to complete these works during the ensuing winter and spring. They may be expected to contribute much towards fixing a standard of orthography in that language, and to aid future missionaries in acquiring a knowledge of it, and also to aid those Choctaws who may desire to become acquainted with the English.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, DECEMBER 7, 1833

The Legislature of Georgia, it appears by the Governor's Message, and by their Legislative proceedings, are now on the eve of passing a law to curtail the tenures of the Cherokees, or in other words to confine them upon one lot. If Georgia can possess herself of the vacant territories of the Cherokees, as she has already done, there could be stopping place in their subsequent acts to deprive the Cherokees even of their personal rights. But we can fully solve the motives of this cruel and illiberal legislation. Great efforts are making by the President and his enrolling agents to enroll the Cherokees for emigration; and to give effect to this system of acquiring the Cherokee Nation, the present additional expedient to oppress the Cherokees has been adopted. Tennessee, likewise, has succeeded in passing its jurisdiction over the part of the Nation within its limits, cooperating with the State of Georgia to give effect to the same measure, as is fully proved in our opinion, by the reference which the Governor of Georgia has made in his message, and the report of the Select Committee of Tennessee, on the same question. A great crisis has arrived in the affairs of the Cherokees, and it is to counteract some anticipated measures that the simultaneous cooperation of the two Sates have taken place. The President is prepared to see the whole objects of the Government towards the Cherokees defeated as appears from the instruction to his agents, which we published sometime ago if the firmness of the Cherokees should be sufficient to withstand the policy of the Government. To weaken this position of the Cherokees then is to be ascribed the coalition of these two States, or one more mighty weapon in the hands of the President, in plain English, with which to break up the Cherokees from the lands of their fathers, and the beloved homes of their families.

___________________

No Commissioner attended the Council, according to the notice in this paper, of a Commissioner having arrived, and having for his object a treaty with the Cherokees. We made this announcement on the authority of several respectable persons who had interviews with this officer. We have promised to speak the truth when we give our readers intelligence of our affairs, and to rectify the error into which we have been led, we have it now in our power to state that it was Lieutenant Harris, of the United States Army, who visited the Council, and sent out by the President to the Nation as a Disbursing Agent to some emigrants for the Western Cherokees.

_______________

GRAND PHENOMENON OF THE SKIES.

On the morning of the 18th of last month, about 3 o'clock at the home of the writer of this article, according to our simple ideas, the whole heavens were discovered emitting the most beautiful streams of fire, commonly called by the Cherokees-flying stars. The atmosphere was unnaturally still and heavy, the circulation of the air was not the least perceptible. The rapidity with which they moved was truly astonishing. The multitude of sizes, and lengths of these burning meteors, presented a scenery so brilliantly sublime, the most acute imagination would fail to describe. We had a full view of this etherial frolic. The distance of their origin was but short; apparently a thousand feet above our towering trees here. Their descent was a deviation from the common principles of gravitation. Those that made their exit immediately over us, took a horizontal and western direction, but those at a distance were not generally of that course but no difference in the obliquity of their movements. About the rising of the morning star, these beautiful streams of meteors increased to such rapidity, the world was literally striped with fire, and the words of the Grecian Philosopher (Thales) darted to our minds, 'nothing more beautiful than the world, because it was made by God.' Some of the largest that passed near us were about the size and length of a cottonwood (?) tree, larger at the lower end and running to a point. They passed us with a rumbling noise, and all terminated 50 to 100 feet above the earth, and left in its track a column of smoke or dim light, which gradually expanded and crooked, and after a few minutes of duration they disappeared. They continued their hasty flights until the rising sun obscured their appearance.  Two causes of this profusion of lights we leave to some astronomers solution.




      


To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir:_ During the late session of the General Council, it became a matter of serious inquiry with the intelligent and philanthropic, what shall be done to check the rapid progress of intemperance amongst the Cherokee people? All eyes turned towards the national legislature, but it was in vain, from it no relief could come, crippled as it is by the tyrannical hands of Georgia, Alabama, it could only look at its shackles, and say the evil is seen, but it cannot be reached. In this dilemma, it was thought advisable to call a meeting of the people in order if possible to devise some plan, by which the Cherokees might be reac__ed from this curse and scourge of their race. A meeting was accordingly held, and numerously attended. When, after several interesting discourses had been delivered, almost all present, came to the resolution, to unite themselves in a body, to be known as the Cherokee National Temperance Society; and for this purpose enrolled their names. After appointing a Committee to prepare a Constitution, it was agreed that a second meeting should take place on the 20th Oct. At the appointed time the people assembled; and having chosen a president pro tem, called upon their committee for the Constitution. Whereupon the following was presented, read and unanimously adopted.

Article 1st- This society shall be known by the name of the Cherokee National Temperance Society.

2nd. The officers shall be a president, eight vice presidents, one to be selected from each district in the nation, recording and corresponding secretaries, and a treasurer, who shall be chosen annually.

3rd. It shall be the duty of the vice presidents not only to preside in the absence of the president, but to organize in their respective districts, societies which shall be auxiliary to this; and to report their proceedings annually to this society.

4th. No member shall offer any of said liquors to any person, or urge them to drink of them.

6th. No member shall sell any intoxicating liquor or in any way encourage the sale of it.

7th. No member shall be expelled but by the concurrence of two thirds of the members present at the meeting.

8th. This society shall meet annually on the 3d Monday in Oct., at the place when the General Council shall convene.

9th. When it shall be necessary to amend this Constitution, the proposed amendment shall be offered in writing, which, if approved by two thirds of the members, shall become a part of it.

Upon motion of Maj. George M. Waters, the society enter into an election for its officers. Whereupon Mr. John Ross was elected President.- Mr. James Daniel of Hickory Log District, George Lowery of Chattooga, John Timson of Aquohee, Walter S. Adair, of Coosawatee, Richard Taylor, of Chickamonggee, Thomas Foreman of Amohee, Soft shell turtle, of Etoah, and Chuwalooea of Tahquohee, were elected vice presidents

Mr. Richard Fields was elected recording and William Rogers corresponding Secretary, Daniel McCoy, treasurer.

Mr. Hicks- Sir it was made (by a resolution) the duty of Mr. Richard Fields to prepare for publication on the Phoenix, a sketch of the proceedings, that we had, in the formation of the National Temperance Society. At the close of the Council the Journal and Constitution, were placed in my hands. Presuming that Mr. Fields, owing to this mistake, will not attempt his task, I have made this sketch, believing it to be important that the public should be made acquainted (by any means) with this highly meritorious proceeding on the part of the Cherokees; that it may be known, that the Cherokees, notwithstanding, they are conspired against and abandoned by the whole world, have still resolution enough to do all they can to save themselves from destruction.

Very respectfully,

Yours, 'c.

WILLIAM ROGERS.




      


From the Republican and Banner

JACK DOWNING'S LETTER

 To my old Friend Mr. Dwight, of the New York Daily Advertiser.

WASHINGTON, Nov. 2:- The Congressmen are just beginnin (sic) to arrive, and I suppose in a short time we shall have them here as thick as huckleberries; and the Gineral(sic) is brushin(sic) round now, and says the message must be finished and printed off hand,and we are all as busy as bees in gettin(sic) dovetailed together; and after next week, the Gineral (sic) says, there can't be anymore alterations. It is the first Message I ever had hand in-and tho' I say it, I guess you say it is about as complete a thing as ever was sent express any where. I have been to work on it ever since we was at the Rip Raps; and tho' it has been sometimes all pulled to bits, to git (sic) in some notions we didn't think on, yet it will look pretty slick, I tell you, when it's done; and we will lay on paint enuf (sic) to kiver (sic) up all the cracks and seams.

We shall give a pretty good lick at the bank, and won't leave as much on't standing as would make a good sized oven.  It is curious now to see how easy it is to build up or nook all in bits anything on paper. Now just see about the bank. There it stands in Chesnut Street, with its hundred cord of specie, and its cart load of books and its branches here and there all busy, and full of clarks (sic) and directors; and folks in Europe and all about creation nealin(si) with it; and the brokers in Wall Street all busy about it; and Biddle's bills goin about and most folks thinkin they are better than the hard dollars; and the old men and women holdin stock, suposin(sic) it will go up again so high as they paid for it-and I and the General, and Amos Kimble, and Van Buren, talkin over it-and one line in the Message nocks it all into kindlin wood;  For you see, when the Government says a thing must be jest so, there is no help for it. We can't stand to chat about trifles. The Gineral has smashed three pipes the last time we talked about it.  Biddle and the bank must be smashed, says he, Major, and so smash they go, Congress or no Congress.

The next think was the Ingins (sic).- Here the Gineral is at home; and I don't like an Ingin, and never can.- The Cherokees give us a good deal of trouble in Georgia last year, but the Gineral took sides with Georgia because he has a good many friends there, and Mr. Van Buren had two for that state was the only one that nominated him Vice President a spell ago. And if he had got in there, and Mr. Crawford President, who was allin (sic) all over with some plagy apoplexy- I and the Gineral would never been heavn(sic) on arterwards(sic). But no matter, the Gineral says he didn't make that treaty with the Cherokees-and it was made so long ago he has anymost(sic) forgot it; and treaties ough'nt to last forever.- But this treaty with the Creeks in Alabama he did make; and he knows all about it; and he means to stand by it, and turn all the squatters off the land in Alabama, jest as they wanted him to do in Georgia, but he wouldn't.- There is trouble enuf about it, I tell you, and you don't no(sic) nothin about it in York. But the Gineral is tickled to death about it, and as soon as he saw the Proclamation of the Governor of Alabama, you never see a crittur(sic) so spruced up as the Gineral was. Major, says he, by the eternal we shall have another Nullification this Congress arter(sic) all. You need'nt(sic) say much about it, says he, in the Message-we'll keep that for a Proclamation. Well, said I Gineral, you are a master hand at gittin into trouble. But, said he, Major, ain't I a master one at gittin out of one?

We've got an old trunk up chamber, full of troubles, old laws, and treaties, and contracts and state claims, and whenever we want any powder, all we've got to do is to open that, and snook (sic) among old papers, and we get up a row in no time. The Gineral likes this a leetle (sic) better than I do, for the most of the labor fall on me-and the ony (sic) way I can git rid of it, is to make our folks down stairs do it, if I see it give ony of'em aa boost with his party-for I don't care nothin about anything here but the Gineral; and if I can git him threw (sic) this Congress, its pretty much all I care about, and he too: for arter (sic) that I'm going with him to the Hermitage, for I expect by that time there won't be much more left on us than our beards and shoe strings.

Your friend.

J. Downing.






      


INDIANS

LAW FOR THE OPPRESSION OF THE CHEROKEES.

An act more effectually to provide for the government and protection of the Cherokee Indians, residing within the limits of Georgia, and to prescribe the bounds of their occupant claims; and also to authorize grants to issue for lots drawn in the late Land and Gold Lotteries in certain cases, and to provide for the appointment of an Agent to carry certain parts thereof into execution.

Section 1st. Be it enacted, 'c. That in all cases where a white man is the head of an Indian family, such family shall retain the rights of such property claimed under the rights of such Indian family, the white man obtaining no right but that of the Indian use and occupation.

Sec. 2d. And be it further enacted, That every white man, who may have an Indian family,and who may be desirous of retaining his privileges, which he may possess as the head of an Indian family, may at any time before the last day of March next, notify the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which he may reside, in writing, his intention to retain his privileges as the head of such family, which notification shall be recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose and no other, and upon the doing of which he shall be entitled to all the privileges which are granted to such white men in the preceding section of this act.

Sec. 3d. And be it further enacted, That if any Indian or descendant of an Indian or white man, the head of an Indian family, claiming the privileges of an Indian shall employ, any white or person of color other than the descendant of an Indian, as tenant, cropper, or assistant in agriculture, or as miller or millwright, they shall for such offence, upon the same being established by the testimony of two respectable witnesses, forfeit all right and title that they may have to any reservation or occupancy within the limits of the State, and that upon the certificate of the Agent to be hereafter appointed, grants may issue for the same as if such improvement had never been occupied by such Indian, descendant of an Indian, or white man having an Indian family.

Sec. 4th. And be it further enacted, 'c. That when any Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white man having the privileges of an Indian, shall have two or more wives, any of whom shall reside on and apart from the usual abode of such Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white man, having the privileges of an Indian, they shall be held and considered the sole proprietor of such farm, together with the slaves, (if any) usually employed in cultivating the same, and if she or they shall enroll for emigration, shall have exclusive and absolute control thereof.

Sec. 5th. And be it further enacted, That if any Indian or others enjoying the privileges of an Indian, shall enroll for emigration and shall afterwards refuse to emigrate at the time stipulated, And provided, that such neglect shall not be occasioned by providence or other unavoidable cause, provided the agent of the United States shall be in readiness to remove them to Arkansas, he, she, or they, shall for such neglect or refusal, forfeit all rights to any future occupancy within the limits of this State.

Sec. 6th And be it further enacted, That no Indian or others having the privilege of an Indian, shall under (any) pretence whatever, set up any claim, or demand against any member of any of the same tribe, after such member shall have enrolled his or her name for emigration, so as to detain such emigrant from removing at the time stipulated, and when the claim shall be preferred any property which may be n possession of the individual emigrating, the agent as aforesaid, shall be competent to decide on the merits of the claim. Provided that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the claimant from prosecuting his claim hereafter, and in the country to which such Indian or person, having the privilege of an Indian, shall emigrate.

Sec. 7th. And be it further enacted, That no contract either verbal or written alleged to have been made, by a white man and an Indian shall be binding, except the same can be established by the testimony of two respectable witnesses.

Sec. 8th. And be it further enacted, That no Indian or descendant of an Indian, or others having the privilege of an Indian, shall be allowed more than one hundred and sixty acres of land, which shall consist of the lot enclosing his dwelling house, or if in a district where the lots contain but forty acres, he or they shall be allowed the lot including his or her house, and as many others as he may have improvements on, not exceeding three, shall, and in both cases they shall be allowed such improved land as may be in any lot adjoining thereunto, which he or they may have actually inclosed and improved, previous to the 25th of December, 1830, and all the residue of such lots as are not entirely allowed as above, may be occupied by the drawer, or his or her legal representatives.

Sec. 9th And be it further enacted, That if any Indian or Indians, or any person claiming to be an Indian, or descendants thereof, or any Indian countryman, their aiders, abettors or assistants, who shall obstruct or resist by force or threats, the peaceable possession of the drawer thereof, or any person claiming under him, her or them, of any tract or lot of land not herein allowed to such Indian, such offender shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor for which she or they may be indicted, upon conviction shall be punished at the discretion of the court.

Sec. 10th. And be it further enacted. That when any lot drawn in the late land and gold lottery, shall be partly within an improvement of an Indian occupant, it shall be the duty of the agent as aforesaid, upon the drawer of such lot which has been valued and paid for by the United States, and partly within an improvement of an Indian occupant, or his or her legal representatives, producing to the said agent a certificate signed by his Excellency the Governor, showing that such lot was so drawn by him or her, immediately to place the drawer or his or her representative in possession of so much thereof, as may lie within the limits of such valued improvement, and forthwith to remove any intruder thereon, which might be calculated to prevent the peaceable possession of the same.

Sec. 11th. And be it further enacted, That his excellency the Governor, is hereby authorized to cause grants to issue for all lots which have been drawn in the land and gold lotteries, when they may be within or touch upon the improvements of any Indian or descendant of Indian or others, having the privileges of an Indian, or who under any of the treaties concluded be- (sic) the United States and the Cherokee tribe of Indians, have been allowed a reservation in fee simple, whether the said reserve shall have been located in this State or elsewhere, and also for all such lots as may have been drawn as aforesaid, and which may be within or touch upon the improvement of any descendant of an Indian, who was allowed a reservation in fee simple, as aforesaid. Provided, such descendant of an Indian shall not have been 21 years of age at the time his or her parents perfected such reservation, also for all lots which be within or touch upon the improvements of an Indian, or others having the privileges of an Indian, that in any treaty as aforesaid shall have been allowed a reservation for life, and who has been removed therefrom and settle within the limits of Georgia, and for all lots which may lie within or touch upon any improvement of an Indian or white man having the privileges of an Indian, who shall have heretofore enrolled for emigration, and shall have received in consequence of such enrollment any money or other valuable consideration, and also for all lots drawn as aforesaid, and which may lie within or touch upon, the improvements of any Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white men having the privileges of an Indian, and who in any of the land lotteries authorized by this State, shall have drawn thereon any lot or lots, and also for all lots which may be within or touch upon the improvements of any Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white man having the privileges of an Indian, which has been sold, leased, or rented contrary to the existing laws of said State.

Sec. 12th And be it further enacted, That his excellency the Governor, is hereby authorized to appoint some fit person as agent, whose duty it shall be to see that the provision of this act be duly and effectually carried into operation, and to examine and report to his excellency the Governor, such lots having Indian improvements thereon and subject to be granted by the act, who shall receive $1,000 per annum, as a full compensation for his services, and who shall take the following oath, viz: I, A B do solemnly swear that I will perform the duties of Indian agent in the Cherokee territory, according to the provision of this act, regulating the Cherokee Indians in the possessions of their persons and property, without failure or partiality, to the best of my abilities, so help me God: and he shall give bond and sufficient security in the sum of $2,000, for the faithful performances of the duties required of him by this act, and shall be subject to prosecution in the Superior Court of any county, when he shall violate or neglect to perform the duties required of him as agent aforesaid, upon conviction, removed from office, and fined at the discretion of the court.

Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, That if any person shall by threats or menaces, or otherwise, deter or prevent any Indian or Indians from enrolling for emigration, he or they shall be held and deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, upon conviction, fined not less than one hundred dollars, nor more than five, or imprisoned in the penitentiary, at the discretion of the court.




      


From the Knoxville Republican.

LAW OF TENNESSEE.

An act to extend the Laws and Jurisdiction of this

State to her Southern limits.

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, That the laws and jurisdiction of the State of Tennessee be and herein are extended to the southern limits of the State over that tract of country now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, and that the Courts of this State shall have cognizance of all crimes and misdemeanors committed, and all contracts made, and of all persons residing within the limits of the said territory, and shall determine the same in such manner and upon such terms as the laws and usages of said state now do, or may hereafter prescribe: and, for the greater convenience of the citizens and people residing in that tract of country, the county of Marion, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the point where the line dividing the States of Alabama and Tennessee, commences on the bank of the Tennessee River, running thence along said line to the dividing line between Georgia and Tennessee, to the extreme height of the Raccoon Mountain; thence along the extreme height of said mountain to the Tennessee River opposite the mouth of Suck Creek; the county of Hamilton, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the extreme height of the Raccoon Mountain, at the point where the Marion County line terminates; running thence along the line dividing the States of Georgia and Tennessee, until it crosses the White Oak Mountain, continuing thence five miles to a point on said line and there terminating: thence running so as to strike the White Oak Mountain two miles above Robinson's Gap, through which the Wolf River Creek runs, thence to the extreme height of said mountain, thence along the eastern height of said mountain, to the Blythe's Ferry Road at the place now occupied by William Evans, thence along said road, towards the Tennessee River within two miles of William Blythe's; thence such a course to the Tennessee River as will leave William Blythe's plantation on the north side of said line, and strike the Tennessee River opposite the Rhea County line on the north bank of said river. The county of Rhea, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the point where the county of Hamilton terminates on the bank of the Tennessee River, as provided in this act, running thence along said line to the house now occupied by Wilson Evans; thence a direct line to a point on the Hiwassee River, opposite to the first large ridge above the mouth of Price's Creek.

The county of M'Minn, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the point on the south bank of Hiwassee River, where the Rhea County line terminates; thence along said line, until it strikes the Hamilton County line at Wilson Evans; thence along said line to the White Oak Mountain: thence along the extreme height of said mountain, until it strikes the five mile point of Hamilton County line, on the dividing line between the States of Georgia and Tennessee; thence along said line until it strikes a point opposite to the line dividing Monroe and M'Minn counties; thence a direct line to the division line between the said counties of Monroe and M'Minn; and that all the balance of said territory shall be attached to and included in the county of Monroe, in addition to its present limits. And it is hereby made the duty of the surveyor General of the Hiwassee District to run and mark the county lines as designated by this act Provided, however, nothing in this act contained, shall be construed to authorize or allow any tax to be levied upon any native Cherokee residing within the limits of said tract of country at the passage of this act, or to work on roads or to perform malitia duty therein: and Provided further, that the native Cherokees, residing within the limits of said tract of country shall be secured and protected in the free and unmolested enjoyment of their improvements and all personal property, according to the customs and usages of said Cherokee Indians; and to enforce their rights touching the same, in and before the Courts of the State of Tennessee or the inferior tribunals of said State, as the matters in controversy may rightfully give jurisdiction: and provided also, nothing in this act contained shall be construed to interfere with or invalidate the marriage customs of the said Cherokee Indians.

Provided nevertheless, such of the native Cherokees who may heretofore have had the rights of citizenship extended to them or who may hereafter have the rights of citizenship extended to them by any law of laws of the State of Tennessee, shall be subject to all the duties, and liable to all the public dues, that other citizens of the State of Tennessee are subject or liable to, as is or may be provided by the laws of the said State of Tennessee.

Provided always nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize the courts of this State to take jurisdiction of any criminal offence committed within the territory aforesaid by any Cherokee Indian residing therein, except for murder, rape and larceny.- And the usages and customs of said Cherokee Indians in all other respects are hereby allowed them, with the territory over which by this act, the jurisdiction of this state is extended, until such time as it may be deemed necessary and proper further to abridge or abrogate them, saving always from the benefits and privileges of this exception, such of the native Cherokee Indians as have had or may have the rights of citizenship extended to them by any law of the State of Tennessee.

Provided nothing in this act contained shall be construed to authorize any white man to settle within the limits of the lands in this State now within the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, and over which it is the object of this act to extend the laws and provided that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to invalidate any law or treaty of the United States, made in pursuance of the constitution thereof.

Provided also, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to authorize any entry or appropriation or occupancy of any of the lands contained within the limits of the country now in possession of the Cherokees, or to extend our laws for the entry of vacant and unappropriated lands over any part of said country.

Passed Nov. 8th, 1833

F. W. Huling, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

D. Buford, Speaker of the Senate




      


Extract from the Report of the Secretary of War.

With the exception, therefore of the Miamies in the State of Indiana, of a band of the Wyandots at Upper Sandusky, in Ohio, and of scattered portions of the Ottawas and Chippewas in the peninsula of Michigan, north of Grand River and of Saganaw Bay, probably not exceeding altogether five thousand individuals, the whole country north of Ohio, and east of the Mississippi, including the States of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, and the territory of Michigan as far as the Fox and Ouisconsin Rivers, has been cleared of embarrassments of Indian relations; and the Indians themselves have either already emigrated, or have stipulated to do so within limited periods, and upon such terms as will ensure them adequate subsistence, and the means of establishing themselves comfortably in their new residence, unless indeed, the aid and efforts of the Government are rendered useless by their habitual indolence and improvidence. The Cherokees occupying portions of land in Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, and Tennessee, and probably not exceeding eleven thousand persons, are the only Indians south of the Ohio, and east of the Mississippi, with whom an arrangement has not been made, either for emigration or for a change of political relations. It is to be regretted that the same causes which have heretofore prevented an adjustment of the difficulties of that tribe, and their removal west, yet continue to defeat the efforts of the Government. These abuses no doubt principally to be traced to the ascendance of particular individuals, and their desire to retain political influence and power.  It is expected that about five hundred of these Indians will remove west this season, and the residue of the Cherokees, then remaining east of the Mississippi, will be, agreeable to previous computations, about ten thousand five hundred.

The commissioners west of the Mississippi are engaged in the execution of the duties connected with our Indian relations in that quarter. They have succeeded in arranging satisfactorily the disputed question of boundaries between the Creek and Cherokees, which has for some time, occasioned much embarrassment. They have also formed treaties with the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Senecas and Shawnees, the Quapaws and the Seminoles, of Florida, by which all matters connected with these tribes have been satisfactorily adjusted. Their labors will be now directed to the other subjects indicated in their instructions, and which are important to a permanent arrangement of the various questions arising out of a new state of things which will be created in that region. Among these one of the most interesting is a practical plan for regulating the intercourse of the various tribes, indigenous and emigrant, one with another, and with the United States, and for the establishment of some general principles by which their own internal government can be safely administered by themselves, and a general superintending authority exercised by the United States, so far as may be necessary to restrain hostilities among them, and incursions into our borders. Until such a system is adopted, it is evident that the condition of those Indians cannot be secure, nor will the obligations imposed upon the Government be fulfilled.  The task requires an intimate knowledge of the local circumstances of the tribes of that region and of the country they inhabit, and a practical acquaintance with Indian habits, feelings, and modes of life. I trust the commissioners will be able to report a plan which will fulfil the expectation of those who have observed with a solicitude the course of this matter, and which will eventually secure the prosperity of the Indians. As it is probable, however, that this cannot be effected within the time limited for the duties of the commissioners, I would respectfully suggest the propriety of their term of service being prolonged until the close of the next year.

____________________




      


Meetings among the Osages



From the Creeks we went to the Osages. We visited and held meetings in all their villages except two. We also held meetings at Union. At Hopefield we had a promiscuous congregation of males and females, old and young. At the other villages we had separate meetings. One congregation was composed exclusively of men, another of women and girls, and a third of boys. In general there was much more willingness to attend meeting, and much better attention to preaching than last year. There is a considerably extensive conviction on the minds of the Osages that their old superstitions and religious ceremonies are useless, foolish and wicked. This conviction, added to the interested attentions given by many to preaching, satisfied us that, if they could be steadily assailed by divine truth, there is as much encouragement to labor for them as for any other people.

The different reception given to us this year from that of last year, the access granted us to different classes, and the greater interest manifested in the truths of the gospel, are all the effects of divine truth. It is true we found no one convinced fully of sin, no one anxiously inquiring after the way of salvation, but we did find several that expressed a conviction that their system of idolatry and superstition was sinful, that it provoked God, and was the cause of their poverty and misery, that they never would be happy and prosperous till they embraced the true religion. This was very clearly expressed by some of the most intelligent and influential men among them. I will give you a few instances. Wau-soh-shy, the principle chief of one of the villages, is an instance.  He was absent at the time of our arrival at his village, but we put up at his lodge. About an hour after our arrival, he came home. As soon as he got his supper, he told us that he was very glad to see us, and that he wished to have a great deal of talk with us about our religion. He immediately began, and in a most interesting manner. He held up six quills in his hand. One of these he placed alone. The other five he held up together. 'These five,' said he, 'are the Osage gods, the sun, the moon, the earth, thunder or the air, and the bird. Now you say these are no gods, but all of them the creatures of your God. I believe it. The Osages have worshipped these gods a long time, and they have never made us happy, they have never done us good. We have always been poor and miserable. I believe it is foolish and wicked to worship these things. I now cast away these gods.' And he flung away his five quills. He then held up the one quill and said, 'This is one God.  This is your God. Now tell me who is he.' The perfections of God, as manifested in creation and providence, and as revealed in his word, were stated with particular minuteness, especially those attributes developed in the redemption of sinners by Jesus Christ. 'All this,' said he, 'I understand, and it is all interesting. I believe it, but who is your God?'  Another brother went over the same ground in another view, if possible, to make it more plain and more interesting. He also dwelt fully on the unity of God and the great sin of idolatry. He explained the meaning of the various names of God. When he closed, the same question, with greater earnestness was the reply of the chief, 'Who is he? Has anyone seen him?' He was answered, 'No man hath seen God. He is a Spirit, invisible to mortal eyes. His existence and his perfections are manifested by their effects, and more clearly revealed in his word. That it was unreasonable to require a sight of him before we would believe. That we all believed many things that were not obvious to our senses, that their effects fully satisfied us of their existence, and that they possessed the qualities indicated by the effects, which we beheld.' To all this, his answer was as before, 'Who is he? Has anyone seen him?' To this it was answered, 'Yes. He became flesh and dwelt among us.' A history was then given of God manifest in the flesh.  'Now,' said he, 'I am satisfied. God has been seen. When anyone asks me if the true God has ever been seen, I will tell him, yes.'

_______________________




      


Our relation with the various Indian tribes have been undisturbed since the termination of the difficulties growing out of the hostile aggressions of the Sacs and Fox Indians. Several treaties have been formed for the relinquishment of territory to the United States, and for the migration of the occupants to the region assigned for their residence west of the Mississippi. Should these treaties be ratified by the Senate, provision will have been made for the removal of almost all the tribes now remaining east of that river, and for the termination of man difficult and embarrassing questions arising out of their anomalous political condition. It is to be hoped that those portions of two of the southern tribes, which, in that event, will present the only remaining difficulties, will realize the necessity of emigration, and will speedily resort to it.  My original convictions upon this subject have been confirmed by the course of events for several years, and experience in every day adding to their strength. That those tribes cannot exist, surrounded by our settlements, and in continual contact with our citizens, is certain. They have neither the intelligence, the industry, moral habits, nor the desire of improvement which are essential to any favorable change in their condition. Established in the midst of another and a superior race, and without appreciating the causes of their inferiority, or seeking to control them, they must necessarily yield to the force of circumstances, and ere long disappear.  Such has been their fate heretofore, and if it is to be averted, and it is, it can only be done by a general removal beyond their boundary, and by the reorganization of their political system upon principles adapted to the new relations in which they will be places. The experiment which has been recently made, has so far proved successful.  The emigrants generally are represented to be prosperous and contented, the country suitable to their wants and habits, and the essential articles of subsistence easily procured. When the report of the commissioners, now engaged in investigating the condition and prospects of these Indians, and in devising a plan for their intercourse and government, is received, I trust ample means of information will be in possession of the government for adjusting all the unsettled questions connected with this interesting subjects.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JANUARY 25, 1834

The act of the Legislature of Georgia, which was published to day, in addition to those heretofore passed, for the expulsion of the Cherokees from their lands, carries upon its own face, the evidence of another avaricious edict to overflow the cup of its iniquity. The pernicious operations of these several acts, we have often commented and pointed out, but the latter, without exception, subverts the dearest property of the Indian-his personal right-it is a clincher. The former acts over this subject compelled the white men connected with the Indians, to swear allegiance to the State, and become white men. This act requires them to assume the Indian rights, by means of registering their names in a clerk's book. Of the Indian improvements, those on lots other than where his house stands, are to be granted to the drawer, to enable them, we presume, to dog the Indian from his improvement. The lot embracing the residences of the Indians is yet reserved. The employment of white men or black men, as tenants, millwrights, 'c. are prohibited under the penalty of forfeiture of lots. The authority which would pass such laws over a people unrepresented, must undoubtedly aim at the expulsion of the party on whom it is to operate, founded as it is on the most glaring principles of injustice. But such acts over our suffering race, have become so common, and in full keeping with the character of the State, it is useless for us to remark further on this subject. A free representative assembly that can reconcile the passage of such law to honor and conscience, deserves more than the long curse of Laurence Sterne. The appalling night of injustice has descended, and while we are thus maltreated on this stage of political corruption; let the scene be finished at once-prohibit the Indian from speaking to the white man.- Let Governor Lumpkin order the Cherokees into his fame (alias) lottery wheel, draw for them, and those that may be found unfit, let his Excellency, wipe the sharp dagger across their necks, and his justice will not be less tarnished.

____________________

The extract from the report of the Secretary of War to the President, which will be found in this paper, on Indian Affairs, and especially in relation to the Cherokees of this Nation, avows principles identically with those which we have claimed, and the observance of which we have so often called on the Government. Mr. Cass clearly states in this report, that a change of relations has not been effected by the Government, with the Cherokees, for their removal west of the Mississippi. What are those relations which the Secretary here acknowledges as unchanged? It must be those which have been established by numerous treaties, in which the United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation the integrity of their territory; and by other special acts of Congress the intrusion of white persons are positively prohibited. When the Cherokees heretofore had respectfully and earnestly called on this administration for the fulfillment in good faith those treaties, the doctrine has been set up, as the ground of refusal, that State jurisdiction had change them. Now, the passage to which we have referred, in our opinion, recognized in the amplest manner, without the least qualifications the existence of relations between the Cherokees and the United States, and the only inference is, are those of the treaties. So much then has been conceded by the administration of its doctrines as to correspond to the decisions of the Supreme Court. After this admission, we cannot imagine the ground on which the Secretary can predicate a refusal to execute his treaties with us, save that which no republic should be accused- the often trodden ground of faithlessness.

__________________________

PRAYERS OF THE GEORGIANS.

The settlement of the Cherokee country by this people, have been frequently stated by us, as in opposition to the decision of competent tribunals both of State and Federal Governments. Consequently our labors have been confined to the relation of minor occurrences in the progress of these people over our country; as nothing could be added from our pen in discussing the question of rights, to the decision of the Supreme Court.  Since the entry of the Georgians on our lands, a village has sprung up at the gold mines, named by them, Auraria, composed chiefly of miners, for taking the gold of the Cherokees. During the occurrence of the phenomena of meteors, the day of retribution and judgement of God were seen by these intruders descending upon them; and simultaneously, repentance and prayer were offered to the God of justice, for the remission of their sins, in the following manner: We pray unto thee O God to forgive us our sins; we have knowingly sinned against thee in depriving the Indians of their just rights; we know this is Indian land, and knew we were sinning greatly in thy sight, in the treatment of these people. As the fire from Heaven brightened, the praying sinners became louder in every part of the village until day-light; but finding themselves still in the land of the living, the object of taking gold became a paramount duty. A deeper rooted evil and guilt in these people at the same time, has never been displayed then on this occasion. The decisions of just men has been disregarded; but the manifestations of God's displeasure can crush the wicked, and command justice; we fervently hope He will uphold our righteous cause in his own good time.






      


Tockshish Cherokee Nation, Mississippi.

The Rev. T. C. Stewart, Superintendent of the Missionary stations in the Chickasaw Nation, in a letter to the editor, dated Nov. 21st, 1833 draws the following comparative sketch of the past and the present.  May the future be better than he anticipates.

'I sincerely wish I could give you some good news from this far country. The time has been, when I could have told you of the great things God was doing for these unfortunate people--when his cause seemed to prosper and gain ground- when the sinners were pressing into the Kingdom-and when our hearts were encouraged with the general aspect of things. But a sad reverse has succeeded, and now everything appears to be taking a retrograde course. Our schools have declined, and most of them gone down; our church has declined; and religion is fast declining. Intemperance abounds. The intoxicating article is abundant. Men are to be seen, (and men too calling themselves Christians) going from settlement to settlement with wagon loads of the liquid poison which they barter for the scanty pittance the red man has to support his family. But measures are in progress to arrest this evil.'

Mr. Stuart is a native of this State, and has been thirteen years laboring in that nation as a Missionary of the Cross; and though all the success which he anticipated has not followed his exertions; yet he has been instrumental in sowing much precious seed, and in reaping too a harvest of souls for his Redeemer. We should not be surprised if in his next communication, instead of the gloomy aspect in which everything now present itself to his own mind he should break fourth 'in songs of deliverance.' Within a few years some of our distant Missions seemed to be on the very verge of extinction, and similar complaints were poured out in relation to their conditions and their prospects-when in an unexpected moment, and sometimes in an unexpected way, God has manifested himself ready and able to deliver.- And his spirit has been poured out in such measures as to cause the gloom of the past to be forgotten in the abundance of his miracles. So may it be in the field which is sown in tears by the brother from whom the preceding sketch was received.

His friends and correspondents will be pleased to learn that a Post Office is established in his vicinity called Pontclock.-Charleston Observer.




      


INDIANS.

From the Knoxville Republican.

INDIAN OPPRESSION BILL.

In this week's paper, we have inserted according to promise, the Bill 'to extend the laws and jurisdiction of this State to her Southern Limits;' which bill, as we informed our readers in our last, passed both houses of the Legislature, and is now one of the laws of this land; provided the State government be permitted to hold for naught the treaties of the United States.- We refer the reader to the first page, for the abominable law of which we speak, and request him to read it attentively.

The first part of the Act, which extend the laws of Tennessee, 'over that tract of country now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians,' provides 'that the Courts of this State should have cognizance of all crimes and misdemeanors committed, and all contracts made, and of all persons residing within the limits of the said territory, and shall hear and determine the same, in such manner and upon terms as the laws and usages of said State now do, or may hereafter prescribe.' Next follows the division of the territory, which is parcelled out to the counties of Marion, Hamilton, Rhea, M'Minn and Monroe, lying contiguous to that tract of country. Then comes a string of provisos, seven or eight in number, which create a confusion almost as great as that caused by the confounding of languages, at the building of the tower of Babel.

The first proviso is to prevent any construction of the act which would require the native Cherokees, residing in that tract of country at the passage of the act, to pay tax, to work on the roads, or to perform militia duty.

The second proviso, secures and protects them in the free and unmolested enjoyments of their improvements and personal property,according to their own customs and usages, and authorizes them to enforce their rights touching the same, in the Courts of Tennessee.

The third proviso is to prevent any interference with their marriage customs.

The fourth proviso subjects such of the Cherokees as have heretofore, or may hereafter have, the rights of citizenship extended to them, to all the duties and public dues, of other citizens.

The fifth proviso prohibits the Courts of Tennessee from exercising jurisdiction of any criminal offence, except murder, rape, and larceny, committed by the native Cherokees, in that territory.  'And' saith the proviso,'the usages and customs of said Cherokee Indians in all other respects are hereby allowed them within the territory over which by this act, the jurisdiction of this state is extended,until such time as it may be deemed necessary and proper further to abridge or abrogate them: saving always from the BENEFITS and privileges of this exception, such of the native Cherokee Indians as have had or may have the rights of citizenship extended to them by any law of the State of Tennessee.'

The sixth clause provides against the whites settling in the Cherokee country, and nothing in the act 'shall be construed to invalidate any law or treaty of the United States, made in pursuance of the Constitution thereof.'

The last clause provides that nothing in the act is to be construed to authorize any entry, appropriation or occupancy of any of the lands 'now in possession of the Cherokees, or to extend our laws for the entry of vacant and unappropriated lands over any part of said country.'

That this act is unconstitutional, we feel well satisfied, and as our Legislature have incorporated, among its provisions, its own death warrant by providing that anything contained in the act, 'shall not be construed to invalidate any law or treaty of the United States, made in pursuance of the Constitution thereof,' we hope our Courts will not hesitate to pronounce it so.- When this provision was offered as an amendment to the bill, in the House of Representatives, the friends of the bill were divided-some voting for, and others against, the amendment. How man acting in the capacity of Legislators, could reconcile it to their consciences to vote for the other provisions of the bill, and against this amendment, was to us a mystery. Did it not show conclusively, that they were supporting a bill which they believed to be in violation of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States?  But, let that pass.

If this law be permitted to take effect, it will deprive the Cherokees of some of the most important rights and privileges, which a nation can enjoy;-it will, in that event, deprive them of a right which has been given by the God of nature,and guaranteed to them by the treaties existing between them and the government of the United States-the right to govern themselves. It may be said that the treaties are silent upon that subject, and therefore the United States have not guaranteed to them the rights of self government. But to this we answer-they were in the enjoyment of that right before they ceded to the Whites, any of their lands, rights or privileges, and as no treaty can be found, in which they relinquish that important right, undoubtedly they must still retain it. A nation cannot be deprived of such a right by mere implication.  The United States have guaranteed to the Cherokees the occupancy of their lands, so long as they may choose, of their own free will, to live upon them, and the government is pledged to protect them from the invasion of the Whites, and in the enjoyment of their property:- and can it be supposed, for a moment, that, in securing to them the enjoyment of these privileges, the government did not guarantee to them the more important right, to continue in the enjoyment of their own laws, customs and usages? Then, we repeat, this right is guaranteed to them, and no State can wrest it from them, but in violation of the supreme law of the land.

Some justify this measure, upon the ground that the treaties mad with the Indians, are unconstitutional. If it is true that the treaties are unconstitutional, then let them be rescinded if it must be so-the Cherokees, we are sure could not be the losers at that game, if it were fairly played. In that event, the Indians would be restored to the possession of the lands which they ceded by the treaties and the consideration which the Whites paid for them, would have to be returned. But in the name of high Heaven, let not men who have pretensions to morality insist that the treaties are unconstitutional, and seize upon that, as a pretext for robbing the defenseless Indians of the remainder of their lands and privileges!  The objection cannot come with a good grace from the Whites. They cannot allege that they were overreached by diplomatists-but on the other hand, it is true that they, by intelligence, ingenuity and physical force, had the advantage of the Indians, when these treaties were made; and if anything was done in violation of the Constitution of the United States, it was their own fault-not that of the Indians. And it is a maxim in law that a party shall not take advantage of his own wrong.

But what provision let us ask, has been made for the Indians to maintain their rights in our Courts? Have they an equal chance with the Whites, at this game of hazard and address, when they are not allowed their oath against a white man? Can they maintain their rights with their hands thus tied, against the black villainy of those who may and will go among them either separately or in small companies, and rob them of their property and abuse their persons in defiance of all laws? Away with such mockery!- it is a disgrace to the nation. But that is not all,-this mockery of justice is not brought to their own doors-they must be dragged from their own country and from their own people, to the country of strangers, ' these strangers not their friends-to claim their rights in a language they do not understand.

And are these the tender mercies that are to be meted out to the defenseless Cherokees, who fought for us in the late war, by the now powerful nation which once groaned under the yoke of Britain, and is bloated, almost to bursting, with pride, because they succeeded in throwing off the fetters that bound them? Art they, who suffered so much from oppression themselves to become callous to the sufferings of others? 'Forbid it heaven!'- let not the world witness the perpetration of crimes so diabolical, by the chivalrous sons of Tennessee!

Were the Cherokees equally powerful with the Whites, as a nation, that fact would be some palliation of the course of oppression which is commenced in this act of our Legislature.- But they are weak and we are strong-and it is this circumstance that adds the blackest disgrace to our blackest crime. And shall it be recorded in history that this hell-born scheme of oppression was persisted in by a people professing to do justice unto all men and all nations, and a people, too, professing reverence for the true and living God?




      


From the New Observer

ALABAMA AND THE EXECUTIVE OF THE UNITED STATES

Mr. Lewis of Alabama, offered the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Committee on Indian Affairs be instructed to inquire whether the provision of the treaty of March, 1832, with the Creek tribe of Indians in the State of Alabama, be inconsistent with the sovereign right of jurisdiction of said State within its limits; and whether the execution of said treaty has so far conflicted or is likely to conflict with the operation of the laws of said State over the country ceded by such treaty; and if so, to inquire whether some act of legislation, consistent with the right of said Indians, may not be necessary to prevent such conflict, and that said committee have leave to report by bill or otherwise.

Having presented the resolution, Mr. Lewis after stating the nature of the dispute between the State and the Government, said that when he left home all was quiet, and universal congratulations were exchanged on the prospect that the orders of the President to proceed to a forcible removal of the settlers on Indian lands, would be deferred; but, since his arrival, he had received letters, stating that a large military force had been concentrated at Fort Mitchell, and orders were out for them to act on the 15th of January inst.- Under these circumstances, he had written to the Secretary of War, inquiring into the truth, and had been told, in answer that the time would not be extended, and the order had not been revoked.  Under these circumstances, he could no longer abstain from invoking the interposition of Congress, to devise some measure which would prevent the necessity of resort to force, and obviate the otherwise impending collision of the two Governments.

In the course of his remarks, Mr. L. was very severe on the Executive, whom he charged with inconsistency in his conduct towards Georgia and Alabama, in cases precisely similar to each other; and of remissness in his duties, in not having apprised Congress in his message of the difficulty.

Mr. Stewart, not conceiving that there was any present necessity of going into the discussion of the subject, moved to lay the resolution on the table, but withdrew his motion at the request of

Mr. Lewis, who urged the necessity of speedy action by the House.

Mr Jones of Georgia, then took the floor, in support of the resolution, and was followed by Mr. M'Kinley, who expressed his surprise that Congress should on the 6th of January be called to provide for an emergency which was to happen on the 15th. Mr. M'Kinley moved to lay the resolution the table until tomorrow.

Mr. Mardis demanded the yeas and nays on postponement: They were ordered by the House, and being taken stood as follows: yeas 110 and nays 107. So the resolution was postponed until to-morrow,

The U. S. military force ordered to Fort Mitchell, for the removal of the Creek settlers, consists of fourteen companies.  The Washington correspondent of the Journal of Commerce says: 'The number of settlers is 30,000, and they are in the full exercise of all the rights and privileges of citizens of Alabama, and are quite as respectable as any portion of the citizens of that State.  The laws of that State have been extended over these lands and their inhabitants, for some time and the interference of the Government with them regarded as a departure from the practice of the Government as settled in the case of the Cherokees within the  jurisdiction of Georgia. At all events, right or wrong, the settlers will resist, and will be supported by the whole power of the State; at least so says Mr. Dixon. H. Lewis,who made a flaming speech on the subject today; so says Mr. Seaborn Jones, a hot Nullifier from Georgia and so say all the Nullifiers. Mr.Jones stated that the jurisdiction of the Courts of Alabama would soon be brought into collusion with that of the U. S. Courts The persons concerned in the murder of Owen, had been indicted, and would be condemned by the State Courts; and they would be executed as Tassels was in Georgia, without regard to the mandates of the Federal Courts.'




      


TREATY OF 1819

ART. The Cherokee Nation cedes to the United States all of their lands lying north and east of the following line, viz: Beginning on the Tennessee River, at the point where the Cherokee boundary with Madison County, in the Alabama territory, joins the same; thence, along the main channel of said river, to the mouth of the Hiwassee; thence, along its main channel, to the first hill which closes in on said river, about two miles above Hiwassee Old Town; thence, along the ridge which divides the waters of the Highwassee, and Little Tellico, to the Tennessee River, at Tallassee; thence along the main channel, to the junction of the Cowee and Nanteyalee; thence along the ride in the fork of said river, to the top of the Blue Ridge; thence, along the Blue Ridge, to the Unicoy Turnpike Road; thence by a straight line, in the nearest main source of the Chestatee; thence along its main channel, to the Chatahouchee, and thence to the Creek Boundary; it being understood that all the islands in the Chestatee, and parts of the Tennessee and Highwassee, with the exception of Jolly's Island in the Tennessee, near the mouth of the Highwassee, which constitute a portion of the present boundary, belong to the Cherokee Nation; and it is also understood that the reservations contained in the second article of the Treaty of Telico, signed the twenty-fifth October, eighteen hundred and five, and a tract equal to twelve miles square, to be located by a commencing at the point formed by the intersection of the boundary line of Madison County, already mentioned, and the north bank of Tennessee River; thence along the said line, and up the said river twelve miles, and ceded to the United States, in trust for the Cherokee Nation as a school fund; to be sold by the United States, and the proceeds vested as is hereafter provided in the fourth article of this treaty; and, also, that the rights vested in the Unicoy Turnpike Company, by the Cherokee Nation, according to certified copies of the instruments securing the rights, and herewith annexed, are not to be affected by this treaty; and it is further understood and agreed by the said parties, that the lands hereby ceded by the Cherokee Nation, are in full satisfaction of all claims which the United States have on them, on account of the cession to a part of their nation who have or may hereafter emigrate to the Arkansas; and this treaty is a final adjustment of that of the eighth of July, eighteen hundred and seventeen.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, FEBRUARY 8, 1834

A murder of a very wicked character and atrocity, falls to our lot to record, as the effects of the humane policy of the Government. In the early part of last week, on the Hightower, 30 miles south of this, a large collection of Cherokees, for the purpose of a dance, took place. A Cherokee Indian, speaking good English, by the name of John Fields, of a bold disposition, attended. Fields, it appears, received the appointment of enrolling agent, from the numerous United States agents, traversing this country, with the bounty of $10 per head, for every Cherokee that he might enroll for emigration. It appears that some two or three women had enrolled, and at that time, some altercation ensued, between another family and these emigrants, when an Indian by the name of Bread Baker, became enraged at these emigrants. Fields having the Georgia laws and the Government to protect him, arrested Baker, for the purpose of enrolling him. A considerable fight ensued; Fields proving the strongest, brought Baker to the ground, drew a heavy pocket knife, with a plunge near the naval cut a gash into his hollow, which brought out his entrails; another near the arm pit, which cut into the hallow. Baker was literally elsewhere, cut to pieces, of which he died the most agonizing ' sanguinary death. Fields is at home, protected by the Georgia laws, for the wilful murder of a Cherokee opposed to emigration. They were both intoxicated.

____________________

The Message of the President, and the Report of the Secretary, on their relations with the Indian tribes, both of new and old, we had omitted in our last to remark more generally of their character and bearings, to the extent that we deemed it may be interesting to our readers, for the want of time and space. The policy of concentrating the Indians west of the Mississippi, having for its object new relations, have been in operation for some time past.  Whatever of justice and principle, has been observed by the Government, in the prosecution of this plan towards the aborigines, to effect this object, every observer of the progress of the Government in it, must, it seems to us, discover the great moral principle-justice, and truth palpably, violated. The paeado(sic)-prophet of Arabia gave to the inhabitants of that country, the choice of his religion, or the point of his sword. If you will believe in my creed you shall be happy, if not, I will cut you off from the earth. The measures of Government which have been brought to aid in the accomplishment of its policy, in a physical point of view, exercised as it is in this enlightened age, gives to it much more atrocity than the case transacted in the days of barbarism and fanaticism. The unprovoked aggression of one sovereign against another is considered by Christendom as wrong and unjustifiable. But the language of the Government to sustain its policy towards our race, which otherwise is reprobated by enlightened mankind, comes to us with this language: We are a superior race of beings, you are a small people, if you do not believe in our policy, we must consider it in that case perfectly right to rob you of your property. This is the brightest picture which we can draw of the nature and effects of the policy of the Government.- The assault of Mahomet on the inhabitants of the east, was on the right of conscience, that of the Federal Government, on the political, and not less dear rights of the Cherokees. The usurper in the former, is doubtless culpable, but in the latter, it is in a course of perpetration and sanctioned by the Government. In this anomalous condition of politics it is with pain that we still discover in the President, his exalted opinion of this new, but destructive policy. He describes the Indians in the West as in a prosperous condition, whose removal and settlement have been made since the year 1828. The inference to be drawn from the message is, 'that the two southern tribes are considered to be an ignorant and indolent people, but drive them west of the Mississippi, and they become prosperous.' - Where is the Indian statistics to prove to us this unprecedented change of condition, their transition from heathenism to the unqualified annunciation of their prosperity?  Where are their hundreds of newspapers circulating, thousands of Indiana books, printing presses in operation?  Where are their numerous brick houses, court houses, mills and smith shops, with the implements of the mechanic, sending forth its sound of industry almost to enchantment? In the absence of evidence to prove to us the facts of their sudden march of improvement, we have reasons to receive with caution the correctness of the President's description, according to the letter of his message.

The objects for which we have commenced these remarks, is to defend ourselves from the imputation which the President has thought proper to cast upon us, as one of the southern tribes, whose condition he has represented to be of a degraded condition.- That we have no desire to improve, nor seek to control our inferiority in order to our improvement.  We have been not a little astonished to see this argument promulgated at this time. to justify the prosecution of his policy towards us. The commencement of this new era was accompanied with the notification that the government would not sanction the substantive government which the Cherokees had formed within their own territory. The establishment of this government, was the President's ground of objections to sustain the Cherokees according to his treaties with us. The improvement of the Cherokees was here frustrated by himself, who has now drawn the dismal picture of our degradation. It is true, we have not measured the depth and surface of the seas, nor the distance from the earth to the sun, nor counted the number of valleys in the moon, but our progress in literature and the arts, are sufficient, to enable us to improve, if our territory is restored to us. Therefore it is incidental upon us, without intending offensive expressions against the Executive, to remark against the unjust imputation which has been given us of our condition, and that it is incorrect, and was uncalled for, and we hope inadvertently made. But pay us our annuities, $25,000, now travelling with the depositor and withheld from our nation, it will improve us more than all the country west of the Mississippi.

The Secretary likewise, accuses the Chiefs of being instrumental in defeating the objects of the Government, to change the relations existing with the Cherokees. This doctrine has been so often repeated from that source, and the general disposition of the Cherokees being so well known, that the charge upon our chiefs, we hope will soon expire with its own weakness.

_____________

STATISTICKS (SIC) OF THE CHEROKEE NATION -April 15th 1825

Population 15,1__, Wagons 72, Looms 752, Spinning wheels 2,485, Plows 921, Horses 7,653, Cattle 17,531, Hogs 47,782, Sheep 2,556, Goats 420, Schools, 12, Smith shops 62, Turnpike gates, 6, Ferries, 18, Stores 9, Saw, Grist Mills and Cotton Gins, 10.

_______________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

Mr. Editor, Sir:- The affairs of the Cherokees have arrived to a very important crisis. Long have we struggled for victory, our efforts have not been in vain; we are not yet cast into the whirlpool of despair. No! All the inhumane and foolish legislation of Georgia cannot unnerve us. We are not such knaves and fools as they wish, nor as their childish laws suppose! We yet love the land of our fathers, and will not give it up without another struggle.  It is true, some of our own people, together with the surrounding States, and the present administration, have leveled their artillery at us, and have made several charges upon us. But what signifies all that! As a nation, we are yet invulnerable, and it will require something more terrible than we have yet witnessed, to move us from our posts.  I am no prophet, but from the signs of the times, I will yet regret her folly, and relax her last full hold. She has gone as far as she dare go. She will not be allowed to complete the robbery in deed.  Her will is good, but she has got to the end of her rope, she dare not make another step without our consent.

With regard to their improvements the Cherokees need not be alarmed. Why? Because

1st. The late laws of Georgia are so exceedingly cruel and unconstitutional that it will be impossible to enforce them. There is not an honest court in Georgia, nor in the United States, that would not trample them under foot with the greatest abhorrence.

2nd. If the robber should even get possession, it will only be momentary, for if the Cherokees should be under the painful necessity of turning their faces to the 'far west,' they will most assuredly be restored to the occupancy of their improvements. But

3d. There is a strong probability that our difficulties will be settled by a compromise, and if they should, there is no doubt but our tormentors will have to back out! Now, let the scale turn which ever way it may, our Georgia friends will be stopped in their mad career, and many of them will wish a thousand times they had never left their granny's old fields. There is too much diabolical rascality in the Georgia policy, for it not to meet with an over throw.

Emigration is now vehemently urged upon us, b all sorts of agents, as the only alternative, and to help out the matter, Georgia has passed a gag law on the subject, and to make sure work she has again reminded us of her big house in Milledgeville! The Georgians must have great confidence in their penitentiary, much more I fear than they have in their Maker! But before they can prevent us from talking with our neighbors and friends for their good, they will have to send another military force into the nation to tie sticks in our mouths, or doctors to cut out our tongues.

But as to this emigration business, it is the poorest alternative of which we could avail ourselves. The policy of the 'Gineral' towards us has greatly increased the value of our improvements, so much so, that the use of them for one year, in many instances, is worth more than the assessing agents would allow us! And if we go to the West, we shall have to give double and tribble (sic) for improvements there, as good as those we abandon here. But to make up this great loss, and as a further inducement to enroll, some have been offered the privilege of renting their improvements for one year after their enrollment. Yes, Mr. Watie enrolled under this spacious promise, but no sooner did he make his mark, than measures were taken to hurry the drawer into his house, and now, if even Mr. Watie gets anything for the rent of his place, he will have to beg it our of the 'Gineral!'

OCONESTOTA.






      


INDIANS

OPINION

On the boundary between the Cherokees and Creeks in Georgia, by  William Wirt, Esq.

The Cherokee and Creek Indians were coterminous tribes in the South and a part of their respective territories lay within the chartered limits of Georgia. Some doubt having been thrown over one of their common boundaries, by the fact of their having both made cessions to the United States, including a slip of the same lands, agreed, in the year 1821, to mark this line, which was accordingly done.  The line thus marked is a right line from the Ten Islands on the river Coosa, eastward to the Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochy, the Cherokees owning the land to the north to that line, and the Creeks to the south. This line has been recognized by the United States as the boundary between these two tribes; and the recognition is contained in the treaty between the United States and the Creek Nation in 1826. The line is called for in the second article of that treaty, and the cession is bounded by it for thirty miles: but the Creeks being disposed to cede all their lands, within the chartered limits of Georgia, a supplement is added to the treaty for this purpose, by which this additional cessio is bounded for forty-five miles by the line thus marked between the Creeks and the Cherokees in 1821.- The cession by the Creeks is for avowed purpose of ceding all the lands which they possessed in the State of Georgia; thus it is admitted by the Creeks and by the United States that the Creeks owned no lands in Georgia to the north of this line, and that, consequently, that line is the true boundary between the Creeks and the Cherokees.

The State of Georgia, however, in whose benefit this cession inures, denies that this is the boundary, and she has of her own authority, run another line which she calls true boundary, and which lies sixty miles to the south of the line established by the Creeks and the Cherokees.  By this process she takes from the Cherokees a territory sixty miles in breadth on the Chattahoochy, and stretching from the river to the Coosa, with different degrees of width.

As the Cherokees refused to submit to this amendment on their territory, the subject came before the President of the United States, who has caused a third line to be run, different from both the former, and not corresponding with any treaty which has heretofore been made, but which he has declared officially shall be the line between the lands ceded by the Creeks to the United States and the Cherokees, in 1826.- The line thus established by the President's orders, leaves the Chattahoochy at the shallow ford, about thirty miles to the north of the Buzzard Roost, the point agreed upon by the Cherokees and Creeks, as one of the termini of their line, and runs between this line and that which is claimed by Georgia. Thus the President's line takes thirty miles of their territory from the Cherokees at that point, if the line between them and Creeks in 1821 was a line authorized by law.

QUESTIONS

1. Had these coterminous tribes of Indians a right to mark the boundary between themselves, by their own consent, and is not the boundary so marked the true boundary between them?

2. If it required the sanction of the United States to make that boundary valid, was not this sanction sufficiently given by the treaty of 1826?

3. Has the President of the United States any constitutional and legal power to run and establish the line which he has declared to be the line between the Creeks and the Cherokees?

ANSWERS.

1. The right of coterminous tribes to settle their own disputed boundaries, b their own consent, was admitted by the executive of the United States, at a time when the highest office of this nation was filled by one of the most eminent lawyers and statesmen that our country has ever known-I mean Mr. Jefferson. In the treaty of 1806 between the United States and the Cherokee Nation of Indians, I find the following article:

'Art. 3. it is, agreed, on the part of the United States that the Government thereof,

will use its influence ' best endeavors to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation of Indians to agree to the following boundary between that nation and the Cherokees, to the southward of the Tennessee River viz: beginning at the mouth of Caney Creek near the lower part of the Muscle Shoals, and to run up the said Creek to its head, and in a direct line from thence to the Flat Stone or Rock, the old corner boundary.'

'But it is understood by the contracting parties, that the United States do not engage to have the aforesaid line or boundary established, but only to endeavor to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation to consent to such a line as the boundary between the two nations.'

It is needless to dilate on this article.  It is perfectly clear that Mr. Jefferson considered the Indians as the only competent authority to settle their own disputed boundaries, that it was to be done by their consent alone, and that the United States had no right to interfere in the matter, except in the character of mediators.

Who, indeed, can be so well qualified to settle such a question as the parties themselves? It depends on facts and traditions of which they are the best and the peculiar repositories, and the love of interest natural to all men, civilized or savage, will make them vigilant and astute to take advantage of every circumstance that operates in their favor; so that when a boundary is once fixed by them by consent, it may well be considered as near the truth as human sagacity sharpened by interest can approach.

With regard to their right to do this: the possessory right of the lands is in them exclusively, and it is a perpetual right of possession, in them and their heirs forever. It would be singular if they had not the right to settle the boundary of their respective possession, amicably, between themselves. If they cannot do it, who can?  The United States, we have seen, disclaimed the power in 1806; and under the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States the several States have no right to interfere with them.

It is objected that this settlement of boundaries may involve a cession of lands by the one to the other, and that they have no right to make any cession except to the United States. Among the multitude of answers to which this objection is exposed, I will merely suggest the following without dilating on them: promising that, even if the objection were valid in other respects before the boundary could be questioned, it must be shown, judicially,  not that it may but that it does involve a cession. 1. No enlightened tribunal would ever consider an amicable and bone fide settlement of their boundaries, among the Indian tribes, for the sake of peace among themselves, as a cession of their lands within the meaning of the principle to which the objection alludes.

2. The settlement of their boundary having been prior to the cession, by either, of any of the lands affected by that boundary, and it being perfectly uncertain which of the tribes would make the first cession, it must be a matter of indifference to the holder of the ultimate domain where the boundary would run.

3. The State of Georgia claims the possession of these lands under a cession by the Creek Nation. She can take only what was ceded; and the cession stopped at this boundary for which it called expressly; and upon which it ran for forty-five miles. 

No more land was paid for under this cession than what is comprised in this boundary.

4. Suppose the settlement of this boundary to be subject to the objection that because the Creeks and Cherokees held only the right of dependency, they cannot make a cession except under the authority  of the United States. This brings us to consider the next question.

II. I cannot imagine any more high and solemn sanction to this boundary than that which is given to it by the treaty of 1826,

made by the President and ratified by the Senate of the United States. It is very clear that Mr. Jefferson would have considered such a boundary as firmly established, when made by the tribes, themselves, under the mediation of the President; but here is a solemn treaty made by the President and Senate of the United States accepting a cession from the Creeks based on this, and acknowledging that it comprised all the lands which the Creeks possessed in Georgia.

III. On this question I can only say that I am not informed of anything in the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States which confers the power which has been exercised. It is certainly not among the specific powers enumerated in the Constitution. The treaty of 1826 directs that the line which it designates shall be run under the superintendence of commissioners to be appointed by the Cherokees. The 20th section of the Intercourse Act of 1802 authorizes the President to run and mark the boundary lines, which have been established by treaty. But it is said that the line run and marked in this case does not follow the designation of any treaty; certainly not of that of 1826.  The act done seems to me to be without authority- and, therefore, void.

WM. WIRT.

Baltimore, June 24, 1830.

___________

BALTIMORE,June 25th, 1830.

Since the above opinion was written my attention has been called to the treaty of the 15th November 1827 between the Creeks and the United States. It appears by the supplementary article to the treaty of 1826, that the impression of the parties was that a line setting out from the Chattahoochy fifty miles below the Buzzard Roost, and so run as to strike the line marked by the Creeks and Cherokees forty-five miles west of the Buzzard Roost, thence along the line so marked to the Buzzard Roost, and thence down the Chattahoochy to the place of beginning would embrace all the land of the Creeks in Georgia, west of the Chattahoochy, which it was declared to be the intention of the Creeks to cede by that supplementary article. It was uncertain whether the line between Alabama and Georgia did not cross that marked boundary at a distance short of forty-five miles from the Buzzard Roost-in which case the first line designated by the supplementary article would have run into Alabama which was not the intention of the parties. That first line, therefore, was directed to stop at the point at which the line of Alabama might cross the marked boundary, if it should cross it within the forty-five miles. It was afterwards ascertained, however, that point of intersection lay still farther west, and that it would require and extension of the lines designated by the treaty of 1826 comprehend all the lands of the Creeks in Georgia west of Chattahoochy. These facts are recited in the preamble to the treaty of 1827; and then it is added in the preamble that 'the President of the United States having urged the Creek Nation farther to extend the limits as defined in the treaty aforesaid (that of 1826) and the chiefs and head men of the Creek Nation being desirous of complying with the wish of the President of the United States, THEREFORE they, the chiefs and head men aforesaid, agree to cede, and they do hereby cede to the U. States all the remaining land now owned or claimed by the Creek Nation, not heretofore ceded, and which on actual survey may be found to lie within the chartered limits of the State of Georgia.'

I do not perceive that there is anything in this treaty to change the foregoing opinion. It does not propose to affect the boundary marked between the Creeks and the Cherokees. It proposes only such an extension of the lines defined by the treaty of 1826 as to enhance the Creek lands. But that treaty defines no line; to the north of the line marked by the Creeks and the Cherokees all the new lines defined by it lie below the marked line, and the north boundary coincides with it. I consider the treaty of 1827, construed as it should be, altogether, rather as a re-affirmance of the marked boundary. It is true it cedes all the Creek lands in Georgia; but that cession is, in express terms, to be effected by an extension of the lines defined in the treaty of 1826- and the only lines defined in that treaty, are the line from the Chattahoochy to the marked boundary, then along the marked boundary to the Buzzard Roost, and down the Chattahoochy to the beginning and these are in my opinion the lines which the President is authorized to run under the 20th section of the Intercourse Law of 1802.

WM. WIRT.




      


Correspondence of the N. Y. D. Advertiser.

Extract of a letter, dated

Washington, Dec. 31, 1833

I send to you a copy of a letter from General Jackson, to Wm. Graham, then acting Secretary of War, for two purposes:- 1st To prove to the world that Gen. Jackson has not been as obstinate as his enemies contend he has been; and this letter will show conclusively he has on one question, to wit, the rights of the Indians, changed his opinion. 2d. To show the profundity of Dr. Jackson's legal researches, and to sustain the Cambridge University in conferring on this distinguished jurist the degree of Doctor of Laws.

It may be necessary to advert to the occasion that caused the Doctor to write the letter. Mr. Crawford, while acting as Secretary of War, wrote to Gen. Jackson on the 27th of January, 1816, that if the Marshal of the district or territory should request his assistance to remove intruders, that he should 'cause to be removed, by military force, all persons who should be found upon the public lands within his command, and destroy their habitations and improvements.'

Mr. Crawford, in this order, says 'Intrusion upon the lands of the friendly Indian tribes is not only a violation of the laws,but a direct opposition to the policy of the Government, towards its savage neighbors.' Under this order from the War Department to Gen. Jackson to remove intruders; he issued an order to Captain Houstin, to take the cattle of the settlers, and deliver them over to the Marshal to be sold. Capt. Houstin seized upon fifty one head of cattle, and a horse beast, under this order, and delivered them over to the Marshal, who put them up at vendue, and sold them for $350-62-1-2. The Marshal doubted the propriety of the course pursued, and he wrote to the Secretary of War, stating that a considerable number of other cattle would be delivered to him under Gen. Jackson's order, and he wished to know whether he should receive them. The Secretary of War wrote to the Marshall on the 6th of June, 1817, and informed him that 'the order to General Jackson to remove intruders on Indian lands, did not extend to a confiscation of their movable property.'

A copy of the letter was sent to Gen. Jackson, which called forth the following very important letter:

_______________

HEADQUARTERS, Division of the South

Nashville, 22d July, 1817.

Sir:- On my return from Hiwassee to this place, I had the honor to receive your note of the 6th of June, enclosing a copy of a letter of the same date to the Marshal for the District of West Tennessee.  From the various treaties and acts of Congress regulating intercourse with the Indians, I clearly understand, that the United States have stipulated to prevent intrusions by its citizens, or trespasses by driving their stock on their lands. Experience has proven, that it is useless to remove themselves or stock therefrom, without prosecution, for the infraction of the law. The experiment made last fall, showed the inutility of the bare destruction of improvements, and removal of stocks. The intruders returned within a few days after the soldiers had retired, drove back their stock, and recommenced their plan of robbery.- From the tenor of the treaties and acts of Congress, I have always believed that, where cattle were found trespassing on Indian lands, and this trespass by the owner driving his stock thereon, the cattle were liable, and ought to be seized, (damage feasan,) delivered to the civil authority, and made answerable for the damage. It is the only way to put an end to the villainies practiced within the Indian boundaries. Under these impressions, I ordered Captain Houstin to seize and deliver all intruders over to the civil authority, and their stocks into the hands of the Marshal, and if he refused to receive them, to note it before evidence, and let them go. The Marshal, in one instance, received, and being perishable property, sold them at public sale. This, on legal principles, I have no doubt, can be justified; but with his duty I have nothing to do. My orders are still to take all persons and stocks found trespassing on the Indian territory, and deliver them over to the civil authority for prosecution. If the military is not aided by the civil authority, in executing the laws and treaties, it will be useless to harass the former in pursuit of trespassers and their stocks. All the troops on the military peace establishment, (without horsemen) could not carry into effect the treaties with the Cherokees and prevent intrusions.- The late procedure has had more beneficial effects than all other measures that had been previously adopted, and I am convinced none else will have the desired effect. On this subject I shall expect your full instructions and until receive them, shall continue to pursue the mode previously adopted.

I am, Sir,very respectfully , 'c.

ANDREW JACKSON,

Major General,

Comd'g Div. of the South.

Geo. Graham, Esq.

Department of War

Whoever is curious enough to examine the correspondence further, will find this and other letters in the Senate documents of the 2d session, 19th Congress.

___________________

__________




      


Mr. Clay and Mr. Mardis, of the Alabama delegation in Congress, in letters published to correct an error in relation to other points, both intimate their belief, that the sales of the Creek lands, which, we presume, are now going on, and which have elicited such unbounded abuse of the President, will redound more to the advantage of the settlers than otherwise. These pioneers of the forest should have the preference, and having a knowledge of the tracts which they wish to purchase, have the advantage of the mere speculator.  Besides, the early sale of these lands will enable those, who do not purchase the tracts on which they now reside, to make other provisions for the year's crop. Some dissatisfaction has been expressed and the short period which these sales have been advertised; but it would seem from Messrs. Clay's and Mardis' letters, that the sales have been directed early in the year with one of the objects above expressed, and that they believe speculators will be defeated in their design of running to a high price the improvements of the poor settler.  The treaty, too, forbids the longer delay of this matter. The President had already delayed it one year, at the request of the delegation, and many of the inhabitants of the ceded territory. But the short time of advertising will not prevent speculations to a great extent, if this had anything to do with it. The Montgomery Advertiser states, that Montgomery is full of speculators, and in noticing Seaborn Jones' remarks on Lewis' motion, asserts, a great proportion of them are his strikers. That speculation, and that too of the bassist kind, has had much to do in fomenting the difficulties which have grown out of this subject few will be disposed to doubt; and we understand one family in this State has control of nearly two thirds of the valuable tracts in the whole Creek territory. The wisdom of the President's precautions to prevent the ignorant Indian from being cheated out of his all, will be more manifest than is at present.

We perceive that the Globe assigns another reason for the early sale of these lands.- A great portion of the Creeks are in great distress and wish to remove as soon as they can sell their located reservations. But it will require 1,500,000 dollars to effect that removal, and support them one year, furnishing what the treaty requires.- From the sales of these lands, this sum was expected to be raised, and the lands are so pledged on the treaty.

'The Creek census shows 22,254 Indians. These Creeks are considerable further from the country to which they are to be removed than the Choctaws, and it is estimated by General Gibson, Commissary General of Subsistence, who superintends this business, that their removal will cost $18 each. The whole sum for removal will be $100,752.

These Indians are entitled to one year's subsistence after they arrive west of the Mississippi. The ratio is estimated at 7 3-4 cents.

The year's subsistence will therefore cost $629,792.

The incidental expenses of removal and subsistence, including the compensation of officers, interpreters, and other persons, incidental transportation, erection of necessary buildings, $50,000.

These Indians are entitled to a rifle, molds, wipers, and ammunition, to each warrior, and a blanket for each family.  The cost of these several articles is $119,841.

These and some other items of expense will make the whole nearly, $1,500,000, as the amount of expenditure which the Creek Treaty requires to be made.' Augusta Courier.




      


From the Vermont Chronicle.

WESTERN CHOCTAWS.

Under date of August 13th, 1833, Mrs. Wright, near Fort Towson, on Red River, makes the following statements respecting

Distressing sickness prevailing among the Choctaws.



The sickness commenced very early in the season. Mr. Wright's whole time has been occupied with the sick. Since the first week in June he has attended on 322 individual cases, some of which were very severe. Many he sees every day, during the violence of the symptoms, and many who are convalescent, for want of suitable food, suffer from relapse. In some families every individual is sick; and indeed almost every individual on Red River is more or less sick. Mr. Hotchkin, with his wife and child, were obliged to remove to our house to be taken care of. Miss Clough, who came to make us a visit is also sick. We were not prepared for this, and are obliged to purchase medicines at the exorbitant prices of this country, Mr. Wright's health is still very poor. It is only by the greatest care that he is able to endure the constant fatigue that he is compelled to undergo.

Our communion season, the first of July, was deferred on account of sickness. Fifty had united with the church at this station, and a number more had been examined of the members of the church in the old nation, and some new ones. Two schools had been commenced on Red River, and two others were to have been opened on Little River, but the sickness has prevented all efforts. Indeed, unless you could see for yourself, you could form no idea of the state of suffering. Except on Red River, among children, there have, as yet been but few deaths, in proportion to the number of the sick. West of the Kiemiebi, it is said, that forty adults have died this season. No cases of spasiaodie cholera occurred, but several severe cases of cholera morbus.- Sickness is commencing on Mountain Fork and on other streams.

The sickness continued till October. Mr. Williams, stationed at Bethabara, on the Mountain Fork of Little River, a northern tributary of Red River, states that all the members of his family had been sick; and that the Choctaws around him were suffering severely.- Many had died, and numbers in his neighborhood, when he wrote, were at the point of death.  The wretchedness of the people, without suitable food, or medicine, or nursing, was heart rending, and altogether beyond description.

Mr. Wilson and Mr. Washburn, from Dwight, made a tour among that portion of the western Choctaws settled on the Arkansas River, of which the former, giving an account under date of October 2, remarks-

We found the Indians in a wretched state, suffering greatly from poverty ' sickness. We did not visit a house, wigwam, or camp, where we did not find more or less sickness, and in many instances the whole family were prostrated by disease. Great numbers of them have died. The astonishing rise of the Arkansas River, which occurred more than a month ago, has swept away their crops of corn and nearly all the little improvements which they had made; their springs failed, leaving them to drink pond or river water, which doubtless, tends greatly to increase the amount of mortality of their sickness. For these reasons the people seem to be very much dissatisfied with their situation and determined to remove to some other part of the country, though they know not where to go to improve their condition. I found ample opportunity in visiting the sick to give away all the medicine I had with me, though many seemed to fear the white man's medicine more than death. They have more faith in conjuring. There has been and still is much sickness through this whole district of country.  For some time past there has not been less than twelve or fifteen sick at a time in the family at Dwight, including pupils in the school. Some have been severely ill but the Lord has spared them.

_________________

From the Presbyterian.

DWIGHT MISSION.

Extract of a letter from Rev. Henry R. Wilson, Jr. a missionary, to his parents, dated Dwight Mission, West Cherokee Nation, October 30, 1833.-

Much Beloved Parents- My communications have generally been long, but at present, I am compelled to be brief. A few days after my last letter, I set out with Br. Washburn to attend a missionary convention at Harmony Station, among the Osages, on the borders of Missouri, more than two hundred miles from Dwight. An express had been sent to me the night before to visit Br. Newton, whose station is from this about a day's ride. He and several members of his family were very ill. Taking this station on our route, we arrived there on the first day. The next morning we left the family much better. After riding all day in the rain, and crossing the Illinois, Neasho, and Verdigris rivers, we arrived late on Saturday evening at Brother Fleming's in the Creek Nation. Found him well, and spent the Sabbath with him preaching to two congregations of Creek Indians. On Monday morning we resumed our journey with the company of Br. Fleming, and in the evening reached the Union Station, among the Osages, where we spent the night.  Here we were joined by Br. Vail.- On the next morning we all set out to cross the vast prairie, which lies between this and Harmony. After travelling all day over the most enchanting grounds, we came in the evening to Hopefield, a little colony of Osages, under the care of Br. Riqua. This devoted missionary has lately lost his wife. He has sent his two little helpless children to the family at Union, and is here laboring alone among these poor degraded beings.

The next morning we pursued our journey, and having travelled forty-five miles, we came to a little creek skirted with timber, which furnished us a spacious hotel, where we put up for the night. After hobbling our horses, we turned them out to pick grass, and then turned our attention towards making provision for ourselves. We had carried with us a wallet containing some bread and meat, and a little bag of ground coffee. After striking fire, we cut down a tree, (having carried an axe with us), and very soon had a comfortable fire. Filling our tin boiler from the creek, we had a cup of very good coffee; and sitting down by the fire we partook of a very delicious supper, every one having an excellent appetite. After supper we enjoyed a precious season in social prayer, being able to read and sing by the light of a hickory fire. Then rolling ourselves in our blankets, we lay down to sleep under the broad canopy of heaven.- Rose next morning, had our breakfast over, our horses caught, and were ready to start at day break. In the evening reached Boudinot, where Br. Dodge is stationed, having travelled seventy miles without seeing a house or any kind of habitation.  Here we found Br. Montgomery and family, who had left Union some days before we arrived there. Spent a pleasant evening in prayer. The next morning we proceeded with the recruit of Br. Montgomery and family, and Br. Dodge, his wife, and two children, in two little wagons. After travelling forty miles, we came to a piece of timber on a small stream of water, where we encamped for the night. After supper we had a prayer meeting; yes, a prayer meeting, after night, in the open woods, and in the midst of the Indian hunting grounds. And oh! how sweet to hear those woods and hills re-echo the praises of Jehovah; and to hear amidst the howling of wolves, and the cries of other wild beasts, the voice of prayer, as it ascended to the God of Israel, and the God of missions. The next evening we arrived safely at Harmony, and found the mission family generally well, anxiously looking for us, and ready to give us cordial welcome. Notwithstanding the fatigue of our journey, the family were called together, and the evening spent i prayer and exhortation. The next day (Sabbath) was a refreshing season. I was called onto preach in the morning and to address the children of the schools in the afternoon; and Br. Washburn preached in the evening.

After having been, for a long season, deprived of such privileges, I was ready to exclaim, 'O how sweet to the soul is communion with saints.' On Monday the convention was opened. A considerable part of the time was spent in religious exercises, and the remainder in the transaction of business. Many subjects of deep interest and of great importance to the cause of missions came before us for consideration, such as the best manner of conducting missionary operations, removing evils which may exist, and disposing of assistant missionaries lately sent on. Many of these things, which the board cannot do, at so great a distance we are obliged to do. The Sabbath, which was the last day of our stay at Harmony, was truly a delightful one.  We partook of the Lord's supper.  I had the blessed privilege of administering the emblem of Christ's precious blood, not only to my brethren in the ministry, and to the lay brethren and sisters at the station, but also to some young Delaware and Osage converts; children who have been taken from the depths of pollution, and brought into the school. Here they have been instructed for some years and lately have given evidence of a saving change. This is but the first fruits of missionary labor in this barren part of the Lord's vineyard. On Monday morning we set out on our journey homeward. As snow had fallen to the depth of several inches, it made the travelling much colder, especially lying out on the frozen ground at night. But the Lord prospered us, and on Saturday evening we reached Br. Fleming's and spent the Sabbath with him. On Monday evening at 9 o'clock we arrived here, having travelled sixty miles that day, without food for ourselves or horses.  During the two days I have been here, I have bee kept busy riding to see several sick persons in the neighborhood.  I am just starting again for the Choctaw Nation, in order, if practicable, to have an interview with them, and form the preliminaries for commencing a mission among them. Perhaps I may be back in eight or ten days.  Write to me, as usual, at this place.  My health is as good at present as it ever was.  As thy day is, so shall thy strength be. Please remember me to all my Christian friends.- Tell them to hold up my hands in prayer by prayer, as those of Moses were stayed. I must stop. Farewell.

Your affectionate and dutiful son.

HENRY G. WILSON, Jr.




      


From the New Hampshire Sentinel

We believe we did not give 'the decision of the Supreme Court' as one of the reasons for 'the little ground of hope for the relief of the Cherokees.' That decision was favorable-but everything else appears to us, even now, to be against hope. The 'sons of George Washington' have become degenerate-they looked on with apathy to see solemn treaties violated by 'the government', concentrated in an individual, in the Cherokee case, and we fear they will look on with equal apathy to see the rights of a portion of our own people trodden under foot. Congress, it is true, have passed a law which

should protect the Cherokees,-but it will not be enforced. The President thinks only of their 'political annihilation'- and with the majority he can no more think wrong, than act wrong:-and he thinks and cares no more about permitting Georgia to strip the Cherokees of their land, in the face of treaties, than he does of taking from the bank their right to the public deposits, or oppressing to the utmost of his power, all who do not pay homage to him and his irresponsible cabinet. The Cherokees cannot 'rely for protection' we fear, upon the present Congress. It is an unfortunate period in our political history: we have no time to attend to 'the eternal principles of right and rectitude.' The faith of the Republic is 'emphatically behind a black cloud.' 'Moral courage (says the late Secretary) is as scarce at Washington, as liberality at Warsaw.' -and we confess we see but little to choose between Nicholas in his unfeeling treatment of the Poles, and Jackson in his unfeeling treatment of the Cherokees. The Poles, it is true, are yoked up and sent to Siberia, while the Cherokees are only induced to go West, by stripping them of their rights and their property. It will, we trust, be the work of a future administration, by practicing on the 'principles of right and rectitude,' to impair the errors-the wrongs-as far as they can-of the present.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, FEBRUARY 22, 1834

The Communications over the signature of Oconestota on the proceedings of the Georgians against the Cherokees, and the matter of facts set forth in them, we take pleasure in communication to our readers, as from the pen of a gentleman strictly devoted to truth and justice.

_____________________

GREAT AGENT

A gentleman (Col. Springer) under appointment of the Governor of Georgia, arrived at this place a few days since, to carry the provisions of the late law which we published, into effect, or to drive Indians from their improvements in certain cases, and white men from Indian lots.  He has given notice to several white men resident here on Indian lots, to leave by the 1st of March. This order embraces our foreman, and we presume, intended to muzzle the liberty of our press, but as he is employed by the Nation his continuance we hope, cannot be construed to the forfeiture of lots by individuals.

His honor of the palace presents the most stupendous appearance of the race of human beings that we have seen in the southern climate. His weight is 350 pounds. Can the small voice of justice come from this great man? Poh!

_____________________

The remarks of the New Hampshire Sentinel we have copied into our paper, expressive of his sense of prostration of the American faith by the political sons of George Washington. We have been for several years past, dragging heavily our claims before the Government for protection, as I under the feet of the proud Georgians, as this course was the only alternative, and the lesser evil, it was pursued with the anticipations of our success. A Government that has no time to attend to justice, and struggling as it is to live without laws is certainly a miserable authority to redress the wrongs of the oppressed. But the Indian maxim, 'retreat not before the enemy is seen,' has enabled us to fight the political battle, and we have gained a signal and intellectual victory. If we are to be robbed after this, physical power and corruption will have to accomplish it. We are in the path of duty.

________________

We have been permitted to make the following extract of a letter from one of the delegation from this Nation, to a gentleman of this place.

'Washington City, Jan 15, 1834.

'We arrived at this place on the evening of the 8th inst. worn almost out with fatigue and loss of rest. Having travelled night and day, the roads as bad as they can be, we travelled from Knoxville to Charlottesville in Virginia, eight days and nights, and slept but eight hours in the time, and that was at the Boatyard in Tennessee. We have had one upsetting in the stage on the way, fortunately none were hurt much, the horses, after the stage upset ran off with the forewheels of the stage, we had of course, to walk to the next stand, two miles, half leg deep in mud. We have indeed been both fortunate and unfortunate, broke down four stages, and upset once, still we persevered and got along without any material accident of a serious nature.

On yesterday we went and paid a visit to the President, Secretary, 'c. The Secretary appeared, quite friendly, so was the President, we had no conversation with the President touching the affairs of the Nation, we merely called in to see him, he was very busily engaged with Mr. Woodbury and Taney. Mr Herring and us had some conversation, touching the privilege granted to emigrants to sell their possessory title to citizens of the United States, thereby introducing intruders into the country; he stated he did not know of any such privilege being granted by the department. Consequently Major Curry and the Agent must have given and allowed the privilege within themselves, to encourage emigration, for the Department denies knowing anything of any order being granted.'

_______________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

SIGNS OF THE TIMES

Mr. Editor:-The Indian Bill, passed at the last session of the Georgia Legislature, deserves some notice, not because of its great importance, but in order that the public may understand its various designs, and the extent of the robbery which it is intended to commit upon the innocent, helpless, and much injured Cherokees. For, altho' the public generally, cannot help seeing that the ultimate design of the bill, is the expulsion of the Cherokees from the lands of their fathers, yet it is impossible for those not particularly acquainted with the local situations of the people in this country, to understand some of its most obnoxious features. Indeed, sir, had it not been for the law makers, and law suggesters (sic), who went to Milledgeville, from the Nation, the Legislature would never have thought of some sections of the Act. So soon as it was ascertained that the Union party, as they most inappropriately stile themselves, had a majority in the Legislature, away went the land speculators to dictate laws for their own aggrandizement, at the expense of the liberties and property of the citizens of this Nation. So various and numerous were the interests to be served, that it was very difficult matter for the Union gentlemen to please themselves! This was the cause of the things being on hand so long, and undergoing so many revolutions.

The first thing that arrests our attention on looking at the 'critter' is the great disproportion betwixt its forehead and its other parts! It somewhat resembles the image, Nebuchadnazzer saw in visions of the night.  The head was of previous gold, but the feet of iron and mud! But the Georgians and the 'Gineral' too, will continue to call things by the wrong name, in spite of all the spelling books and dictionaries Webster can make!

The next thing that diverts me is, the many sorts of folks spoken of in the bill-'White men, white men claiming the privileges of an Indian, Indian, descendant of an Indian, persons of color and negro, 'c., 'c. And the various relations, these different classes of persons sustain to the State, and to each other is not less diverting! No wonder the Legislature labored long and hard in bringing forth the indescribable monster.

The two first sections of the act are devoted to white men married to Cherokee women, who have been the objects of the cruel envy and hatred of the Georgians, ever since they failed in getting more land from the Cherokees, 'peaceably and on reasonable terms.' One would suppose it was time to let these honest and industrious men alone! What new sin have they been guilty of, that their civil and personal rights should again be outraged? Why, they thought it best not to vote for these very consequential gentlemen, who cry 'union, union' and at the same time live in the daily practice of a nullification, which pays no respect to any laws human or divine.  These two sections, it seems then, were designed for vengeance.

Next comes the case of fee simple and life estate reserves. The Georgians use to think that white men and the missionaries prevented the Cherokees from gratifying their insatiable appetites for gold and land, but having gotten out of that notion, they are now jealous of our rulers, some of whom belong to the class of reservees. They no doubt, imagine that if the reservees can be gotten out of the way, or they can get them and their descendants involved, they can manage the balance to their own liking. It is true that some of our people thought they could live among the Georgians, and accordingly remained on their improvements which fell within the ceded parts of the Nation. But it was not long till their land was surveyed and gambled for! Many of them were literally robbed of their improvements, and others were lawed(sic) and tormented in various ways, until finally they all fled to their own country and people for refuge. But these lustful persons are not yet satisfied, and I fear never will while there is a red man on the face of the earth.

But the legislature, in the most of their wrath and covetousness, pretend to make some provision for a part of the Cherokees.  But why do they rob in part, those whose rights they pretend to acknowledge? Why take away all their improvements made previous to 1830 and also those not on adjoining lots? Now under the provisions of a former legislature, hundreds of acres of land were improved on the lots reserved, which by the present law is taken away. This is a cunning and easy way to get large and desirable farms! And so it seems we have been at the labor and expense of building mills and fine houses, and clearing thousands of acres, of our best land, just for the accommodation of a set of robbers, under the command of St. Lumpkin and Andrew the 1st! Now if the United States will submit to all this, farewell, farewell to American liberty!

OCONESTOTA






      


INDIANS

From the Palladium

I have inserted in this number of the Palladium, the Message of John Ross, the principal Chief, of the Cherokee Indians, to the General Council of that tribe, convened at Red Clay, the 5th of 10th mo. last.  And immediately following it, I have inserted the paragraph of President, Andrew Jackson's Message, relating to the Indian tribes, showing his strong desire to force them from their rightful homes and birthplace. In this extract we see that Jackson says, in relation to this diabolical scheme, that 'It is to be hoped that those portions of two of the southern tribes, which in that event will present the only remaining difficulties, will realize the necessity of emigration, and will speedily resort to it.' Here he says as much, as that it is to hoped that they will be forced into the 'necessity' of removing; for they, (the Cherokees in particular) are determined not to remove unless forced  into the 'necessity' of doing so, and this, Andrew Jackson well knows. And see how insultingly he speaks of them where he says, 'they have NEITHER THE INTELLIGENCE, the INDUSTRY, THE MORAL HABITS, NOR THE DESIRE OF IMPROVEMENT, WHICH ARE ESSENTIAL TO ANY FAVORABLE CHANGE IN THEIR CONDITION!!'

Hear him again: 'ESTABLISHED IN THE MIDST OF ANOTHER AND A SUPERIOR RACE and WITHOUT APPRECIATING THE CAUSES OF THEIR INFERIORITY OR SEEKING TO CONTROL THEM THEY MUST  NECESSARILY YIELD TO THE FORCE OF CIRCUMSTANCES AND ERE LONG DISAPPEAR'!! Such unholy 'tyranny I scarcely ever saw before.' 

'Superior Race' !!!!! I suppose Andrew Jackson thinks he is of that 'SUPERIOR Race' of beings, while it is well known by men of learning, possessed of unprejudiced minds, that there is no race of men, in the known world that are superior to the North American Indians, both in agility of body, and the intellectual powers of mind.  And had they been born and circumstanced as favorably for their mental and scientific improvement, and surrounded with the other necessary and favorable circumstances, as we have been, it is believed that they would have been at this time the brightest and most enlightened people on the globe. I suppose Andrew Jackson thinks that the people away here towards the east, will believe what he says about this 'interesting subject;' but he need not deceive himself in this way; for he may rest assured that every line he writes against our red brethren, that comes before the world, raises the virtuous indignation of thousands of our most rational  citizens, who are opposed to, ROBBERY, TYRANNY and SLAVERY. And according to the best information that I am able to obtain, Andrew jackson is robbing this oppressed people of their lands and their liberties, and by his agents tyrannizing over them contrary to law, and numerous treaties, which the Indians only ask for the fulfillment of, and thus he is forcing them into the wilderness, and into a state to them, no better than slavery; where they will no doubt be accounted intruders upon the lands of other tribes of Indians, with whom they may ere long be involved in conflicting and bloody wars. And more than this, I have never heard that A. Jackson ever claimed any title to one inch of ground west of the Mississippi, let alone being the owner of it, without which he has no more right to give to the Indians who are on the east side of this river, the land that lie at the west of it, than I have to take his beds from under him and give it to an Indians.- But so it is, a tyrant in power is disregardless (SIC) of right, except where it suits his own unhallowed purpose, and covetous cravings. And amidst the indignant feeling that voluntarily arise in my breast when reflecting on these things I am utterly astonished to think that a nation like this, boasting of its wisdom, virtue, justice, philanthropy, and freedom, to place at its head, and to hold the reigns of government, a man who possesses no more wisdom or philanthropy than Andrew Jackson does; a man who has been a military tyrant and withal a slave holder, and a man who is guided so much by and under the influence of passion as what he is, and who is in no  wise qualified to preside over the affairs of the nation.- And at this time there are thousand who used to 'hurrah for Jackson,' who are now sick enough of his administration.




      


From the New York Evening Star

BLACK HAWK

Life of Ma-ka-lai-me-she-kai-klak or Black Hawk.- Pp155- This long promised narrative, dictated from the mouth of the warrior himself, and authenticated by the affidavit of Antoine Leclair, U. S. interpreter for the Sacs and Foxes, has just issued from the press at Cincinnati.  We have seldom read any work of deeper interest, or more absorbing incidents of romantic bravery and thoughts and sentiments, that might do honor to man of whiter skin than the chivalrous subject of these memoirs. He utters his opinions without fear of favor, and paints the story of his wrongs and sufferings, and heroic achievements in the simple and unaffected language of truth, which, tho' lacking doubtless the spirit of the original, must make a lasting, and we hope a salutary impression upon the minds of our countrymen. It is the first well authenticated manifesto probably that ever emanated from so high a source, in behalf of those miserable remnants of a gallant race, whom the time of population, and the rapacity of the white man, are rapidly exterminating from the soil of which they were the rightful owners. Black Hawk has inscribed his work to General Atkinson. The original dedication is a curious specimen of the language. He commences then with his pedigree, which, like that of others of royal lineage, is lost in the obscure legends of antediluvian tradition-till we come down to his great grandfather, Na-na-ma-kee, or thunder, then ruling with consulate ability the warlike tribe of Sacs, who at that time occupied the present city of Montreal. This chief through the device of a supernatural dream, in which he pretended that his destiny, like the 'line of Banquo' was foretold to him by a white spirit, persuaded his father to abdicate in his favor, when the 'great medicine bag,' or sacred emblem of imperial authority was accordingly transferred to him, and he became the head and founder of the nation who spread over the mountains and lakes of the northwest, where they have long flourished.  To give them a more exalted conception of his power, he professed, like Jupiter, to hold the bolts of heaven at his command, and on the occasion of a tremendous thunder storm, which set fire to some towering pine trees, he lighted a torch from the burning flame, and said that should be the holy symbol of their tribe,(as in the modern Gebber fire worshipers of Persia) that must never be extinguished. Hence his name of Thunder. And we may remark, on passant, that this tradition, which smacks of oriental, origin, seems to give plausibility to the Mitchillian theory of the Asiatic origin of all our Indian population, as much so as their Kamschatka dog, and Chinese physiognomy, so striking in the Esquimaux, that one of them who met a Chinese sailor at this post, some years since called him his brother. Black Hawk is now 67 years old, born at Rock River.  When he was yet a youth of fifteen he boasts of having scalped more of his enemies almost than the redoubtable Falstaff encountered, and this precocious courage it was, he says, and which all their squaws foster and nourish, that raised him so rapidly in the estimation of his people. With seven braves, as he called them, using Napoleon's phraseology, he contended while yet a boy, with 100 Osage warriors. He seems to think that warlike deeds are the highest motive of human ambition-despises civilian pursuits, and professes to have had no other ambition but this single passion, and the elevated and chivalrous sentiments it inspire, of generosity to vanquished-revenge for the injured-succor to the helpless, and the most scrupulous honor in all his transactions.

These virtues being, as he most properly argues, compatible only with a lofty sense of courage. He invites scrutiny into the whole course of his life, denies that he ever scalped a female or child, or did other actions that would tarnish his reputation, which, he several times repeats, is dearer to him than life. His assertions do sometimes seem to savor a little of gasconading, but the romantic celebrity he has long since attained, leaves us no room to suppose that there can be anything of the Munchausen or Major Longbow in his sentiments. We mistake the true character of the Indians.  They are governed by strong natural impulses; by their unsophisticated passions and feelings in all their native force; by the social relations of life rather than by any arbitrary and artificial regulations, which grow out of the conventional agreements of civilized society, and which, under the infinite variety of combinations they assume, often completely metamorphose the character. They are gregarious and indeed seem to love to congregate together.  By Black Hawk's representations, they are not by any means a wandering race of Bedouin Arabs they worship their homes and their altars. Nothing, next to the battle axe, seemed so dear to him and his nation, as the grave of their forefathers, and the cherished hope of reposing in the same tomb with them. They pray to the Great Spirit, mourn over their dead in solitude and fasting, and nothing can be more touching than the frequent recurrence he makes to the dreaded separation to which he saw they were doomed from the hills where the ashes of their friends and relatives were moldering. Here there posterity for more than a century had lived in the midst of abundance, and in the most uninterrupted happiness; in winter pursuing the chase of the deer upon their hunting grounds; in spring, returning with their venison and rich peltries to the villages; while their squaws and old people were preparing the fields for corn and vegetables; and when autumn came, feasting on its fruits, recounting over their exploits, and mingling to the rude music of the drum and its vocal accompaniments, the athlete sports of the war dance and race. Until, by the nefarious treaty which, without their knowledge or authority, was made in 1804, they found themselves suddenly disfranchised of their beautiful bottom lands, extending for hundreds of miles up the Mississippi. The greedy devouring squatters came and wormed themselves into their very villages; took possession of their fields and wigwams; maltreated their squaws, and claimed the soil as their own purchased property! Well may we exclaim with Black Hawk, if this history be true, at their atrocious and inhuman procedures. Soon disputes and conflicts arose; the pale faces with their long knives and war chiefs came to enforce these cruel aggressions, and then the fatal edict of banishment to the barren prairies west of the Mississippi, was announced. Black Hawk swore he would die on the graves of his fathers. The coward, Ke-o-kuk, as he calls him, and who he says could not boast of a single scalp, assented with his party to this degrading submission. Black Hawk fled to The Prophet, and towards the British territory, to obtain their promised assistance from the Winnebagoes, but he was deceived; pursued, with his few hundred warriors and squaws and children by an army of pale faces ten times his number, and after several desperate encounters, in which he speaks despairingly of our troops, was finally conquered. The squaws, he says, always were his partisans in preference to Ke-o-kuk. He had but one wife, and loved he and his children with all the parental and connubial fondness that we can boast of.  Their lead mines and fisheries, and maple sugar, and wild and domestic fruits, were sources of gratification and wealth, to which they must bid adieu. Among their gallapades(sic) was one called the crane dance, when the squaws dressed in the best attire which they had purchased of the traders, and decorated themselves with feathers. He describes, also, the mode of courtship, the lover serenading his mistress with the lute. His military tactics are ambush and stratagem, i.e. kill the enemy and save you own men, not open field fights as the pale faces foolishly do. Such chiefs as recommend this latter system may do to paddle a canoe, he says, but not steer it. He says our New York squaws are very pretty for pale faces. Thought the balloon at Castle Garden went up to the Great Spirit, but declares the ore works were not so splendid as a prairie on fire. The work is full of interesting details, and some of the descriptions highly eloquent.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 2, 1834

We have received some four or five copies of Parley's Magazine, published by Lilly, Wait, ' Col. Boston. Each number contains 16 pages, and nearly as many beautiful wood-cut engravings, illustrative of the subjects treated.  This work, in our opinion, is well adopted to give the youth a durable incentive to a cultivation of the mind.   It is intended for the use of the youth, but it is also highly instructive to the adult reader. This work is published every other Saturday, for the low price of one dollar per annum, in advance. This work being a valuable acquisition for the improvement of youth, we have been induced to publish the circular of this work, in order to enable those who are desirous of imparting useful knowledge to their youth, to subscribe for it. The work can be seen in our office. The editor will act as agent for the publishers.

____________________

'The Evening and the Morning Starr,' after rising with some glory in Independence, Missouri, under the authority of the Mormonites, had not been visible here for several months past, and we presumed it had gone down the dark regions of the west, to rise no more, when we were admonished with a number by the last mail, that the Starr of the two hemispheres, had moved with the revolution, and now arises in the north, in Kerkland, Gauga county Ohio, had at this time O. Coudery, its Editor. We shall publish a chapter from the Starr at some other than in our paper.

________________________

An army of enrolling agents are strolling through the Cherokee country, and probably will be increased to the number of the Georgia Guard, and perhaps with J. A. W. Sanford, at their head, with a drum and two sticks, with which to beat it. The Council continues to be united, notwithstanding these federal pests of our society.

_____________

A LITTLE TROUBLE FOR THE GEORGIANS.

Since the liberation of the Missionaries by Governor Lumpkin, from the penitentiary, the Georgians have in every instance averted to prosecute in their courts against an Indian, a case that might be proper to carry up to the Supreme Court of the United States, by the Cherokee Nation.  The spring term of their Superior Courts are now at hand in the Nation, in which some criminal and civil cases of considerable amount are involved. If the plaintiff's prosecutes which appears to be the only alternative or otherwise back out they will be taken up by appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States and the Georgians might expect to see their law and courts in this Nation pronounced null and void again by the most enlightened judicial tribunal on earth. We expect to lay before our readers in Georgia another able decision of Judge Marshal on the Cherokee question, which we hope will carry convictions to the Georgia officers in this nation, that they had pocketed commissions only for usurpation.

_____________________

In the Message of the President of the United States to Congress in December 1831, in reference to the Cherokees of this nation, the following passage occurs 'that one half if not two thirds of that tribe, will follow the wise example of their more westerly brethren.  Those who prefer remaining at their present homes will hereafter be governed by the laws of Georgia, as all her citizens are and cease to be the objects of peculiar care on the part of the General Government.' It would appear from this passage that the President intended to convey the fact to Congress that the removal of the Cherokees had approached to its consummation, and that two thirds would remove west of the Mississippi. In the report of the Secretary of War on the same subject dated November 16th, 1833, nearly two years subsequent to the Message, and submitted by the President to the present Congress, the Cherokee question as blended in a paragraph on the Chippewas, Ottawas, 'c. the Secretary states, 'it is to be regretted that the same causes which have heretofore prevented of an adjustment of the difficulties of that tribe, and their removal west, yet continue to defeat the efforts of the Government, and no change of political relations have been effected.' But few Cherokees are removed since this pompous annunciation of the President. The truth then has been told at last by the Secretary to the discredit of the Executive Message that difficulties exists and continues to exist to defeat the policy of the Government, and that the relations which the President had transferred and nullified by Georgia, we understand from the Honorable Secretary to say are also unchanged. The course of the Cherokees has been a straight forward one, while the reports of these departments have been conflicting we have had principle and truth to sustain our cause, which we have humbly conceived ere long justice should be granted to us.

Since the extension of Tennessee jurisdiction over a portion of our Nation, great improvements have been made in that quarter by the half-breeds and white men, for speculation on the Government, who have enrolled themselves for emigration. But this act of a few of our citizens gives the General Government no right to lands, as by the article of the last treaty, which we published in our number before last.

_________________

We have obtained the following form of Sheriff's titles to lands which are sold by virtue of judgments from the courts of the State, and given to purchasers of lands lying in the Cherokee country. It sets forth distinctly that the lot sold lies within the 'Cherokee Territory,' and consequently it is incumbered with the Cherokee title to this land. In the legal sense, and indeed there is no other that we can produce, that the sale of this land, and the title given is only such as may be perfected by the extinguishment of the Cherokee title to it. Because it is particularly stated to be 'Cherokee Territory.' This is the condition in which our property is held, sold, bartered, and gambled off by the State of Georgia, and it is to them but a hope, and by extreme oppression of our Nation, to extinguish by treaty, the Cherokee, in order to perfect the Georgia title.

GEORGIA: Murray County.

WHEREAS in obedience to a writ of Fire facias issued out of the Superior Court of the county of Henry at the suit of William Trout against John Ryan; I John Harris, Sheriff of the county aforesaid, did lately seize the lot of Land hereinafter described as the property of the said John Ryan and after being duly and publicly advertised agreeably to law, did on the First day of July in the year Eighteen hundred and thirty-three at the place of public sales in the said county of Murray expose the same at public outcry, when George M. Troup, being the highest bidder, the same was knocked off to him at the price or sum of Fifty dollars.

NOW THIS INDENTURE made the First day of July in the year of our Lord One thousand eight hundred and thirty-three and in the fifty seventh year of the independence of the United States of America, between the said John Harris Sheriff as aforesaid of the one part, and the said George M. Troup of the other part, WITNESSETH, that the said John Harris Sheriff as aforesaid, for and in consideration of the sum of Fifty Dollars to him in hand paid by the said George M. Troup at and before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hath granted, and bargained and sold, and by these presents, doth grant, bargain sell so far as the office of Sheriff authorizes him, unto the said George M. Troup his heirs and assigns, all that Tract or lot of land situate lying and being in the Tenth District of the Third Section of the CHEROKEE TERRITORY, now Murray County known by being lot No. (25) (Twenty-five) containing one hundred and sixty acres together with all and singular the rights, members and appurtenances thereof unto the said Lot of land, being belonging or in any wise appertaining; and also all the estate, right tile, interest property, claim and demand of the said John Ryan in law, equity, or otherwise whatsoever, of, in or to the same: TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said Lot of land and premises, and every part thereof unto the said George M. Troup his heirs and assigns, to the only proper use, benefit and behalf of the said George M. Troup his heirs and assigns forever, in fee simple, in as full and ample a manner as the said John Ryan or his heirs and assigns did or might had held and enjoyed the same, had it not been seized and sold under the execution aforesaid.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the said John Harris hath hereunto set his hand and affixed is seal the day and year first above written.

Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of

________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

SIGNS OF THE TIMES

Mr. Editor:- In our last we noticed some of the most prominent features of the 'Indian bill.' We shall now take a view of some of the little things, contained in this singular instrument.

Some parts of the law were evidently intended to operate upon particular individuals, who stand conspicuous among our people. The section which has reference to a plurality of wives, is one of these special parts of the act, and is truly worthy of those virtuous gentlemen who gave it their sanction. This section looks like it might have been suggested by some cunning fellow, who wished to make a fortune, all at once, by taking another man's wife.  Let that be as it may, it is certainly one of those small matters to which the wise men at Milledgeville condescended.

But there is yet another section, the design of which, the people aborad will hardly understand. Would they ever imagine, that the section prohibiting the Cherokees from hiring white men, 'c., was a political manoeuvre of the union gentlemen? White men living with Cherokees very seldom vote in accordance with the ardent wishes of these shrewd politicians. One clause in this section is generally known in this country by the name of 'Baker's law.' The gentleman, I am told has a mill. I wonder how the Georgians would feel, were we to refuse to grind and saw for them?

The benevolent law-makers, knowing it would be exceedingly difficult for human nature to submit to such a flagrant outrage upon the dearest rights of man, had the precaution to provide for the enforcement of their protective laws. It is now a 'high misdemeanor' in Georgia to defend oneself against the ravages of a noon-day robber! No! Georgians, we do not intend to shed your blood, if we can possibly retain the command of ourselves; but you ought not to forget your stepping place. Recollect, we are only human beings. We care not for your jails--we disregard your Penitentiary. Do not drive us into despair, or we might destroy ourselves to kill the Philistines-better stop in tome-terrible policy, to enforce laws, exceedingly oppressive, by others still more inhuman!

But who is to be the overseer of this marvelous business? A certain Mr. Springer is to spring the triggers and to give us another fire in the spring! The little gentleman has already made his appearing, and is now counseling and preparing for the battle. It seems, however that the first effort our benevolent friend makes, is to persuade us poor unfortunate creature to enroll! I wonder if he is an enrolling agent too? But perhaps this is only his private advice as a friend. He brings the claimant with him and assures us if we enroll we shall have the rent of our improvements one year, besides getting pay from the General Government.- Certainly we must have the most singular rights of any other beings in the world! Well, dear me.

Well, Mr. Editor, I will come to a close, after a few general remarks-

1. Never did I read, in all ancient and modern history, sacred or profane, of a more selfish policy, than the one Georgia has been perusing for several years past. The able decisions of Georgia's own Courts, the luminous and unanswerable decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States; the constitution, laws, and treaties of the same; her own constitution; the past judgment of Heaven, and the fear of death and hell have all failed as yet to stop the Georgians in their lustful race after more land and gold!

2. In this mad career of our government has been trampled under foot; our schools and Churches have been torn to pieces and scattered, our missionaries, and others arrested, chained, condemned, imprisoned and banished, our lands surveyed, gambled for and torn from our possession and to complete the robbery we are next to be cast out of our houses and driven into the woods and swamps to starve. But notwithstanding all this horrible outrage upon our persons and rights and property the great body of the Cherokees are still united and determined at all hazards to see the mater out! I am proud of the virtue, courage and stability of our people.

3. We need not fear. The Judge of all the earth will do right. There is too much virtue, intelligence and enterprise among the Cherokees to come to nothing.

OCONESTA

Feb. 10th 1834




      


CIRKULAR (sic)

To Parents, Teachers and School Committees, and all who feel an Interest in the Improvement of Youth.

IT is not yet quite a year since Parley's Magazine was commenced. During that short period the number of subscribers has increased to 20,000 and the work has received everywhere the most unqualified approbation. It has found its way to thousands of families, and while it has entertained the social circle, its unobtrusive lessons have, we trust, often had a salutary influence  on the juvenile mind and heart. It has also found its way to the school room; and many classes of young pupils have been cheered twice a month by the welcome voice of the teacher bidding them to lay aside, for a few days, the class book, which they have read over and over, perhaps twenty times, and rend the pages of Parley's Magazine. The demand for the work, to be used in schools, is rapidly increasing.

Encouraged by such unexampled success, the Publishers have resolved to render it still more worthy of so liberal a patronage; and not to remit their exertions till they see it introduced into families and schools, throughout the whole length and breadth of the United States.

In this view they have secured new aid in the Editorial department. The late Editor of the Juvenile Rambler, who, in addition to his qualifications as a writer for the young, has the advantage of many years experience as a Teacher, will henceforth assist in conducting it.

We propose to present in the progress of each volume a great variety of interesting and important topics, among which are the following.

1. NATURAL HISTORY-Of beasts, birds, fishes, reptiles, insects; plants, flowers, trees; the human frame, 'c.

II. BIOGRAPHY- Especially of the young.

III. GEOGRAPHY- Accounts of places, manners, customs, 'c.

IV. TRAVELS AND VOYAGES, in various parts of the world.

V. Lively Descriptions of the CURIOSITIES of Nature and Art- in each of the United States,and in other countries.

Volume 1, . LESSONS ON OBJECTS that daily surround Children in the Parlor, nursery, Garden, 'c. Accounts of Trades, and Employments.

Volume 2, . PARTICULAR DUTIES of the YOUNG- to Parents, Teachers, Brothers, Sisters, 'c.

Volume 3, . BIBLE LESSONS AND STORIES

IX. NARRATIVES- Such as are well authenticated- Original Tales

X. PARABLES, FABLES, AND PROVERBS, where the  moral is obvious and excellent.

XI. POETRY adapted to the Youthful capacity and feelings.

XII. INTELLIGENCE- embracing accounts of Juvenile Books, Societies, and Remarkable Occurrences.

Many of these subjects will be illustrated by numerous and beautiful engravings, prepared by the best artists, and selected not only with a view to adorn the work, but to improve the taste, cultivate the mind and raise the affections of the young to appropriate and worthy objects.  We would make them better children, better brothers, better sisters, better pupils,better associates,and,in the end, better citizens.

We beg the friends of education - especially parents and teachers, to view the matter in this light. Let children look upon the pictures, not as pictures merely; but let them be taught to study them. What can be more rich in valuable materials for instructive lessons than a good engraving?

After this brief explanation of our principles and purposes, we ask the cooperation of all who receive this Circular. Will aid us, by your influence in this great work-the formation of mind and character for the rising generation? Will you assist us all in your power in our endeavors to introduce to American schools,and parlors, and firesides, the stories and lessons of Parley's Magazine?

Every single number of the new volume will have a strong paper cover, abundantly sufficient to preserve the work in good order for binding, and for use in schools.

The yearly subscription being but one dollar, our friends will perceive the impracticability of keeping open so many thousand accounts. It is therefore indispensable that we should require payment always in advance.

Two numbers more will close the first year, and we not give this notice that all who desire to continue the Magazine,may signify their intention by a seasonable advance for the second year.

If any of the subscribers should not receive all their numbers, they can request the Post Master of notify us of such as are missing, and they shall be sent again free of charge.

TEN COPIES FREE OF POSTAGE.

To accommodate Associations, Schools, and Individuals for distribution, we will deliver at any Post Office in the United States,  free of postage ten copies to one address for ten dollars remitted to us without cost.

LILLY, WAIT, ' CO. Boston






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 8, 1834

We fear our subscribers have not received our papers regularly since the 25th January. We can assure them that the fault is not ours. There are two mails that arrive at this place every Sunday evening: one from East Tennessee, ' the other from the North, via Laurenceville, Georgia. The Tennessee mail has failed three or four times since that date, while our packages have been accumulating at the Post-office, the Georgia mail is so extremely small that it could not take all the papers directed North and East. The fault may be charged to the contractors.

_________________

CHEROKEE KILLED BY A LAND HUNTER.

Some time last month, near the Alltooney Gold Mines, 35 miles south of this place, Cunnoskeskee, a Cherokee, while hunting, had killed a ground hog (so called here) and had taken a seat on a log to skin it, when a white man, having a gun and looking for a lot, discovered him, and taking the Indian for a deer, with his rifle shot the poor Indian in the back near the spine. The ball penetrated through the stomach, of which he died immediately. The perpetrator made known this circumstance, and with him the Indians proceeded to the place, carried the corpse to the nearest house and buried it. We fear this example will follwed (sic) in order to clear the Indians from this country, as the humane policy enforced otherwise drags very slowly.

__________________

We publish below an instrument of writing, purporting to be an action to recover damages of the Editor of this paper, by Col. Duke, Sheriff of Coweta County, for the publication of an article in which we stated, about the first of July, a criminal attempt had been made by Col. Duke on the persons of two Cherokee females, near this place. The writ has been executed on the editor, and at present, in the custody of the foreman of this paper, a prisoner, in our office, and is held to bail in the sum of one thousand dollars, and white persons only, taken for sureties. The labors of the editor of this paper for the present, will be suspended on account of this case, and probably will not appear again before the 12th of April.

The editor will demand to proceed into trial, if Court can dispense with the rule of Docket term, and by consent of parties, at the first Court, which comes on the last Monday inst.

This case is now managed so as to suppress the liberty of our press, and we regret to state of its success for the present, to the gratification of the whites but brazen faces, to satisfy their cupidities for Indian dirt to please the State of Georgia.

_____________

GEORGIA. Murray County.

To the Honorable, The Superior Court of the County and State aforesaid.

The petition of David Duke, respectfully showeth that Elijah Hicks of the county and State aforesaid, has injured and damaged your petitioner in the sum of ten thousand dollars, for that whereas, your petitioner now is a good, true, honest, just, and faithful citizen of this State, and as such, has always conducted and behaved himself, and until the committing the several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks, as herein after mentioned, was always respected, esteemed, and accepted by and amongst all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of this s\State, to whom he was in any wise known, to be a person of good name, fame, and credit. And, whereas, also, your petitioner hath not ever been guilty or until the time of the committing of the several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks, as hereinafter mentioned, been suspected to have been guilty of attempting to commit the monstrous crime of Rape or any such crime, by means of which said several premises he, your petitioner before the committing of the said several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks, as is herein after mentioned had deservedly obtained the good opinion and credit of all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of this State, to whom he was in anywise known. Yet the said Elijah Hicks well knowing the premises, but greatly envying the happy state and condition of your petitioner, and contriving wickedly and maliciously intending to injure your petitioner in his said good name, fame, and credit, and to bring him into public scandal, infamy and disgrace, with and amongst all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of this State, and to cause it to be suspected and believed by those neighbors and citizens, that your petitioner had been and was guilty of attempting 'the monstrous crime of a rape,' and to subject him to the pain and penalties by the laws of this State, made and provided against, and inflicted upon persons guilty thereof, and to vex, harass, oppress, and wholly ruin him, your petitioner heretofore to wit: on the twenty-second day of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred ' thirty-three, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, and maliciously did compose and publish and cause and procure to be published, of and concerning your petitioner, a certain scandalous, malicious and defamatory libel, containing amongst other things, the false ,scandalous, malicious, defamatory libelous matter, following of ' concerning your petitioner. 'About the first of this month, near this place, Mr. Duke, (meaning your petitioner,) the Sheriff of Coweta County, came to this place, and took lodgings at a tavern of William Tarvin, next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn, on his way he called at a house where there were two women, Mrs. Oosenaly, and Mrs. Foster, both married women, and called for a drink of water, he alighted, and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaly, who being in a delicate condition.' And your petitioner further saith, that the said Elijah Hicks further contriving and intending as aforesaid, to wit: on the day and year aforesaid, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, and maliciously, did publish a certain other false, scandalous, malicious and defamatory libel, of and concerning your petitioner, containing amongst other things, the false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory and libelous matter, following, of and concerning your petitioner, that is to say, 'About the first of this month, near this place Mr. Dukes, Sheriff of Coweta county, (meaning your petitioner,) came to this place, and took lodgings at a tavern of William Tarvin, next day proceeded on his journey, to look for a lot of land he had drawn, on his way he called at a house where there were two women, Mrs. Oosenaley, and Mrs Foster, both married women and called for a drink of water. He alighted, ' found them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley, she being in a delicate condition. Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter.' Meaning thereby that your petitioner had been guilty of the crime of an assault with the intent to commit a rape. And your petitioner saith that the said Elijah Hicks, who then was, and now is the Editor of a public Newspaper, published at New Echota, in the county and State aforesaid, entitled, 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate;' further contriving and intending as aforesaid, afterwards to wit: on the twenty-seventh day of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely ' wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully and unjustly, did publish and caused and procured to be published, under the editorial head, in said public newspaper, a certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory, of and concerning your petitioner, containing amongst other things, certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory, and libelous matter, of and concerning your petitioner, as follows, that is to say, 'He (your petitioner) alighted, and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs.Oosenaley.'  Thereby meaning that your petitioner had been guilty of committing the crime of an assault on a Mrs. Oosenaley, with an intent aid commit a rape.

And your petitioner further saith, that the said Elijah Hicks, who then was, and now is the Editor of a public newspaper, published at a place called New Echota, in the county and State aforesaid, known and distinguished by the name and title 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate' further contriving and intending as aforesaid afterwards to wit: on the day and year aforesaid, falsely and wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully, and unjustly did compose and publish, and cause and procure to be published, under the editorial head in said public newspaper, a certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory and libelous matter, of and concerning your petitioner, as follows, that is to say, 'He (meaning your petitioner) attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the persons on Mrs. Oosenaley, who being in a delicate condition. Mrs Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter.' Thereby meaning that our petitioner had been guilty of the crime of making an assault on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley with the intent to commit a rape.

And your petitioner further saith, that the said Elijah Hicks, who then was, and now is the Editor of a public newspaper, printed and published at a place called New Echota, in the county and State aforesaid, which said newspaper is known and called by the name and title of the 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate.' Further contriving and in ending as aforesaid, afterwards, to wit: on the twenty-seventh day of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully, and unjustly, did compose and publish, and cause and procure to be published, under the editorial head, in said public newspaper,and under the following caption, to wit: 'Sufferings of Cherokee Ladies.' a certain other false, scandalous, malicious and defamatory libel, of and concerning your petitioner; containing certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory ' libelous matters of and concerning your petitioner as follows 'about the first of this month, meaning the month of July, near this place Mr.Dukes (meaning your petitioner,) the Sheriff of Coweta County came to this place, (meaning New Echota, the place in which the newspaper was, and is published,) and took lodging at a tavern of Wm. J. Tarvin, next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn. On his way he called at a house where there were two women, Mrs. Oosenaley, and Mrs. Foster, both married women, and called for a drink of water. He alighted,and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley, who being in a delicate condition, Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter. Duke finding his attempt frustrated, took from his coat a pocket book and offered his injured hosts satisfaction. They attempted to destroy his pocket book, and contents, but failed. Duke held in his hand a heavy horse whip, which he used on them poor women with all his force, until Algiers itself would sicken at the stripes he inflicted.  Mrs. Oosenaley presented herself to the magistrate here for redress, and exhibited to him her wounds. But he being a proselyte of the new school, told her he was not the person to relieve her, and that no Indian testimony could be received. The honorable Sheriff has been here since, but no justice for the much abused females.' Meaning thereby that your petitioner had been guilty of two different and distinct assaults on the person of the said Mrs. Oosenaley, with the intent to commit the crime of a rape; and also that your petitioner had been guilt of an assault and battery on the persons of the said Mrs. Oosenaley and Mrs.Foster.

And your petitioner further saith that the said Elijah Hicks who then was and now is the editor and publisher of a public newspaper or Journal printed, published at and issued from a place called New Echota in the county and state aforesaid, which said newspaper or Journal bear the name and title and is entitled the 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate' further contriving and intending as aforesaid, afterwards to wit; on the twenty-seventh day of July one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, in a number of said newspaper or Journal dated Saturday the twenty-seventh of July one thousand and eight hundred and thirty-three number twenty-four and volume five,- falsely, wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully, and unjustly did write compose, and publish and cause and procure to be published under the Editorial head in said public newspaper or Journal and under the following pathetic and affecting caption to wit 'Sufferings of Cherokee Ladies,' a certain other false, scandalous, defamatory libel,of and concerning your petitioner containing other false and scandalous malicious defamatory and libellous matters of an concerning your petitioner as follows, that is to say, 'About the first of this month (meaning the month of July) one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three the month in which the said number of the said newspaper bears date, near this place (meaning New Echota in said county and state, the place in which said newspaper or Journal is edited and published by the said Elijah Hicks) Mr. Dukes (meaning your petitioner) the Sheriff of Coweta County came to this place (meaning New Echota) and took lodgings at a tavern of Wm. Tarvin, next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn, on his way he called at a house where there were two women Mrs. Oosenaley, and Mrs. Foster both married women, and called for a drink of water, he alighted and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley, who being in a delicate condition-Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart-a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter-Duke finding his attempt frustrated, took from his coat a pocket book, and offered his injured hosts satisfaction, they attempted to destroy his pocket book and contents but failed.  Duke (meaning your petitioner) held in hand a heavy horse whip which he used on the poor women with all his force until Algiers itself would sicken at the stripes he inflicted. Mrs. Oosenaley presented herself to the magistrate here for redress and exhibited him her wounds-but being a proselyte of the New school told her that he was not the person to relieve her, and that no Indian Testimony could be received. The honorable Sheriff has been here since, but no justice for the much abused females.' The said Elijah Hicks Editor and author as aforesaid of the said publication if said public newspaper or Journal thereby meaning that your petitioner had been and was guilty of an assault on the person of the said Mrs. Oosenaley with the intent to commit the crime of a rape, and also meaning that your petitioner had been guilty of the crime of an assault and battery on the persons of the said Mrs. Oosenaley and Mrs. Foster.

By means of the committing of which said several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks as aforesaid, your petitioner hath been and is greatly injured in his said good name, fame, and credit, and brought into public scandal, infamy and disgrace with and amongst all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of the State, in so much that divers of these neighbors and citizens to whom the innocence and integrity of your petitioner, in the premises were unknown have an occasion of the committing of the said grievances by the said Elijah Hicks as aforesaid from thence hitherto suspected and believed, and still do suspect and believe, your petitioner to have been, and to be a person guilty with intent to commit a rape and assault and Battery and have by reason of the committing of the said grievances by the said Elijah Hicks as aforesaid, from thence hitherto wholly refused, and still do refuse to have any transaction, acquaintance, or discourse with him your petitioner, as they before used and accustomed to have and otherwise would have had, all of which has injured and damaged your petitioner in the aforesaid sum of ten thousand dollars.

Wherefore your petitioner brings his suit and prays process may issue requiring the said Elijah Hicks personally or by attorney to be and appear at the next Superior Court to be held in and for the county of Murray, then and there to answer the demand of your petitioner in an action on the case for a libel.

WILLIAM B. COBB.

Plaintiff's Attorney.

GEORGIA-

To the Sheriff of Murray County

GREETING:

David Duke,

vs Case for Libel.

Elijah Hicks

The defendant is hereby required personally or by attorney to be and appear at the next Superior Court to be held in and for the county of Murray on the fourth Monday in March next, then and there to answer the plaintiff's demand in an action on the case for a libel-as in default thereof the said court will proceed as to justice shall appertain.

Witness the Hon. John W. Hooper, Judge of said Superior Court, this 6th day of February 1834.

NELSON DICKERSON,

Clerk.

GEORGIA- Before me John W. Hooper, Judge of the Superior Court of the Cherokee circuit in said State, personally appeared David Duke who being duly sworn, on oath saith, that he is about to commence his action on the case for a libel against Elijah Hicks of the county of Murray, and State aforesaid, and that he had laid his damage at ten thousand dollars, and this deponent further saith that he ha has laid his damage at ten thousand dollars, and this deponent further saith that he has sustained damage of the said Elijah Hicks by reason of the charge made against him by the said Elijah Hicks as set forth in the within declaration in the sum of ten thousand dollars or some other large sum, and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of the whole of some part of said sum unless the said Elijah Hicks is held to bail. This 27th day of January 1834.

DAVID DUKE.

Sworn to and subscribed before me,

JOHN W. HOOPER,

J.S.C.C.C.

The plaintiff David Duke, having made oath that he hath sustained damage of the defendant Elijah Hicks to the amount of ten thousand dollars or other large sums on account of the premises stated in the within declaration and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of the whole, or some part of said sum unless the said defendant is held to bail. It is therefore ordered that the Sheriff do take bail of the said Elijah Hicks in the sum of one thousand dollars, and that the usual proceedings be had thereon.  This 27th day of January 1834.

JOHN W. HOOPER,

J.S.C.C.C.






      


INDIANS.

From the Western Methodist.

ORIGIN OF THE CHEROKEES.

Messrs. Editors.- The curious and inquisitive have long since manifested anxiety to know, from which of Noah's sons, the aborigines of North America have their origin. I feel well convinced, that of this, we shall never be informed certainly; unless He who made of one blood all nations that dwell upon the earth shall condescend to make us a special revelation on the subject.

It is however, allowable I believe, to offer some speculations, built upon hypotheses, and plain matter of fact. On the latter I rely principally, I support of the notions which I shall here advance.

To me at least it is probable that the Indians (as they are commonly called) are the descendants of Shem of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob. Permit me to remark here, that I write directly in reference to the Cherokee tribe, among whom I labored as a missionary one year, and from whom I learned the circumstances and traditions detailed below, which go strongly to support the above supposition. They once had a city of refuge, the site of which could be pointed out-perhaps adjacent, or immediately on the line which divides Tennessee State from North Carolina.  It was called, and is yet known by the name Echota,- ' the beloved,' 'the holy city.'

On this consecrated spot, human blood was not to be shed. It afforded not only protection to transgressors of their own tribe, but prisoners of war were safe if ever they placed their feet on the sacred ground and continued there. 'These six cities shall be a refuge, both for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them; 'c. Numbers, 35th c. 15th v.' The seat of their general council house, after the formation of a written constitution and laws; was called in tenderized recollections of the old New Echota [pronounced E-tsho-tah.]

It is not infrequently the case, in passing through gaps of the mountains, the traveller discovers large heaps of stones; weighing, perhaps from one to five pounds. The Indian tradition of this is, that in times past, when they started on a war, or hunting, and ascended those mountains which overlooked their towns or homes, they would all pray to the Great Spirit, promising if he would keep them, and make their enterprise prosperous and bring them again in safety in that place, that again they would pray unto him and as a covenant, each would take up a stone and cast them in a heap; see Genesis 28th c. 13, and 31, 45, 46. You will doubtless be enabled to discover a very striking similarity between the circumstances related, and the scripture occurrences and facts referred to.

But, after all, some would still object to my supposition,by inquiring how could any of the Israelites ever have reached these shores. To such I would reply, we have every necessary assurance that in the reign of Solomon, they learned to some degree of perfection the art of navigation, one which no doubt they improved until the dispersion of the Ten tribes: when perhaps numbers of them scorning to be subjected to a foreign yoke, embarked, determined to seek and colonize some more peaceful clime. Guarded by divine providence, they ultimately reached this vast continent,- explored its coast, visited its interior, gave it a thin population, in process of time lost the knowledge, in a great degree of God and their duty, of the arts and sciences; and thus became the wandering savages.

A short account of their religion, laws, and customs, will furnish matter for a second communication.

 Lebanon, Jan. 3d. 1834.

[Boudinott, the first President of the American Bible Society, in his 'Star of the West' has traced many coincidences between the customs of the American Indians, and the Israelites.] Ed. Obs.




      


From the Standard of Union

CHEROKEE SOVEREIGNTY

vs

STATE SOVEREIGNTY.

The aspect of affairs in the Cherokee country, is assuming a character and complexion, demanding not only the vigilance of the government, but the sober consideration of every citizen who regards the sovereignty of the state of the rights of the people.

The state of Georgia, a few years since, acting upon her own constitutional sovereignty, determined to distribute that portion of her territory then occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and accordingly it was surveyed; thrown into the wheels of the lotteries--drawn out, and thereby became the property of individuals.

The opposition to this measure, both in and out of Georgia, and the various arguments brought forward to defeat it are very familiar to the writer, and may be spoken of more at large, 'at a more convenient season.'

The measure, however, met the public approbation by an overwhelming majority in the state, and was fully sustained by that gallant and patriotic old citizen, who sits at the head of our General Government.

Thus sustained in her policy, the state proceeded to organize the country, by laying out a number of counties, and a judicial circuit, and to appoint the proper officers of executing the laws of the State.

The counties have elected their officers, and sent their representatives to the Legislature, who have taken their full share in legislating for the state. A Judge of the superior courts was appointed, who has for more than a year, been exercising jurisdiction over the people by state authority, and who is sworn to execute the laws of the state, within its jurisdiction.

Thus organized, we had hoped that the handful of Cherokees who still lingered upon our soil, would either submit quietly to our laws, or accept the boon offered by the General Government, or removing to a country, far better suited to their habits and pursuits.

Of one thing at least, we felt confident; that however restless the Indians might be; whatever steps their counsellors might advise-whatever interest, Wirt, Webster, Freelinghuysen, Henry Clay, and the Supreme Court might take in the matter, the officers appointed by the state, and charged with the execution of her laws, would under no circumstances be instrumental in continuing old difficulties or raising up new ones; but in this we have been sadly disappointed by recent intelligence from that country.

A bill of injunction drawn up at the instance of Walter Adair and John T. Adair, charging that they are natives of the Cherokee Nation of Indians; and asserting the Cherokees to be an independent nation, has been sanctioned and served upon Wm. G. Springer, Esq. the state's agent for the purpose of restraining him from executing an important act of the last legislature whereby many good citizens who are entitled to grants for their lands, will be kept out of possession, and excluded from all the benefits intended by the act in question.

But the evil will not stop here. If the State's agent is to be arrested in the discharge of his duties because the Cherokees are a sovereign nation, every individual who has drawn or purchased land in that territory, may expect a similar process against himself in behalf of some sovereign Cherokee who may please to set up his claim.

It is time for the people to look to their interests-to vindicate their rights and stand by, and support those, who are willing to execute the laws.

The Judge may grant injunction,- he may make decrees,- he may send out attachments for contempts,--he may imprison our citizens. 

If he can; but there is a spirit among the white men of Georgia, that will look down Judge Hooper and his Indian injunction; the Executive will do his duty and the people will sustain him. He will maintain their rights with firmness and independence-and they will stand by him with strength and spirit.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 15, 1834

We announced last week the suppression of the liberty of our press, by the arrest of the editor by the Georgia officers, and that our paper would not be resumed before the middle of April. The editor having obtained his enlargement at the cost of 60 miles riding, and a bond of two thousand dollars. We shall continue as usual,the regular publication of our paper.

__________________

To those persons who have been and continue to be, in arrearage for subscriptions to this paper, we would give a special motive that our pecuniary embarrassments are such that we greatly need advances from them. This request is a matter of right, and not a seeking from the liberality of our friends, that which does not belong to us. We have become in arrears to our printers, and even if one fourth of what is owing us could be liquidated, our embarrassments could be removed. We hope that the printers voice will not be heard as an old song, but as one struggling for liberty, and so sacred in times past to our white brothers, can only be sustained by a small amount of funds, at the present time. All remittances must be post paid to our risk, to the post office at this place, or by safe private conveyance.

____________________

The humane policy of Georgia, a few days since, seemed to move in a fine gale. Some few Cherokees had enrolled for emigration, residing beyond the Coosa River, and were notified by the enrolling or rather oppressing agents, that a time had been fixed for their departure west of the Mississippi. Three teams of six horses each from the Agency, had been dispatched for these Cherokees and their baggage, 90 and 100 miles distant.  The transporting wagons obtained some baggage and pots, and perhaps had a dozen of their subjects. On their return, the Indians broke ground-the wagons passed here in half speed on their way to the agency to report themselves empty, as the humane policy is of justice.

______________________

THE LAST OF THE MISSIONARIES.

On Tuesday 10th inst. the Rev. Samuel Worcester ' family removed from their residence in this place, to Brainard, within the limits of Tennessee, Cherokee Nation. The cause of his removal is in consequence of the operation of the late law of Georgia, on white men residing on Cherokee lots. His residence was on a lot embracing several Indian improvements, and is continuance thereon, as by the law would have prejudiced the rights of the Indians to their improvements. The Governor's agent, we are informed, had addressed him an order for his removal, and having already obtained a decision in the Supreme Court, to his right of residence in the Cherokee country, and unavailing to him, perhaps the case was not unlike a man setting out on a long journey on land, and arriving at the ocean, could proceed no farther. Mr. Worcester's improvement was of considerable value, and we expect will be occupied by his oppressors. Rumor states that he expects to proceed on to the Arkansas Cherokees, on a mission, and may be the case of leaving without being dispossessed. If otherwise, the Cherokees had permitted him to reside here and preach, he should have sustained his ground until an authority had taken the premises from him.

__________________

'Washington City, Feb. 19th, 1834

'The delegation had a long conversation with the President, the day before yesterday, respecting the abominable law lately passed by the Legislature of Georgia. He professes to believe that Georgia will never attempt to enforce it; because, he said that it will bring the question growing out of it before the United States Courts, and there a decision will be made against Georgia, and then he will be compelled by duty to see it executed to our protection on the lands.  I remarked to him that the Georgians had already commenced enforcing the law, and that the Governor was issuing grants for lots of land authorized by that act, and I did not know at that moment whether my family was yet living in my house or had been turned into the woods-that the object was evidently to expel the Cherokees from the chartered limits of Georgia, and if the present state of things will be permitted to go on, that death itself would be preferable to existence. He said that the Cherokees had a right to live on the land as long as they pleased, and that they will never be drove (sic) off; but he could not do anything for them, until the Court should make a decision on the question.  That the power of deciding on the constitutionality of the laws, belong to the judiciary, and that his own power extended only to see that they were executed.'




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

SIGNS OF THE TIMES-UNION,

STATE RIGHTS AND NULLIFICATION.

Mr. Editor,- There is a great talk in our country at this time about Unionism, State Rights, and Nullification. This is something new to us Indians. The song formerly was, gold, and land for breakfast, land and gold for dinner, and gold and land for supper. But since the covetous, 'critters' have gotten possession of these alluring objects, they have introduced all their political squabbles amongst us. And were we all destitute of a knowledge of the English language it would be utterly impossible for us even to understand the sublime and profound mysteries of Georgia politics! Indeed, it is a very hard matter for those who understand the English language, to grasp their refinements. However, though it may be exceedingly difficult for the Cherokees to comprehend the theories of the above named isms, yet, when their Georgia advocates put them into practice, we are compelled, by sensible demonstrations, to understand them to perfection! Yes, we have been compelled, by a lawless guard, by chains, by imprisonment, by inhuman legislation, by robbery, and by death, to understand the meaning of Georgia 'Unionism'! They have appealed to all our senses--seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and feeling! And after having made so many sacrifices, and suffered so much to become acquainted with the thing, we, unfortunately, are not yet much enamored with its supereminent excellencies! And with a very great change in the practical part of the business, I fear our attachment will never be very warm. But when did this Union business commence? In 1827, if my memory serves me correctly, the Georgia legislature said, 'the land is ours, and we must and we will  have it.' The 'Gineral' influenced by some motive or other, (perhaps the Major knows) joined the Union and took the lead. When South Carolina began to nullify he uttered his thunders, and said 'the Union must be preserved.' The Clarkers (with a few honorable exceptions) took the hint, and commenced the song of 'Union Union,' but, alas! though the tune was different, they continued to dance the same old jig!  When any one not well skilled in the Union science, cries inconsistency! the matter is soon explained by a certain game called (by the Major) 'hocus pocus.' By this game it can be shown that, the 'Gineral's' submissionism in South Carolina, his Union nullificatioin in Georgia,and his Unionism in Alabama, are all one and the same thing? But this 'hocus pocus' business does not satisfy the Cherokees. So long as the Union tree bears such bad fruit in the south, we are compelled to believe, that there is either a toad in its heart or a worm in its root.

As to nullification and State rights, we know but little, because we have experienced but little of their effects as yet.  But from what we have seen, and heard, and felt of their operations, we would judge they were not so terrible as Unionism. Nullification (modest creature) says, 'a part will do,' but Unionism (greedy dog) says 'All, All'-the whole hog!

From what has been said on these all absorbing topice, the following conclusions may be drawn:-

1. That Unionism in Georgia, is vastly different from what it is in other parts of the United States, and if we could only get things called by their correct names these hard times it would no doubt go by the name of Executive nullification, or Union nullification. For the most distinguishing characteristic of the Georgia Unionists is, their combination with the President to nullify the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States ' to make his will and good pleasure 'the supreme law of the land!' In their tyrannical career the legislative and judicial departments of Government have been set aside, and the Executive department most wretchedly perverted.  And yet they have the assurance to talk about the Union!

2. That nullification though terribly denounced by the President and his Union friends in the South, is an immaculate virgin compared with Georgia Unionism!  It may be a dangerous extreme, and should of course be the last alternative. It is a wonderful instrument, and should only be used to bring tyrants to their senses. But it requires considerable muscular power to apply it successfully. If we only had the requisite force, it would be the very thing itself to apply to these Union fellows, who are taking our houses and farms from us, and dragging our people in chains to the West.

OCONNESTOTA.

March 5th 1834.




      


NOTICE.

ALL persons are cautioned against trading for a note given by me, payable to Thomas House, for eighty or eighty-five bushels of corn, due in October or November last: and as the consideration for which the note was given has failed, I am determined not to pay the said note unless compelled by law.

THOMAS B. WATIE.

March 8th 1834






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 29, 1834

THE TYRANTS MASTER PIECE.

We have often recurred to passing events, and especially that of the conduct of the enrolling agents who are infesting the homes of the Cherokees. The number of these resident, special, enrolling assessing and State agents with an interpreter, to each we are unable to give. They move like the swine that we have sometimes seen, to one camp, and finding nothing for his feed, would move to another in search of his food there and so on. Against the linguists in this case, we shall make no very serious objections, for they are bought up with the same high prices, as the President do his secretaries, by sending them on a mission to save their opposition. When night fall come, intellect is at work, and if there be any genius at the bottom not yet exhausted, it is invented for the deception of his Cherokee neighbor. Away they go by times, and hurried to the house of the forlorn Cherokee widow. The white and tawny faces, then tells her that she must enroll- the President is our friend-he will give your full value for your improvement-if you refuse, you have no option-the Georgians will take your property. This is dreadful news to the woman, but does not enroll. Away they go! they come next to the poor man's house, and tells him your houses are worth a heap of money, if you do not enroll you loose your rights.  He is then threatened with the dreadful Georgians, but this is likewise a failure.- Here they go again, and at last comes to a Spaniard, who wishing to go to Texas, readily signs papers that are only binding on the Indians, and then it is said that the Cherokees are enrolled. This is the manner in which these agents are proceeding to the great annoyance of the Indians who are trying to plant corn for the subsistence of their families. It is our desire that these pests be withdrawn for the present, to give the oppressed Cherokees, a few days rest for the planting of their crops.  These agents are without principle, and are as much opposed to justice, as the good and the evil principles are opposed to each other. This is tyranny exercised to the utmost limits.

__________________

DEATH OF WILLIAM WIRT.

The resolutions of the distinguished Counsellors of the Supreme Court of the United States, to offer their tribute of respect to the character of the deceased, will be found in our columns. These proceedings would have appeared in our last, but from the crowd of other matter, was accidentally left out.

MR. WIRT was counsel for the Cherokees to the Supreme Court, in the great case of the Cherokee Nation against the State of Georgia, for an injunction to restrain that State from exercising jurisdiction over the Nation. Altho' this profound counsel did not obtain this case by which to relieve the Cherokees; it resulted in the development of the relations between the General Government and the Indian tribes, and to the not little division of the Court in refusing its injunction.

The second case was that of the Missionaries against Georgia. The former being residents of the Cherokee country, the Cherokee rights in course were involved in the discussion, and the able opinion of the Court which declared the laws of Georgia, unconstitutional and void.

Mr. WIRT was not only the legal and able counsel of the Cherokees, but he was likewise their most sincere and faithful friend. To the irreparable loss of this great and good man, we have to express our deep sensibility, and to cherish the highest respect for the character of the deceased, we present our paper in the usual badge of mourning. (Note: all of the columns beginning on page two are lined in black border)

__________________

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

At a meeting of the gentlemen of the Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States, and of the Officers of the Court, at the Court Room in the Capitol, on Tuesday the 18th inst., the Hon. B. F. Butler, Attorney General of the United States, was called to the Chair, and the Hon. Jno. Sergeant was appointed Secretary: whereupon

Mr. Webster rose and addressed the Chair as follows:

It is announced to us that one of the oldest, one of the ablest, one of the most distinguished members of this Bar, has departed this mortal life. WILLIAM WIRT IS NO MORE? (sic) He has this day closed a professional career, among the longest and the most brilliant, which the distinguished members of the profession in the United States have at any time accomplished.

Unsullied in everything which regards professional honor and integrity, patient of labor, and rich in those stores of learning, which are the reward of patient labor and patient labor only; and if equalled, yet certainly allowed not to be excelled, in fervent, animated, and persuasive eloquence, he has left an example, which those who seek to raise themselves to great heights of professional eminence, will hereafter emulously study.  Fortunate indeed will be the few who shall imitate it successfully!

As a public man, it is not our peculiar duty to speak of Mr. WIRT here.- His character, in that respect belongs to his country, and to the history of his country. And, sir, if we were to speak of him in his private life, and in his social relations, all we could possibly say of his urbanity, his kindness, the faithfulness of his friendships, and the warmth of his affections, would hardly seem sufficiently strong and glowing to do him justice, in the feeling and judgment of those, who separated, now forever from his embraces, can only enshrine his memory in their bleeding hearts.

Nor may we, sir, more than allude to that other relation, which belonged to him, and belongs to us all, that high and paramount relation, which connects man with his Maker! It may be permitted us, however to have the pleasure of recording his name, as one who felt a deep sense of religious duty, and who placed all his hopes of the future in the truth and in the doctrines of Christianity? (sic)

But our particular ties to him, were the ties of our profession. He was our brother, and he was our friend. With talents, powerful enough to excite the strength of the strongest, with a kindness both of heart and of manner capable of warming and gaining the coldest of his brethren, he has now completed the term of his professional life, and of his earthly existence in the enjoyment of the high respect and cordial affections of us all. Let us, then, sir, hasten to pay to his memory the well deserved tribute of our regard. Let us lose no time in testifying our sense of our loss, and in expressing our grief, that one great light of our profession is extinguished forever.

Mr. Webster concluded by submitting the following resolutions, which were read, unanimously adopted, viz;

Resolved, That the Members of this Bar feel, with sensibility, the loss which the profession, and the country, have sustained in the death of WILLIAM WIRT, a member of this Bar, ' heretofore for many years, Attorney General of the United States.

Resolved, That we cherish the highest respect for the professional learning of the deceased, for his varied talent and ability, for the purity and uprightness of his professional life, and for the amiable and excellent qualities which belonged to him as a man.

Resolved, That to testify these sentiments we will wear the usual badge of mourning for the residue of the term.

Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to offer to his bereaved and afflicted family, the condolence and sympathy of his brethren of the Bar and to request that he may be interred in the City of Washington, and that his professional brethren be permitted to raise a suitable monument to his memory.

Resolved, That Mr. Southard be requested to pronounce a discourse, before the Bar, upon the professional character and virtues of Mr. WIRT. at sometime during the present term, as may suit its convenience.

Resolved, That the Attorney General do move the Court that these resolutions entered on minutes of their proceedings.

The following gentlemen were appointed by the Chair to compose the Committee ordered by the fourth resolution: Mr. Swann, Mr. Jones, Mr. Webster, Mr. Clay, Mr Southard, Mr. Sergeant, Mr. Peters.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

The Emigration.

Mr. Editor,- The Emigration begins to assume a very important aspect not because of the great number of its disciples, or the character of those who have turned their faces to the setting sun; but in consequence of the deceptions and oppressive measures resorted to, in order to tempt and force our people from the land of their birth. When the benevolent policy of the General Government was revived, under the administration of John Q. Adams, the Indians were to be treated as human beings and free agents; and when the Indian Bill was passed, provision was made that existing treaties should be held sacred.

But have these principles been adhered to? No.  Soon as the President got the money into his hands, he made an experiment, and soon ascertained that the Cherokees could never be enrolled for the West on fair and honorable terms.  Then Georgia commenced her cruel legislation. The President stooped to the small business of with-holding our annuity. Next Alabama caught the spirit of sister Georgia, and came up to the help of the 'Hero' against the innocent and patriotic Cherokees. Lastly long forbearing Tennessee stepped forward to help the matter out!  Wonderful combination! Where now are the Constitution, Laws, and treaties of the United States? 'O, never mind, come let us get the Indians out of our way, and all the matters and things will work again-don't talk about Constitution and treaties in settling our Indian affairs-insignificant creatures- 'poor devils'- they killed our fathers. away with them! Send them to the Rocky Mountains. Come Georgia! come Alabama! come Tennessee and North Carolina- help me to get these savages to the West.'

But how stands the matter now?- Worse and worse!  Having tried the virtue of diabolical laws, and menaces, direct force is now the last resort! And has it come to this! Not long since some four or five wagons rolled on towards the Southwest in search of emigrants, but unfortunately the deluded creatures were unwilling to take up the line of march. Some had fled and concealed themselves, others denied having enrolled.  What was to be done? It would'nt (sic) do to expend so much Government money for nothing. Direct force was resorted to! The wagons were drove (sic) up to the doors of the emigrants, their plunder thrown in, while they themselves were put in ropes or chains! The wagons started for the place of embarkation, but alas! they had not got far before the prisoners made their escape, and left the unsuccessful Agent in a state of defunction!

The case of Desadaske is exceedingly disgraceful.  While the Georgia guard were parading about in this country, Desadaske, without any just cause, was arrested put in chains, and threatened with penitentiary, but by promising to go to the West, he washed away all his 'high misdemeanors,' and redeemed himself from the curses of the Georgia law!!

His valuable improvement was forced from his possession, and the honorable councilor took refuge in another part of his country! Considering the circumstances under which he was compelled to enroll, nobody believed he was under any obligations to comply with an extorted promise. But, under a late order, even this man was hunted up, and had it not been for the bravery of his wife, it is likely, he and his family would have been hauled in ropes or chains to the Agency! How strong is the benevolence of the policy?

One poor fellow, who it is said is not quite as honest as he ought to be, had the great misfortunate (sic) to get one hundred lashes while in the custody of the Agents! This is somewhat marvelous; for it is not unusual for the emigrants to pay off all their criminal and civil debts too, by simply enrolling! I wish our friends has been a little more careful, and retained this Arkansaw (sic) thief, for we have supported enough by such fellows, of a different color.

But why are some of the emigrants so unwilling to embark for the West, after having enrolled? Is it because they were drunk when they made their mark? or have they been deceived with regard to the money business?

There is yet something more mysterious in this wonderful hurrying. Why hurry the emigrants off before their individual treaties are ratified? One of our benevolent Agents favored me with a perusal of his Co-wna-te*, and I am very confident it talked something about a treaty. But perhaps the 'Gineral' can ratify these little treaties, without troubling the Senate with them!

Now Mr. Editor, before we enroll, or make our treaties, we must have a better understanding on the subject-We must be wide awake and duly sober! For if we, like Esau, sell our birthright for one morsel or pottage, we shall afterwards find no place for repentance, though we seek it ever so carefully with tears.

OCONESTOTA.

Fort Clay, March 10th 1834.

____

* Paper or instrument of writing.






      


INDIANS

From the Chicago Democrat

INDIAN MASSACRE IN 1812

Our last number contained a brief epitome of the early history of Chicago, and promised to continue the subject, and to lay before our readers, the story of the massacre, which took place here in 1812.  We have heard various accounts of the different causes which led to this unfortunate event, but the most authentic, as it appears to us, is the one which we subjoin. If we state any circumstance connected with the story, that is not in strict accordance with truth, our columns are open to communications from any of our readers, who are better acquainted with it than ourselves.

Somewhere about the 8th or 9th of August, 1812, Gen. Hall, then occupying Detroit with his army, conceiving the garrison at Chicago as untenable, (or from some other motive not known,) transmitted orders to Capt. Heald, then commanding the post at this place, to evacuate it forthwith and march to Fort Wayne, at the same time instructing him to distribute the provisions and ammunition, that otherwise he would be compelled to leave in the fort among the tribe of Indians in the neighborhood, the better to ensure their friendship, or at least neutrality, upon which there had been before but little reliance. In obedience to these orders, preparations were made for the immediate removal of the troops. The Indians were sent for; some at the distance of 150 miles- They came in great numbers. By the thirteenth of the month, Chicago was filled with several hundred Potawatamies, eagerly and anxiously expecting the promised supplies. At this juncture, Capt. Wells , a bold and daring officer, accompanied by thirty Miami Indians, arrived at the garrison with counter orders from Gen. Hall, that no provisions should be given to the Indians-that everything not needed by the troops should be destroyed. These subsequent orders were carried into effect. On the night following, about 200 rifles were broken, and the fragments, together with provisions and stores of all kinds were thrown into the river. This fact came into the knowledge of the Indians, and the first impulse that actuated them was their most natural passion,

revenge. Indignant at being called from their homes, to a place so far distant, under the hopes of receiving what was promised to them, and then finding that they had come only to be disappointed in their expectations, they formed the design of retaliating for the injuries and insults which they had supposed were designedly practiced upon them. Maintaining as they had previously to this, merely a neutral disposition, it needed but the smallest pretext to rouse them into hostility. That pretext they now considered as held out to them and the young men resolved to make use of it. The chiefs advised and remonstrated, but without effect, and when these were found unavailing, three Indians, Pierish le Clere (at this very time at Chicago) Win-e-mac, or Cartfish (sic), and Mack-kit-tah-puck-ke, or Black Partridge, made their way into the fort at night, and gave information of the exasperation which possessed the Indians, and the designs which they contemplated accomplishing. They further suggested to the officers a way to escape the dangers that threatened them.- They proposed, that it should be held out that the troops had relinquished the idea of moving at all, or at least of some time to come, until they had received further instructions from Gen. Hall, and until then could make no disposition of the stores. But the proposition and the warning were alike unheeded, and on the 15th of the month the post was evacuated, and the troops marched out to commence their destined journey to Fort Wayne. They had proceeded along the beach of the lake, about two or three miles, in perfect order and in supposed security, when all at once the yell of two hundred savage warriors, and the report of as many rifles rang in their years (sic) and the moment after one half of the gallant band of soldiers that had left the fort, lay dead on the beach. The Indians from the first intimation that they were to be disappointed in their expected presents, had kept a watchful eye upon every movement of the troops, and when the latter left the garrison, the former with all the ardor of Indian warriors, took a circuitous route to the lake shore at the place where the event occurred. There the ambuscade was formed directly behind a range of sand hills or bluffs, that rise to a considerable height, and from fifteen to thirty yards from the lake itself. Here the Indians waited until the soldiers arrived. And when within almost reach of the muzzle of their guns, they poured in their deadly fire. A desperate battle ensued. The whites fought like men whose existence depends upon the cast of the moment, and it was only when they found their little band overpowered by numbers, and their comrades reduced to a mere handful, and when indeed it would be worse than madness to longer resist, that they surrendered. Capt. Wells and his party of Miamies were some distance in the rear; they too were not spared. A detachment of Indians attacked them, and those of the Miamies who were not killed at the first discharge, fled in every direction. In addition to the number of soldiers, Lieut. Rounan and the surgeon, Doct. Van Voorher, were killed. Captains Heald and Helmes were severely wounded and taken prisoners. They were conveyed, or rather dragged by the Indians to their wigwams, where after a confinement of more than two months, and a partial recovery of their wounds, Capt.Helmes was released on parole. One of the most daring and adventurous incidents connected with the sequel of this unfortunate tale, is that in which two females were actors and sufferers. The wives of two of the officers, in the midst of the alarm and terror which agitated them, betook themselves to a small boat for refuge, and not only set out on, but actually accomplished in safety, a voyage to Mackinac on the open lake, without a helm or compass to guide or direct them. It was indeed a masterpiece of female heroism.- Immediately after this massacre of the troops, the Indians returned satiated with blood, but their appetite for revenge was unsatisfied, until the fort was in ashes. In this state it remained till 1817, when it was rebuilt by order of the government, and it has ever since remained with but a short interval, a military post of importance.




      


From the Religious Narrator.

AN INDIAN EXECUTION.

Choctaw Agency, Dec. 31, 1833

Mr. Editor:- I have taken up my pen to give you a description of a mournful fact, which occurred at this place a few months ago.

Las t summer, some of the Choctaws, who were intoxicated got into a quarrel, and one of them beat another pretty badly with a bottle. The Indian who had been beaten, was determined to have revenge for the injury he had sustained. Accordingly, he immediately perused the object of revenge, but not being able to overtake him, and his revengeful disposition being so thirsty for blood, he beat to death, in a most cruel manner, a friend, against whom he entertained  not the smallest degree of ill will.

Immediately after this cruel act was committed, the perpetrator of the crime informed his friends and others of what he was guilty, and gave himself up to the friends of the deceased, to be put to death according to the Choctaw custom of putting murderers to death.- He said he had killed his friend, an innocent person, and deserved death; he wanted to die, nor was he afraid to die.

Soon after the murderer had made his surrender, his friends and relations, and the friends and relations of the deceased, collected together and made preparations for his execution. His grave was dug, and the executioner appointed, who was a friend to the murderer. The choice, I believe, was made by the unfortunate criminal.- Very frequently, when Indians are to be put to death, for murder, the murderer's own brother is chosen as the executioner. Whilst the grave was digging, and other preparations making for the solemn scene that was approaching, the Indian, whose minutes were numbered, danced around the place of execution, apparently without the least dread of his awful fate; and also, during this time, he would once in a while fire a gun, as did his brother, who continued to do so, till after the execution. Just before the fatal moment arrived, the Indian who was to die, seated himself upon a blanket near the side of his grave; and whilst in this situation, his friends and relations approached him, and taking hold of his hand, bade him farewell. One of the company that came up, was a little brother of the infatuated criminal. Whilst the little boy was taking leave of his brother, who was just about to be launched into the invisible world, no groans were heard, (for these were forbidden,) but tears, in perfect silence, rolled freely over his cheeks to the ground. After a final leave had been taken of the criminal, two of his friends caught hold of his hands, one on each side, and drew his arms into a horizontal position, and in a direction parallel to each other. In this position they were held till death paralyzed them. Now the awful moment had arrived; and whilst every countenance was clothed in sadness, and ever heart palpitating with fear and sympathy, the executioner advanced just before the criminal, and discharged the contents of his weapon of death into his naked bosom; and whilst the blood was gushing from his heart, he was eased back into the icy hands of death, and covered with his blankets. As soon as the report of the gun was heard, the relations of him who had just fallen a prey to death, rushed to the fatal spot, and kneeling around the dear body, they poured forth the fountain of grief, (which they now were allowed to do,) that was pent up in their aching bosoms. After the dead body of the unfortunate native had received its last respects, it was deposited in its long and silent home. Thus, in less than twelve hours, two immortal souls were hurried into eternity, unprepared. But what was the primary cause of this sudden work of death? Ardent Spirits. It is seldom that full-blooded Indians of the same tribe quarrel with one another, or kill one another, unless they are under the influence of ardent spirits.

Yours, respectfully,

NARRATOR.




      


From the Sentinel of Freedom

The Indians- Mr. Burgess, in a speech in Congress, on the 17th ult. against Mr. Chilton's bill for inquiring into the expediency of so extending the pension law, as to embrace those who were engaged in the Indian wars, down to 1794- bore the following testimony to the injustice with which the red sons of the forest have been treated by the white men.

'Sir, look into the ornaments of your Rotunda.  Sculpture has done something to perpetuate the original character of the red man of the country.- William Penn, the man of Peace, stands in the ever during stone quietly discussing the terms of a treaty with the great Delaware Chief.  On the opposite side you see, sculptured in stone, the great hero of the West, engaged in mortal conflict with two red warriors of the woods. One of the Indians is already down; the two surviving combatants stand one on each side of him, with each a foot on the dead warrior. The sculptor, to exhibit the face of this chief to the spectator, was compelled by the narrowness of the panel, where this combat is represented, to contract his legs and arms, as they might have been drawn up by a strong convulsion, but as the limbs never are when the man has space enough to extend them in the last mortal struggle. He often thought when looking at this interesting production of human art, that the sculptor had, without intending to do so, most strikingly represented both our national avidity to engross lands, and the hard terms which we do hold out to the Aborigines. Sir, this piece of sculpture tells us that we do not leave to the Indians enough of the land of their fore-fathers to die upon.

Shall we continue to awaken and encourage the spirit or war, by chanting in our halls the praises of our own men, where no one lifts up a voice for our brave, magnanimous, but conquered foe? He has buried the tomahawk-he has retired beyond the great river; and forgetful of all war but the chase, now follows the buffalo in the prairies of the West. Shall we still be at cost-shall we offer a bounty to keep alive that spirit of chivalry, that eagerness for battle, which has driven our great adversary far beyond our borders?- The reign of peace has I trust, commenced on earth. Men have ceased to look after plunder for subsistence; they seem too have submitted to the will of the creator; and are determined to live on the productions of their own labor.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, APRIL 5, 1834

We have not taken up our pen to address our readers, an article of course billingsgate against any one of our people, nor to calumniate any one who dares to oppose our policy towards the General Government, but it is incumbent upon us, as likewise it is important, that we should notice the movements of some of our distinguished citizens, in relation, we may venture to presume here, to effect some arrangements with the General Government, to put to rest the present most unhappy state of things existing in the Cherokee country.

The Indians of the best informed class, last year, within Tennessee, and North Carolina, (their numbers not known,) enrolled for emigration ' speculation on the Government, by making large improvements previous to enrollment, preparatory to a high valuation which had been promised them by the agents. Last December, these emigrants held a convention at the Agency, to nominate a delegation to Washington, (alias Kitchen Chiefs,) for the object of entering into some arrangements with the President, to secure to themselves their interest to the soil in the Cherokee country. The meeting adjourned after the appointment of eight members. Being self-appointed, they were vested in course with unlimited powers. The day was fixed for proceeding on their mission, but these Mississippi speculators became divided, and a majority failed to proceed. Three members however, reached Washington, one after another, headed by Andrew Ross. Although Don Pedro was fighting his Brother with cannon and sword, we hoped that Andrew would not oppose his brother at Washington- (the Principal Chief,) attending to the interest of the Cherokees. These self-constituted delegates knowing the President had placed the deposits into his own hands, they imagined that money grew on bushes at the White House, and would be measured to them by a treaty. But it appears that they were found by the President to be destitute of the science of governments, Gen. Jackson, despatched Ross back to the Nation to be perfected. He arrived in post haste in this part of the country about a fortnight back, and went into secret conclave with Messrs. Ridge and Boudinot, leaders of the weak rabble; the latter, we should have bee pleased to have exempted from this remark, as a gentleman of unexceptionable talents, it would have been fortunate for us to have received his acts otherwise. They have then it appears, accepted an appointment from Andrew Ross, to proceed to Washington as agents of the President, to join in the White House sports; for they have received no authority from the Cherokees, to this course, Major Ridge, Boudinot, and Ross the Emigrant set out on last Monday in the capacity of a delegation, to be supported by the President.  Considerable excitement has  arisen among the Cherokees here in consequence of this movement, it being the firm belief that the President of the United States, since he has been travelling out of his constitutional road, in order to rid himself of the Cherokee question would stoop down and treat with a fraction of the people, and having now four years annuities in his own hands and due the Cherokees, the President might assume the power to carry a treaty into execution without previously submitting it to the Senate, and by this means, force the Nation into his measures. But we are told that these agents of the President disclaims any intention of treating away the country.  Whatever power the President may recognize in these persons as competent to act, touching the interest of the Cherokees, we have to protest against all their acts whatsoever they may be affecting our rights, as unauthorized by the Cherokees, without precedent, and as subversive of our social harmony, and as certain as any coming event can be, the Cherokees will not submit to their acts.

On the other hand, we have commenced the prosecution of our agricultural pursuits under circumstances of great depression.  The grant holders of our lands have been arriving and taking our fields, and becoming intruders on our own soil.  Human nature being absolutely incapable of bearing the present state of things in our country, we have to express our deep conviction, that the crisis have arrived that something must be done for the relief of the Cherokee people.  But let this be done by the act of the Nation, and not by agents created by the President. Therefore, we close these remarks with an abiding solicitude for the welfare of the Cherokees, we must be prepared to submit patiently to our destiny, created by avarice-created by the power of wickedness.

_____________________

In addition to what we have remarked in relation to the new agents of the President who have proceeded to Washington to visit him, it is known that such cases have occurred for two years past-to have a counter delegation at the city, but destitute of the common authority vested in delegations to transact the business of the Nation. That this is the fact in the present instance will not admit of the least qualification. The movement is at this time unknown to the people,excepting in this part of the country, will likewise be admitted by all. Under these circumstances the President has heretofore thought proper not to enter into arrangements with these minority agents for cession of the Nation. It was thought here so soon as these agents, were known to be on the eve of proceeding, considerations interesting to the Nation would justify their arrest, for calling a small meeting preparatory to their mission. But the secret manner in which this meeting had been conducted, and the short time which they had given themselves for proceeding on the mission, was sufficient to baffle all opposition. In the meantime they have assured a few leading men in order to soften the feeling against them, that no injury to the Nation shall result from their mission.  The Georgians then are on the tip toe rejoicing with the prospect of a Treaty, a Treaty, to be made in six weeks.  It is rumored much ' where there is some smoke there is also some fire, that the President has communicated officially to the Governor of Georgia that a treaty will now be effected with the Cherokees. But we have to state again that we shall not submit to a treaty made without the consent of the Cherokees.






      


From the New York Observer

ARKANSAS CHOCTAWS.

Wheelock-Alfred Wright, missionary; Samuel Moulton, teacher; and their wives. Anna Burnham, teacher.



Bethabara.-Loring S. Williams, missionary; Mrs. W. Eunice Clough, teacher.

__ Eben'r Hotchkin, catechist; and Mrs. H.

__ Matthias Joslyn, teacher; Mrs. Mary Choate, teacher.

The new Choctaw country is bounded on the east by the Arkansas territory, on the north by the Arkansas River, on the south by the Red River, and on the west by lands occupied by other tribes of Indians.

Mr. Wright recovered from the sickness by which he was detained at Little Rock, on his way from the old nation, so as to be able to enter his new field of labor on the 14th of September of last year; and soon after selected a site for a station, six miles south of Little River, a branch of the Red River, and 18 miles east of Fort Towson, to which he has given the name of Wheelock, in memory of the first President of Dartmouth College, who was a devoted friend to the Indians, and first opened his Indians school,(afterwards transferred to Hanover, N. H.) in Lebanon, Ct. the native town of Mr. Wright.  That portion of the Choctaws, among whom he labored before their removal, are settled compactly around his station, there being as many as 2,000 within the distance of 10 or 12 miles.

Mr. Williams entered the new country and selected the site of his station on the 12th day of July of last year. To his station he gave the name of Bethabara, it being near the principal fording place of the Mountain Fork of Little River, 10 miles west of the eastern boundary of the Choctaw country, and about 25 miles north of Wheelock.- Around this station, also, there is a dense settlement of Indians, amounting to 1,569, within a distance of 5 miles, and not less than 3,000 within 25 miles.

Mr. Hotchkin, who, with Mr. Moulton, arrived early in Dec. has been authorized to commence a separate station among the Christian portion of the Choctaws, near Wheelock, where he was urgently requested to settle by two chiefs. Mr. Joslyn, formerly a teacher at Mahew, and who has spent the last spring and summer at Dwight, is expected with Mrs. J. and Mrs. Choate soon to open a new station at some favorable place among the Choctaws, and devote himself to the instruction and superintendence of schools.

Churches- The missionaries appear to have been very cordially received by the Christian portion of the Choctaws generally,and entered on their labors immediately with very encouraging prospects. The church at Bethabara was organized on the 19th August of last year, embracing 56 persons, who had been members of the church before their removal, and one who was admitted on a new profession. The number has since been increased to 1143; of whom 136 are Choctaws, 5 of white and 2 of African descent, and 126 had been connected with the church in the old nation. Two pious captains have died in peace. Although many who joined the church in the old nation have, owing to the perilous situation in which they were placed for some time before their removal and during their journey, made shipwreck of the faith, yet old members generally withstand temptation, appear docile,and maintain a fair Christian character.  They have been much occupied in preparing comfortable residences for themselves and have shown too much worldliness.- Still there is a great ' striking change in their character from what it was. Seven or eight Choctaws are candidates for admission to this church at this station.

The church of Wheelock, was organized on the 2d Sabbath in December, including 87 members, 7 of whom had not before been connected with any church. All were carefully examined as to their religious views and character, the spiritual condition of this church is much the same as that of the one at Bethabara.

Congregations- As the people are settled so compactly, larger congregations can be collected in common circumstances in the old nation. The average number attending the preaching of Mr. Williams at Bethabara is 150, and the largest 500. The number attending at two other places where he spends half of his Sabbath is considerably less. Nearly all are Indians. At the stations and in a number of other places, native church members hold stated meetings on the Sabbath, which they conduct themselves, when no missionary is resent. Frequent meetings are held by the missionaries on weekdays; there are also meetings for prayer and exhortation held frequently in various places, conducted by natives.- The females also attend small prayer meetings in different places.

The Choctaws have erected two houses of public worship in the part of the nation where Mr. Williams resides; one near his station and one in a settlement 20 miles distant.

Three Sabbath schools have been established by Mr. Williams, principally taught by native teachers, embracing about 100 scholars, and two more are about to be opened.

The calls for preaching and pastoral labor are numerous and urgent,and at this crisis two or three additional laborers are much needed.

Schools.- The Choctaws on arriving in their new country, were urgently desirous of having schools established among them without delay; so much so that within a few weeks after Mr. Williams arrived, Mrs. W. opened a school of 25, the parents offering to pay three or four dollars a quarter for each scholar.  This was continued one quarter, when the health of the teacher compelled her to relinquish it. Mr. Williams has since opened schools in three settlements, in which the pupils are taught to read and write in both the English and Choctaw languages by native teachers, under his visitation and superintendence.  The parents board and clothe the scholars, and generally furnish the books. The teachers receive $12 a month each from the Board. These schools now embrace 90 scholars. A number more have probably been established already on the same plan, in other neighborhoods, under the superintendence of Mr. Wright and Mr. Hotchkin; and many others are still needed, especially one or two of a higher order, into which those who formerly attended school in the old nation add more promising pupils from the neighborhood, schools might be collected and carried through a more advanced course of instruction. The state of feeling on this subject is represented to be such both among the friends and the opposers of Christianity, that it would seem if suitable teachers and books could be furnished, that a very large portion of all the children and youth of a suitable age might be gathered into schools without delay. Mr. Moulton and Mr. Joslyn are to devote themselves to teaching and superintending the schools. One or two other persons will be sent to cooperation in the same work as soon as they can be obtained.

Books in the Choctaw language. A second edition of the Choctaw hymns amounting to 3,000 copies has been printed during the past summer, making the whole number of copies of books printed in this language 13,000.

State of the people- Definite information respecting the number of the Choctaws, who have become settled in their country, has not been received. It is probably between 10,000 and 14,000.  The number of the whole tribe, before their removal commenced, was estimated at 13,000 or 20,000. They generally appear to be satisfied with their new country, and are laboring with a good degree of vigor to prepare for themselves fields and comfortable residences, and manifest generally considerable industry and public spirit; though they have obviously suffered in their exposures to temptation while preparing for removing, and while on their long and hazardous journey. They have also suffered much from sickness while on their journey, and since their arrival in their new country; 160 out of several companies, embracing about 3,000 having died by the way, including many aged persons and infants. During the last spring and summer, the mission families also have been afflicted with much sickness.




      


INDIANS

From the Cross

THE INDIAN AND THE SPANIARD.

The following interesting scene occurred in the history of the early Spanish discoveries in America. The Indians of St. Domingo were treated in a most oppressive manner by their European masters. A chief named Enriquez, succeeded in throwing off the yoke of the tyrants, and escaped to a rough and mountainous part of the country, where, with a few followers, he lived in freedom. Many were the attempts of the Spaniards to drive him from his stronghold but were unsuccessful. His policy was altogether defensive, for which he had a double motive, a desire to spare the effusion of blood, and to escape the attacks of a disproportionate force. With a forbearance most strongly contrasted with the conduct of his enemies, he commanded his Indians never to slay a Spaniard but in self-defence, but to possess themselves of the Spanish arms whenever they could obtain them.

For ten years, every effort to reduce him to submission, by force or negotiation, was alike unsuccessful. At length in 1529, Hernandez de San Miguel, who came to the Island when a boy, with the first admiral, and who was well acquainted with the manners of the Indians and their modes of warfare as well as with the passes of the mountains, undertook, at the head of one hundred and fifty men, to hunt down the prudent insurgent.

After a pursuit of many days, during which the chieftain easily baffled the pursuer, Enriquez gave him an interview, in a spot which he selected for the purpose. Two mountain peaks arose precipitously to a great height near to each other, yet separated by a profound chasm, through which flowed a deep and rapid stream. Upon these summits, in mid air, where the warriors could hear but not approach each other, they opened a conference in which terms of peace were proposed by San Miguel, and accepted by Enriquez; the former, exhibiting full powers from the government for this purpose.

It was stipulated, that the chief and his followers might dwell in full freedom and independence, in such parts of the island as they might select refraining from all violence to the Spaniards, and restoring the gold which had been taken from certain travellers. Time and place were appointed, at which the parties should meet, accompanied each by eight attendants, for the delivery of the gold and the ratification of the treaty.

Enriquez repaired to the place on the seashore,and erected a bower, in which he placed the gold, and provision for both parties.  San Miguel too kept the appointment; and that he might better celebrate the peace, he caused a vessel which accidentally appeared on the coast to be moored near the shore, while the crew marched in procession, to the sound of musical instruments. The chief beholding this numerous force approach, whose good faith he had but too much reason to receive the Spaniards with cordiality, to deliver up the treasure, and to say that indisposition prevented him for keeping his engagement in person.

San Miguel regretted much that the conclusion of the treaty should be thus postponed; but more, perhaps, that he had failed to carry Enriquez in chains to St. Domingo. He sent him however, a friendly message; and the truce, though not formally ratified, was preserved for four years, when a permanent treaty was concluded by which the intrepid chieftain accomplished the freedom and independence of himself and his tribe.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, APRIL 19, 1834

HUMANE POLICY

The residence of Mr. John Ross, PRINCIPAL CHIEF of the Cherokee Nation, was visited last week by a purchaser of that place from the drawer of the lots, with a number of persons, and made a forcible entry upon the premises. His valuable Ferry at the junction of Oostunahlee, and Etahwah rivers commonly called Head of Coosa and his extensive farm and houses were all taken possession of, excepting a room of the lower story of his large building, was still in the occupancy of Mrs. Ross in a feeble condition of health. Thus we see in the policy of the Government and the enactments of the States. We have become as aliens in our native land-trespassers upon our own soil, outlaws in the bosom of our Nation.

_____________________

INDIAN DELEGATIONS.

Delegations of the western Indians composed of the Cherokee, Creek, and Seneca tribes have proceeded on to Washington City, and if it be true as assumed by the President in his message to Congress that they were contented and happy in their new homes, it would appear that they are adding troubles to it by engaging in missions of fifteen hundred miles.

___________________

In our last, we anticipated a crisis at hand that something must be done for the relief of the Cherokee people, and that some change of some character would become necessary to effect this relief.  But here we must be distinctly understood as not advocating a removal of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi.  To this policy, the great body of the Cherokees continues to oppose, and so far as our influence can be exercised in opposition to it, our deep expression of the reprobation of that unjust policy and the diabolical means resorted to, to accomplish it shall never be withheld.  It is a policy subversive of the sacred rights of the Cherokees, it is one that is incompatible to the principles of simple justice, and to the measures adopted for its enforcement, it is extremely revolting to the spirit of Christianity.

We have promised our readers in a former number a faithful detail of the measurers adopted by the President, and the States to expel the Cherokees from the lands of their Fathers, and guaranteed to them in solemn treaties by the Government. It is necessary for us to remark, that when we speak of the acts of the President towards us, however unjust they may be, we do it in feelings of kindness, we have been taught to know that this great fountain head of the Government had been ordained for the preservation of the Indians, by his mighty arm.  In this point of view of his duties, although he may continue to depress us, our political relations compels us to entreat him for relief. This is our humiliating condition. The view which we shall take of the past course of the President towards the Cherokees in order to accomplish their removal by compulsion, may be somewhat different from that taken of it heretofore, but on the close review of the documents, and to which it is necessary to refer, to show the secret instruction of the President in order to subserve the objects of the Government, it can scarcely be believed, as is proved in the sequel, that one enlightened nation could so unjustly, and could be capable of so fraudulently treating an innocent and faithful alley. But the documents themselves emanating from the President himself is likewise incapable of presenting a different construction at this stage of the controversy, and their manifest intentions; at the times they were severally given.  In the propositions of a Treaty of the President's Minister of War, published in our 26th number, 1833, the following passage occurs: 'But, your people must distinctly understand, that those who remain, will become citizens of the State in which they may reside, and that all the relations between them and the United States, founded upon their previous circumstances as Indians, must cease.' Now the Cherokees had been informed previous to these propositions, and especially in the message of the President, to Congress, in 1831, 'that the Cherokees remaining within the State of Georgia, would hereafter be governed by the laws of Georgia, as all her citizens are.'  Here were presented two inconsistent passages by the President, one giving authority to Georgia to treat the Cherokees as her own citizens, and subsequently proposing to negotiate with the Cherokees, to become, in certain cases, permanent citizens of the States.  The passage with we have alluded to in the propositions, had a decided effect on the minds of the Cherokees. If the President proposed in a treaty to make them citizens of Georgia, it followed as a matter of course that Georgia then had no legal right to the Cherokee country, It was presumed that the policy of the President was not a settled one, and was subject to be changed, if the Cherokees continued united.  The Cherokees, from this, were induced to continue their peaceable mode of redress, to press on the Government, in a proper manner, the protection of their rights. This was the manifest intention of this passage, in the event that the propositions were rejected. It was in this common phrase of our day,a word to please the children. On the other hand, Georgia had commenced her crusade against the Cherokees, marched a military to keep possession of the Cherokee land, and to protect her civil officers; surveys were made, counties organized, and the laws forced over the Cherokees.

Again: The next instance of this extraordinary temporizing course of policy towards the Cherokees is contained in a letter of the War Ministers to the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, dated March 14th 1833, published in our 23rd No. In this letter the Secretary notified the Chief that a military force was sent to remove intruders from the ASSAILED parts of the Cherokee country.  On the reception of this order the Cherokees were confirmed in their former impressions that their sacred rights would in the end be sustained. This order of the Secretary was calculated to keep buoyant the hopes of the Cherokees,-to proceed peaceably in asserting their rights. Otherwise the Indians might become dissatisfied of their treatment by the Government, and resort to violence to vindicate their rights. In the meantime while the Indians were flattered with the prospect of relief from the fostering care of the Government, it was giving Georgia only time to perfect her organization over FIVE MILLIONS of acres of Indian lands, Lottery drawing, locating officers, selling GOLD Lots, LAND Lots, and fractions 'c. 'C. 'C. What is done for the Cherokees by the glittering bayonets rushing to the Nation? The honorable Secretary of War informs all parties concerned that he did not intend to be understood according to the reading of the order, and that intruders could only be removed from the nation where the laws of the states had not been extended.  This interpolation by the Secretary created a shock on the feelings of the Cherokees that can scarcely be described.  According to our notions, the Government was incapable of speaking truth to the Indian. If one thing was promised them today, it was revoked the next.  During this painful suspense the authorities of Georgia was (sic) still gaining time and rushing, and numerous agents were annoying us, until a delegation was appointed to proceed to Washington and memorialize Congress for our relief.

The next document of the same character which we have enumerated and as a deceptious one is contained in a letter from Washington, containing the substance of a conversation with General Jackson in which he boldly avowed his determination to sustain the rights of the Cherokees to their lands, when the federal court determined that question in their right. This letter will be found in our 42d No. Here there is a continuation of a policy to soften the feelings of the Indians, while he is equivocating to execute his treaties with us, like the empty barrel that sounds the loudest, he would enforce the decisions of the courts on constitutional principle. We have already shown that the fluctuating definition of these several orders were only intended to give Georgia time to consummate her robbery of our inheritance, building court house, rearing jails driving the Indians out of their houses, while hope was burning for relief, in this way, and at the penning of this article, until we are literally robbed of every right that is dear to mankind, and the loss of the Principal Chief of his valuable residence at COOSA, while himself at the City is the farce played by Georgia. In conclusion we have to state that the view which we have taken of the policy of the President in creating difficulties on us to a magnitude not to be disturbed, by which to place us in no other alternative but a resort to a treaty for relief, we believe is fully proved by the documents themselves, and the circumstances transpiring during the settlement by the Georgians of the Cherokee country. This is the manner that this government has managed the Cherokee case, by the greatest and best, by a Nation professing to be honest and enlightened, with which to pay Georgia for a SMILE and shake the stability of the American institutions






      


INDIANS

From the Augusta Chronicle

THE BILLS OF INJUNCTION.

It will be seen by reference to the following letter, from a respected and obliging correspondent, and extracts from an article of Federal Union, that Judge Hooper, after a four days argument on the subject has determined to sustain the Bills of Injunction granted to the Indians sometime ago, after striking out certain portions of them, inconsistent with the Sovereignty and Jurisdiction of the State-at least, he has sustained them for the present, and referred them, for a final decision, to the Convention of Judges.

We are not sufficiently acquainted with the law of 1833, (which has not yet been published,) to speak positively on the point now at issue under that law; but believe it is as follows: The law, (if our view of it be correct,) provides that all lots occupied by the reservee under former treaties, shall not be held by them, but surrendered to the drawers-that the Governor shall appoint an agent to dispose of such cases, and that whenever a drawer shall make affidavit, that any lot drawn by him is in the possession of a reservee, it shall be the duty of such agent, to remove such reservee immediately, by force, if resisted, and put such drawer in possession of the lot:-thus, not only making the agent both judge and jury in most important legal cases, and offering the strongest inducements to perjury, oppression, bribery, and corruption but directly violating that clause of the 1st section, 3rd Article, of the Constitution, which says: 'The Superior Court shall have exclusive and final jurisdiction, in all criminal cases, which shall be tried in the county where the crime was committed, and in all cases respecting titles to land,'c.' If, then, our impression of the law be correct, it is palpably unconstitutional, and therefore void, and the decision of Judge Hooper is evidently correct, and must be sustained by the Convention of judges.

We would here mention, in support of the decision of Judge Hooper, that a gentleman of high standing and extensive legal attainments, informed us, very recently, that he had drawn for purchased land in the occupancy of reservees, and was so perfectly satisfied of the unconstitutionality of the law of '33, that instead of applying to the agent for possession, he had ordered suit to be commenced in the ordinary way, by writ of ejectment.

As to the right of the State to the soil, and to dispose of it thus at will, that is another question,-one of those (according to the Federal Union) which the Judge considered as settled before he came on the Bench, and was ordered to be struck out of the bills, and is therefore not involved in the decision. We, however, deny, and always have done, the right of the State to the soil, though it has very clearly and properly the right of jurisdiction. We doubt the right of the State to declare the reservees unentitled to occupancy, like the other Indians; for, tho' they took reservations in former treaties, we cannot see how that can affect their right to emigrate to other Indian lands, with the consent of the Indians themselves; which would seem to be a matter for the consideration of the Indians alone-its owners-certainly, if the Indians themselves have, as we contend, the right of soil-unless, however, as stated by the Federal Union, the reservations were taken 'with the condition annexed, that they (the reservees) should reside permanently on these reservations.' We think, tho' that the Federal Union must be mistaken in this; for it seems to us to have been the policy or desire of the State, not to confine the Indian reservees to their reservations, and refuse them the right of selling them, and emigrating, but rather to encourage their emigration, and get clear of them.

Another clause of the law of '33, if we recollect it rightly, deprives the Indians of the privilege accorded to them by the one of '32, of retaining possession of all the land they had under cultivation and fence, at that time, and confines them (each only who then had land under fence, 'c.) to one lot of 160 acres, or four 40 acre lots, or more than four small ones, to take one entire large lot, or four small ones-either comprising 160 acres only. Thus, many with large families, may be reduced to actual starvation - particularly where their lands are poor, or when they become worn out. And this, certainly, is most cruel oppression--and would be equally so, even if the State had the right of soil. We have not time or room now, to go into an examination of this most unreasonable, arbitrary, and unjust claim, founded on an absurd fiction; but will barely remark, that we consider the right of jurisdiction, as resulting necessarily and naturally from the establishment of Government, and not (as contended by others) from the right of soil.

_______________________

'CASSVILLE', 4th April, 1834.

I have only time to write you, that Judge Hooper has just delivered his opinion from the Bench, and had determined to sustain the Bills of Injunction, which he granted some time ago, and which have been made the subject of discussion here for the las four days. The Judge, although he does not recognize any rights of 'sovereignty,' as belonging to the Cherokees, yet views them in the light of persons subject to our laws, and entitled to the benefit and protection of them-and particularly to the rights of occupancy, to such places as they have improved, and appropriated to their own use; and he considers that no trespass or intrusion upon these rights can be committed against the Indians, and that if any of our people consider themselves aggrieved, they must seek redress through the constituted tribunals of the country, and not by force.

I forbear to make any comments on this proceeding at present, as the whole question will be taken up to the Convention of Judges, where it is to be hoped, it will be settled satisfactorily to the whole country. I believe, however, that Judge Hooper's decision will be approved by all here, with the exceptio of a few avaricious speculators, who would do anything to deprive the Indians of their scanty possessions, regardless of the character of the State, and the plighted faith of the Government, to secure these people in the occupancy of their possessions.

'I send you, herewith, for publication, a copy of the proceedings of a very large State Rights Meeting, held in this place last Monday evening, and although many of the Resolutions refer exclusively to local matters, yet the principles they involve are important,and should be known to the whole country, for the purpose of exposing the wicked and corrupt conduct of Governor Lumpkin, and his lawful adherents in this section of the country.'

Augusta Chronicle.

_____________________

From the Milledgeville Federal Union.

The Cherokee Bills.- By a treaty concluded in eighteen hundred and nineteen, the Cherokees made a cession of territory to the United States, for the use of Georgia; and, by the same treaty, reservations of land, a mile square, out of the ceded lands, were allowed to a large number of the Cherokees, with a condition annexed, that they should reside permanently on these reservations. They were treated among us as citizens, and held various civil and military offices under the state government.- Some of them drew lots of land, in the land lotteries of the state, having entered their names for draws under the oath prescribed, that they were citizens of the United States, residing within the organized limits of the state. They afterwards sold these reservations for large sums of money; and they again acquired residence in the tribe, and occupied and improved valuable bodies of land, in the territory not ceded. The last legislature, believing that these individuals had received a full equivalent for their claim to a portion of the lands held in common by the tribe, determined that they should not be permitted to retain any part of these lands, and that the grants for the lands which they occupy, should issue to the drawers. In some instances, the drawers, or persons claiming under them, had gotten possession of the lands claimed by these reservees; in others, they apprehend that they will be turned out of possession by the drawers or their vendees, with the aid of the agent of the State. To prevent this course and to restore to them the lands of which they had been dispossessed, and to quiet them in their possession, they filed the bills which have been referred to.

In these bills, they allege, that the Cherokee tribe is an independent state, having a right to make laws for its own government; and that they are the exclusive owners of all the territory on which they and their ancestors have resided, and which they have not ceded by treaty. They exhibit, in most contemptuous terms, the claim of Georgia to the sovereignty of the country; they state that their title to the whole of these lands has been guaranteed to them, in various treaties with the United States; and that the laws of Georgia for the government and disposal of this territory, are contrary to these treaties, and therefore void. And they further state, that if the act of eighteen hundred and thirty-three is valid, none of its provisions operate against them. They refuse to admit, in general terms, the jurisdiction of the state courts over them; but they acknowledge it for these particular cases; and they pray that the defendants may be enjoined from disturbing their exclusive possession, and that they may be quieted in the enjoyment of the lands which they claim.

Governor Lumpkin, with his characteristic vigilance and zeal, employed counsel to attend to these cases, not for the purpose of defending individual rights, but to resist the establishment of any principle incompatible with the sovereignty of the State,and her right to make laws for her soil.

The bills had been sanctioned by the Judge, and had been served, with the subpoenas usual in equity-cases; and to the sanction in each case was attached an order of the Judge, citing the defendants to appear before him on a given day, to show cause why injunctions should not issue agreeably to the prayer or the complainants; and commanding them in the meantime to desist from all disturbance, intrusion, or trespass on the lands particularly claimed in the bills. Agreeably to this order, the bills were called at an adjourned term of Cass Superior Court, on Monday, the 31st day of March. General demurrers were filed for the defendants on which ensued a most elaborate argument, which occupied four days.- Judge Hooper, who presided, made no final decision on the demurrers, having determined to refer the cases to the consideration of the Judges in convention. But he stated that the right of Georgia to extend her laws over the Cherokees, and to dispose of the country which they occupied, were questions settled before he went to the bench, and were not to be opened; that he could recognize no Indian claim that was not allowed by the laws of the state; and that he would retain the bills, only so far as they concerned individual rights of Cherokee Indians that were incompatible with these laws. On motion, he ordered those parts of the bills to be stricken out, which affirmed the independence of the Cherokee Nation, and their exclusive right to the soil; those parts which denied the entire sovereignty of Georgia over the Indians and the country; and those parts which maintained that the laws of Georgia, enacted for the government and disposal of the country, were contrary to treaties between the Cherokees and the United States and therefore void. As we understand the present attitude of those bills, the questions which they will present to the convention, are narrowed down to the construction of the act of 1833, ' the operation on the individual cases stated in the bills.

The counsel engaged, were for the complainants, Messrs. Barron, Harden, W. Y. Hansell, Underwood, and Samuel Rockwell; for the individual defendants, Messrs Hargrove, Baldwin, and Shackleford; and for the State, Messrs. O. H. Kenan, and J. A. Cothbert.




      


EXTRAORDINARY STORY- In the years 1675-6, Capt. Samuel Appleton was commissioned to take command of the companies which went scouting up the Connecticut River, with Captains Church, Mosely, 'c., and to unite with Maj. Treal, of Connecticut, in exterminating the Indians from Hadley and Deerfield, the scenes of many a sanguinary conflict. At this time, King Philip, who had been driven from the sea coast and the English settlements, into the interior, retired with many of his followers to the Northfield Indians; and by his influence excited them with a bitter and inveterate hatred towards the whites, and by their sudden excursions kept the surrounding villages in a constant state of alarm, and it was absolutely necessary for them to exercise unwearied watchfulness, for in any unguarded or unprepared moment they were made to feel the unforgiving enmity which actuated them.

Philip assembled a large body of Indians near the falls of Montagne, where he was surprised during the night by Captain Turner.  Many of the Indians were seized with such panic that they fled to their canoes, which they launched in such haste, that they forgot their paddles and were carried over the falls. These falls are now called Turner's Falls. This was the last and most severe blow Philip received before he returned to his native country in Rhode Island where he soon after terminated his life and the war which brought so many calamities upon New England.- It was about this time that the inhabitants of these villages found it necessary for their own defence and security, to concert together, and with unwearied diligence to watch over and protect their families from the wiles and stratagems of their subtle adversaries, and to adopt some mode of communicating with each other, so that if they should be attacked, or their forts invested by a considerable body of Indians, the others could succor them.  About this time a body of one or two hundred Indians, had been for some time prowling about the neighborhood of Squakaheage or Northfield, and the inhabitants of the surrounding villages collected about an equal number together and marched out to meet them and give them battle. They confronted each other upon two sand hills in the south part of the town, now called 'the farms.' The activeness of the Indians secured to them the fatal advantage of the first fire; and the consequence was a greater part of their enemies bit the dust and the rest fled; but the savages shouting with their peculiar cry, the national tocsin of war, pursued, and one by one they fell beneath the tomahawk and the scalping knife, excepting a solitary soldier who continued his flight to the south through the woods. Fear lent him wings, and altho' he did not gain upon his pursuers or they upon him, still hope buoyed him up that he might yet escape among the intricacies of the forest. After running about two miles, he entered a vast hollow, into which the river in certain seasons set back and overflowed it. Just before him lay prostrate across the path a large decayed tree; at one bound he cleared the trunk and instantly disappeared from their astonished sight, and though they searched carefully and diligently for his hiding place, they never beheld him again, but left the spot impressed with a superstitious awe, attributing his disappearance to the agency of evil spirits who they supposed inhabited the place. The commander of the detachment was killed upon a point of eminence called Mount Toby, being a peak of that ridge of mountains which runs parallel for many miles with the eastern shore of the Connecticut River, and a short distance southeast from where the battle commenced. A tall hemlock rears its head far above its fellows near the sequestered spot, and is the only mark to tell the little earthly mound where the unfortunate warrior fell. This place is called Beer's Point, in commemoration of the individual who there perished. The ____ soldier who escaped to relate the consequences, of this melancholy and disastrous defeat, was preserved by a singular fortuitous circumstances, for when he leaped the prostrate tree he found himself snugly secreted, and the leaves of the forest had so completely covered him and his place of refuge, that he defied the sagacity and dexterity of the lynx-eyed Indians to discover him.

The hollow, or rather the cove, was ever after called the Soldiers Cove. It is but a few miles north of Mille's River and on the banks of the Connecticut.




      


From the Frankfort Argus

We publish today the speech of Joseph Barrassa, an Indian student of the Choctaw Academy, of the Pottawatamie tribe. It is published at the instance of a special committee, with the view to show the native talent of his tribe and family; and also as an evidence of the progress of that school and its promising utility.

SPEECH OF

Joseph Barrassa

Oct. the 5th, 1833

Friends, Americans ' Brothers:

This day 20 years ago was the darkest period of your late war with Great Britain.

It was a day as gloomy, if not more so, than witnessed by the Great Washington, in 1776 in the revolutionary times.

Then how highly necessary it is that you should celebrate that dark crisis, in which you saw danger lowering over you, and particularly that in which the blood of your fathers was shed so copiously for your melioration. How extremely thankful ought you to feel in commemorating those then perilous times, which are so closely blended with your present well being; and to think you not only celebrate the past events, but can strike hand with those who fought so bravely and were shrouded in mantles of crimson on the field of battle.

Oh! what emotions must fill the war worn veteran's breast, when he takes a retrospective view of those days which tried man's souls!

I know it must be out of the reach of man's power to restrain those emotions which are produced by calling back those past and bloody scenes, when for their country and posterity they offered themselves as sacrifices.

American friends: can you not feel, can you not think?  Yes, I know you can feel, think, and weep for joy, and thank Heaven you are the happy recipients of all those blessings and privileges which were so dearly bought by your ancestors; and rejoice to have the happiness of joining those old soldiers, though half bent from carrying the knapsack and musket while in the service of their country; and defended by old age, yet can they distinctly hear the soft, sweet, and full voice of a clear conscience saying to them, you have finished your work, and your beloved country is saved.

Ask the hero, who sits before you and he will answer you by pointing to scars and wounds he received whilst in battle, which will speak in a language more affecting than the tears of an affectionate mother, and louder than thunder.

It is productive of great joy to hear those old warriors, and see them in tears, and in a trembling voice interrupted by sobs, encouraging you, the young and rising generation, to celebrate those events in which your greatest and bravest men have distinguished and immortalized themselves.

We find as far as history can carry us back, that such celebrations were held in the highest repute, by the various nations of the earth. I have the sole confidence in saying no one will in the least degree doubt, but your country has and does afford the worthiest subjects of praise ever produced by any other country in the world; and highly worthy of the warmest eulogies of your orators.

Be assured these celebrations have an unperceived tendency to keep up a military spirit, which is the very palladium of your government.

Some exclaim to all around them, in the voice of a watchman, be careful, do not trust these old soldiers!-if you do, you shall find yourselves before day on your beds swimming in seas of blood! Ask those who thus, through cowardice and ignorance, have said the same of the now administration, if they prefer any other man for their ruler? They will unanimously answer, by the language of silence which will speak stronger than an approaching earthquake, give us just such a man for our governor. For what an absurdity it is to say, he that never felt pain, knows what it is. For we find by the gone histories that the military chieftain is the most affectionate being on earth; he alone can feel the forlorn case of the orphan, and wants of the poor widow, and he alone can sympathize with the _____crepid soldier, who looks to his government for support and maintenance. But the man of ease and pleasure, as soon as he can grasp the silvery reins of government, becomes haughty and unmerciful, forgetting all but himself and the opulent.

I say to those who cried against the now President, to hold their peace till they see the above described man get into office, before they shall cry then to give alarm in a voice louder than a thousand claps of thunder.

Let it be recollected that the Washington like soldier is the only true parent of our rights and privileges, and it good policy for governments to pay due regard to war like persons. Be assured unless you give honor to our brave sons and observe these celebrations, the pride of the nation will inevitably be lost forever, and you, like many of the ancient powers, while your men of ease cry peace at your door, fall into the merciless of your enemies.

Let me for a moment cite you to the conduct of young Paris, who, for want of employment, strolls over to the court of Menelaus, a certain Greek prince, whose beautiful wife, the black eyed queen of love, young Paris corrupts and carries off, and what ensues? A war of 10 years with the Trojans; the young coxcomb Paris, his father, his brothers and myriads of his wretched subjects fell, were slaughtered and butchered and Troy, the finest city of Asia, was reduced to ashes. Search into the cause of this destruction, and to the shame of Paris, you will find it is idleness, and inattention to military men.

Yes, Americans; give praise to whom praise is due, or else you, like ancient Thebes, may fall a pitiful victim to your cruel foes.  See the grandeur ' splendor of this city with its 1000 gates, daily charmed by Bachus' trains of music, forgot military valor and soon, too soon, found itself struggling in its enemies's chains of slavery and misery.

It is useless to make any more repetitious of like examples, for they exist without number.

Then I say Hurrah for America soldiers, the true and deadly riflemen of Kentucky. Praise them with the rest of your braves and discard all those who hate all your undaunted warriors.

Kentucky friends: you should be proud to think that you had to encounter the most mighty and unnatural foe, that ever met a civilized and regular army on the field of battle, and like David of old, struck the Goliath of the West and brought him to the ground. Ask the heroes of New England and particularly Col. Chinck, and he will, with the rest of his men, tell you that Philip, the great mount hope Sachem, the king of a powerful and warlike tribe of Indians in Rhode Island in 1674, with his host, was mighty.

Ask Braddock, the proud and haughty General, who refused the counsel of pride, the brave Washington and with a face of burning shame and confusion, he will mutter, that the Indians were too unnatural fighters for him or any other Eastern General.

Philip was a great warrior indeed; but he was a mere secondary planet to Tecumseh, the Chief of Chiefs.

Think of the period in which the one flourished, and then the other; and you will see the contrast.

The blaze of honor, of the former, will be, to that of the latter, as to the moon's feeble light to the king of day's resplendent brightness.

Philip fought in an age when the Indian was great, numerous and powerful; having never met or seen his equal, he fought with unrelenting bravery, choosing no other terms but victory or death. The white man was then little and weak, strangers in a strange land, unacquainted with the savages warfare.

Philip, whenever disposed to wash his unfeeling hands in blood, had only to ascend to Beaconhill, (from which hill's blue head he could survey the white man's limited territory) and sit on its top, and swell his voice in utterance of his invariably obeyed mandate of war and instantaneously spring forth his blood thirsty warriors. Saluting his majesty as he sat on his natural throne, with the most appalling and nerve-killing whoops, that none so fearful were ever heard by the worshippers of the God of folly.

Yes, he drank the blood of his white foes when they were asleep, and butchered them before they were awake. It was as difficult for the white man to follow Philip's men in their swamps of retreat as it would be for the stiff Alligator, to tread the meandering path of the hare.

Tecumseh, had to call his men from the North and South poles of North America, but notwithstanding these apparently insurmountable obstacles, was heard, his harsh, coarse, and jupiter like voice, echoing from valley to valley and from the source of the Mississippi to its mouth, instilling in the flinty breast of his warriors, the keenest and fiercest war-like spirit, and attaching as inexpressible horror to all the inhuman and barbarous acts of the savage warfare of his red brethren.

Tecumseh was the essence of that dark and blood threatening cloud, which brooded over your northwestern frontier; but happy for you was the day when the dispelling sun arose in his might, and before his intense brightness and heat fled that death portending cloud, like a shooting star in the cells of Pluto.

You see Philip warred with the whites at sun rise, Tecumseh at noon in the brightest part of the day, and it was left by the Unseen Hand, for our own Black Hawk (old Tecumseh) at the battle of the Thames, to set the sun of war forever.

Oh! Americans, what country is there on the whole face of the globe, that can compare with yours? or what one can produce such heroes, Statesmen, and Philosophers? None?

All the nations fear you, and tremble at hearing the voice of your heroes. True, once you were so weak, the British officers thought and said they could march through all America, with five regiments; but now you hesitate not a moment to dare and defy 5 times the force of the Isles of Great Britain.

Search the histories of all nations and in which will you find such exploits and achievements as in yours, and in which you will find an equal to your Washington?

I confess that Leonidas, with his 300 braves, dared the force of half the world; but Washington dared the force of the whole world with his 300 beardless boys at Fort Necessity.

Alone of Washington it can be said, that his habitation is the universe, his memory eternity; that he alone is the good like man and truly the father of his country. Of him alone can it be said, that liberty unsheathed his sword, necessity stained, and victory returned it to its scabbard.

True Alexander wept for more worlds to conquer; but your Washington, and many others of your heroes lamented only that they had but one life to spend in the service of their country.

Other nations pride themselves in comparing their heroes to the sun, moon and stars, elevated objects; but you can justly compare your Washington to Joshua of the ancients, a man, but a godly man, whom sun and moon, and stars obeyed.

You see it is not the Britannic General leading his  numerous and well trained and regular army that can drive the savage foe?  No. But you see them fall like the leaves of the forest in autumn by the Indian Tomahawk.

But look here, ye' British Generals! and see a Kentucky band led by their young and gallant hero. They alone can drive the Indians under the brave and daring Tecumseh, and prove to them as fatal as the serpent did to the ancients, in the days of Moses.

With equal propriety it can be said of the hero of the Thames, as it was of Caesar, 'he came, he saw, he conquered.'

Yes Americans, and friends; at the wave of the swords of your heroes, the British king's throne tottered to its center, and at the voice of your statesmen the British lion's mouth was hushed. Yes! the very heavens yield to your philosophers; and Demosthenes and Cicero, blush to hear the superior eloquence of your orators.

In a word, you are as a nation the pride of the gods of war, the model of bravery, honor, fame, and true patriotism. You are the sun of the political world; around your all other nations, like subordinate planets, revolve and receive their light.

Then, Americans, and friends, be proud of your national character, your military genius and spirit,and forget not your heroes, statesmen, and philosophers; for they are the watchmen of your liberties, government and country.

Then be assured that whilst the actions and achievements of your armies are celebrated, there is no danger of your falling into the envious or jealous hands of the nations of the globe.- Be assured when these commemorations shall become general in these United States and the strength of your arms are feared, then shall the speeches of your orators be the theme of succeeding generations and the records of your historians be read with admiration by unborn myriads. Whenever the foresight of your statesmen is perceived, then shall American bards strike their will tuned harps in praise of your heroes, Washington, Lee, Green, Gates, Montgomery, Jackson, and others, and then shall your natal soil be indeed dear to you, for it shall have been not only drenched with the rich blood of your forefathers, but hallowed also by the soul cheering song of your unparalleled poets.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 3, 1834

In our remarks of the tendency of the documents emanating from the President, in the second paragraph and 10th line, after the word secret, read intentions, instead of instructions.

In our reference to the letter from Washington City, the deception which was contained in it, we wish to be understood, as not so intended by the writer himself, but by the President of the United States.

_________________

Col. Sanford, President of the Bank at Columbus, Georgia, has announced with much chagrin, the failure of the Bank. He attributes the cause of this, to a combination, who made a run upon it, in order to destroy the institution. We would here remark, that the Col. should have charged the Georgia Guard against the holders of the paper, put them in chains, in the same manner that he treated the Cherokees, and our word for it, HE would have saved the GOLD. We believe the Georgia banks are in the same condition as the character of the State.

___________________

On the 12th inst. none of the mails for this place arrived, on account, it is said, of high waters. This may be a good plea amongst white men, but as Indians were employed to transport the mail it would cease to exist. On the 20th, Uncle Sam brought very near a triple mail; Poulson's America Daily Advertiser, are in piles in our office, New York papers in quantities awaiting on us at this time, but they lie undisturbed with the dry deposit  question. The papers from the lottery State, likewise, arrived due us for three weeks. On the 27th, (yesterday) the Tennessee mail brought us four dry Jackson papers, and the post office, we mean the beautiful reformed department, sent no mail from Georgia, which brings all our southern, eastern, north, and northwestern papers.  News travels slow since the reformation.

_________________

THE PRESIDENT AND HIS TREATIES.

It is known to our readers that a tract of land equal to twelve miles square was reserved in Alabama by the treaty of 1819, as also some others in Tennessee, which was to be sold by the President of the United States as the public lands are, and the proceeds to be vested in some profitable stock, and the interest accruing there from was to be applied by the President to the education of the Cherokees east of the Mississippi. That part of the treaty however, remained dormant for fourteen years; when a part of the lands were sold last year for the sum of $45,000.00 and the fund vested accordingly.  We were somewhat startled at the fact, rather than the fulfillment of our expectations, at measures taken by the President to carry the provisions of this treaty partially into effect. At the instance of some Cherokees who have enrolled for emigration, (perhaps kissing goes by favors,) the President has engaged to educate six Cherokee boys of these emigrants, so we are informed, at the expense of this fund of the nation, at the Choctaw Academy in Kentucky.  Six of these boys were selected and clothed at the Agency, under the superintendence of the enrolling agents.

Orders were likewise given by the Secretary of War, to Col. Montgomery, to notify those who were opposed to emigration to select six more; for the purpose as stated of the others. Five boys have been selected accordingly, and with no little dissatisfaction to the Cherokees, at the measures adopted to disburse the money of the Cherokees, out of the Nation, the two party scholars as we presume the President intend to have them, left the nation on the 20th inst. for the Academy.

____________________

Extract of a letter from a gentleman of Cambridge, New York, to the editor, dated

'March 28th, 1834.

'Let me say Dear Sir, with all our discouragements-They that hold on their way, shall be as Mount Zion, which can never be moved; how precious are the promises of the Scriptures, 'Commit thy way unto the Lord, trusting in him, and he will bring it to pass' and will it be in the best way, and in the best time, since it is the Lord, who is on the Throne executing justice and judgement in the earth-and though he tarry long, he will surely come and revenge his own elect 'c.'






      


INDIANS.

From the National Banner.

The Creek Controversy- From the correspondence between Gov. Gayle of Alabama, and the Secretary of War, published by direction of the Governor in the Tuscaloosa Flag of the Union, of the 25th ultimo, it appears that the Creek controversy, as it has been called, may be considered as adjusted to the satisfaction of all parties. We have only room for the insertion of the following letter of Mr. Secretary Cass, it being the last letter of the correspondence:

Department of War.

March 12, 1834.

Sir:- I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 22d ultimo, and have submitted it to the President.

In answer, I beg leave to inform you that the additional troops, ordered last season into the state of Alabama have been withdrawn and nothing but the ordinary garrison at Fort Mitchel will remain in the Creek Country.

The President has read with great pleasure, the act of the Legislature of Alabama, which you have transmitted-and he will be much gratified if the enforcement of the stipulations of the Creek Treaty shall render it unnecessary for him to resort to the provisions of the act of 1807, which he has not the slightest wish to do, unless required by the obligations assumed by the United States in that treaty.

Very respectfully,

Your most ob't, serv't

LEWIS CASS

His Excellency John Gayle, Governor of Alabama.

__________________

The Chickasaws- The following is an extract of a letter to the Editor of this paper, from a highly respectable gentleman, formerly of this State.- The facts stated in relation to the movements and wishes of the Indians are interesting; but the description of the country, brief as it is, will be read with most interest by those of our up-country citizens, who are desirous of procuring cotton plantations in Mississippi. The writer speaks from actual personal observation. His letter is dated:

Pontotoc, Chickasaw Nation, March 18, 1834.

Dear Sir:- Being a native of Tennessee, I feel a deep solicitude in the political era and change which is just about to dawn upon that State. You will, therefore please forward me your paper, commencing with the first number published in the present month.

The great National Council of the Chickasaws is just over, and the Delegation sets out today for Washington, for the purpose of endeavoring as it is understood, to affect and alteration in the treaty as it regards the manner of taking reservations. They now wish to take them in fee simple. My opinion is, however, that the treaty will stand as first made.

The surveying is progressing very rapidly, and I have but little doubt at this time, that about one hundred townships will be ready for sale as early as October next. A considerable part of this country is beautiful and delightful; the soil is fine, and the water good. There are already a great many respectable settlers here, and as soon as the lands are sold, I am sure the population will soon become dense.

Ib.

_________________________

MISSION TO THE FLAT HEAD INDIANS.

In a letter from Mr. Lee, one of the Methodist Missionaries to the Flat-Head Indians, published in the Christian Advocate and Journal, he thus speaks of his prospects: -Southern Religions Telegraph.,

'We have made arrangements to cross the mountains with Capt. W. whose company will consist of about fifty. He expects to leave Liberty (which is about one hundred miles above St. Louis) in April. From St. Louis to the Flat Head Country are about one thousand five hundred miles.  This journey is to be performed on horseback at the rate say twenty miles per day. And when this journey, from the shores of the Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific is accomplished, the most laborious part of our work is yet before us. It will still remain for us to transport ourselves nine hundred miles up the river to the place of destination.

'Our dependence for subsistence is almost exclusively upon the rifle, as it is impossible to carry provisions for such a journey on horseback.'

Most emphatically should his closing request sound in our ears, 'Brethren pray for us.'




      


MISSION TO THE FLAT HEAD INDIANS.

In a letter from Mr. Lee, one of the Methodist Missionaries to the Flat-Head Indians, published in the Christian Advocate and Journal, he thus speaks of his prospects:- Southern Religions Telegraph.

'We have made arrangements to cross the mountains with Capt. W. whose company will consist of about fifty. He expects to leave Liberty (which is about one hundred miles above St. Louis in April.  From St. Louis to the Flat Head country are about one thousand five hundred miles; This Journey is to be performed on horseback at the rate, say twenty miles per day. And when the journey, from the shores of the Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific, is accomplished, the most laborious part of our work is yet before us. It will still remain for us to transport ourselves nine hundred miles up the river to the place of destination.

'Our dependence for subsistence is almost exclusively upon the rifle, as it is impossible to carry provisions for such a journey on horseback.'

Most emphatically should his closing request sound in our ears, 'Brethren pray for us.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 6, (SIC) 1834

In our columns will be found the usual forms of Injunctions to restrain persons from committing waste on premises which a person might legally be in possession of. Since the passage of the last Georgia law to deprive them of their improvements, the Cherokees have been compelled to resort to this mode under the Georgia laws, however humiliating it may be to seek redress from an authority having no constitutional right over the Cherokee country, like James Riley, taking fare of the Arabs, or otherwise starve to death, individuals have been compelled to this last and wretched alternative to retain possession of their inheritance left them by their fathers and test the question involved in the bill, before a tribunal forced upon them, speaking a language unknown to the Cherokees at large, and ordained by a power possessing a feeling to them, as the lion feels towards the lamb. Numerous writs of this description have been awarded to the Indians and after expunging the passages asserting the sovereignty of the Cherokees and others conflicting with that of Georgia; Judge Hooper has decided to sustain them until the convention of Judges in Milledgeville shall have given their construction to the late law of Georgia, which gave rise to these cases. We always had thought that Judge Hooper possessed more independence, than to have evaded settling the validity or not of the barbarous law of 1833.

_____________________

We are happy to inform our readers that the operations for enrolling the Cherokees, have been suspended for the present, by the President. It is said the Agents are, according to the military term, on furlough for three months.  Every year the screws are turned on the Cherokees, and as often, a treaty proposed, and oftener rejected.  At this time the President has Agents from the Nation of his own choice at the White House, where the pleasing outlines of a treaty may be fixed, but will the GREAT SEAL of the United States shine upon it west of the Mississippi? We humbly hope yet that providence will impart some scheme by which to avert the removal to that country of which the Cherokees are so much opposed.

__________________

We stated sometime since the loss of the Principal Chief to his residence at Coosa. We have information that the party who had taken the place had left it on account of the dispute arising therefrom. A Mr. Hemphill became vendee of the place, and retained the ferry only, until last week, when Mr. Mulkey in Ross behalf retook this valuable ferry, but at the peril of his life. The Georgia Sheriff made an attempt afterwards as we are informed for Hemphill, to take the ferry again, and with his gun struck Mulkey across the head which has nearly terminated his life, but still retains possession for the Chief.

___________________________




      


GEORGIA-MURRAY COUNTY:

To the Honorable JOHN W. HOOPER, Judge of the Superior Courts for the Cherokee Circuit of said State.

Humbly complaining, sheweth unto your Honor, your Orators,___________ That they are natives of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, east of the river Mississippi, and reside in the said nation, having all the privileges and rights of individual citizens of the said nation; that from time immemorial, the Cherokee Nation have composed an independent State; and in this character they have been repeatedly recognized by the United States, in the various treaties subsisting between their nation and the United States.

That long before the approach of the white men of Europe to the Western Continent, the Cherokee Nation, and the ancestors of your orators who composed a part thereof, were the occupants and owners of the territory on which they then resided, and where your orators now reside, deriving their title from the Great Spirit, who is the common father of the human family, and to whom the earth belongs; that on this territory they and their ancestors have ever been occupants, and until lately the exclusive occupants, and as they charge are now of right the exclusive owners, and should of right be governed by their own laws, usages and customs, and none other; but in as much as the courts of Georgia assume jurisdiction over the Indians, your orators now by protestation neither admitting nor denying that jurisdiction as a general abstract question, but admitting it for all the purposes of this bill, charging that if they are either rightfully or otherwise subjected to such jurisdiction they have a right to its protection so long as the same continues to be exercised over their country and them.- Your orators have been informed and believe, that in the year 1732, the then King of Great Britain, under the name and style of George II, King of Great Britain and Ireland, by a charter to a company of his own subjects there residing, affected to grant to them all the country on this continent lying between the Savannah and Altamaha Rivers; that this country was at the time inhabited by several sovereign and independent nations of Indians, amongst other by the Cherokee Nation, who were the rightful owners thereof, and that the monarch who affected to grant it had no title to it whatever. There complainants are informed and believe, that the only title to which he pretended was derived from the circumstance that a ship, manned by his subjects, had about two centuries and a half before, sailed along the coast of the Western hemisphere, from the fifty-sixth to the thirty-eighth degree of north latitude, and looked upon the face of the coast without ever landing upon any part of it.

This they are informed and believe has been called a title of first discovery, which is not true even in point of fact, as against the Cherokee Nation and other Indians, for they had discovered and occupied it long before. That whatever may be the theory of this title by discovery, as among the European sovereigns themselves, these complainants are informed and believe it was never alleged by the King of Great Britain or any of his grantees, that the charter give to them any right to disturb the Indian occupants. That various treaties have been made between the British Colony in Georgia, between the State of Georgia, before her confederation with the other States, afterwards between the confederated States, and finally between the United States, under the present Constitution, and the Cherokee Nation; in all of which the rights of the Indians to the occupancy of the country, and the lands on which they reside, have been recognized.- These complainants pray leave to refer to the following treaties between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, as part of this their bill of complaint, as published with the laws of the United States and forming according to the Constitution of the United States a part of the supreme law of the land, to wit: the treaty concluded at Hopewell, on the 28th of November, 1785, between the commissioners of the United States, and the head men and warriors of all the Cherokees; the treaty concluded on the banks of the Holston, on the 22d day of July, 1794, between the President of the United States, by his duly authorized commissioner, William Blount, and the Chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, together with the additional article thereto made at Philadelphia, on the 17th of February, 1792; the treaty at Philadelphia on the 26th of June, 1794; the Treaty of Tellico, made on the 2d of October, 1798, between the United States and the Cherokee Nation; the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 25th October, 1805; the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 24th of October, 1804; the treaty between the same parties at the same place, on the 27th October, 1805; and the treaty between the same parties made at the City of Washington, on the 7th day of January, 1806, together with the proclamation of that Convention by the President of the United States, of the 11th of September, 1807; the treaty of Washington on the 22d of March, 1816; the treaty at the Chickasaw Council House, made on the 14th September, 1816; the treaty at the Cherokee agency, on the 8th of July 1817; the treaty at the City of Washington on the 27th of February, 1819. All which treaties and conventions were duly ratified and confirmed by the Senate of the United States, and become thenceforth and still are, a part of the supreme law of the land.

That by these treaties, the right of the Cherokees to the occupancy of their lands within their prescribed boundaries, is so clearly recognized that these complainants cannot conceive a doubt can exist.

These complainants have understood that some have indulged in speculative objections to their title to the whole lands of the entire country thus claimed by the Cherokee Nation, on the ground that they are mere savages, roaming over the surface of the earth in search of game.  Even if this hypothesis were true, how such an objection could stand with those solemn treaties by which their boundaries have been designated, and their lands within those boundaries guaranteed to them, they do not comprehend; nor have they yet been informed how it has been ascertained that this earth was intended only for the purposes of agriculture, and that no title could be acquired to any portion of it in any other manner than by digging into its bowels; nor how digging and plowing into one part of it can give a title to hundreds and thousands of miles at a distance from that part so dug into or plowed.- They are still more confounded in attempting to reconcile this theory of a title derivable only from the cultivation of detached portions of a country, with the alleged title by discovery, arising simply from sailing along the coast of several miles distance from the shore.  They are equally perplexed in reconciling this theory, with the title which the United States themselves set up, to the untouched millions of acres which lie between their settlements and the Pacific Ocean, which their people have never even chased their game, nor seen them from the distant mountain tops.

But whatever foundation there may be for this theory, these complainants charge that they are neither savages nor hunters, but agriculturalists; and they charge further, that they are occupants of a certain portion of land which they and their ancestors have actually enclosed and improved, and that no politician or jurist have ever heretofore doubted the right of the native Indians to the undisturbed possession of their fields and houses; but that all the decisions of the courts both of the State of Georgia and the United States, have at least agreed, and been uniform in so holding; and that no State could, by any constitutional enactment, deprive them of such right; but that the same is secured to them by their several treaties, and by the laws of the United States; to which they pray leave to refer as part of this their bill of complaint.

These complainants show unto your Honor, that notwithstanding the said treaties and laws of Congress, and notwithstanding the uniform decision of all the tribunals of the country,as aforesaid, and notwithstanding these complaints, undoubted right of peaceable, and exclusive possession and right of occupancy to their said farms and houses, one___________ claiming under one_________ have entered upon and taken possession of a piece of land in said county, known and distinguished as lot No. 23, in the 14th District, of the 3rd Section, of formerly Cherokee, now Murray County, and have committed, and are daily committing trespass thereon; under some pretended authority, pretended to be derived from and by virtue of a statute of the State of Georgia, one of the United States of America, passed at a session  of her Legislature, held in December in the year 1833, entitled 'An act more effectually to provide for the government and protection of the Cherokee Indians, residing within the limits of Georgia, and to prescribe the bounds of their occupant claims, and also to authorize grants to issue for lots drawn on the late Land and Gold Lotteries, in certain cases, and to provide for the appointment of an agent to carry certain parts thereof into execution.'

These complainants aver, that so far as this statute of Georgia attempts to give right to dispossess, or interfere with the possession of these complainants, and all other statutes of said State which attempt such object, they are null and void, because they are repugnant to the aforesaid treaties, which are yet subsisting and in full force between the United States and the Cherokee Nation; and because they are also repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, by which, among other things, it is provided that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts; and these complainants aver that all the treaties aforesaid, are contracts of the highest character, and of the most solemn obligation. And it is further provided in the Constitution aforesaid, that all the treaties made, or to be made under the authority of the United States, compose a part of the supreme law of the land,and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or Laws of any State, to the contrary notwithstanding.  And these complainants further aver, that the statute as aforesaid of the State of Georgia, is contrary to the Constitution of said State, which give exclusive and final jurisdiction to the Superior Courts of said State, in all cases concerning the titles of land, and also that the trial by jury shall remain inviolate.

These complainants bring before your Honor, a question of property, ' of personal as well as national rights, for the        ascertainment and decision of this honorable Court, dependant on the construction of these treaties, and the Constitution of the United States, which have been declared to be the supreme law of the land, as well as on the Constitution of Georgia-they allege that the above recited statute of Georgia has been passed in violation of these treaties and constitutions,and are utterly repugnant to all the judicial decisions and opinions heretofore expressed and entertained; and also contrary to every principle of equity and good faith, and having no other object in view but to expel these complainants from their houses and farms; and this was distinctly avowed in the House of Representatives by one of the members of the Georgia Legislature, who declared it was necessary to enact rigorous laws for the purpose of compelling the Indians to leave the country; and this declaration was made by a member of the legislature, who had been, as these defendants are advised and believe, heard to say that the laws passed at the former sessions of the legislature of said State, and which extended the jurisdiction into the Indian country were unconstitutional ' void, or words to that import and who had advised the Cherokees to oppose them by an appeal to the courts of the United States, and with every assurance to them that they were unconstitutional and ought to be set aside, and which could not be carried into effect; consistently with the Constitution of the United States. This fact constrains these complainants to believe that in the enactments of this oppressive act of the last legislature every principle of constitutional propriety was set at nought and disregarded as well as every principle of justice, equity,and humanity, which commands to do to others as we would have them do to us; and a law enacted in open violation thereof, by which the property and rights of these complainants have been wrongfully invaded, and are still threatened with irremediable invasion and final destruction.

And these complainants further charge that should the said law be considered as having full force and effect, that the premises occupied by these complainants are not such as the said law can operate upon because they say, your orators,_________ and _______ are natives, and entitled to all the privileges of natives of the Cherokee Nation; amongst which privileges the right to occupancy of lands in the Cherokee Nation is one which has not been taken from them, even by the unjust, oppressive, and unconstitutional statute of Georgia, above cited, allowing all its provisions to have full force and effect; which, however, they by no means admit, and that their right of occupancy extends to and includes the premises above described, jointly, the said ___________ and ___________ who are joint complainants. And these complainants well hoped that the said _______ would have desisted from all further trespass and intrusion upon the rightful occupancy of these complainants in the premises, as in justice and equity they ought to have done.

But now so it is, may it please you Honor, the said _______ combining and confederating with divers other persons, at present unknown to these complainants, but whose names when discovered, they pray may be herein inserted, with proper and apt words to charge them, and they made parties to the bill, how to defraud these complainants in this behalf, have not desisted, nor will, unless restrained by your Honor. In tender consideration, whereof, and inasmuch as these complainants are wholly remediless in the premises, except by the interference of this honorable Court.

To the end, therefore, that the said confederates may, upon their several ' respective corporal oaths, full, true, and perfect answers make, to all and singular the premises, as fully as if the same were again repeated, and they thereto particularly interrogated; and that the said confederates may be enjoined from any manner of trespass in the premises, and from all disturbance of the peaceful, exclusive, and uninterrupted enjoyment thereof by these complainants; and that these complainants may be quieted in the peaceable enjoyment thereof, and that they may have such other and further relief as this honorable court may deem consistent with equity and good conscience, and as the nature of their cases may require.- May it please your Honor to grant to our complainants the State's most gracious writs of Subpoena and Injunction, commanding and enjoining the said ________ under certain penalties to be therein inserted, and at a day to be therein named, to appear before our Honor, to answer to these complainants, as in duty bound will ever pray, 'c.

WILLIAM H. UNDERWOOD. ' EDWARD HARDEN, Solicitors pro Complainants.

GEORGIA- Murray County;

Personally came before me _______ who after being sworn, saith that the matters and things contained in the foregoing bill, so far as they concern his own acts, or come within his own knowledge, are just and true, and so far as they concern the acts or come within the knowledge of others, he believes them to be true.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this____ day of___1834.






      


INDIANS

From the Missionary Herald.

WESTERN CHOCTAWS

Extracts from a letter of Mr. Williams, dated January 1st, 18343

Sickness among the People.

At p. 24 some account was given respecting the distressing sickness that prevailed among the Choctaws and in the mission families during the last fall. Some further statements are here added, showing the trials to which the mission families are subjected in prosecuting their work, and the need they have of the prayers and sympathies of their Christian brethren and sisters.

The sickly season just passed has been one of great distress to the poor Choctaws, and others in this country. Sickness commenced early in July in some places, and continued to increase, though it did not become general, until about the 20th of September. A great rain, just before that time, caused an uncommon overflow of the streams, which was succeeded by very warm weather. The change in the atmosphere was such, that almost the whole population was soon prostrated. Bilious remittent and intermittent fevers prevailed. Of those who reside immediately on the large streams, not more than one in twenty escaped the fever; and of the whole population, only about one in fifteen. A small proportion of cases terminated fatally;-as nearly as I can calculate, one fifteen part. Many, very many lingered in distress three and four months; and some even five months, with but little intermission. I never witnessed such a time.

Myself and family suffered more than for fifteen years previous, so that we were unable to render much assistance to our sick neighbors. Indeed we were very destitute of medicine either for ourselves or others, as our supply from Boston did not reach us in season.- Our beloved brethren and sisters at the other stations, and their people, have also suffered exceedingly.

Our meetings were for a time necessarily suspended, and our schools closed. Almost all business was completely stagnated. The poorer and more ignorant classes resorted by scores, and even by hundreds, to the houses of their doctors, so called, where they lay round about, in some instances for weeks, exposed too often to the burning sun, the midnight air, and drenching rains. Among the deceased, I have to record nine of the dear flock which the Great Shepherd had committed to my care; concerning all of whom, we are permitted to hope they are now at rest where the inhabitants shall not say, I am sick, ' there shall be no more pain. It was said by many that the sickness, which prevailed the first season among the emigrants, was owing to the change of the climate, and would be limited to one summer. But there has, in fact, been little or no difference this season between the former and the latter emigrants.

Under date of December 27, 1833, Mr. Hotchkin, who resides about 20 miles from Mr. Williams, remarks:

The Choctaws, as well as all others, have suffered extremely the past season from sickness. So much sickness has not been known since the country was first settled by the whites. In this neighborhood, which embraces 400 or 500 souls, but a single child is left under a year old. On Little River the mortality has been greater among adults. The Lord in his holy pleasure has laid his rod among us.  Some of us have been sick since the first of July. I hope he will accomplish in us all that he intends by these afflictions and make us like the gold that is seven times tried.

Mr. Williams proceeds to notice the

State of feeling among the People

It was hoped that these chastisements of their heavenly Father would have a salutary influence upon those who have been taught that 'afflictions come not of the dust, neither do troubles spring out of the ground; but it is to true, that even believers have in many instances, become lukewarm, and comparatively lifeless. Some indeed have exposed themselves to church censure. They had been much longer than usual without the public means of grace, and a kind of mental stupor has accompanied the languor and debility of their bodies.

We have not been able to have a communion season since the middle of June, until about three weeks ago.- On the 6th December, we commenced a sacramental meeting at the meeting house near this place which closed on the 9th. I was assisted by the Rev. Mr. Orr of the Methodist connection and by brother Wright from Wheelock, so that we were enabled to have considerable preaching. On the Sabbath there were probably 400 persons present, though some were still sick, and two at least were brought on their beds. Six adults were added to our church on this occasion; five of whom had been members of the Mayhew church, and the sixth was a new convert. During the administration of the ordinances a deep solemnity pervaded the assembly; and in the evening after two discourses, nine came forward, apparently with deep feeling, to converse, respecting the salvation of their souls. We were refreshed with some drops, which we fondly hoped bespoke a plentiful shower of grace. As yet, however, we mourn its absence.

Schools

The schools which were closed on account of sickness are still vacant, with one exception. Miss Clough has taken the native school on the east of the river, about mile and a half distant. We have built her a small cabin near the school house which she occupies and board herself. The other schools west of us have been delayed on account of inability on the part of the people to finish the school houses, so as to make them comfortable for winter.  They will probably both be in operation by the middle of this month. We had hoped to have had the society and labors of our late brother, Josyln in the English school in this neighborhood but God has ordered it otherwise, by calling him from his service on earth, to the employments and felicity of the heavenly state, just as he was about to re-commence his labors among the Choctaws.




      


DOMESTIC

From the New York American

THE DEATH-BED OF WILLIAM WIRT

The Richmond Compiler of the 17th inst. contains the affecting account of the last illness of Mr. Wirt written by a gentleman who attended him during that illness. We proceed to extract the principal part of it.

'On the evening of Saturday, the 8th instant, was in playful spirits, and sanguine of the success of an argument which he was to make in Court on Monday. He felt better satisfied with his preparation, he said than with any he had made for years before. On Sunday, he walked to the Capitol to Church-it was a damp chilly day, and Representatives Hall was crowded and warm. To go immediately from it into the cold,damp air, and walk slowly, as he did, a mile to his lodgings, might have been deemed imprudent in one whose health was less precarious than his then seemed.'

'The night he complained of a slight indisposition, and in the family worship of the evening, prayed with an unusual favor, and seemingly a foreboding spirit, which he communicated not save to his God. But even this was sufficient to excite vague apprehensions in a family always ready to note and to dwell upon whatsoever might seem to bode danger or safety to a friend so dear.'

On Monday he was confined to his room; no serious apprehensions were entertained, but a physician was called in-it was only a cold. On Tuesday he was worse, but we feared not the result. He complained of stiffness of the muscles of the throat and swelling of the glands-milk poultices were applied to his face, but they gave no relief.  On Wednesday he was much worse, so much as to excite alarm; on the evening of this day, it was first discovered that the disease was Erysipelas, 'a new enemy' of which Mr. Wirt then expressed his fears.- 'It was not the foe with which he had been so long accustomed to contend.'

His constitution was too weak, as the physicians apprehended, to stand the vigorous treatment which would have been most efficient in destroying the disease. By Friday, the alarm had become very serious-the door was crowded by anxious inquiring friends, and those who met in the street asked from each other the latest intelligence. The affliction of the family was extreme, but still there was hope. On Saturday, his daughter and son-in-law arrived from Baltimore, and were shocked to find the case so much worse than their worse fears.

Scarcely a glimmer of hope was left to us, but this feeble ray was most anxiously watched and cherished.- When over shadowed by so deep a gloom, the least of the twinkling stars in the firmament is more precious to our sight than is the sun itself in the noontide of an unclouded day.

Death, from the first day of his illness, had continued to approach with a steady pace, and in a form more than usually hideous.  The fine countenance so bright with intellect, so beaming with benevolence, was sadly altered by the disease partly, and partly by remedies so fruitlessly applied. The eyes had lost their speculation-the eloquent voice was hushed-the divinity had departed from the temple, and its walls were defaced but life still lingered, loath to abandon a habitation which had so long given to a thing in itself so little desirable and so worthless, beauty, purity and worth.

The attending physicians were Doctors Hunt and Hall; none could have been more anxiously attentive; the latter stayed by him every night of the last four or five.

About noon on Monday, consciousness returned and he had power to speak a few words. Nature had made a last effort to permit him to take leave of his family and friends, to give assurance that he died in Christian hope,and to join them in prayer to his God. The Rev. Mr Post officiated. In so much of the prayer as related to his family and his own acceptance with Heaven, he seemed heartily to join but when a petition was offered that he might be restored to health, he audibly dissented-'No, no!' He had done and suffered enough in this contentious world, and was entitled to a release,and the transfer to a higher existence which the just and are authorized to expect.

It was now become manifest, even to the most sanguine, that recovery was beyond the remotest probability. He was too shining a mark for death longer to miss.  All that was left to us was to smooth his passage to the tomb-to moisten his dry parched lips and tongue,and perform such little offices of affections might sooth his hard sufferings.

During the last eighteen hours he was tranquil as a child. Breathing and warmth were the only evidences of life-no motion,no pain, no consciousness-there lay the wreck of WILLIAM WIRT.

Three friends besides the clergyman attended his bedside during the night, his family, too worn as they were by nearly a week's watching, could not be induced to take repose. Anguish and affection gave them strength to bear what would have exhausted the strongest men. It was a night long to be remembered-a night of silent, despairing sorrow, which conveys to the heart a language never to be forgot-a language which is not for a pen like mine to transcribe.

Tuesday morning breaks upon the scene still unaltered,save that life flittered more faintly and all pulse was gone. About 11 o'clock the breathing became gradually more distant and more feeble-are suspended or imperceptible-another breath-he's gone? So calmly, of imperceptibly did he make his exit, that the precise moment of his departure could scarcely be marked-without a sigh or a struggle his bright spirit was departed from amongst us, to a state of existence higher, brighter, and more glorious.

Upon a highly excited mind, a slight incident will sometimes make a deep and lasting impression. As the last flickerings of life were failing--while his whole family, and the friends who had watched with them, grouped around his bed, and in silent, deep attention to awful scene, all held their breath, and their hearts and pulse stood still, a few soft, low notes from a pet bird, which had before been so silent that its presence in the room was unremarked fell with startling sweetness on the ear.- Only once before during his illness had it been known to sing. On the preceding day, at the conclusion of the last act of devotion in which he ever joined these same soft notes had mingled with the solemn 'Amen'.






      


This issue contains reprints from various sources.  There is not an editorial section  and one and a half pages of advertisements. There are two columns on page four in Cherokee.






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 17, 1834

The ferry of the Principal Chief, at Coosa, which we stated sometime since had been released, has been again forcibly seized by the vendees of the place, (Mr. Hemphill) and the last accounts we have received of this proceeding, state that the ferry was now guarded by two or three armed men with guns.

____________________

Our readers will find in our columns, intelligence from Washington, copied from various journals of the highest standing, and for talents of their correspondents of the highest character, a crisis is stated to have arrived in the affairs of this agitated government, portending a speedy revolution, if the usurpations of the administration does not give place to established precedents, and to Constitutional principles. {Note: these items all refer to the on going controversy in relation to the national bank} It is not for the first time, that we have to remark on the probabilities of this event; for we have already stated in some of our past numbers, that if the institutions of the government and its wholesome laws were not properly regarded and executed, it would soon cease to exist as a Government of well regulated laws.  The Cherokees were the first who heard the angry mutterings for their destruction; five years have but expired, when it has become visible to the ablest of the American people, when they find the mighty Government in its dying agonies, and trembling in its foundations. Every effect has its cause.  The people of the United States, permitted their President to sink the Cherokee ship at the blow of his mighty breath to its fly-colors, regardless of the Government laws, expressly enacted for their protection, but the bane did not stop here; we ask the American reader where is the stopping place. The whole Indian relations coeval with the Government, have been rendered almost to nonentity by the single person of the President. -Nature and ambition could not be satiated at these strides to unlimited power. The American nation has now passed in our stead in groans of a dying state in the hands of one man. When the American people permitted the President to raise his mighty arm, and command the bright seals of the United States, on the 16 solemn Cherokee treaties to fade, virtue departed to return no more, but with a political change. It was this indulgence of their President to exercise unbridled power over the Indians which has contaminated the purity of the executive, and an adequate constitution ordained for a salutary government. The signs we confess are ominous to the red man first, and to the great American people; but we humbly hope, there is sufficient wisdom existing to restore the Constitution and laws to their manifest intentions.*

________

*The Government before the revolution of Indian affairs was like unto the vision of St. John, 'And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God,' rejoicing in the felicity and marching onward to protection.

__________________________

THE HUMANE POLICY IN LABOR

We frequently stated that the Cherokees in Tennessee had made great speculations on the Government, by making large improvements and then emigrating. First, the enrolling agents induced these Indians to bring white men into the nation, and make large improvements, preparatory to a valuation by the agents, and second to sell their possessory right to white men before they left the country. The Secretary of War likewise had engaged with those that enrolled to secure to such, their interest in the soil when ever a treaty could be made. This was something like a thribble price to the Indians which induced them to enroll, until the Government found it had incurred the expense of an hundred and forty thousand dollars, but first took care to send the emigrants to the never failing streams, ' where the Indians live without trouble. But the emigrants have been sent off at the point of the bayonet ' the promises made them are now too great and unjust. Return J. Meigs Counsellor at law at Athens, Tennessee, has been appointed Secretary of War to report to him the transactions of the agents and these Indians in relation to the speculation on these improvements. For which purpose, Mr. Meigs has invited the Cherokees of the best standing to the agency to testify to him what improvements were recognized to be the property of the emigrants. Hurrah and Hurrah for the humane policy.






      


INDIANS

DWIGHT MISSION.

Extract of a letter from Rev. Henry R. Wilson, Jr., dated Dwight Mission, Cherokee Nation, Jan. 16th, 1834

'The poor people to whom I am going have been much more neglected, and are consequently much more wretched. They number about eighteen or twenty thousand in all, and have lately emigrated (and indeed some of them are still emigrating) from their home, to this wilderness. They have suffered much by their removal; having lost their little property, together with their cows and horses.  Many of them have died by the way, and since their arrival many hundreds of them have been cut off by death. The remainder, disappointed in their new country-unprovided with food, and unable to procure stock, and implements of industry, have sunk down into sullenness, bordering on despair; a state of mind very unfavorable to the reception of the gospel. Driven from the homes of their fathers to the very utmost verge of our country, they know not what to do or where to go. O! could you see the wrongs which these poor people suffer; not so much from the design of government, as from unprincipled agents,-sub-agents-traders and contractors, your heart, which knows how to feel for the suffering, would weep over their condition. O! that the Christian public could see and feel the debt which, under God they owe to this poor neglected, abused, suffering people. But I believe the day is not too distant, when this will be the case, and when the remnant of these tribes shall be redeemed unto the Lord, and given to Jesus, as a part of that inheritance which He purchased with His precious blood. For this, dear brother, let us pray; for this, while God gives me grace and strength, will I continue to labor.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 24, 1834

The exceeding irregularity of the mails here if it is not soon remedied will cease to be useful and become a standing evil to the country. Last Monday week 12th instant, three mails were due us, when we received piles of our exchange papers some old and some of recent dates, to wit: 3 New York Observers: 3 Ohio Observers: 3 Charleston Observers: 6 of N. Y. Journal of Commerce: 6 of N. Y. Advertiser: 6 of the American: and 18 of Poulson's Philadelphia Advertiser: and of all others three weeks papers.

The mail from Georgia via. Lawrenceville to this place which brings all our important news, we are glad to inform our readers will be hereafter transported by Mr. Thompson, and we have some reasons to hope, that this gentleman will endeavor to perform his duty.

____________________

The settlers of the Cherokee country, from the lottery state, or those who have obtained cheap lands and gold mines, without paying the Cherokees for this property, in Hickory Log District, (called now by the Georgians) Cherokee County, made considerable attempts to declare war against the Cherokees on week before last, but finally no lives were lost-no razor straps from the Indians backs were carved, as was the fact at the Horse Shoe Battle with the Creeks, by way of the trophies of war. However, some cause gave rise to this attempt on the part of the whites, of which we have unceasingly counselled the Cherokees never to create, for the pretext of our oppressors to exterminate us. It appears, two Indians from Notley, on the North Carolina side of the Nation, were strolling among the Indians, near the Court-House, for several days, who were suspected of having no honest motives for their visit, at this season of the year. A rifle gun was missing at the Indians' house with whom they had put up, where they had left before light. They proceeded to the Court House, and meeting Doctor Burns in the road, the Indian with his stolen gun, came near taking the life of the above named gentleman, by shooting at his head; but fortunately, the ball struck his head so as not to fracture the skull, and endanger life. These Indians retreated and returned the rifle to the owner, and left. The brave yeomanry of Governor Lumpkin's sent as express to him, with the hat of Dr. Burns, which was shot, and in course, of wars and rumors of wars, with a call on his Excellency for muskets and ball, 'c. The Governor received the hat with the Indian's shot, but rather humorously (we suppose he is a Christian) decided that it could not be the general disposition of the Indians as he had received letters from Washington, stating that the President would soon make a treaty for the removal of the Cherokees.  In the meantime, the lottery gentlemen marched against the Indian who owned the gun with which Dr. Burns was shot, charged as an aider and abettor in the war, whom the found working in his field.  One of the company drew a gun on this Indian, and ordered him to surrender; the Indian being near, took a running start under the gun, and gave the white man a severe fall. The company drew their knives and butchered him in a barbarous manner, but is likely to recover. The return express brought no declaration of war from the chartered state, a company of Indians and whites were on pursuit of the principals.




      


POETRY

From the Hiwassean

THE NEGRO'S WISH

Foken say de Georgians mity bad,

I'spose he git no better;

He gunner 'buse de preacher men,

And now I send him letter.

De gubner say he send de law

To rule de Ingen nation,

So let he people dig he gold

And make him no 'pensation

Beside, de pony club fokes say

Steal all the Ingens poney,

And forge de note and make him pay,

So git de Ingin money.

Poor Cherokee, because he small,

You dribe him off to nebber;

You take he land, he gold and all,

And still you mighty clebber.

If Ingin man shud go and take

De whole of gubner's tater,

I bound he twis poor Ingin's neck

Like hos and allegater.

I wunder how dis gubner feel,

And all de Georgia nation,

To see poor preacher at de wheel,

No let him preach salvation.

I wish sich gubner run away

Where Georgia nebber find him,

I wish he swim de 'Lantic sea,

And big shark close behind him.

Besides, one man, he cum along,

And catch and chain de preacher;

Now if he conshence no say rong,

` Old debble be his teacher.

I spect cause he commission git,

it makes him swell much bigger,

He bin so proud and cus so loud,

He strut like sassy niggur.

He strike a little one-eye man,

He sich a mity feller;

May debbil catch him if he can,

I guess he make him better.

If he bin man, who be well bred,

Before he cus and fite him,

And nock de preacher; on de hed,

He let de mad dog bite him.

If preacher bin in fiten gale,

And nebber made no feshon,

I bound such feller turn he tail,

And run like frited heshion.

I nebber lub sich backguard trick,

I hate him wurs and wurser,

If I could gim him one good lick,

I bound I spile his busser.

I wish he cum to Tennessee,

I larn him for dance juber,

But he so mean I frade of he,

I guess he steel my goober.

I wish he skin turn rong side out,

I guess he cut a figgur,

I wish he lib on possum snout,

And sleep along with niggur.

I wish he be in Guinea too,

I wish he bed rite woolly;

Dem niggers know how smart he do,

Dey hab him for great bully.

I wish he in de briar patch,

And had to swallow briar,

And when he skin git proper scratch,

I set em all on a fire.

I wish de fross would bite he ear,

I wish he shanks get bandy,

I wish he ride de no horn steer,

I bound he look so grandy.

I wish de steer mite frow him down,

And set he nose to bleedin,

So he be sich sassy Georgia clown,

Mite larn some sort of breedin.

I wish he in de blacksmifs shop,

And had to eat de cinder,

I wish de blacksmif take he sledge,

And nock him all to flinder.

I wish he whipt out of he skin,

And make him run to nebber,

I wish he nebber cum agin,

Without he be more clebber.






      


INDIANS

From the Missionary Herald.

OJIBWAS

Upper Red Cedar Lake

July 10, 1832_ reached upper Red Cedar, or Cassina Lake. This latter name it receives from Governor Cass who visited it in 1820. Two branches of the Mississippi enters into this lake. The Indians residing here, being aware of our approach came to meet us, firing salutes of musketry. Their summer village, they informed us, was on an island, about ten miles distant.

As we approached this island from the northeast, which over looks the lake by high bluff, rising some sixty or more feet above the water, almost the first object that I saw, was a fine field of corn, potatoes, and squashes, growing luxuriantly. The next I knew was a discharge of muskets from amid the sanding corn. We were directed to make the west side of the island where we should find a good landing and a place for encampment. In the meantime one continual hooting, yelling, and firing was kept behind the bushes which lined the shore. On disembarking I found a musket in the hands of almost every little Indian boy, many of whom followed the example of their fathers, came forward and took us by the hand. All bid us welcome, and seem overjoyed that their father has come to see his children.

Evening- While our canoes were unloading, tent, erecting, 'c. I took a walk to see the field of corn in the northern extremity of the island, which we passed. But ere I had reached it, I passed no less than two or three other little fields, all of which remind me of New England, where I never saw better corn, squashes or potatoes, than I find here with Indian culture. The growth of wood and timber on this part of the island is entirely destroyed, save here and there a large oak or maple.- All the high land is covered with rank grass and sumac, except the plats here and there under cultivation.

The soil is easy to work with a hoe, the only tool with which the squaw makes her garden. I say squaw, from the fact that she always makes the garden, in as much as the Indian deems it degrading to himself to use the hoe or axe. I next visited the lodges which were about half a mile south of our encampment.  Here I found another piece of corn, potatoes, and squashes. While our party were procuring some small canoes suitable for our route to Elk Lake, I went into one of the lodges, read several portions of Scripture, among others the ten commandments, and sung several Indian hymns. All listened with apparent interest and surprise. As I had not an interpreter, I was unable to communicate much more than to read such portions of Scripture and hymns as were familiar to me. In the lodge, directly before me were suspended three human scalps.  These were the trophies of victory with which they have just returned from the Sioux. Several of the warriors of this band joined the Leech Lake Band in the recent excursion and the Indian who was killed belonged here.

Before I had returned to our tent, which is pitched but a few yards from two graves, the greater part of the Indians had here collected and begun the scalp dance. It was led by three squaws, each bearing in her hand one of the recent scalps.  Two or three men sat beating drums and singing while old and young male and female, all joined them in the song.  Occasionally all would become so animated, that there would be one general hop, and all at the same time throwing their heads back, would raise a most horrid yell, clapping the mouth with the hand to render, if possible, more terrific. Here were seen little boys and girls, not six years old, all looking on with the most intense interest, imitating their fathers and mothers, and participating in their brutal joy. Thus early do they learn by precept and example to imbibe the spirit of revenge and war, which is fostered in their bosoms, and in after life stimulates to go and perform some deed of daring and blood, which shall gain for themselves the like applause

A circumstance which rendered the scene not a little appalling, as it was performed around the graves of the dead.  At the head of one of the graves hangs an old scalp some ten feet above the ground, which the winds have almost divested of its ornaments and its hair. The grass and turf for several yards around are literally destroyed, and I presume, by their frequent dancing. One of the scalps I examined. The flesh side had apparently been smoked and rubbed with some material till it was pliant, after which it was painted with vermilion. A piece of wood is turned in the form of a horse-shoe, into which the scalp is sewed the threads passing around the wood, which keeps it tight.  Narrow pieces of cloth and ribands of various colors, attached to the bow, were ornamented with beads and feathers.  A small stick, which serves for a handle to shake it in the air when they dance, was attached to the top of the bow by a string. While examining it, a lock of hair fell from it, which the Indian gave me, and which I still preserve.

Return to Upper Red Cedar Lake

Most of the party remaining at the Indian village on the island in Upper Red Cedar Lake, Mr. Boutwell proceeded with Mr. S. and others up one of the streams that empty into the lake, as before stated, to Elk Lake; and thence he crossed by portage to another stream; also emptying into Upper Red Cedar Lake,and descended to that lake again.

15. Sabbath.- Reached the island early this morning having marched all night. Find all our men well and much recruited by resting four days during our absence.  The party that had accompanied us are so fatigued by our tour to Elk Lake, that it is thought best to defer our service in English, while I devote what time and strength I have to the Indians.  Retired in the morning with the three pious soldiers and spent an hour in prayer and conversation. I find them all much depressed. I read to some of the Indians who came to our tent this forenoon. In the afternoon collected seventy Indians or more, all of whom listened with apparent interest and god attention to the word of God, and most of them for the first time. Our place of assembling was near the graves, before mentioned, on the ground where the horrid scalp dance is often exhibited. Never did I witness a more interesting, respectful and attentive Indian audience. Mr. J. read to them the account of the creation and the flood, after which I read the ten commandments from which I made some remarks, and informed them of the object of my visit. The inquiry was put to the principal man, the chief being absent, 'Would you like a missionary to come and live with you, instruct your children, and tell you about God?' To which he replied, 'Neither myself nor any one present can answer the inquiry, as the chief is absent, and many of the young men are very vicious.'

As we assembled for our worship, five or six Indians were sitting near, in a game of platter which was soon left. Not long after our meeting closed, the dance began and continued without cessation till eleven o'clock. I learn from some of the men who remained, that the Indians danced almost day and night during our absence. I am also informed that three canoes from Leech Lake passed here yesterday on their way to Red Lake, to carry the wampum and the pipe to invite that band to join them in another war party to revenge the death of the Indian who was killed in their late excursion.

I much regret that I must leave this people without seeing the chief. The land is capable of raising corn, ' I presume, wheat, barley and rye. The first is already cultivated to a considerable extent. This band is far removed from all Catholic influence, and there is no very distinguished 'medicine man' or conjurer among them, whose influence is much to be feared. One would think, in looking at their growing corn, potatoes, 'c., that they are already far advanced in the arts of civilized life. One requested a few beans to plant next year. Another asked for a little salt, and in return brought us very fine potatoes which were not merely a rarity to us, but a curiosity here at this advanced season. They obtained the corn which they have cultivated here many years from Red River.  The island is large and in the form of a cross. The lake is a large body of water and affords many fish. Much wild rice is gathered in the vicinity. The only water communication is with the Mississippi River. The distance to Dandy Lake is 350 or 400 miles; and to the Falls of St. Anthony the distance is from 650 to 800 miles. Wild rice is an important article of food among the Indians in this quarter. The kernel is long, slender and of a dark color, but a taste much like common rice.




      


The Cholera was still prevailing, with little or no abatement among the Cherokee emigrants, encamped near the mouth of the Cadron, when we last heard from them.  The number of deaths in the party from all diseases, since they left Waterloo, on the Tennessee River, amount to about 50- a fearful mortality in a party originally not exceeding 550 souls in the short space of about two months. Every humane exertion within the control of Lieut. Harris, the Conducting Agent, has been used to alleviate the sufferings of the emigrants. One of the Physicians Dr. J. C. Roberts, employed by him to attend on the sick, was attacked with the disease, and died on Thursday last, and Dr. John T. Fulton, the only other attending physician, was also seized with it last week, but, we are happy to learn, was convalescent and out of danger, on Friday evening last. Another has since been employed, from this county who we hope, may be more fortunate. The disease also appears to be spreading along the river. A citizen of this county, Mr. Madison Taylor, died last week about 15 or 20 miles above this place, and there was said to have been another case in his family and one of the vicinity, both of which are convalescent. There have been several cases of the cholera at or near Pine Bluff's within the last 10 or 15 days, and three or four blacks have died-but the disease had abated when the last steamboats left there.

For the information of our friends abroad, we have the pleasure of assuring them, that we have no case of the Cholera in town, nor in the vicinity, and that our citizens are as healthy as usual at this season of the year. -Gazette.

__________________

The Cholera- We copy the following painful intelligence from the Little Rock (Ark) Advocate of the 2d inst.- Nat. Ban.



United States Troops.- About 140 U. S. Troops, recruits, for the 7th Infantry at Gibson, passed up on board the steamboat Galliopolis, on Friday last under command of Lieuts. Taylor and Chandler. The cholera had made its appearance among them. Six had died since they left New Orleans, and 40 or 50 reported sick on their arrival here.

The cholera was still prevailing among the Cherokee emigrants, at our last advises. This party of emigrants numbered, originally 550- but of that number 60 or 65 have died since their embarkation.

Dr. Fulton has returned to this place, and we are happy to state has partially recovered.

_____________________

The Chickasaws- From Col. Reynolds, the Agent who has just returned from an exploring expedition in company with a delegation of the Chickasaw Indians, we learn that the prospects for a location of this tribe, west of the Mississippi, are not altogether satisfactory. The country in which they are willing to settle, is claimed by the Choctaws, who appear unwilling to cede any portion of it to another tribe. But they propose to receive the Chickasaws within their limits, and extend to them the same privileges that are granted to their own tribe; permitting them to choose their own chiefs,and to be governed by their own laws, 'c. This proposition has not been accepted. The Choctaws have not, however, absolutely refused to cede a part of their territory, but have required farther time to consider the proposition. A final decision is expected during the present year.-  N. Alabamian.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 31, 1834

Mr. JOHN V. TITTERMARY, of Philadelphia, is Agent for the Cherokee Phoenix. Subscribers in arrears with this paper, in the State of Pennsylvania, will hereafter make payments to him.

__________________

Our present number ends the 5th volume of the Phoenix. We would, on this occasion say to our friends, that we need much assistance in the pecuniary department of this paper, in order to the continuation of this organ of the Cherokees, through which to make known their grievances to the American people. We have a sufficient amount due us for this paper, to enable us to continue it, and we have concluded to stop our operations for a few weeks,say to the 1st of July, for the purpose of collecting funds.

Another reason is: the health of its editor has been in a feeble condition for a long time past, and the warm season having approached, he would avail the opportunity of recruiting himself.

To those of our contemporaries throughout the United States, who have sent their able papers to us, we would return our grateful thanks. For the articles they have copied from our journal,and the indulgence with which we have been treated, in our remarks during our labors, in opposition to the most wicked policy that the wit of man could conceive, to expel the Cherokees from their beloved homes, the cruelly treated Cherokees would return to those kind Editors, all they have - their kindest feelings.

To our Cherokee readers, we would say, DON'T GIVE UP THE SHIP; although our enemies are numerous, we are yet in the land of the living,and of our clearly recognized rights. Improve your children, in morality and religion, and say to intemperance now growing at our doors, depart ye cursed, and the JUDGE of all the earth will impart means for the salvation of our suffering nation.

___________________________

The administration papers expresses some sympathies for the misfortunes of the few emigrating Cherokees, in consequence of the mortality of one eight (sic) of them by cholera, at one time on the Arkansas River.  Now we had always believed that this faculty had its foundation in the instinct of all mankind, ' was as natural to present itself on the above occasion, as it is for water to rundown its stream. Now how happens it that no solicitude and sympathy has been felt by the same party, on a fit occasion too, of the cruel treatment of the defenseless Indians here; scourging their backs, shooting the Indians for digging their own gold, and tying Cherokee women with ropes and forcing them to emigrate. We admire the feeling displayed in the present instance, but do not oppress us first, and if the fire be too hot, so that we run and fall unto death, it seems to come with but little grace, to say, that we are sorry for these Indians.




      


$250 REWARD

STOP THE MURDERER

JOHN M. WARD, a native of the Cherokee Nation, murdered Mr. JOHN JORDON, on Monday morning, the 6th inst. and has escaped.- Ward is a man supposed to be about 25 years old; he is spare made, and about 5 feet 10 inches high; his hair is of a light color, he has grey eyes; he is a pale swarthy complexion; his left arm has been slightly injured so that he cannot straighten it; and a man of very bad countenance. The above reward will be paid for the apprehension of Ward, so soon as it is ascertained n what jail he is secured.

ALEXANDER JORDON.

Volume 1, neyard, P. O. April 25,----4t.

















      


From the New York Spectator.

GENERAL SCOTT'S COMMAND- The visitation which has arrested the efficient movements of a large portion of our little army, under a commander crowned with laurels, won in nobler fields than Indian warfare affords, is melancholy indeed. We shall not say that the settlement of the whites in some parts of the Lead Mine District and other places, where they had no business to intrude, justified Black Hawk and his warriors in their bloody retaliation. Nor will we say that the atrocious policy of our Executive,--tacitly sanctioned by the acquiescence of the nation, and clamorously applauded by the ignorant and the interested, of setting treaties and the solemn decision of the highest tribunal at defiance because it was only

Indians who were to suffer may make the premature discomfiture of our forces, by pestilence, seem in the eyes of the religious a manifest judicial punishment.  We will not say these things, because it would be called cant.  It is however, with sorrow that we state the facts, which we find for the first time, accurately condensed in the Courier and Enquirer of this morning. We quote from that paper.

We are happy to announce the return yesterday of Col. Twiggs to this city, in a state of convalescence. The account which he gives of the ravages of the cholera among the troops and the consequent dispersion of Gen Scott's command, is lamentable.

Col Twiggs' detachment consisted of 203 recruits, and Payne's, Whiting's and Brooks' companies of artillery, making in all 350 rank and file. These men embarked at Detroit on board the steamboat Henry Clay for Chicago, but in consequence of the ravages of the Cholera were landed at Fort Gratiot, which is situated at the outlet of Lake Huron, 80 miles from Detroit. In less that ten days, Dr. Everett, Lieut. Clay, and fourteen of the recruits, died at the Fort. One hundred and fifty-five deserted, of whom it is estimated that at least thirty have died-leaving of the 208 but 39 at the time Col. Twiggs left. Of the three companies of artillery, twenty-six died and twenty deserted. Thus were the 350 of which this command consisted on its arrival at Detroit, reduced to 135 in about 12 days!

Col. Cumming of the 2d Infantry, with Ransom and Hoffman's companies 80 men from Fort Niagara, encamped at Spring Wells, four miles south of Detroit. Of this number twenty-one died and four deserted reducing this detachment to fifty-five.

Col. Crane's detachment of artillery, consisting of 220 men, accompanied by Gen. Scott and his staff, embarked on board the steamboat Shelden Thompson and arrived at Chicago with eighty cases of cholera on board, having lost several soldiers on the passage. At the last accounts nearly all the officers and men had been attacked more or less with the disease, and Lieuts. McDuffie and Gustavus Brown (a graduate from West Point in June last, and not the son of the late Gen. Brown) together with fifty-five privates had fallen victims to the disease.

Capt. Lyon's detachment, consisting of his and Captain Frazer's companies of artillery, (ninety men) left Detroit on board of the steamboat William Penn and had arrived in safety at Machinac.

Major Thompson's detachment, consisting of his and Capt. Cubb's companies of the second infantry eighty men had marched across the country from Detroit, and would probably arrive at Chicago in twelve days.

By a letter which we published on Monday, dated Galena, July 14th, we learn that it was Gen. Scott's intention to march with his command across the country to Fort Armstrong on Rock Island but it will be perceived by the forgoing particulars, that of the 850 men with whom he left here, not to exceed 200 will be in a situation to take the field about 300 having been lost by death and desertions, and more than that number unfitted by disease for active service for months to come. This has terminated the expedition and Black Hawk having in the meantime dispersed his Indians and probably crossed the Mississippi, there is but little reason to believe that he will receive the punishment he merits.




      


DEFEAT OF THE INDIANS.

St. Louis, Aug. 1---By the arrival, last night, of the Steamboat Enterprise, from Galena, letters were received in town giving an account of a battle that was fought by the Mounted Troops under the command of Gen. Dodge and the main body of the Indians, after a close pursuit of one hundred miles. The Indians it appears were making their way towards the Mississippi with the intention of crossing, but being closely pursued they were compelled to incline in the direction of the Wisconsin, with a view of taking refuge on an island in that river, or of crossing first the Wisconsin, and thus gain time sufficient to make a safe retreat across the Mississippi. They were however overtaken at Wisconsin, and after and hour's fighting were completely defeated, and no doubt would have been cut to pieces had not the darkness of night enabled them to escape.- The army is still in pursuit; and from the starved condition of the Indians, they will doubtless be overtaken.

The following letter from Gen. Dodge to Captain Loomis will give particulars of the fight.

CAMP WISCONSIN.

July 22d, 1832.

'We met the enemy yesterday near the Wisconsin river, and opposite the Sac village after a close pursuit for near 100 miles.  Our loss was one killed and eight wounded; from the scalps taken by the Winnebagoes, as well as those taken by the whites, and the Indians carried from the field of battle, we must have killed about 40 of them. The number of wounded is not known; we can only judge from the number killed that many were wounded. From their crippled situation, I think we must overtake them, unless they descend the Wisconsin by water. If you could place a field piece immediately on the Wisconsin that would command the river, you might prevent their escape by water. Gen. Atkinson will arrive at the Blue Mounds on the 24th with the regulars and a brigade of mounted men. I will cross the Wisconsin to-morrow, and should the enemy retreat by land, he will probably attempt crossing some twenty miles above Prairie du Chien; in that event, the mounted men would want some boats for the transportation of their arms, ammunition, and provisions. If you could procure for us some Mackinaw boats, in that event, as well as some provision supplies, it would greatly facilitate our views. Excuse great haste. I am, with great respect, your obedient servant.

(signed) H. DODGE

Col. Comd'g Mich. Mount. Vol.

________________

GALENIAN EXTRA. July 25

News from the Army-a battle has been fought.

Extract of a letter from Dr. Phillico to the Editor pro tem dated Wisconsin Heights, July 22d, 1832.

'The army, including Gen. Henry's brigade of mounted Volunteers, and those from Jo Daviess (sic) and lower counties under Gen. Dodge, arrived here late last evening after a forced march of several days, in close pursuit of the whole band of hostile Indians. Here we overtook them as willing to fight as ourselves. They first endeavored to charge us in front. A line of battle was immediately formed, and the Indians repulsed. About sunset they returned re-enforced and made a most desperate effort to break our lines. But our men stood firmly and compelled the enemy to retreat. They then took possession of a ravine where the grass was so high as to conceal them. As soon as their position was ascertained the order 'CHARGE' was given, and executed with such promptitude and effect, as to again compel them to retire from their stronghold.

'The battle continued for more than one hour.  The heads of the Indians above the grass resembled stumps in a new cleared forest.  We killed three Indians in the pursuit, and we suppose not less than FORTY in battle. I am very happy to state, that we lost but one killed, and eight wounded.

We have been politely favored with the following additional particulars, contained in a letter from Gen. Street, Sub Indian Agent to William Clark, Sup. of Indian Affairs.

'So soon as Gen. Atkinson found the Indians had again eluded his pursuit, ' that they had emerged from the great swamps in which he had been chasing them for several days, and were making their way to the Ouisconsin, he detached Genl's. Dodge and Henry, with 800 picked men, upon their trail; following himself by forced marches with the remainder of his troops. The detachment had the good fortune to come up with the main body of the enemy, armed in order of battle, having selected their ground on the evening of the 21st July, and notwithstanding the troops had made a march of 40 miles that day, it was determined to attack them immediately. Gen. D. with a detachment of mounted men under cover of a ravine, turned the enemy's flank, and, at concerted signal from the flanking party, charged them with his remaining forces in front. The enemy immediately gave way, and fled in great confusion, carrying off many wounded from the ground. Their retreat led through a bottom of high grass, loaded with wet,(it having rained hard nearly six hours) which, with the closing in of night, rendered it prudent to draw off the pursuit. It is believed, that two hours more of daylight would have enabled Gen. Dodge to have completely cut up the enemy. Gen. D. encamped near the field, and moved in search of the enemy early on the 22d; in going about one mile, he came upon their camp, which had been deserted the previous night.- He pursued the trail to the Ouisconsin, about 40 miles west of the portage, where he discovered that the whole body of the hostile Indians had crossed to the north bank.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA,Aug. 25, 1832

CHEROKEE NATION

22d August, 1832

MR. ELIAS BOUDINOT,- Having understood that your successor in the editorial department is not yet appointed, and that consequently you have yet a claim to publish any communication upon the affairs of our common country that a citizen may write, I hope you will excuse the liberty I take in addressing this to you. Having no claim to wisdom or learning; and no pretension to wealth, this comes from an humble individual who resides in a little log hut daubed with mud, covered with clapboards, and having no other flooring, where I write than the solid earth, for which our ancestors have fought and bled in days past, and for which our chiefs have recently maintained a long and expensive controversy with the Georgians in their own courts and the S. Court of the United States, where their labors have been crowned with the greatest intellectual victory ever recorded in the annals of the aborigines of America!

Poor as I am in the world, the attachment I feel for my natal spot, for the forest shades under which I played in boyhood, and the springs of water where I have quenched my thirst, and the crystal streams in which I have bathed my limbs, for my patch of corn and little orchard I have planted,- and above all the right of having my own chiefs, and my own color to pass laws for me in my own language (the Cherokee) is very great. It is therefore with feelings of great distress that I have read your letter of resignation, in which you state there is now no hope of relief, and that the people of America are now silent about us poor Indians. My children often, in their innocence and ignorance, ask me, who the Georgians are and whether they would kill us for our lands, and what I wept for? O gracious Father in heaven, has it come to this? Are we left to the mercy of a haughty people who rob us every day? Has the broad shield of the United States been withdrawn, and will not Gen. Jackson pity us and execute the laws not declared to be constitutional by the S. Court? Will not Congress make him do it? Where is the eloquence of our friends and have they also despaired? Have a number of them addressed a letter directed to Maj. Ross, on this subject, and has one of the associate judges of the Supreme Court done the same?

I believe that you are the friend of the poor and ignorant, and that you have told us the truth--harshly as that sounds in my  ears I respect you for it. You are indeed our friend-your acts have shown it and we know it. I am one of those who love the chiefs and believe that they are good men and true, and that sooner than submit the freedom of our people into the hands of whites, they would walk and carry us through a fiery furnace to a place where our people may be free. It is for that we live and are wiling yet to live in this cruel world.

I have not yet seen in print Mr. Ross' message to the council at Red Clay, and I do not know what are his views and hopes of the re-adjustment of our rights, if he has any, and the reasons of his hopes, and upon what they are founded? Why do you not publish this message, if it is conciliatory-the people ought to have it.  But if I may judge from his proclamation of the 3d July on the subject of a fast, humiliation and prayer upon the crisis of our affairs, I should presume he too had no comfort. He says in that message, 'Where as, the crisis in the affairs of this nation exhibits the day of tribulation and sorrow, and the time appears to be fast hastening when the destiny of this people must be healed,' 'c. Then indeed if it would do good I could weep tears of fire, because my heart is in a flame!

The deep foundations of this U. States have been laid upon the anti-human policy of Europe, which issued charters to cover our lands in usurpation.--The Anglo-Americans have carried out this usurpation and have cherished their Republicanism and Christianity upon the blood ' smoking ruins of the Indians! To satisfy the avidity of these pale faces what have we not done? We have relinquished province after province in vain. Has the tomahawk saved us? No. Has the pipe of peace smoked with them in council saved us?  No. Have civilized and Christianity (for we have tried them) saved us? Let the slaughtered Indians at Muskingum rise from their ashes and answer. Let our own dear Missionaries in the walls of the Penitentiary, Yes, let the whole Cherokee Nation answer, NO!

It has been said by some that the chiefs care not for us, and that when the Nation falls to pieces they will save themselves upon choice reservations and become citizens of the U. S. and let us common Indians shift for ourselves, to die like the wounded deer in the wilderness of the West. I do not believe it. For patriotism they may well stand by the ancient sages of Greece and Rome, because they have all along resisted temptation, ably thrown in the path at various times and ways.

When we have tested the U. S. all we can when we are ready, I trust and believe we will take our women and children and go to the verge of the globe, on the shores of the Pacific, and there raised up our own standard, kindle up our own council fire ' leap out of this accursed state of pupilage under such guardians, and make of ourselves a foreign Nation, or gloriously die in the attempt.

ROCKY MOUNTAIN.

_______

* We have not yet been favored with a copy of the Message to which our correspondent alludes.-- We shall publish it whenever it comes our way, although we believe, it contains no assurances or statements which will carry gladness into the hearts of our afflicted people.--Ed.

_____________________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

RIGHTS OF THE CHEROKEES

Liberty in its most general signification is said to be a power to do as one thinks fit unless restrained by the laws of the land: and that the right in this liberty, being so invariably advocated by human nature it must be assumed, to be the grandest gift of God to all mankind at their creation. The liberty emanating as it does from the first cause of all things is to be termed the great law of nature. Man considered as aa free agent, the right is absolute; it is inherent; it being the gift of God at his creation. The common conceived opinions that mankind throughout the world in similar circumstances are alike, is true; but it consists chiefly in the pursuit of happiness, the progress of the mind; and the cultivation of science. But that it is also alike, in the decreped and in all the intermediate to the transcendent circumstances of mankind is likewise conspicuously true. The love of country and liberty in the mind of the savage is as strong as it is in that of Henry Clay or John Randolph. I must not philosophize in this debatable question but advert to the circumstances of the Cherokees as an instance to show where the love of country and liberty continue as sacred now, although not enjoyed, situated as they are under the wretched thraldom of Georgia, as it was before Columbus saw his first day, and appreciated not less than King George to his throne, or the British to his crown.  The natural rights of mankind when they form themselves into a community, for the mutual benefit, consists first, in a liberty to ordain such rules for the conduct of its members, as will conduce to their happiness. Secondly, a right to a country on which to exercise this liberty. They are reciprocal rights, one cannot exist without the other.- This I conceive to be the primary rights of man, and to which all mankind are justly and naturally entitled to. These rights the Cherokees have from time immemorial enjoyed, and when the arm of the United States in its rapid growth, reached and came in contact with these natural rights of the Cherokees, it wisely stayed its hand, and the bravest and the wisest recognized these rights and guarantied them by compacts.  But in the year 1828 a new government of the United States found itself in the hands of President Jackson, whose former compacts were considered as mist in the wind, and its plighted faith as putrid air. The Intercourse Law too, enacted to sustain these very rights was discovered by the President to mean nothing so long as he thought proper, and that the states had all the rights and the Indians had none. The Cherokees have been denationalized in Georgia, not by the supreme law of the land, but by the new casuistry which has induced Georgia to proceed into measures prepared for the destruction of our rights, and to consummate a Spanish act, if not rescinded, will be recorded by the future historian with a trembling hand. The rights of the Cherokees have been recognized by the Supreme Court of the United States, it is the supreme law of the land, and when the President finds himself again possessed of sufficient power to destroy this law he will on the other hand be preparing a gulf of anarchy into which his own government will fall.

Let us then continue to rely on the virtue of the American institutions, and as we have in all our calamities sustained our national virtues, let us anticipate that the virtues of the Americans as a nation, and at which we have looked to for our welfare, will finally prevail and relieve the Cherokees from their protracted and suffering condition.

CHEROKEE.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Sept. 1, 1832

'Lo the poor Indian!' In our first remarks on the Indian War now raging at the North West we said the sentence had gone out, and destruction and utter extermination must follow those poor people, who had taken arms in desperation, to defend, what they no doubt considered to be their rights. We founded our remarks upon the feeling existing in the community towards the Indians-the deep rooted hostility, which needs only a single pretext to arouse it to action. Although he knew that one Indian after another has been murdered with impunity, and such murders are considered by not a few as doing God's service, yet we also knew it was sufficient that only one white man was taken off in retaliation to arouse the whole country in arms, and cut off the accursed race from the face of the earth.

When we spoke of the sentence having gone out, we little thought that it had actually gone forth formally, and from the highest officer of the Government. We do hope and trust Gen. Street, the Indian Agent, has misrepresented the feelings of the President.- But if he has not, and he certainly meant his Indian hearers should believe what he said, then Gen. Jackson 'loves his red children' with a vengeance. Read the following, and weep and blush, ye who admire the mild precepts of your blessed religion, and religion acknowledged by your rulers and agents who will kill the Indians if they cannot reclaim them!

_______________________

An Indian talk was held at Prairie du Chien on the 22d June, by Gen. Street, Indian Agent, with the Sioux, who declined going any further in pursuit of the Sacs and Foxes and turned back, but leaving Col. Hamilton and his detachment with whom they started.

It appears that General Street demanded the reason of their leaving the army, and not receiving satisfactory answers, sharply reproves them. But that part of the 'talk' to which I wish particularly to call our attention is continued in the following extract.* *   *   * *   *  * *  *   * *  *  * *  * * * *

After telling the Indians how much Gen. Jackson loves them, and how much he has tried to reclaim them, he says-

'He will now forbear no longer. He has tried to reclaim them, and they grow worse. He is resolved to sweep them from the face of the earth. They shall no longer trouble his children. If they cannot be made good, they must be killed. They are now separated from their friends and country, and he does not intend to let one return to trouble him again. He directed me no longer to restrain you from war.

'It was not that your Great Father wanted help from you that I told you to go to war. It was to give you an opportunity to revenge your slaughtered friends. Your Father has penned those Indians up, and means to kill them all; and had you remained, you would have seen how his white children rush upon and kill their enemies. He does not ask you to help him, but if you want revenge go and take it.  This is what I said to you. And I now repeat, it you want to kill the murderers of your friends and families, go now and do it; for your Great Father has devoted these Indians to death. He cannot reclaim, and he will kill them.'

Let the people of this civilized and Christian land read the above. May they not tremble for our country, when such language is held by an authorized agent of the President of the United States?




      


From the Philadelphian.

Volume 1, SIT TO THE CHEROKEES ON THE ARKANSAS

Extract of a letter to the Rev. E. S. Ely, dated

LITTLE ROCK, July 3d 1832

Dear Brother, I have just returned from a visit to the Cherokees on the Arkansas, the circumstances of which have been so novel and interesting that while writing to you I cannot but communicate a few of them. That part of the road which passes south of the Arkansas River, leads through a country in many places exceedingly delightful. It is intersected with numerous prairies, some of which are about the size of an ordinary plantation, while others are several miles in extent. The beauty of these great natural meadows of the west far exceeds description.  Instead of presenting to the eye a monstrous plain of unknown extent, like some I have seen, these are undulating and diversified. Hills rise and valleys intervene. At this season they are all covered with a mantle of the richest green, while flowers, countless in variety and most beautiful in their color are scattered in endless profusion. Here and there at unequal distances is frequently seen a low and branching tree covered with a dark foliage, planted by the God of nature, to refresh for a season the weary traveller, and protect him from the burning rays of a summer's sun. At other times you see a beautiful, small grove, with intertwining branches covering a small spot of ground, and no others growing near. Again you see a row of trees extending for many a mile, generally following the meanderings of some narrow brook. And from the midst of this enchanting scenery you often descry at an unknown distance, the summit of some lofty mountain rising half viewless, above the dim horizon.

But like every other part of our sinful world, these lovely spots have their inconveniences and annoyances. The rose is not without surrounding thorns. One of the greatest annoyances in the prairies at this season is occasioned by an insect call the prairie fly. This insect is nearly as large as common bee. Some have black ' some green heads. In some of the larger prairies as soon as a horse enters, they rise like a swarm of bees and alight on the animal as if famished for his blood. The most gentle horse becomes frantic, and either makes his way to the nearest wood, or falls and rolls and rages until overcome by exertions and loss of blood he dies. To prevent this, travellers when they come near the edge of a prairie, at particular seasons are obliged to encamp during the day, and wait until the shades of night have reposed these merciless assailants when they can proceed with safety.

Another inconvenience arises from the vacancy of surrounding objects. The eye stretches onward and all around, but in some places, for many miles, all is empty space. an occasional tree at a distance affords but little satisfaction to the craving vision. It is like being on the vast ocean in an open boat. The eye at last becomes languid, and wearied for want of some object on which to rest. I have sometimes after riding in them for several hours, experienced most painful sensations from the cause now mentioned. And it is asserted that there have been many instances of Indians having irrecoverably lost their eye sight while attempting to cross the great western prairie reaching towards the Rocky mountains, which is several hundred miles across. How little do we think of the wisdom of the great Creator, even in the irregularities of his works.

After I had left these timberless regions, and had travelled many a lonely mile in the deep forest on the north side of Arkansas, I came to a spot still more interesting. On the eastern side of a hill and near its base, there is a level of several acres in a semicircular form bounded by a steep descent. It seems, as if formed for no ordinary purpose. On this level are two rows of neatly constructed log buildings. And in these reside the devoted and zealous missionaries to the Cherokees.

The state of the mission is at this time peculiarly prosperous. For a number of months there has been a glorious work of the Holy Spirit in progress, both in the schools and among the natives in various parts of the Nation.  More than fifty are already hopeful subjects of grace, and a still greater number are inquiring the way to Zion with their faces thitherward. The day after I arrived, I accompanied the Rev. Mr. Washburn to an appointment for preaching a few miles distant from New Dwight. The meeting was held in a new house neatly built by a Cherokee for a dwelling. Here in a little while a respectable congregation assembled for Divine service.  All were Cherokees excepting one or two.  They were decently and neatly dressed; they seated and conducted themselves with the utmost propriety and respect. A more interesting assembly I never saw. Here sat the hoary headed warrior, not to deliberate on schemes of cruelty and deeds of blood, here sat the little child, not to hear the traditions of savage forefathers but to listen to the story of the cross. Before service commenced, they were asked to sing a hymn in their own language, which they without hesitation commenced, each one holding a hymn book printed in the Cherokee characters. I can say with the strictest truth, I never listened to vocal music more melodious or so much adapted to effect the heart. The tones were delightful, while association of ideas no doubt did much.  Some of their voices had no distant period aided in raising the horrid whoop of war, or contributed to encourage the dance of revelry; now they swell with the names of a Savior in songs of salvation. After they had sung, I preached to them through an interpreter. All were attentive and solemn, and some affected to tears.  After sermon, Br. Washburn called on one of them to pray, which he did in his own language apparently with great solemnity and propriety




      


Among the Oneida Indians. A letter from a gentleman, whose correspondents in Albany, dated Vernon, August 2, 1832 says:'The cholera has made its appearance among our Oneida Indians. Two cases; pronounced cholera by our Health Officer, terminated fatally in one day.  There had been three deaths previously that are believed to have been cholera, but at the time the Health Officer was first called, there was no sickness among the Indians. He reported that the previous deaths were occasioned by  intemperance and exposure. These Indians held a council today, and will probably petition the state for relief by way of an advance of their annuity. In the meantime, contributions for them are going on by the citizens, the most most forward of whom is Mr. Gerrit Spaith, of Peterborn.'




      


Among the Oneida Indians. A letter from a gentleman, whose correspondents in Albany, dated Vernon, August 2, 1832 says: 'The cholera has made its appearance among our Oneida Indians. Two cases; pronounced cholera by our Health Officer, terminated fatally in one day.  There had been three deaths previously that are believed to have been cholera, but at the time the Health Officer was first called, there was no sickness among the Indians. He reported that the previous deaths were occasioned by intemperance and exposure. These Indians held a council today, and will probably petition the state for relief by way of an advance of their annuity. In the meantime, contributions for them are going on by the citizens, the most most forward of whom is Mr. Gerrit Spaith, of Peterborn.'




      


Battle with the Indians.- The St. Louis Times of the 11th inst. contains a detailed account of a battle, between the United States troops, under the immediate command of Gen. Atkinson and the Indians, in which the latter were completely defeated, with the loss of 160. Our loss in killed and wounded was 27. The battle lasted onwards of three hours. About 50 Indians, women and children were taken prisoners, and many were killed by accident.

________________

An officer now on the expedition against the Indians after describing the awful effect of the Cholera among the troops observes- 'Thus we see that this part of the expedition is strewed like chaff, by a blast of the pestilence. It is an illustration of the displeasure of the Almighty at our treatment of that poor starved race of beings, whom our injustice drives to madness.'




      


MISCELLANEOUS.

INDIAN TALK.

The substance of a Talk held at Prairie du Chien, 22 June, 1832 by Gen. STREET, Indian Agent, with the SIOUX, who turned back after starting with Colonel Hamilton to join the army commanded by General Atkinson.

GEN. STREET- I wish to know why you have left the army? Heretofore, under the instructions of your Great Father, the President, I have endeavored to keep peace between all his red children. When your friends were killed by the Sacs and Foxes, I advised you not to revenge: your Great Father would see justice done. That all the Indians were alike under his protection; who, as the Father of all, desired to see them live in peace and harmony. The Sacs and Foxes had behaved bad (sic); they had killed several Indians of different nations; but the President was desirous to keep peace, and urged them to wait, and he would have justice done.  H wished to show the Indians how much better and happier they would be if they could live in peace as brothers, than in a state of war, one revenging his friend today, and the other retaliating the next. This would be an endless war, where the nations could feel no security. Your Great Father wanted you to learn to seek justice and not revenge. When a murder was committed, to give up the murderer, and let him be punished as an example to deter other Indians from like offenses.

Your Great Father feels towards his red children as you feel towards yours. He does not want to kill, but reclaim them, and make them good. When they ever and are bad, he chastises them; and if they can be he will make them good. But when you revenge the innocent are more frequently killed than the guilty. You make no distinction between virtue and crime and good and bad. This is not right. And your father wants to save you from the horrors attending upon retaliation; unite you in love and restrain you from retaliation, or revenge.

This is the reason I was directed to restrain you from war, that he might interpose and bring about a lasting peace between all his red children. If that was once the case you would be much happier and in security. Now you are in danger when you lie down at night of being murdered before the morning or rising to see your families butchered around you. As yet, the unruly and vengeful passions of the Indians have defeated these humane intentions from effecting the desired object, and saving the effusion of blood amongst his red children. Still you Great Father has forborne to use force, until the Sacs and Foxes have dared to kill some of his white children. He will now forbear no longer. He has tried to reclaim them, and they grow worse. He is resolved to sweep them from the face of the earth. They shall no longer trouble his children. If they cannot be made good they must be killed.  They are now separated from their friends and country and he does not intend to let one return to trouble him again.  And he directed me no longer to restrain you from war. And I said go and be revenged of the murderers of your friends, if you wish it.  If you desire revenge, you have permission to take it. I will furnish you arms, ammunition and provisions, and here is the man who is sent to conduct you to the enemy. Follow him. (Colonel Hamilton) and he will lead you to the murders of the Winnebagoes. the Minominies and the Sioux. With one accord you desired to go to war, and appeared bent on full satisfaction for your accumulated wrongs and injuries.  You raised the war song and were borne on your way upon the bosom of the Father of waters, under the conduct of Colonel Hamilton. He led you into the country infested by Sacs and Foxes and when in striking distance of your enemy, you mangled the dead bodies of eleven Sacs killed by the warriors of your Great Father, the day before your arrival, and you turned about and came back to this place. You have neither seen or made an effort to see the Sacs and Foxes. After coming two or three hundred miles for revenge your murdered friends and relations and the murderers are before you, you turn and come home without striking a blow. Why is this.  To me your conduct is strange. I cannot comprehend it and want you to explain the reasons that have influenced you to so disgraceful of course. Your own, and the reputation of your nation are at stake.  Consider what you have done, and what you now ought to do, to redeem the honor of your tribe. Answer me truly; why have you returned and what do you intend to do?

The Sioux chief Lare, (a half Winnebago) said-

My Father. We had a little piece of land over there (pointing west of the Mississippi,) which we wanted to keep for hunting. But you gave us a great deal of trouble about it. We live by our Father there, (pointing to Mr. Rolette, the trader,) and he told us he wanted Rats, and not Scalps. The Sacs and Foxes would not let us hunt on this land, and killed our people. You told us to let them alone, and leave it to our Great Father, and he would settle the quarrel. We wanted to go to war, but you would not let us. and now the land is not ours, and what have we got for it?

The Sacs and Foxes have now begun to kill white people, and you say, go to war, and take your revenge. We came to do so, and you sent us with a little man, (Col. Hamilton) and said he will conduct you to a great Chief, who has many men, and some on horses; he will show you the Sacs and Foxes. We followed him a great way over large wagon roads that were very hard, and our moccasins are worn out, and our feet sore; we can walk no further. Yet we have seen but very few men and horses. The people were not there.- We saw desolated houses, and some places where houses had been burned, and white people killed and left, but no large body of people to help us fight. We were led to a fort (Fort Hamilton) where there were not many people, and we had served until we were tired-we did not want to go any further.  We have seen no large army as you said we would.- The man (Col. Hamilton) whom you sent with us did not use us well, and we turned and came back to you.

Father. We saw a man with much beard, (Gen. Dodge) who had killed eleven Sacs-he is a brave man, and there are brave men along with him, but they are very few. The Sacs and Foxes have killed a great many white men, and are still killing them.  More than a hundred have been killed already, and there are not many more.

Gen. Street. You have now answered the principal inquiry I made of you. What brought you back and do you mean to return? If you are tired, some can ride, as these white men (Cpts. Estes nd James) are going to take horses for Gen. Dodge. He will show you the large army I told you was on Rock River. You did not go far enough to see it. I know of all the white people that have been killed. Some person has told you lies about the numbers.  This though makes no difference with your Great Father; he has a great many white children and when some are killed he sends more.

It was not that your Great Father wanted help from you, that I told you to go to war. It was to give you an opportunity to revenge your slaughtered friends.  Your Father has penned these Indians up, and he means to kill them all; and had you remained you would have seen how his white children rush upon and kill their enemies. He does not ask you to help him; but if you want revenge go and take it. This is what I said to you. And now repeat-if you want to kill the murderers of your friends and families go now and do it; for your Great Father has devoted these Indians to death. He cannot reclaim, and he will kill them.

What I said, was to explain to you how you came to go down, and to remind you of your great anxiety to go against the Sacs and Foxes. I do not mean to take any notice of any part of what you have said, except what related to this business. I want a direct answer. What brought you back and what do you intend to do?

Lare. Our feet are sore, and our moccasins worn out; we want to see our families. We have come thus far, and I think we shall continue on home. Six of our people have remained with the little man (Col. H.), some went by Galena for our canoes, three of these who went to Galena have just arrived. They say the white people will not let them have the canoes and have detained the rest of the Indians.

Father. We want you to write to the white people to let our friends come back, and give us our canoes.

General Street. When I first sent to you, I thought you were men, and wanted to revenge your murdered friends. You had complained of the Sacs and Foxes murdering your friends and being prevented by me from retaliating, and I was willing to give you an opportunity to take your revenge. I gave you liberty to go, and showed you a man to conduct you. I put arms in your hands, and gave you provisions and ammunition, and you have gone within striking distance, and come back, and say you are on your way home.

Your stay is not true. These gentlemen who sent by me, are some of General Dodge's men, they were at the place when you arrived, and came down since you left.  You were kindly treated, and provisions are plenty and were issued to you freely. They also add that you said you came to get new moccasins and would return in a few days. Your complaints are untrue-they are made to excuse your coming. You have not hearts to look at the Indians who murdered your friends and families. Go home to your squaws, and hoe corn- you are not fit to go to war. You have not courage to revenge your wrongs. Your Great Father knows how to right his wrongs, and is able to do it without your help. I gave you an opportunity to revenge yourselves, but you are afraid.

Yesterday one of you gave me his left hand and said-'my other hand is stained with the blood of the Sacs and Foxes.'-  It was untrue; yours was a bloodless campaign. Some of you may have mangled the dead bodies of the Sacs killed by General Dodge and his brave men with him (who know how to kill Indians,) the day before you reached the army. You have not seen or endeavored to see a live Sac or Fox.

Your Great Father gives you some flour and pork to eat-you have no stomachs for war. Go home to your squaws and hoe corn, and never again trouble your Great Father with your anxiety to go to war.

Your canoes shall be returned. Leave here as soon as possible, and if any of you are found drunk, you will be put into confinement.

__________

Note In justice to Mr. Rollette, the Trader alluded to by the Indians, he immediately explained to me, that he did use such language to the Indians; but it was several months previous, when he knew I was endeavoring to prevent the Indians from going to war.

JOS. M. STREET.




      


On last June 7th Michael Waters and Johnson Foreman were appointed as executors of the estate of George Waters, deceased in Ahmohee District, after giving necessary bonds, required by law of the executor.

Therefore all persons indebted to the said estate are required by law to come froward and make payments within 12 months from the 16th of June. Also all persons having claims against the estate are required to come forward and present their claims with the above mentioned time.

MICHAEL WATERS

JOHNSON FOREMAN




      


INDIANS

FROM THE SEAT OF WAR.

General Atkinson and Black Hawk

The following account is from the Calentan and is verified by the passengers on board the boat.

AUGUST 6- Having just returned from the war, we have it in our power to report some cheering intelligence.

The whole army under Gen. Atkinson, embracing the brigades commanded by Gen'ls Henry, Posey, and Alexander; and squadron under command of General Dodge, all crossed over to the north side of the Ouisconsin at Helena on the 28th and 29th ult. They took up a line of march in a northerly direction, in order to intersect the Indian trail. At the distance of about five miles the great trail was discovered, leading in a direction N. of W. towards the Mississippi, and supposed to be about four days old.

Gen. Atkinson seeing the direction of the enemy, knew well that it would require all diligence and expedition to overtake them before they would cross the Mississippi, and hence commenced from that time a forced march; leaving all baggage wagons, and everything else which was calculated to retard the pursuit.

The country through which the enemy's trail led our army, between the Ouisconsin Bluffs and the Kickapoo River, was one continued series of mountains. No sooner had they reached the summit of one high and almost perpendicular hill than they had to descend on the other side equally steep to the base of another.  Nothing but a deep ravine with muddy banks, separated these mountains. The woods, both upon the top of the highest mountains, and at the bottom of the deepest hollows, was of the heaviest growth. The under bushes were chiefly thorn, and prickly ash. This is a short description of the route, and shows the difficulties of the pursuit. Notwithstanding all this, our army gained on the enemy daily as appeared from their encampments. The tedious march thus continued was met by our brave troops without murmur; and as the Indian signs appeared more recent, the officers and men appeared more anxious to push on. On the fourth night of our march from Helena, and at an encampment of the enemy, was discovered an old Sac Indian by our spies, who informed them that the main body of the enemy had on that day gone to the Mississippi, and intended to cross on the next morning Aug. 2d. The horses being nearly broke down, and the men nearly exhausted from fatigue, Gen. Atkinson ordered a halt for a few hours (it being after 8 o'clock) with a determination to start at 2 o'clock for the Mississippi about ten miles distant. At the precise hour, the bugles sounded, and in a short time all were ready to march.

Gen. Dodge's squadron was honored with being placed in front, the infantry followed next, Gen. Henry's brigade next; Gen. Alexander's next, and Gen. Posey's formed the rear guard.

Gen. Dodge called for and soon received 20 volunteer spies to go ahead of the whole army.

In this order the march commenced. They had not, however gone more than 5 miles, before one of our spies came back announcing their having come in sight of the enemy's picket guard. He went back and the intelligence was quickly conveyed to Gen. Atkinson then to all  commanders of the brigades and the celerity of the march was instantly increased. In a few minutes more the firing commenced at about 500 yards ahead of the front of the army, between our spies and the Indian picket guard.

The Indians were driven by our spies from hill to hill, and kept up a tolerably brisk firing from every situation commanding the ground over which our spies had to march, but being charged upon and routed from their hiding places, they sought safety by retreating to the main body on the bank of the river and joining in one general effort to defend themselves there or die on the ground.

Lest some might escape by retreating up or down the river, Gen. Atkinson very judiciously ordered Gen. Alexander and Gen. Posey to form the right wing of the army, and march down to the river above the Indian encampment on the bank, and then move down. Gen. Henry formed the left wing and marched into the trail of the enemy. The U. S. infantry and Gen. Dodge's squadron of the mining troops marched in the center.

With this order our whole force descended the almost perpendicular bluff, and came into a low valley heavily timbered, with a large growth of under brush, weeds and grass. Sloughs, deep ravines, old logs, 'c. were so plentiful as to afford every facility for the enemy to make a strong defence.

Gen. Henry first came upon them and commenced a heavy fire, which was returned by the enemy. The enemy being routed from their first hiding places, sought others.  Gen. Dodge's squadron and the U. States troops soon came into action, and with Gen. Henry's men, rushed into the strong defiles of the enemy, and killed all in their way, except a few who succeeded in swimming a slough of the Mississippi, 150 yards wide. During this time, the brigades of Gen. Alexander and Posey were marching down the river, when they fell in with another part of the enemy's army and killed and routed all that opposed them.

The battle lasted upwards of 3 hours. About 50 of the enemy's women and children were taken prisoner and many by accident were killed in battle.

When the Indians were driven to the edge of the Mississippi, some hundreds of them, women and children, plunged into the river, and hoped by diving, 'c. to escape the bullets of our guns; very few, however, escaped our sharpshooters.

The loss on the side of the enemy never can be exactly ascertained, but according to the best computation, they must have lost in killed upwards of 160. Our loss in killed and wounded was 27.

Some had crossed the river before our arrival, and we learn by a prisoner, that Black Hawk, while the battle waxed warm, had stolen off, and gone up the river on this side. If he did, he took nothing with him, for his valuables, many of them, together with certificates of good character and of his having fought bravely against the United States during the last war, 'c. signed by British officers, were found on the battle ground.

It is the general impression in the army and at this place, that the Sacs would be glad to conclude a peace on almost any terms we might propose.

On the morning of the 4th inst, a party of Sioux came to our camp and begged permission to go on the back trail and have a fight with them. On the same day our whole army started to go down to Prairie du Chien (about 40 miles) and wait further orders.

Gen. Atkinson, accompanied by Gens. Dodge and Posey, with a U. States infantry arrived at the Prairie on the evening of the 4th on board the steamboat Warrior, and will remain until the mounted volunteers arrive.

The Winnebagoes of Prairie du Chien are daily bringing in Sac prisoners and scalps.

On the same day; a party of 15 men from Casville, under command of Capt. Price were reconnoitering the country between that place and the Wisconsin, and fell upon a fresh Sac trail making towards the Mississippi. They rushed with full speed of horses and soon came upon them, and killing and taking prisoners to the number of 12.

Gen. Scott and staff left here this morning for Prairie du Chien on the steamboat Warrior, to join Gen. Atkinson.




      


Indian Emigration.-- We publish below the law of the United States for the appointment of Commissioners to superintend the emigration of Indians, 'c.  The power granted by this act to the Commissioners are very large. The gentlemen appointed by the President are, Mr. Roberts Vaux of Philadelphia, well known in every philanthropic undertaking; Mr. Carrol, formerly Governor of Tennessee, and Mr. Stokes formerly Governor of North Carolina.

An act to provide for the appointment of three Commissioners to treat with the Indians, and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled; That the President shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint three Commissioners, who shall visit and examine the country set apart for the emigrating Indians, west of the Mississippi River; and shall when it is necessary, enter into negotiations with them for the adjustment of any difficulties which may exist in the location of the lands of the emigrating Indians in the boundaries thereof. Such commissioners shall also ascertain and report the proper places of location of such of the tribes and portions of tribes, as may yet wish to remove to that country, and shall transmit to the War Department all the information they can procure respecting its climate, soil, and capacity to support the number of Indians who will probably remove to and reside in it.

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, that the said commissioners shall be authorized to convene together such of the tribes as may be in a state of hostility, or as may be apparently disposed to commit, or may have committed depredations or aggressions against others, and to endeavor to arrange the difficulties between them so that the protection promised to the emigrating Indians by the sixth section of the act of May twenty-eighth, one thousand eight hundred and thirty, may be secured to them

Sec. 3. And be it further enacted. That the said Commissioners shall also report to the War Department a plan for the improvement; government and security of the Indians.

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the said Commissioners shall inquire into the mode in which the business of emigration has been conducted, and report any changes which would render the same more economical or better adapted to the comfort and condition of the Indians.

Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That in the discharge of their duties, the said Commissioners shall be regulated by such instructions as they may receive from the War Department.

Sec. 6. And be it further enacted. That twenty thousand dollars be appropriated for the purpose of carrying the provisions of this act into effect, and the same is appropriated to be paid out of the money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That this act shall be in force for the term of two years, and no longer.

Approved July 14, 1832

Henry L. Ellsworth of Connecticut has been appointed one of the Commissioners to superintend the removal of emigrating Indians, in the place of Roberts Vaux, who declines the appointment.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, Sept. 8, 1832

The Editorial department of the Cherokee Phoenix having been relinquished by the resignation of Mr. Elias Boudinot, the authorities of the Nation have authorized and appointed the undersigned to perform that delicate and responsible trust as the future Editor of this paper.

In entering upon the duties assigned by this appointment, it is due to the public to state that in succeeding the former respectable and highly gifted Editor, ' having discharged his duties with the ability, and firmness which have sustained the great rights of the Cherokee people, sanctioned by the approval of an intelligent public, it is with no ordinary feeling of diffidence and incompetency that I enter upon the arduous duties of conducting the Editorial department, which shall have for its primary object the maintenance of the rights of the Cherokees, the diffusion of knowledge and science, that will meet with a similar approbation of the public mind.

The literary acquirements which is essentially requisite at all times to enable an Editor to furnish subjects written to a style of language that shall meet the taste of its readers, the undersigned would make no pretensions.

The principles by which I shall be governed in the publication of this paper shall be that contained in the prospectus, issued by the former Editor, at the commencement of this paper.

To our home readers it is necessary to inform them, that the former Editor together with his assistant found it impossible to comply with the prospectus, ' after repeated and laborious efforts made for furnishing the requisite quantum of matter in the Cherokee language, the labor of these men were inadequate to prepare materials sufficient for that part of the paper so anxiously looked for by our Cherokee readers.  To this deficiency the present Editor can promise no improvement. However, difficult as the labor may be in this part of the paper, the Editor promises to publish as much Cherokee as he can prepare, apart from his other labors.

In assuming the duties as Editor of the paper, no efforts on my part shall be withheld to maintain the merit at which it had arrived during the labor of its former Editor. The undersigned would therefore desire of those friendly persons who have patronized the Cherokee Phoenix to continue their subscriptions, and to the public generally he would respectfully solicit an increased patronage.

ELIJAH HICKS.

We publish in another part of this paper an act passed by the late Congress of the United States for the appointment of three Commissioners to visit the Western Indians, together with those who have emigrated thereto in order to the establishment of certain boundary lines that may remain unadjusted, and to report a plan for the government of the Indians. The right of the United States to dictate a code of laws for the government of the Indians who have emigrated west of the Mississippi cannot now be doubted. Preliminary to the exercise of this power, we do not hesitate to pronounce this law to be its ostensible object. The Constitution of the United States does not give the power to Congress to create independent communities of Indians west of the Mississippi; and to relinquish their right of jurisdiction to the same; but it is on the other hand provided that new states should be admitted into the Union, and consequently on the vacant territories of the United States. The binding obligations of one treaty with each of these small emigrant tribe of Indians, fled from the very furnace of oppression; will be construed by the government as nugatory and not made in accordance with the spirit of the federal Constitution. If the President of the U. States cannot falter, as he has done, to refuse the execution of every article of 16 of the most solemn treaties with the Cherokees recognized by his own government to be constitutional and binding, and destroy all the rights and benefits arising from them; will it not be a mockery of reason to say that such a President would be bound by a compact at least doubtful of it legality, when the high demands of justice, and constitutional law have not forced him to regard the former?  We predict that the cases which compelled some of the Southern Indians to emigrate west of the Mississippi, in order to participate in the enjoyment and blessings of liberty inherited from our fathers will sooner or later reach them, when they will be constrained to abide by such laws and regulations as the government will give them.

________________________

We publish below the letter of Lewis Cass Secretary of War to the Cherokees, containing the general basis on which he proposes to enter a treaty for the removal of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi; and the answer of the Cherokee Council held at Red Clay signed by all the members of the Council, which we have necessarily omitted to annex.  Mr. Chester who was appointed by the Secretary to be the bearer of this letter, we understand was instructed to deliver it to those who may be authorized to receive it, and in accordance with his instructions delivered the letter to the principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, and by him submitted to the Council. These proceedings of the U. S. messenger seem to us to recognize in the aplmost (sic) manner the sovereignty of the Cherokee Nation over which the President have so unceasingly connive at and in his various messages surrendered to the legislation of the States. Altho' the Cherokees have suffered much under the administration of President Jackson, it will be seen that no change has taken place in the determination of the Cherokees to maintain their rights as secured to them by treaties. To abolish these treaties as a measure by which to enable the President to acquire the Cherokee country we presume must now soon be abandoned. The decision of the Supreme Court having been made fully to sustain all the rights of the Cherokees and withal the supreme law of the land; must consequently supersede all other conflicting measures or else the United States will as soon cease to exist as a government of regular law.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

April 17th, 1832

MY FRIENDS,

Your great father the President of the United States, has recently been informed, that a change was probably taken place in the sentiments you have heretofore entertained on the subject of a removal to the Country west of the Mississippi and that propositions from the government, having that object in view, would be favorably received by you. Satisfied as the President is, that this measure can alone secure to you permanent prosperity, and lay the solid foundations of your future improvement and civilization, and prepared as he ever has been to make you offers, which shall be not only just, but liberal, he has instructed me to address you upon the subject, and to make known to you the stipulations he is willing to grant; so far as his authority extends. I have therefore to request that you will take the matter into your serious consideration and communicate to me your ultimate decision.

The President is willing to enter into an arrangement for your removal west of the Mississippi upon the following general principles.

1. That a country, sufficiently extensive and fertile, shall be distinctly marked out, west of the Territory of Arkansas, for you and your brethren, where they now are.

2. That this country shall be surveyed by you by patent, under the provisions of the Act, 1830, and that it shall be forever without the boundaries of any State or Territory.

3. That you shall have all the powers of self government, so far as may be compatible with that general supervisory authority, which it is necessary Congress should exercise over you.

4. That you shall have the privilege of appointing an agent, who shall reside at Washington, to communicate your claims and wishes to the government; and who shall be paid by the United States.

5. That if Congress assent to the measure you shall be allowed a delegate to that body, and shall also when your improvement and other circumstances will permit, and when Congress think proper, be placed in the relation of a Territory.

6. That all white persons, unless specially authorized by the laws of the United States shall be excluded from your country.

7. That you shall remove to your new country at the expense of the United States, in either of the following modes you may prefer.

1. By a commutation to be allowed to individuals or families.

2. By persons to be appointed and paid by the United States.

3. By arrangement to be made among yourselves, by which some of those who are competent to the undertaking, may remove all your people at a rate to be fixed.

8. That subsistence shall be provided by the United States for the term of one year, after you reach your destination.

9. That an annuity, proportioned to the value of the cession you may make, be secured to you.

10. That all the improvements upon the ceded territory which add real value to the land be appraised and paid for.

11. That ample provision be made for the support of schools and teachers and of blacksmiths 'c. for the supply of steel and iron, and for the erection of mills, school houses, Cherokees council houses, and houses for a few of the principal chiefs.

12. That a rifle and equipments be given to each male adult; that a quantity of blankets be allowed to your families; together with axes, hoes, wheels, cards, and looms.

13. That your stock be valued and paid for by the United States.

14. That the annuities due to you by former treaties, be paid to you west of the Mississippi.

15. That provision be made for your orphan children.

16. That protection be guaranteed to you against the hostile effect of any other Indians.

17 It is the wish of the President, that all your people should remove, and he is therefore unwilling that any reservations of land should be made in the ceded territory. Still he would not make this an indispensable condition, but would agree should it be found necessary, that reservations should be made for a few of your people, in situations and under circumstances rendering such a measure proper, and within the scope of this legal authority. But your people must distinctly understand that those who remain will become citizens of the state in which they may reside, and that all the relations between them and the United States, founded upon previous circumstances, as Indians must cease.

These are the general terms I have been directed by the President to offer to you. They form an outline of an arrangement, which can be filed up when you are prepared to enter into a negotiation. The details and any other stipulations you may ask, will more properly be discussed and determined, when your views of the matter are known, and the ultimate mode of proceedings adopted.

If you are prepared to assume these propositions as the basis of a negotiation, can appoint your agents to come on to this place clothed with authority to act, or the President will appoint commissioners to meet with you in Council and conclude the affair.

I cannot but hope that your will see in this frank and liberal offer full evidence of the desire of the President that the difficulties of your present situation may be removed, and your future destinies place beyond the reach of those causes which have occasioned such misery to the Indian race.

Shut your ears I entreat you to bad counsels, if any such should be offered to you. Whatever may be told of you, it is impossible you can remain where you now are and prosper. And if you persist in the effort the time of regret will come. I am afraid after the most injury to yourselves.

Your friend

(Signed) LEWIS CASS .

To the CHEROKEE east of the Mississippi

_______________________

In General Council Convened at Red Clay, Cherokee Nation August 6th 1832.

The Honorable L. Cass, Secretary of War.

Sir:- Your letter bearing date the 17th of April last, containing certain propositions as the genl. terms upon which the President is willing to treat with this Nation, has been received through the hands of Elisha W. Chester, Esq. It is with much astonishment we learn from this letter the President has been informed, that a change had probably taken place in the sentiment, this Nation heretofore entertained on the subject of a removal to the country west of the Mississippi, and that propositions from the Government having that object in view would be favorably received.

The subject matter has been fully considered together with the peculiar embarrassments that now surround us; and in compliance with your request we proceed to our reply. In the first place we wish to call your attention to the decisions of the Nation on former occasions on this subject, and to inform the President that the true sentiments of the Cherokee people remains the same.- That the basis of his propositions is objectionable, and that the Nation is placed in duress. From the  illegal proceedings of Georgia in assuming to exercise jurisdiction over a large portion of our Territory, and by placing a military force with other officers of her own creating in our country for the purpose of oppressing our citizens. She has also introduced a great many many of her citizens among us, to intrude on our lands and in her chief magistrate the discretionary power of drawing a lottery for the occupation of them. And in the peculiar state of things, the protecting arm of the President is withheld from the enforcement of the treaties and laws of the United States made for the protection of our national rights. And moreover divers agents of the General Government have been commissioned for the purpose of enlisting our citizens as emigrants for the country west of the Mississippi, and in the prosecuting of this business some of them have been seduced under circumstances calculated to create disquietude and disagreeable feelings. But let the President remove all the difficulties arising from unjust measures and afford us that necessary protection which is solemnly guaranteed to us by treaties; and then the exercise of that privilege which is so essential to the enjoyment of freedom would place us at liberty to reflect, speak, and act freely on the subject of our national interest and welfare.--In conclusion we would respectfully call your attention to the frequent complaints which have been made to the Department against the numerous intrusions on our lands bordering on the boundaries of the several adjoining States; and to urge the removal of the intruders.

Very respectfully your friend and Ob't Servants

(Signed; by all the members of the General Council.)




      


The Detroit Journal contains a letter from Dr. Houghton dated La Pointe, Lake Superior, June 21st, when mention that during the past winter a band of Muskegons or Mountaineers, speaking a dialect of the Chippewa language, fell upon a trading post situated on the Napagon River, belonging to the Hon. Hudson Bay Company, and murdered, indiscriminately all the traders occupying the post. This induced the Company to collect their forces from different posts, and to send them against the band of Indians. An action took place, in which twenty traders and Indians were killed. The difficulties still remain unsettled.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA Sept. 8, 1832 (Note this is the date printed. It should be 15)

General Jackson's accession to the presidency produced a revolution of their relations with the Indian tribes, who were at that time considered to exist within the limits of the several states. He announced to Congress the cessation of the guardian care of the government, on the legislation of the states over these Indian tribes.- With the Cherokees the United States had entered into the most formal treaties known and authorized by the Constitution of the United States for the protection of their Nation and their landed property. The President seemed to believe that the exercise of state jurisdiction over these Indians, would abrogate the treaties, to which the states themselves were a party;and consequently the federal power could not be interposed in the proceedings of the states in this case. How this could be done and accomplished, without the grossest violation of our treaties,and the exercise of arbitrary power, our limited capacities could not comprehend. But strange as this policy of the President would appear to be, coming into conflict as it did, with the treaties declared by every President of the United States, should be obligatory, and to be the law of the land; this policy has nevertheless proved efficient to suspend the operation of our treaties, and enabled the State of Georgia to invade our territory and take forcibly possession of our gold mines. A redress

from this administration has from time to time been sought in the most becoming and respectful manner, for the restoration of the rights of which they had deprived us, but as yet the President has refused to exercise his protecting care over those rights which had been placed exclusively under the protection of the United States. The Cherokee people are a part of the great family of mankind, their rights to the great property claimed, and which is now attempted to be wrested from them by usurpation are equally as strong and as valid as if it was the property of England or of France. The Cherokee question was a plain question, prior to the existence of the present executive; the government from its commencement throughout its different administrations had firmly and honorably sustained them to the extent demanded by the Cherokees. But the President with numberless sophisms invented for the express purpose of weakening the claims of the Cherokees, have encouraged the States the exercise of their unconstitutional and extremely oppressive laws over the Cherokee; to depress them, and then enable the President to conclude a treaty and acquire their property.- This course have been regarded we believe, by the President as the only one by which the Cherokee property could be obtained.  But the late trial to effect a treaty under this system with the suffering victims of his perfidy has totally failed. What is the consequence? The prospect of relief from the present administration is not to be anticipated, and the Cherokees must peaceably, and firmly however great our sufferings may continue to be, under the policy of President Jackson, look to a change of his administration, for the restoration of our rights to their original foundation. It is therefore necessary to inform our home reader of the extent the President has exercised this unbridled power, in suspending the operation of our treaties, on questions of great importance, in his own government of a local nature. On a late occasion the two houses of Congress passed a bill for rechartering the bank of the United States by large majorities; when the bill came before the President for his approval, he refused his assent to it, chiefly on the ground that Congress had not consulted him before proceeding to pass the bill, and seemed to impute a blame on that supreme department of the government for the liberty it had exercised in creating that bill. On a recurrence to the Constitution of the United States the powers of Congress in certain cases are so transcendent and absolute, that it can pass a law that will virtually bind the President, notwithstanding he may have objections. In  ordinary cases the President possesses the constitutional power of approving or rejecting a bill. If the President can object to an act of Congress, because he was not consulted previously to its passage, then the principles of the federal government is subverted, and the power of the several departments of the government is assumed by the President. These are the kindred principles which have been exercised over our persons and our Nation for three years past, and when the people of the United States have to submit to the exercise of a power over them, by the President, which have not been granted to him, there can be no impropriety, however painful it may be, in anticipating the continuance of our difficulties under the present administration. Georgia and the lottery in the meantime, is in a course of preparation for the drawing of the Cherokee lands, an act if suffered to be consummated, by the enlightened state or the general government, ' the lands possessed it will be a deed that the wicked themselves will scarcely exult; all the gold that will be dug out of the Cherokee country, will be no indemnity to the loss of the American reputation, that will descend to the coming annals of this great ' once noble nation ' a mournful commentary on the justice of free governments.  To avert the calamity is within the competency of the general government, and for the preservation of its sacred honor, we hope will yet be regarded.

____________________________

CONTINUATION OF OPPRESSION

When the United States troops were station ed at the Sixes Gold mines some Georgia officers from Carrol County entered the Nation for the purpose of serving writs on some Cherokees at Hightower.- Lieut. Fowler who was commandant at that place, authorized Captain Old Fields to arrest the officers and deliver them over to him. Capt. Old Fields, and with a small company of Cherokees, arrested these men and delivered them over to the United States officers, who subsequently released them. An action was instituted by one of the officers in the Georgia courts against Captain Old Fields to recover damages, for false imprisonment, and as justice belong, exclusively to Georgians, judgment was obtained, and executed recently, to the loss of all Capt. Old Fields' property. If there was ever a hard case occurred since the commencement of our oppressions, none have come to pass that would bear a comparison to the present one. The United States troops authorized this arrest, and the poor honest Indian had to suffer all.

______________________

THE GEORGIA MILITIA.

General Coffee commander of the Georgia Guard sent a detachment of the Guard, on an expedition we understand to arrest the Principal of the Cherokee Nation at the Head of Coosa on a charge of passing some laws at the late council, appointing some sheriffs and constables in Ahmohee and Aquohee Districts. However, we are unable to state that the mansion of the Chief was not besieged, but put a few interrogatories, and responded to as often by the chief, and guard came off without a prisoner.

___________________

The Federal Union, a Georgia paper, while enlightening his readers on the desperate efforts that are making to defeat the re-election of President Jackson, he tells them 'never give up Jackson till he descends to his grave.' If we lose Jackson, our whole domestic difficulties come down a fresh upon us ' way go our Cherokee lands, our gold mines to the Indians.'!! There is not a little disquisition at the bottom of the Union on this point; if he will suffer the highest moral principle that the human mind is susceptible-justice- to govern the question of rights, he would not say`our gold mines' but the gold mines of the Cherokee Nation.

_________________

What has become of the boasted free men of the United States, that have shed oceans of blood for the recovery of the lost rights of man?

____________________

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

There is one sentence in your introductory remarks of last week which may be misapprehended by some of your readers, and which requires corruption. It is this- 'To our home readers it is necessary to inform them, that the former Editor together with his assistant' 'c.

During the time I have acted as editor of the Phoenix, which has been more than four years, I have had no assistant but Mr. S. Foreman, who acted in that capacity only six months. When he resigned, which he did on account of ill health, the vacancy was not filled, because the Council had made no provision for the appointment of another person.

Very respectfully,

ELIAS BOUDINOT.

New Echota, Sept. 10th 1832

__________________________

September 7th 1832

Mr. Editor--Having read and considered a piece on the Phoenix published Aug 25th signed Rocky Mountain, in which says he feels a very great attachment to his native land and also to be governed by his own chiefs and by laws in his own language (the Cherokee) 'c. He also says 'he is one who loves the chiefs and believes that they are good men and true.' He next inquires why Mr. Ross' Message to the Council at Red Clay was not published and what was his views and hopes of readjustment of our rights 'c.

Now if it be so that Rocky Mountain is as much attached to his country, his chiefs and language (the Cherokee) and also believes in their goodness and integrity as he says he does, and also having no pretention to learning; methinks he would not have made a public inquiry in English in order to find out the views and hopes of his chiefs, me thinks he would have gone to his chiefs and lawmakers, and if they are the men he takes them to be, they would tell him their views and hopes in his own language, the Cherokee, and no doubt would give him any satisfaction on any point and he could not doubt or disbelieve. If he has or will read the principal Chief's Message to the Council at Red Clay accompanying the letter of resignation of the Editor of the Phoenix. He may then satisfy himself in respect to the views and hopes of the principal Chief and on what founded which was published in the Phoenix of the 11th Aug.

He also presumes that the principal Chief also had no comfort. We all know and feel that we are not in a comfortable situation but yet we have hope.  This was the feelings of our principal Chief.

In reading in the first part of the Book of Job (which will nearly bear comparing the present trying times of us poor Cherokee, to that passage as related in said Book.* 'That there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord,and Satan also came among them, and the Lord said unto Satan hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil? Then Satan answered the Lord, and said, doth Job fear God for nought? Hast thou not made an hedge about him, and about his house and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land; But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face, and the Lord said unto Satan, behold, all that he hath is in thy power, only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord.' Now when Satan had obtained liberty from the Lord to scourge Job as he pleased, (as Georgia has liberty from the President to scourge us Cherokees) it appears he had all the property and substance belonging to Job destroyed and taken away together. And in process of time finding that would not do he again asks leave of the Lord to afflict Job's body and it was granted; and he smote him with sores and boils from the sole of his foot to his crown. ' But in all this Job sinned not nor charged God foolishly.'  Now, sir, if Rocky Mountain is sincere and believes as he says in his chiefs and legislators, let us now encourage them and all our people to hold fast to their integrity and be steadfast in the faith, and let us try to comfort them and show ourselves friends to them and lovers of our country; and let them act as Job did of old forever after all his earthly substance was gone and his body full of sores and boils which is not quite the case with us yet, he still was true and firm and retained his integrity.

But let us not say unto them at this time of trouble and sorrow as Job's wife said unto him, 'Curse God and die.'  Let us yet hold up our heads and with our hearts lifted up, and not say there is no hope because the people of the United States are silent about us, and because we are given over to a haughty people to rob us every day, because Gen. Jackson will not execute the laws of the United States, and because our friends also have despaired. Why does Georgia rob us every day? Because the people of the United States happened in an unlucky hour to place a man at the head of their government who has declared that he cannot, that he is not able to execute the laws of the United States; after their being placed in his hands and having also all the assistance and power that Congress and all the people of the United States can give him (who is the first President who has cried out weakness when he had all the power requisite in his hands) I cannot see why our friends should yet despair. If they have any confidence in their own and in the virtue of the people of the United States, they would not yet despair because a virtuous magnanimous and patriotic people as the people of the United States profess to be, will not have a man at their head who can as he says do nothing, when Congress have already passed laws sufficient.

'As for the broad shield of the United States being withdrawn', I cannot think so, it would only seem so from the conduct of our palsied and powerless Father the President, for all laws passed by Congress for our protection are yet unrepealed.

Rocky Mountain goes on to ask 'has the tomahawk saved us?' I answer, we have raised the tomahawk by the request of the pale faces and assisted them, and it has saved us for the time, when we had such a father who was able and willing to acknowledge and protect us for it. He asks, 'has the pipe of peace smoked in councils saved us?'  I answer, I believe, it has so far and will eventually be the means of saving us, if we are wise and continue it as we have done heretofore, and can get a Father the President who is healthy, strong and willing.

He also asks,'has Civilization and Christianity saved us?' I answer they have; it is those very things which have led us along and brought us on to what we now are and call not on our dear missionaries to say that Civilization and Christianity have not or will not save us, for if their faith and hope of salvation was not in those things, they would not be where they now are in the walls of the Penitentiary and suffering for Christianity's sake, and us poor Cherokees. Have we tried them sufficiently to know if they will save us?

And lastly he says, he trusts and believes that we will take our women and children and go to the shores of the Pacific, and leap out of this accursed state of Pupillage. I cannot call it accursed, but perhaps become so, if we are doomed to have such guardians always. But it has been under the fostering care of the government of the United States that we are what we are, and would still be improving and flourishing if it were not for the present guardian,and who we have to call our Father the President.  But if the people of the United States, the boasted sons of liberty, will be imposed upon so far and have their liberties wrested from them by a man of their own choice as is in the case of the missionaries now in the penitentiary, then I say that people must fall and we will be obliged also to fall with them.

LONE MOUNTAIN.

_______

*I will for distinction sake call our Father the President the Lord, Georgia Satan, and the Cherokees Job.

_____________________________

THE LAND ' GOLD LOTTERIES

We are often asked when the Lotteries will commence. We answer, so soon as necessary preparations are completed, which are now progressing as rapidly as possible. It is expected that the drawing will commence early in October. And we assure the public that there will be no delay on the part of the public authorities at Milledgeville. A few of the surveyors have not yet completed their work. We are at a loss to account for their delay.  Nothing but the absence of their returns to the proper office will delay the Commissioners of the Lottery in the progress of their arduous labors.

_____________________________

THE INDIAN WAR

We have not been an attentive observer of the progress of the Indian War though we have made little remark on the subject.  We cannot help being in it one of the bloody consequences to be expected from the coercive and iniquitous policy adopted by Gen. Jackson in his treatment of the Indians. They have been driven by petty persecution and crafty negotiation from the broad hunting grounds and fertile savannahs east of the Mississippi, to the barren plains destitute of game on the west of the river.  Their request to hunt on their old grounds has been denied; and they have, driven by hunger, ventured to pursue game within the State of Illinois, in disregard of prohibitions. This is their offence; and by this offence they are involved in a war, which Gen. Jackson so far as we can learn, means to make a war of extermination, thus far conducted with much cruelty, but with little success.

It does indeed at most seem as if the hand of God was stretched forth to protect the Indians. As yet they have sustained but little harm; while the army prepared to destroy them, has been scattered by the pestilence. Where is the gallant hand which but now, confident in spirits, went from among us to the savage! The sword, of an unseen enemy has fallen upon them, and they have fallen in highways and in the dim forests, fleeing from the hand of the Almighty. Oh! that our country might loan justice.




      


MISCELLANEOUS.

From Atwater's remarks on a Tour to Prairie du Chien.

MINERAL REGION-GALENA.

The region contains the richest lead mines in the known world.- When I was there, these mines had been worked only about 3 years, by comparatively but a few persons, who were ignorant of the business they followed, and they labored under almost every disadvantage, yet they had manufactured in that time more than thirty millions of pounds of lead.  This had been carried to the Atlantic cities, and had reduced the price of lead, in all its forms, one half. In the mineral country it was selling at the mines for one cent a pound; at Philadelphia, for three and a half cents a pound.

Though I brought away from the mines specimens of every sort of lead ore, accompanied by statements given where, and how procured; the quantity made at each smelting establishment, and other information relating to it, and all thrown, too, into a tabular form; yet in a popular little book like this, it might not be interesting to the general reader, such as read what I am now writing, and I pass it by.

The lead region in the U. States, has nearly paralell with the Atlantic Ocean, from the north east towards the south west.  Or in other words, this region occupies the same space that the Alleghanies do. It begins in the same latitude these mountains do in the same latitude north, and ends in the same latitude. From the Wisconsin in the north, to Red River of Arkansas in the north, ' in breadth, from east to west, the lead region occupies about one hundred and fifty miles of longitude. In some places it has very deep in the earth, and it lies the deepest, about half way between its extreme ends. At its northern and southern terminations, it ascends to the very surface of the earth, and is there found, even on the surface other on the highest grounds (except the mounds) or in the rivers. On the little _______ I could have filled our little wagon, often as we passed over them with beautiful specimens of the phosphate of lead.

The Mississippi passes through the region from latitude 43 degrees 30 minutes north to latitude 38 degrees north.

On the western shore of the Mississippi, opposite Rock Island, and extending north one hundred miles from indubitable appearances every where as I passed along, all that country must contain exhaustless lead mines.

From the vast region where this mineral exists extending through ten degrees of latitude, in width, too, in places, three degrees of longitude-from its richness, (it being in many places nearly pure lead) considering also the ease with which it is obtained, and its vast abundance, we may sagely conclude that we have lead ore enough for all mankind for ever within our own territory.

Copper ore is found in the mineral region, and one hundred and seventy tons of it, (a sulfurate) had been dug at Mineral Point, before I left the country. Its richness had not been sufficiently tested at that time.

Fossil coal exists, near the head of Rock Island, on the western side of the hill, where I saw it in place, and my information enables me to say, without doubt that great bodies of this coal exist on a branch of Rock River, rising south west of the main river, more than one hundred miles from its mouth. This coal may be reached by boats, and easily floated down the river to rocky Island.

On the west side of the Mississippi, above the State of Missouri, there is territory sufficient for two states, each larger than Virginia. If the upper country should be formed states, they would eventually be the most populous and powerful states in the whole confederacy. Nature has intended that a vast region for thirty millions of human beings at some not very remote period of time. For purity of air and of water-for mineral wealth, fertility of soil, healthiness of climate and almost every other thing valuable to man, the whole country is equal to any portion of the earth's surface.

The future population of this vast region, dwelling as they will on the highest table land in the United States, can easily descend the water courses, either Northwardly down Red River, to Hudson's Bay; or southwardly down the Mississippi to N. Orleans-eastwardly down our northern Lakes to N. York, or down the St. Lawrence to Quebec. Nature has opened these roads to and from this region, and man is now using them.  During the next hundred years, Ohio, as a state, will take the lead in wealth and business, and in the number of her people, compared with any state west of the Alleghanies; but eventually Missouri, and any one of the states to be formed on the upper Mississippi may surpass us in numbers, wealth, and political power. Should not one of the states I have referred to eventually become the most powerful, than Ohio must be at the very head of our confederacy forever.

Should our people never settle the country west of the Rocky Mountains, (though I fell assured of a row of states on the Pacific equaling our Atlantic ones, within a century to come) yet there will be at no distant day, a tier of States, north-north west and west of Illinois, Missouri and Arkansas, which will eventually become populous, wealthy, and powerful States.

To all human appearance the census of 1840 will place the national government in the hands of the people in the valley of the Mississippi. To resist this event, would involve the necessity of preventing the revolution of the earth around the sun and upon its axis, and the whole course of nature. To mourn over it, involves the extreme folly of repining at the happy lot of a majority of the nation-and our posterity forever. From the growth of this nation, the lover of liberty- has nothing to fear, because our people from the cradles are taught to be republicans. They are such, as if by instinct, and these principles, which tend to make them MEN are taught them from the first moment they see the light, breath American air, and taste their mother's milk.

In resuming my personal narrative, I have little to say about Edwardsville, where the reader left me. Its location is nine miles east of Alton on the Mississippi, and twenty miles north of St. Louis.

The same remarks might be made of all the country west of the Wabash, extending from the Mexican Gulf to the Frozen Ocean, parts of Louisiana, where the pine woods are and also where some persons wish to locate all the Indians, excepted. With the exceptions already made from the Wabash directly westward-and from the Mississippi below lat. 37 degrees north, that whole region is one vast meadow. Its soil is as fertile as any land can be, and when planted with trees and cultivated by good husbandmen, it will furnish food enough for three hundred millions of people.-

Grass enough now grows there for all the tame animals, whose food is grass now, in the world.

This vast region, in its present state, is of little value, but the time will certainly arrive when it will be covered by farms and animated with countless millions of domestic animals. Their golden harvests will wave before every breath of air that moves over its surface--the great and splendid cities will rear their tall and glittering spires, and the countless millions of happy human beings will live and move, and display talents that will enable man, and virtues that will adorn and render him happy.

The longest, the most durable and best rivers in the world, intersect and pass through this country, standing on whose banks there will yet be some of the largest cities in the world.  Comparatively speaking, but few persons in the world have ever beheld this country. No tongue and no author have described it; but it is there--it will be seen--it will be described, and it will be settled, improved and occupied by countless millions of the human race. Its rivers will be cleared of the impediments to navigation, all the way to the Rocky Mountains; the roaring of the guns of the steamers, the stage driver's horn and the loud huzzahs of happy thoughts will soon be heard along all these rivers and at the very foot of these mountains.

Infinite wisdom and infinite goodness never created on this earth so fine a country as this, and to suppose for a moment that it will not be thickly settle, used and improved by unnumbered millions of men, involves so poor-so contemptuous an opinion of men, that I instantly and indignantly discard it from my mind.




      


BLACK HAWK'S INVASION.- This bold fellow, who has occasioned so much distress on the North Western Frontier, for some months past, has at length paid pretty dearly for his temerity. His whole loss down to the 3rd August, is estimated at 400 killed and 150 prisoners.  About 150 were slain in the engagement of the 2d inst. particulars of which were given in our last,-33 to 25 in the affair of the steamboat Warrior, on the 1st inst., 68 in the action with Gen. Dodge and Henry on the Ouisconsin,-and about 200 in various skirmishes previously. The 70 prisoners taken on the engagement of the 2d inst. About 100 horses were also taken. In the affair with the steamboat Warrior, it is estimated that the Indians fired from (sic) 1500 balls. They however proved themselves very bad marksmen, unless the boat was too distant for the range of their muskets, as only 50 of their shots struck her, and only one man on board was wounded. Nothing certain is known of the fate of Black Hawk. A prisoner reports, that the man who stood next to him was killed by the first discharge of the six pounder on board the boat, and that in the midst of the action, he himself retreated up the river.




      


MR. VAUX of Philadelphia, was lately appointed to an office by the President. It appears that he declined accepting for the following reason, among others:

'The appointment of a military force to attend the commissioners, might, he thought impose obligations which, as a member of the Religious Society of Friends, he could not consistently assume.'

The same reason may induce him to forbear to support the General for President.




      


JACKSON AND THE SUPREME COURT.

At the next session of the Supreme Court, application will no doubt be made on behalf of the imprisoned Georgia Missionaries for further process out of that court, to enforce the decision by which their imprisonment has been declared illegal. The court will no doubt order the Marshal for the District of Georgia, to release the prisoners, or take some active step towards their deliverance.  Nothing, however, can be done without force. Force on the part of the United States, will be forcibly resisted by the authorities of Georgia; and nothing can carry into effect the decision and sustain the dignity of the court, except the active and immediate support of the Supreme Executive.

But General Jackson has great gifts in the legal way. He construes the Constitution for himself, and scorns to take the interpretation of the court. In his opinion are wrong and Georgia is right. What support than can be expected from General Jackson? What aid to a tribunal which he abhors? What assistance towards enforcing a sentence, which he in his wisdom pronounces unjust and unconstitutional? None-we may safely answer-none.

And we might pray (sic) are ourselves to lament the disgrace, and the destruction of the Supreme Court; and this regulator, this balance wheel of the Constitution laid aside, we might anticipate that the Constitution itself would run to ruin-were it not for one consideration of no little importance-viz: General Jackson will not be re-elected.

General Jackson will not be re-elected. The Supreme Court then is safe. The Constitution is safe, the country safe.  With an able, trustworthy President we shall be able to weather any storm. It is only when our pilot is inefficient, and false to his duty, that our ship is in danger.  It is only when the management of the vessel is usurped by a gang of piratical plunderers, whose object is to complete the voyage, but to enrich themselves, that shipwreck is probable.  With Clay for our commander, we need not fear any tempest.

Boston Atlas.




      


Penebscot Indians:- A party of these Indians, about forty or fifty in number, have lately made a visit and pitched their temporary wigwams at Belfast, Me.  Considerable improvement is visible, it is said, in their character and condition. They are no longer victims to the vice of intemperance. They attribute their reformation to the influence of their priest. A white house with green door, is now the delight and pride of the young chiefs.

The Workingmen's Advocate relates an interesting story told by Capt. Stanislaus, one of the above mentioned visitors, and which is in substance this:- John Neptune, his brother, Capt. Paul Tomer and his son Louis Tomer, left Old Town last autumn with their canoes and took with them provisions and apparatus suitable for a hunting expedition. They ascended as far as the head waters of the Penebscot River, travelled the unbroken wilderness until they struck the St. Lawrence about forty miles below Quebec;- here they hired a chebacco boat and were carried to the outlet of Salmon River where again took their own canoes and went up far beyond the traces of civilized or savage life. They found plenty of game and they spent the winter trapping the beaver, otter, sable, and musk-rat, in which employment they were successful, having taken furs to the amount of $1500.

Thus far they were fortunate; but they had intruded upon the hunting ground of his MAJESTY who had reserved this very spot for a tribe in the vicinity, whose furs they monopolized by the Government. John Neptune and his party knew of this, and in ascending and descending the river, they secreted themselves and their canoes by day, and silently pursued their way by night, lest they should be discovered by those jealous sentinels who had been appointed to seize any who should venture to intrude upon the dominions of the King.

On returning homeward and when near the Salmon river the hunting party began to feel themselves in less danger and neglected to secrets their guns, and the consequence was that they were discovered by a custom house officer, while encamped with their guns lying round them, who immediately demanded them as the property of the King. The Penebscots refused to give them up. The officer then dispatched his son for a reinforcement who soon returned with 20 Canadians and 10 Indians. The furs were again demanded and on forcibly attempting to remove them a fight ensued with continued for sometime. The Penebscots were by far the weaker party. Captain Stanislaus says:

'John Neptune he seize them two English; he hold him still, when a third English he came up behind and strike John between he's shoulders hard with the pole of an ax-John let go-drop down-give up. The British then took all the furs, canoes, traps, provisions, and everything else they possessed, and left our poor fellows entirely destitute.

The next day John and his party went to see the officer. He told them as they were American Indians and not supposed accounted with the law, he would give them up everything but their furs; but should they ever again be caught hunting upon the King's lands, they would be imprisoned at Quebec.

This occurrence happened five weeks ago.




      


From the New York Spectator.

SARATOGA SPRINGS, Aug. 14, 1832

Sir, I perceive by the latest accounts from the remote west, that the Indian War is at end. Black Hawk and his three or four hundred miserable followers have been dispersed, after an apology for a battle of less importance than a respectable skirmish, and the whites are in full pursuit o'er brakes and bogs and fens, of a foe whom they are destined not to overtake. Gen. Scott can now return to his quarters in N. Y. while his subordinate officers are left to collect the remains of their scattered battalions-scattered by disease, or slain by the Destroying Angel-and bring back the remains in the best manner they can. Neither General Scott, nor any portion of his ill fated expedition, despatched under such a flourish of trumpets, has seen an Indian. But that was no fault of the commander, or of those under him. No one doubted that, under such conduct, all that bravery and skill could accomplish, would be achieved. But the campaign was completely broken up by the direct interposition of Heaven. And even had it been otherwise, this boasted expedition would have had nothing to do.  They would never have seen an Indian; and so I have said from the first moment that the war blast of the bugle was wound at Governor's Island.

When Messrs. Editors, will the American people open their eyes to the deceptions practiced upon them by those enjoying their misplaced confidence! The fact is, in the first place, that these troubles with the Sacs and Foxes, under Black Hawk, had their origin in the injustice of the whites, combined with the ignorance of the Indians; and, secondly, as will presently be seen, in the boasted system of Jackson Reform. And as for the war, it has been one of the sheerest humbugs ever played off upon a credulous people. I have just risen from a full and highly interesting conversation with a distinguished gentleman from Illinois, who is intimately acquainted with the whole matter, and who has not only a personal knowledge of Black Hawk, but has conversed with him upon the very subject of the existing difficulties.

It was, I believe, in 1825 that the last treaty was negotiated with Black Hawk and his fellow chiefs, for a cession of territory to the United S. It was the desire of the Commissioners on the part of the latter, to have the line of purchase drawn from the head of Lake Michigan directly across to a given point on the Mississippi. To this arrangement Black Hawk for a long time objected- alleging his apprehensions that the line proposed would include his own village.  But after strong assurances that the said line would yet leave his village some thirty or more miles north of it, the Hawk consented to the sale, and the new boundary. In due time, however, it appeared that the fears of the chief were well founded, and the line was ascertained to run some two or three miles north of the favorite village of the Hawk. The chief and his tribe were dissatisfied, insisting that the equity they ought not to be deprived of their village, the site of which they had positively refused to sell. Meantime, well knowing where the line would strike, on an actual survey, several determined border men from Ohio penetrated farther into the wilderness, and planted themselves upon several tracts of fertile land in the neighborhood of the village, at different points, on a semi-circular line, as it were with the intention of completely surrounding the lodges of the wild-men. The Indians remonstrated against this inroad upon territory considered yet to be their own, and threatened frequently to drive the intruders away. But to no purpose. The squatters obstinately remained, and commenced cultivating the land.  After the line had been ascertained by actual survey, an act was passed by congress, giving to the squatters upon the newly acquired territory the pre-emptive right to the lands in their immediate occupation-of which indulgence the troublesome neighbors of the Black Hawk lost no time in availing themselves, and took the necessary measures to secure their titles.

But the Indians understood not this proceeding.  The intruders exhibited their certificates under the new laws, but the Indians knew nothing of the nature of pre-emptive rights, and continued to threaten them as before. It was sometime previous to this stage of controversy that a serious obstacle was thrown in the way of a good understanding by Gen. Jackson himself, in the application of his miserable system of REFORM to the Indian agencies. The Indian Agent for this station, (Major Forsyth) was removed, to make a place for some partizan favorite--and this place was filled by the appointment of somebody from Virginia, who had probably never even looked upon a wild Indian. At any rate, he was wholly unacquainted with the language of the Indians among whom he was to reside, and knew nothing of their manners, habits, customs, disposition.  He of course, could not possess the confidence of these children of nature, and the removal of their former friend, Major Forsyth, who was in all respects an excellent officer, only served further to annoy them with further suspicions of mediated wrong.--But for his untimely and unnecessary change, such explanations would doubtless have been made as would have prevented mischief, although they might not have been perfectly satisfactory at first to the Indians. Such, however, was not the case; the new agent, although probably a good electioneerer in Virginia, knew nothing of his duties among the Sacs and Foxes.  The fund between the Indians and their before mentioned instructive neighbors, continued, and became more aggravated. The former, in the night time, would go and throw down the fences of the white men; and the latter in turn threatened to shoot the trespassers. Thus matters stood for months. The intruders armed themselves and watched the Indians by night; but when thus on the watch, their fences were not molested. No sooner, however, were their backs turned, than their fences were again overthrown. But the Indians committed no further hostilities than these. They drew not a drop of blood until several of their own number had been killed by the white men.

Meantime, however, on a complaint to the repeated outrages of the Indians upon the aforesaid fences, and before any other act of hostility had been committed, Governor Reynolds of Illinois, whose political situation rendered action of some description necessary to sustain a waning popularity, ordered out two thousand militiamen to take the field; or rather the forest, against the Indians. this was the signal for the accounts of Indian hostilities-of massacres and murders which forthwith resounded throughout the whole nation. And of course it was the signal for the Indians to take up the tomahawk, and raise the war whoop. The subsequent incidents of this eventful history are pretty well known; and I am sorry to add my conviction that the whole affair will redound little to the credit of the United States, or to the parties more immediately concerned. The whole western country has been kept in a state of confusion, and sometimes of positive alarm, by the exaggerated stories spread abroad, of murders, and scalpings, and burnings of the most startling description, few of which ever took place. Countless hundreds, and even thousands of Indians, have been represented as prowling along the frontier settlements, committing such enormities as would 'freeze the young blood, and make each individual hair to stand erect like quills upon the fretful porcupine;' while in fact, the whole armed forces of Black Hawk has never, at any one time, exceeded about four hundred and fifty or five hundred warriors. And it is to conquer these poor hungry, ignorant, nay injured natives that the militia forces of the West have been so frequently dragged into the field by thousands; and at length the whole disposable force of our little army, with the gallant Scott at their head, collected at all points of the Union, and dispatched fifteen hundred miles up the Great Lakes, at an expense of one or two millions of the revenue! O! 'tis painful, 'tis wondrous pitiful! But we must submit, and the glories of this contest-for no doubt the results will be claimed as such-will all be poured into the 'measure' of the 'HERO'S' popularity!

The immediate cause of the great alarm in the Spring, in consequence of which the army was put in motion, was ludicrous enough.  You recollect the bloody accounts which reached us of Major Stillman's defeat, with the reported loss of about two hundred and fifty men. Now, we have already been unformed of the fact, that less than a dozen of the two hundred and fifty were killed, and the supposed loss of the residue arose from the fact that they all ran away! These fugitives reported that they had encountered fifteen hundred Indians. But the ascertained facts are that this valiant battalion encountered only a scouting party of thirty Indian warriors, who, after one whoop and a fire, ran as fast from the whites as the whites did from them! The whites magnified each of these thirty into fifty, thus making up fifteen hundred; while the terrified Indians told Black Hawk that the whites on their trail were as numerous as the leaves on the trees!  So much for the mighty Indian War.  But there are no historians among the Indians.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Sept. 22, 1832

The President of the United States we understand has instructed Col. Montgomery to deposit the annuities due the Cherokee Nation, and now in his hands, in the branch bank of the United States at Nashville.  It will be recollected by our readers, that during the administration of Secretary Eaton over the War Department, he instructed the agent to pay the annuities to the individuals of the Nation, and not to the Nation, and in no instance to depart from this rule. The Cherokees have with some exceptions refused to receive the money under that regulation, until two years annuity have become due, or $13,839 $3 1-8 is to be safely locked up in the vetoed bank.  Will the government return back to the Cherokee Nation the lands ceded for this money?

________________________

We refer our readers to a paragraph in an article headed removal of the Indians, published in the Commercial Register of Mobile, in which he informs his readers that a large portion of the Cherokees have been happily settled north of Arkansas River, and those of them remaining within the limits of the States, it is presumed will be soon convinced that it is to their interest to join their brethren, to enjoy their own laws without the interference of State regulations! The portion of Cherokees settled on the Arkansas (which the Register represents to be large, and enjoying the rights of freemen out of the limits of States) are as yet comparatively small to those east of the Mississippi. The indefatigable efforts which have been made by the Government to induce the Cherokees to emigrate, comprising the principal part of twenty four years, have as yet but partially succeeded. The portion of Cherokees that remain in this Nation and opposed to a removal can safely be set down without the hazard of truth at three fourths more than the Cherokees of Arkansas.- The condition of the Cherokees are neither so agreeable as the register would seem to state, for the reason that President Jackson has already assumed the right of legislating for them. The treaty of 1828 by the government with the Cherokees, embraced a tract of country of which the poor sons of Tustunnaggree Tlucco had been located, the late delegation at Washington claimed of the President the right to this tract of country to the exclusion of the Creeks; the President told them the claim could not be admitted, that the line would be run by commissioners so as to sustain the Creeks in the occupancy of it. This circumstance was contained in a letter written by the delegation, to a gentleman in this place, expressive of the dissatisfaction of the delegation. Therefore we would state to the respectable register, that wisdom would be baffled, for an Indian of this Nation to look first to the west, proceeding the leap from state thraldom, and then leap into the same element without the prospect of relief. On what ground then can the register predict the enjoyment of the Cherokees to their own laws if they should remove to the Arkansas? The Cherokee Nation was out of the limits of the States until the State of Alabama and others run lines through it and passed laws over the Indians in opposition to the treaties with them-the existence of this Nation was secured to us by the strongest guaranty that the wisdom of their good Americans could invent-but all these compacts we presume is known to the Register to have been annulled by the President in conjunction with the States, and in our feeble opinion, to the loss of their public virtue. If the States which have arisen around as here, can run boundary lines through our Nation in opposition to treaties to define the extent of their limits, cannot new States which will doubtless arise on the Arkansas do the same?  The removal of all the Indians west of the Mississippi can never regenerate the loss of that virtue consequent upon the violation of all the treaties with the Indians. In this unpleasant but certain prospects of the treatment of the Indians west of Mississippi, the Cherokees of this Nation are strongly disposed, of the lesser evil, to remain here, and look forward to see, the rise of a just ruler, that will fulfill in good faith all the treaties with us.

_____________________

We are informed from a source that can be relied on as authentic, that Governor Carrol of Tennessee will attend at the Council that will convene at Red Clay on the second Monday of Oct. The object of his visit is not yet known, but it is not unlikely, that in conjunction with two other commissioners, a treaty with the Cherokees may be proposed. We are not a little suppressed at the object of his excellency, if we correctly anticipate it, when it is known at the late Council the propositions from the President to the Cherokees to enter into a treaty was met with the most unqualified refusal.

The letter of the acting Secretary of War will be found below; which we have translated for our Cherokee readers. If this communication had not accidently fallen into the hands of a respectable gentleman of this place, as it did and handed over to us, we should never have known of it; for we presume directed as it is, the agent on his reception of it, delivered it over to the first Indian that was willing to hear its contents.

_______

WAR DEPARTMENT

August 24, 1832

FRIENDS AND BROTHERS.- I have received the letter of the 6th inst. signed by the members of the Council, communicating the decision of the Cherokees upon the propositions submitted to them by order of the President.

This letter has been forwarded to the Secretary of War at Detroit, from whom you will no doubt receive a reply.

Meantime permit me to express my regret, that propositions considered by your best friends here,those who have most constantly and earnestly advocated your interests, to be most liberal and advantageous, should and have met a different reception. I will yet hope that after calm deliberation, you may be sensible of the wisdom of the friends who advise you to accept them, and resolved to adopt the only course by which your permanent prosperity can be ensured.

I remain,

Respectfully:

Your Friend ' Brother,

JOHN ROBB.

Act. Sec. WAr.

To the CHEROKEES East of the Mississippi.

_________________

From the Mobile Commercial Register.

Removal of the Indians.-- This work, so necessary it the preservation of the Aborigines of the country, and commenced we believe, under the administration of Mr. Monroe, appears to be advancing to a successful termination. About 6,000 Choctaws were removed during the past fall and winter to the country allotted to them west of the Territory of Arkansas, between Red River and the Canadian forks of the Arkansas and about double that number will be removed during the present year. The Chickasaws having likewise disposed of their claim to lands in Alabama and Mississippi, are, we are told, anxious to be settled permanently in the country west of the Arkansas, and will probably be removed as soon as a suitable tract can be selected for them by the United States. The Creeks have also disposed of their possession s in Georgia and Alabama, and will, it si presumed, be removed in the course of the present and succeeding year. The country allotted to them, it will be recollected lies to the north of the Choctaw tract; and is also west of the Arkansas Territory.-

A large portion of the Cherokees have been for several years happily settled north of the Arkansas river, and those remaining within the limits of the States, will it is presumed soon be convinced that it is to their interest to join their brethren where they may enjoy their own laws and customs without interference from State regulations.

It will not be denied that the Choctaws, Chickasaws, and Cherokees, have made considerable advances in the civil arts, and with the continued and increased aids which the General Government will afford them in their new settlements, may we not in a few years expect to find them, and indeed the Indian tribes generally, enjoying a large portion of the blessings of civilized life, and living happily under the fostering care of the government unannoyed by State legislation.

The removal itself, properly conducted, will have a happy effect on such Indians as may have given themselves up to indolence and intemperance and their settlement in a new and delightful country, will under the care and advice of their better informed and more industrious brethren, most probably lead them to the adoption of agricultural pursuits and habits of industry.

This work has become a serious one with the Government, and we understand that the Secretary of War, with the approbation of the President,is about to adopt arrangements entirely new by which the officers of the army will control and superintend the removals. By this plan, the valuable services of our townsman Geo. S. Gaines, Esq which have been rendered much to his inconvenience will be dispensed with. It will be the policy of the Government ___ waiver, to select an able and discreet officer to supply his place. This will be no easy task. Mr. Gaines' long acquaintance with the Indians and the unlimited confidence they repose in him, enabled him to exercise a salutary influence over their conduct and opinions,and although the new arrangement will be a relief to him, we fear the loss of his counsels and personal attention may furnish cause of regret to the Government.




      


INDIANS

From the Journal of Humanity

THE INDIANS.

In looking over the accounts respecting the Indian wars for a few months past, I have been deeply impressed with the thought that these difficulties have come upon us in consequence of bad policy on our part. How far the Indians have had provocation to warrant their present measures, I know not.  It may be, perhaps, that some individuals have been wronged by the class of the whites residing near, whose motto is, 'get money--by all the means in your power.'

I believe our policy towards the Indians has been wrong in this respect, viz. in neglecting their education.--Having come into the country and to be in (?) possession of the soil, political economy, philanthropy and religion require that we as a Christian nation, should civilize and Christianize the aborigines.

It may be denied, and doubtless will be, that it would be expedient in a political point of view to instruct the Indians.  But on what does that strength and importance of a nation depend, if not in the number, intelligence, and virtue of its inhabitants? The Indians are human beings endowed by nature with strong minds capable of most improvement. In a savage state, their minds, like a barren waste yield no valuable harvest. They are of little or no benefit to us. But they are not only useless, merely in a pecuniary point of view, but are restrained from injury at a great expense. Several thousand soldiers are deemed necessary for the present season, to protect the property and lives of our western brethren.  The expense will not probably be less than four or five hundred thousand dollars, besides a great waste of property and many valuable lives.

Let us suppose that a dozen missionaries and school teachers had gone among them five years since, and instructed them in the principles of our holy religion, would they not in all probability have prevented this waste of human life? Allowing each of the twelve teachers 500 dollars a year, the expense for five years past, would be only 30,000 dollars.

If it is true that the effect of a mission would have been to prevent the present unhappy war, we see that more than nine tenths of the expense might have been saved. I need not spend time to prove that the gospel has a tendency to make mankind humane, peaceable and friendly, or that the tribes would certainly have become so, had the proper means been taken with them. It is sufficient to point any one who doubts what would have been the result, to those tribes of Indians where the gospel has been sent. There is scarcely room in the mind of a candid man for a doubt but ten men with the Bible in their hands, and the message of salvation on their tongues, would effect more in protecting us from the attacks of savages than a thousand with their instruments of death. But the missionary must be sent while the savage is in a state of quiet,when his mind is accessible to the language of kindness and friendship. What he does he must do by way of prevention and not of remedy. Why may we not as well pay our thousands and hundreds of thousands in saving the lives of the Indians and blessing them with peace and happiness, as to pay it for the work of devestation and death?

It is wise in a political point of view (to say nothing of religion) for us to instruct the Indians in the great principles of right and wrong. When ever the motives of the gospel can be brought to bear on the minds of savages, their barbarous customs cease. Why do we not hear that the Cherokees, the Choctaws, the Senecas, and others who enjoy religious instruction, are employed in rapine and murder? Because the gospel teaches them not to retaliate nor to avenge themselves, but to forgive. Let the same gospel be understood and felt through the land, and wars will come to a perpetual end. I am confident therefore that it will be altogether cheaper in the end to civilize the Indians, than to endure their vices and protect them from their fury while they remain in the savage state. And not only so, but could such a work of humanity and benevolence be done, it would be eminently honorable to our national character. It would be setting an example worthy of imitation to others, and bring the blessing of thousands on our heads.

_____________________________

West Choctaw Nation.-- The Rev. L. S. Williams, who accompanied the emigrating Choctaws west of the Mississippi, writes to the Editor of the Philadelphian, that they arrived at the borders of their new home, about the 12th of March-their journey was a long and fatiguing route of a thousand miles, 400 by land-about 5000 Choctaws have reached that new country-12 or 13 thousand more are to follow them. The emigrants appear favorable to civilization-the Christian part of them have settled on the Red River, but even in those distant wilds they are not removed from the influence of bad white men who flock about this poor people, getting either among them, or as near them as possible, in order to make a spoil of them and their little all. Such is the testimony of an eye-witness.

Mr. W. also speaks of great solemnity witnessed among some of the emigrants--increased attention to religious services, more fervency in prayer, and the return of backsliders. There is an open door for missionaries. He had been at a Camp-meeting appointed by the Methodist, and attended by 7 or 8 of their preachers, who not having been authorized to administer the Lord's supper, invited him to officiate in that ordinance. A pleasing commentary on sectarianism.

______________________

From the New York Advertiser.

The Evening Post notices in the next place-

'The Indians and the Missionaries.- The propriety of the removal of the Indians, (says the Post) was two years ago a disputed question. Gen. Jackson was in favor of the measure. Mr. Clay opposed it. The House of Representatives supported the President, and by appropriating funds for the purpose, reconciled justice to Georgia, with humanity to the Aborigines. If Mr. Clay were now in the chair there might be some difficulty in securing future appropriations for this object. Of late years he has shown no great skill or temper in adapting himself to the decision of the people.

But the missionaries! the imprudent and deluded men, who have brought not peace but a sword.'

The propriety of the removal of the Indians is still a disputed question, and since the acts of Georgia have been declared by the Supreme Court of the United States unconstitutional, and of course null and void, the propriety of suffering them to be enforced, for the purpose of driving off the Indians, receives ten fold force in the minds of all people who wish to uphold the judiciary branch of the government, support the execution of the laws, secure the administration of justice and preserve the constitution. 'General Jackson' says the Post, 'was in favor of the measure. Mr. Clay opposed it.' Here is a strong reason for opposing the election of the former, and for supporting that of the latter. By the election of General Jackson, the people of the United States will sanction a course of policy towards the Indians in itself unjust, inhuman, oppressive, and tyrannical, and by the determination of the Court, illegal and unconstitutional; General Jackson was, and still is, in favor of this policy; and the nation will soon be called upon to condemn or approve it. In deciding upon it, they must necessarily determine another question of the highest importance to the government and country, and that is--whether the Judiciary of the nation is to be protected in the enjoyment of its constitutional powers and prerogatives, or is to be prostrated at the will of another branch of the government merely because it stands in his way, and obstructs him in the assumption and exercise of arbitrary power.  In what way justice to Georgia has been reconciled with humanity to the Aborigines, we are not able to see.  Georgia had no just demand upon the Government; no injustice had been done to that state in relation to the Cherokees; and nothing but the most gross injustice, as well as inhumanity, has been practiced by Georgia towards that people;-and General Jackson has countenanced, connived at, and encouraged both.- We leave the tack of reconciling these things to the Evening Post.

'But,' says the Post, 'the Missionaries! the imprudent and deluded men, who have brought no peace but a sword.' It seems probable that they will be released by the legislature of Georgia but if not, and the worst come, shall we be safer in the hands of a rigid constructionist, one accustomed narrowly to define his own powers and those of the co-ordinate branches of the government, or shall we put ourselves under the guidance of one who, forgetful of the principles of his early education seems tempted to stretch to the widest the already vast embrace of the General Government?  One thing, seems certain--'The President's course will probably occasion delay. Congress will then have time to legislate on the subject: and what matters it if six months or even another year expire before this question be settled. On the other hand, the temper manifested by Mr. Clay before the Convention of Young Men, would embroil the United States with Georgia within twenty four hours after the truncheon came into his hand.'

We should like to know on what evidence the Post pronounces that these 'impudent and deluded men will probably be released by the legislature of Georgia.' Not the slightest appearance of any such disposition, on the part of that dignified body, has ever fallen within our observation. On the contrary, everything that we have seen, whether in the form of reports, resolutions, or more formal legislative acts, has been unrelenting, vindictive, and tyrannical. But these men have been 'imprudent and deluded.' Were they impudent and deluded, in undertaking with the express sanction and approbation of the President of the United States by a residence among the Cherokees, to assist in carrying into effect the benevolent and charitable policy of the government, by introducing among them the arts of civilization, and the knowledge of the Christian Religion? So entirely was the residence of the Missionaries approved by the administration, that considerable expenses for their comfort and accommodation were incurred under the sanction of the government and one of them was actually appointed a postmaster under the authority of the United States--an office from which he has under General Jackson's administration been removed for the express purpose of exposing him to punishment, and under the unconstitutional acts of the legislature of Georgia. This, we presume, is a specimen of the reconciliation 'of justice to Georgia with humanity to the Aborigines.'

But with a cold blooded insensibility which is peculiarly characteristic of those who feel bound to vindicate the policy and the measures of the Jackson administration, the Post very coolly and calmly remarks--'One thing seems certain. The President's course will probably occasion delay. Congress will then have time to legislate on the subject; and what matters it if six months or even another year expire before this question be settled.'--Without stopping to notice this certain probability we will remark, that these Missionaries, without having violated any law, or committed any offence, have been most unjustly and wickedly confined in a state prison, among felons and villains, for about one year-the authority under which this injustice and iniquity has been perpetrated has been solemnly adjudged by the highest judicial tribunal under the government unconstitutional, null and void; --they are still confined to hard labor, in this cruel and ignominious manner; and yet we are gravely asked by the Evening Post, 'what matters it if six months or even another year expire before this question be settled?' The inquiry would well become a Turkish Pasha, or a Dey of Algiers. Had such an unjust and illegal imprisonment as this occurred in Great Britain, or France under a constitutional government, or any other well regulated European nation the feelings of the nation would have been aroused, and the government would have been forced by fear of public opinion and private feeling to open their prison doors, and discharge them from their unjust, vindictive, disgraceful confinement. Are the community gravely to be asked 'what matters it if six months or even an other year shall expire' before these excellent men are relieved from an endurance of injustice, and illegal punishment, that would have disgraced the Bastille of France, or the Inquisition of Spain?  This stain upon the character of our government and country, if there were no other objection to General Jackson's re-election, ought to prevent him form ever having another opportunity to gratify his lawless disposition, or to manifest the contempt which he feels for the laws and Constitution, the authority of the Courts, and the rights and liberty of the citizens.

________________________

From the New York Spectator.

Cherokee Phoenix.-- Elias Boudinot has resigned his station as editor of the Cherokee Phoenix. In a  letter to John Ross, Principal Chief of the Nation, he states as his reasons for adopting this measure, that he believes his connection with the paper has answered all the purposes that could be expected from it hereafter. The rights of the Indians have been sustained by the highest judicial tribunal. Their wrongs, at the hands of an impeachable and tyrannical Executive, have been exposed to the people. The Nation now wants all its funds. A different view of what the Nation should adapt in the last alternative,--and threatened as it is with annihilation by the President, at the head of the Georgia Nullifiers,- from that entertained by others, would also place Mr. B., he says, in a delicate ' disagreeable position, ' paralyze his usefulness. Having been for four years in the performance of a duty, which nothing but the holiness of the cause could render tolerable, he also deems himself at liberty to consult his personal inclinations, by endeavoring to do good in a pleasanter(sic) and more hopeful way. Should he continue, his salary, which was only $300 would be insufficient to support him.  He will continue to conduct the paper; to the close of the present volume.

The principle Chief, in communicating this resignation to the Council, expresses his opinion that it is essential that the paper should still be kept up; that it has done much good in diffusion knowledge among the Cherokees, as well as in making their grievances known abroad; and that the pecuniary embarrassments of the Nation should in no wise lead to its discontinuance. He thinks that the money collected by the Editor on his tour, which was undertaken at the request of the Nation, should be appropriated to this and not to other purposes.

On this point, Mr. B. expresses in a comment on the message, a difference of opinion; as the money was not given exclusively for that object. He thinks also that the columns of the Phoenix should be open to free discussion among the Cherokees themselves, in order that the will of the people may be clearly understood, ' their hopes and fears made known. And he asks in a tone, which, while we are sorry to see it is of so desponding a character, is but too well justified by the crisis:

'What say our friends in Congress? Have they not fully apprised us that they cannot effect any substantial good for us? Have not a number of them, whose motives are above suspicion, communicated their views in writing, for our information? And has not an Hon. Judge of the Supreme Court made a similar communication, stating that the operation of the late decision of the Supreme Court cannot extend to our relief, unless the executive felt itself bound to enforce the treaties?  And does President Jackson feel himself bound to obey the Supreme Court, and execute the treaties?'

Mr. Boudinot should remember, however, that in General Jackson, Natures's Copy is not eternal; and if it were, for the sins of mankind, and against the laws of nature there is no intention on the part of a majority of the people to let him play any more fantastic tricks before high heaven, after the 4th of March, 1832. This can now scarcely be deemed one of these 'contingencies,' to which he considers it not wise in the Nation, whose lands are already half overrun by the feculent dregs of the white population of Georgia, to look or hope.  We hope soon to hail it as a moral certainty. Otherwise, as the epitaph of the Constitution is written, it may be hung upon some of the old mound that remain in the Indian lands, mysterious remembrances of a departed and forgotten nation; forgotten even as the dream of liberty which the brief success of our experiment had produced. To the words, 'The Constitution of the United States was.' --let it be added, WASHINGTON FECIT, JACKSON INTERFECIT.

_________________________

THE CHEROKEES.

There was nothing of great interest transacted at the General Council which commenced its session on the 23d inst. E. W. Chester, Esq. bearer of certain propositions from the Government, addressed to the Cherokees, inviting them to a negotiation and general arrangement of the difficulties existing between them; communicated the object of his mission. The propositions were read and interpreted, and by a vote of the two houses it was resolved that the Principal Chief be authorized to reply to them through the Agent, Col. Montgomery.

From the Columbus Enquirer.

The above article is extracted from the Cherokee Phoenix. From other matter, contained in the same paper, we are induced to believe that the Cherokee Nation is seriously disposed to treat. Mr. Boudinot, the Editor of the Phoenix, has tendered his resignation as Editor, to the Principal Chief, John Ross. We gather from this letter of resignation, that the Editor and the authorities of the Nation are at variance, the former adverse and the latter favorable, to cession, and removal. Mr. Boudinot says:

*        * *       *       * *       *       * *         Here we think are strong indications of the intention of the Cherokees to remove west.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA,Sept. 22, 1832

The letter of resignation by the late editor of this paper, and published by him, setting forth his indisposition to sustain the cause of the Cherokees, we perceive has taken a wide range in the prints of the United States. It has been eagerly and conspicuously held up by the southern papers who are immediately interested in the acquisition of Indian lands, as a breach in the patriotic ranks of the Cherokees, by which a treaty of cession may be accomplished.  Of the contents of this letter, we hoped, had passed us forever, like some fleeting wind, to be heard of no more.  But the avidity with which the people of the interested states have received this letter with which to revive their despondency of legally acquiring the Cherokee country, constrains us to submit a few remarks on the merits of this letter together with his subsequent comments on the message of the Principal Chief. The right of the late editor to change his opinions, on questions involving the dearest rights of the Cherokees-questions of expedience, or on any other whatsoever, we feel ourselves bound not to question. The change of sentiment of the editor which this letter would seem to indicate, as departing of a redress of our wrongs, from the present administration, is no doubt the result of the continued oppression of the Cherokees, and an honest conviction, that the Cherokees would be safer, could they be removed from the cruel government of the Georgians. However valuable the services of this once devoted patriot to our cause might have been, we must bear the loss, with the consideration that the safety of any cause are not exempt from the dangers of human nature ' the change of opinions. The revolutions of nations ' change of opinions are occurrences of every day and every year. The change of the present one is quite immaterial to us, the loss is but a drop from the bucket, it cannot move the Cherokees from the stand they have taken; the body politic, and the great body of the Cherokees remains united, ' a treaty, let who will favor it, will find it as certainly premature, as it is revolting to the feelings of the Cherokees.  Therefore, the Columbus Enquirer may substitute 'no treaty' to that inscribed under his banner, and not until then will the Enquirer render justice to his readers.- The joint letter of the members of Congress to the Principal Chief, are also referred to in this letter, to prove the hopelessness of redressing the wrongs of the Cherokees under the present administration. While we would feel grateful for the services of these highly enlightened and benevolent men in advocating the rights of the Cherokees and their relief, we must be permitted to point out the reasons, why the friends of the Cherokees in Congress deemed it necessary to advise the Chief, of the difficulties existing, as calculated to defeat any exertion on their part, of obtaining from Congress relief for the Cherokees.- The decision of the Supreme Court in the Missionary case preceded the letter from the members of Congress to the Principal Chief; this decision embraced all the rights which the Cherokees claimed under their treaties, ' is by the Constitution of the U. S. binding on the President, members of Congress, and the United States. The President is sworn to have the laws faithfully executed, so are the members of Congress to support the Constitution. This decision is made by virtue of this Constitution ' consequently is the supreme law of the land. It appears that the President claims to be the Judge of that decision and will refuse to be bound by it. The refusal of the President to execute this decision is under the Constitution an impeachable offence, these members then as men of integrity and virtue are bound at the next Congress to know the cause of the non-execution of this decision.  If the President continues to refuse to be bound by it, the alternative of impeachment is presented, and what a spectacle will this be to the world! Congress arrayed against its President for the violation of the laws of the land. A different course of the members would not be in accordance with their oath, knowing as they do the infringement of their Constitution would seem to us to amount to perjury; and in order to avert this calamitous state of things we must believe was the object of our friends in Congress in addressing the Principal Chief, and if possible to induce the Cherokees to change their situation, ' restore that tranquility ' harmony that are so essentially necessary at this time, to secure the happiness of all parties.- If we are correct in the motives; that gave rise to his letter by the members of Congress, they never intended to convey the opinion that the rights of the Cherokees were irrecoverably lost.

The letter of the Judge of the S. Court to the Principal Chief we understand also only enumerates the difficulties that are existing in the way of our relief, ' believes it to be the safer course for the Cherokees to remove west of the Mississippi.

___________________

The subjoined extract from the address of the National Republicans of Vermont to their party in that State, alleges against President Jackson, as their objections to his reelection, the violation of government pledges for the protection of the Indians-his opposition to the decision of the Supreme Court, for the release of the imprisoned missionaries in the penitentiary of Georgia, and abetting that State in the practical nullification of that decision. If the assertion of facts were ever founded in truth, they are of such a character as if the defendant had admitted them in open court. The Cherokees have suffered much, and it is only by the election of another president that they can expect to receive rest.

'The vindictive and persecuting spirit manifested by the present administration towards the Aborigines of our country, demands a strong expression of universal reprehension.- Without discussing the question of the political expediency of the removal of the Indians, it is enough to know that the United States more than thirty years ago in solemn treaty as well as in treaties since made, recognized their exclusive right to their lands, and their own mode of government; that they pledged the sacred faith of the nation to protect them in the unmolested enjoyment of these rights, to defend them from the encroachments of the surrounding whites, and from subjection to the state authorities; and in fulfillment of these purposes armed troops had been stationed upon their borders. Justice and humanity must pronounce upon this administration the charge of a flagrant violation of the pledged fidelity of the nation, in the withdrawal of these forces; in permitting the whites to invade the Indian territory, and to pillage their gold and flocks ' herds; in permitting them even to burn their dwellings upon their heads and to subject them to the most cruel and unconstitutional enactments of state legislation. Even the messengers of religion who had gone among them with their approbation, and by the authority and encouragement of the National Executive, to impart to them the blessings of civil and Christian life, were cast into prison, the associates of common felons, for no higher offence than for not leaving the country at the unauthorized bidding of the State of Georgia. And when they had applied for relief to the Supreme Judicial tribunal of the land, and when that tribunal had pronounced these proceedings unconstitutional and void, and directed the release of the prisoners, is it not true that the President, wholly disregarding this decision, arrayed himself on the side of Georgia against the Federal Judiciary? Is it not true that his friends in Congress, under his countenance and sanction, made the bold attempt to strike from the National Statute Book, the entire section from which the Supreme Court of the United States derives its jurisdiction, and thus at one fell blow to demolish this strong bulwark of our National safety? While he has specisomly (sic) disclaimed the theoretical nullification of one state, has he not thus only abated the more treasonable practical nullification of another?




      


NULLIFICATION vs.BAYONET

From the Montgomery, Ala. Gazette.

RESISTANCE,- Mr. Crawford the Marshal for the Southern District of Alabama was a short time since resisted by a portion of the white settlers in the Creek Nation, while attempting to carry into effect the Proclamation of the President of the United States, ordering an immediate removal of intruders out of the limits of the same. It appears that certain citizens formerly residents of the lower part of this State, under the impression that they would be shielded by the 'Sovereignty of the State,' made it convenient to build a town on Indian lands, and to name it Erwinton. Upon the Marshal arriving at the spot, he distinctly informed them that they had acted in direct violation of the instructions he had received from the executive, and requested them peaceably to leave. They refused to comply with his request, and threatened him with their vengeance.

In a short time after, a detachment of the Federal troops under the command of a Lieutenant were marched from Fort Mitchell to the spot, and the town consumed by fire. Upon the news of the conflagration, a process was issued against the Lieutenant who commanded on the occasion, for the purpose of bringing him before the civil authorities of Pike County, for a violation of the laws of the State. The Deputy Sheriff attempted to execute the precess, and in the attempt was pierced by a federal bayonet to such an extent that his life-life is despaired of-and so ended the matter. A few days ago the Marshal left Wetumpkie for the white settlements in the upper part of the Creek territory. What has there been done we know not. So much for the doctrine of Nullification when put into practice.




      


From the (Lexington, Ky.) Observer and Reporter

On the 23d the Courier and Enquirer, announced, the withdrawal of Mr. NOAH from that establishment, Mr. WEBB having purchased his interest. An address of some length to the public by mr. Webb also appears in the Courier and Enquirer of this date, in which the writer, after explaining the causes which have induced him to adopt this course, denounces Gen. Jackson, and avows a determination to oppose his re-election to the Presidency. We regret that we have not room in our columns for the address. It is well written, and deeply interesting. The following are the closing paragraphs.

'I cannot conclude this paper, long as it is already, without again calling upon the honest patriots of the country to pause and reflect upon the value of our constitution, and the certain destruction that awaits that sacred instrument if ANDREW JACKSON should be re-elected and the government fall into the hands of a faction in Albany by reason of their coadjutors about the person of the President. Let them rally for the preservation of what is justly and admiration of the world-let them preserve unimpaired the rich legacy won by the valor of our fathers and consecrated to the sacred cause of restoring to mankind their natural and unalienable rights. To the PEOPLE to the DEMOCRACY of the Union generally I would say--look to the currency of the country--Of the Farmers , the Mechanics, the Manufacturers and Merchants of the Union, I would ask--are you prepared to see our currency destroyed,and one general scene of distress pervade every quarter of our flourishing country? Of the DEMOCRACY of New York, I would enquire-are you prepared by voting for the re-election of ANDREW JACKSON to place for years, the destinies of this great state in the hands of a few leaders in Albany, who speculate upon your wants, deride your complaints; and govern you with a rod or iron through a chain of local Banks and the application to party purposes of the Finances of the State?

'It may abe asked, and with propriety, why I have delayed this declaration of my principles and my future course. The answer if a plain one. Mr. Noah was equally interested with myself in the proprietorship of the Courier ' Enquirer,and differing as we do in our relations to General Jackson, I could not act through the columns of our paper until his interest was extinguished; but on the day that the Veto Message was received, I openly declared my determination never to advocate the re-election of Andrew Jackson to the Presidency. On this subject, therefore, there has been no concealment, and having succeeded in purchasing Mr. Noah's moiety of the establishment, I have frankly, fearlessly and honestly devoted it to the cause of principle and to the preservation of the constitution of the country.

 JAS. WATSON WEBB.'




      


FROM THE HISTORY OF THE DELAWARE AND IROQUOIS INDIANS.

The most dangerous pretenders among them are the sorcerers who not only impose upon and frighten the superstitious, but, with the foul spirit of Satan, they commit horrid murders, and are generally cunning enough to conceal their wickedness. The following anecdote, related, by Mr. Hockewelder, in which one of these impostors was brought to the test of truth, will also show how deeply rooted is the belief of the Indians in these fancied supernatural powers.  Sometime about the year 1786, a Quaker trader, of the name of Anderson, who, among the Indians, was called the honest Quaker trader, after vainly endeavoring to convince them of the folly of witchcraft, defied their sorcerers to produce any effect upon him. He desired that two of them might be brought to him successively on different days, for the purpose of trying their art.  The first conjurer, however, declared that Anderson was so good a man, and so much the friend of Indians, that he would not injure him. The other was a different stamp. He was an arch sorcerer, whose fame was extended far and wide, and was much dreaded by the Indians, who dissuaded Anderson from exposing himself to what they deemed certain destruction. It was only stipulated before hand that the magician should not be armed, nor carry poison, or anything of a destructive nature about him, and that he should not approach nearer than twelve feet. The spectators being assembled, the sorcerer took his seat, arrayed in the most frightful manner that he could devise. The wizard began the murmury(sic) by working with his fingers on a blanket, plucking now and then a little wool, and breathing on it, then rolling it together in small rolls of the size of a bean, and went through a number antic tricks. Anderson remained cool and composed, now and then calling to his antagonist not to be sparing of his exertions. The conjurer now began to make the most horrid gesticulations. At last, while the eyes of the spectators were all fixed on this brave man, to observe the effect of the sorcerers craft, the terrible conjurer, finding that all his efforts were vain, gave up the point; alleging, as an excuse 'that the quantity of salt  which the Americans used with their food was what preserved them from the effects of sorcery.' Though it was easy to see through this miserable pretence, yet the Indians are so infatuated on this subject, that they gave to the impostor's lame excuse the most implicit belief.




      


 Nullification Doctrine

Extract of Judge Clayton's letter written on a call made upon him. on the subject of nullification. We know that its great length is objectionable, but as the opinion advocates the right of a state to nullify the laws of the United States sustaining the Indian rights, we have thought it important to publish an extract.

'As your meeting, doubtless, in a spirit of what it conceived to be its rights, has subjected me to a political catechism, under a menace, will it be offended, if I, in my turn, without such rigor, seek to know 'what are their sentiments in regard' to Mr. Jefferson as a statesman? He has merited, and justly received, the title of an Apostle of Freedom. He is the great oracle of southern politics, in his opinions every statesman is safe who has the true and proper veneration for civil liberty. Will anything he has said be good authority with your meeting? If so, then mark his own words, uttered in opposition to the Sedition Law, one, not more unconstitutional than the tariff act.  'When (said this great man) powers are assumed, which have not been delegated, A NULLIFICATION of the ACT is the RIGHTFUL REMEDY: THAT EVERY STATE has a NATURAL RIGHT, to NULLIFY, of their OWN AUTHORITY, all assumptions of power by others, WITHIN THEIR LIMITS: that without this right, they would be under the dominion, absolute and unlimited, of whomsoever might exercise this right of judgment for them.'

Here, then, you have my opinion in full. Of Mr. Jefferson's political creed, I shall never be afraid or ashamed. Whenever his doctrines cease to be considered orthodox by the southern people, for they never were in order in the north, I feel entirely confident I am unfit to be their representative, and the execution of the threat of your meeting can never come too soon for my own inclination.

It is true that Mr. Jefferson has not pointed out the mode and manner of nullifying a law; but this must be left to the wisdom and discretion of the state whose rights are invaded by the assumed power, and must be as various as the acts are varied that violate the Constitution. Any plan, I care not what it is, that rids the state of the oppressive measure, is a nullification of that measure. To nullify is simply nothing more nor less than to render  null and void. All unconstitutional laws are null and void. Is this objected to? I presume not.- Than your meeting, in its very first resolution, has declared that the tariff act is 'unjust and inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution.' Is it too much to say that an unjust law, one inconsistent with the spirit of the Constitution ought to be NULL and VOID? As much as this doctrine is now derided, I affirm, without the fear of contradiction, that it is the very doctrine upon which Georgia has acted from the foundation of her government. And I will prove it.- I lay down these positions:

1st. That an unconstitutional law is NO LAW, and no man or community is bound to obey it, nay, they are bound to resist it, for every man is sworn to support the Constitution.

2d A law 'unjust and inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution,' is a violation of the Constitution, because it is a perversion of that instrument, a perversion is a breach of its intention, and according to all rules of construction, legal or moral, the intention must govern.

3d. That the general government can pass no law for which it does not find an authority in the Constitution, and that if it does, it is no more binding upon the states than if passed by a foreign nation, for as to all ungranted powers it is to these states a completely foreign government!

The two first positions need no commentary, the last suggests these reflections. Suppose Great Britain should pass an act for the benefit of her manufacturers, to operate in Georgia, what would the state do? I care not what, but whatever was done, precisely that ought to be done in relation to the same act passed by the federal government, for the right is wholly and absolutely usurped in both cases. If South Carolina, our neighboring state, were to pass such a law, everybody would see its absurdity, and Georgia would nullify it in an instant; then where is the difference between one state and twenty-three states?  Where is the difference between the northern states doing this thing, in their separate state legislatures, or, under the pretence of constitutional authority, combining and meeting in the halls of Congress for the same purpose, if both methods be equally out of the pale of the Constitution? Why should we not as readily resist an usurped act of the general government as that of any other government? There is no reason for it, and four distinct cases has the state of Georgia applied, as Mr. Jefferson call it, this RIGHTFUL REMEDY.

May I again respectfully ask your meeting, 'what are its sentiments in regard' to Governor Troup's political principles? He says, 'whatever a state does in its sovereign capacity, will be right.

Acting upon this principle, in 1825, when the general government attempted to annul the old by what was called the new treaty, he solemnly declared it should not be done, stating boldly that he 'would employ all the limited means in his power to prevent it,' and ordered the Hancock troop of horse to hold themselves in readiness. What stronger revolutionary tendency could any measure exhibit? But this was not all, the Secretary of War ordered troops into the nation to overawe the state, listen, while perhaps the blood will curdle with indignation, at Gen. Gaine's despatch to that officer: 'Col. Chambers (said he) with five companies of the first, and Major Doneho, with four companies of the fourth regiment of infantry, have taken the positions assigned them, viz: the former at Marshall's Ferry, Flint River, and the latter at Princeton, Chattahoochee, with instructions corresponding with yours of the 21st of last month.' Did this alarm Governor Troup? Let me bring to your recollection that patriot's reply to Mr. Adams: 'The legislature of Georgia, will, at its first meeting, be advised TO RESIST any effort which may be made to wrest from the state the territory acquired by that treaty, and no matter by what authority the effort be made. If the legislature fail to vindicate that right, the responsibility will be theirs, not mine.' What became of the new treaty? Georgia nullified it. She resisted the authority of the general government because its act was unconstitutional and being in the right, through force was not only threatened, but arrayed, she triumphed, and the old treaty was sustained. So, the federal troops marched to Flint River, and then--marched back again. This is one act of nullification. I understand that the only objection to nullification is it has a tendency to revolution and bloodshed, and to bring the federal government into contempt.  What could so effectually produce all these events as the case I have just mentioned?

The second instance was the case of Tassels.  A mandate was sent from the Supreme Court of the United States to suspend his execution until he could be heard before that Court as a writ of error. What said the legislature?

'Resolved, That the Governor and every other officer of this state disregard any and every mandate and process that has been or shall be served upon him or them, proceeding from the Supreme Court of the United States, for the purpose of arresting any of the criminal laws of this state.'

'Resolved, That the Governor with all the forceful means placed at his command re__ and repel any and every invasion from whatever quarter, upon the administration of the criminal laws of this state.'

What language can be stronger? And do not the resolutions imply the probability of a conflict, that the state might have to battle it with the general government?  But when the constitutional rights of a state are violated, what other alternative is left? We read from the lessons of the Revolution, that the motto of our forefathers was liberty or death, and so far, I am proud to say, the conduct of Georgia has evinced to the world a noble vindication of the maxim.

In reference to the third instance, I must beg leave again to reiterate the enquiry of your meeting, 'what are its sentiments, in regard' to the political course of Governor Lumpkin?  For whatever may be their objections to that of Governor Troup, so far as related to these doctrines, he has been fully supported by the present Governor. At the last session of the legislature, Governor Lumpkin communicated to that body, that he had received two citations commanding the state of Georgia to appear in the Supreme Court, to show cause why the judgment rendered in our state court against Worcester and Butler, should not be set aside. What said the Governor on that occasion? That which ought to command admiration of every friend of state rights. 'Any attempt (said he) to infringe the evident right of the state to govern the entire population within its territorial limits, and to punish all offenses committed against its laws, within these limits, (due regard owing had to the cases expressly exacted by the constitution of the United States) would be the usurpation of the power never granted by the states.' And what was to be the remedy in such cases of usurpation? Harken to the Governor:-'Such an attempt, whenever made will challenge the most determined resistance ' if persevered in will evidently eventuate in the annihilation of our beloved country.' But was this all he said? No!  The best evidence of his principles yet remains, and is in fact in accordance with that of Gove. Troup: 'In exercising (continued he) the authority of that department of the Government which devolves on me, I will DISREGARD ALL UNCONSTITUTIONAL REQUISITIONS OF WHATEVER CHARACTER OR ORIGIN THEY MAY BE, and to the best of my ability , will protect and defend the rights of the State, and use the means afforded me, to maintain its laws and constitution.' These are principles every way worthy of a statesman, and such as every man should be proud, much less afraid, to avow. But let us mark the issue of this missionary case, and here I must ask again, 'what are the sentiments of your meeting in regard' to the Missionaries? When I affirmed in Congress that 'before the Missionaries would be taken from the Penitentiary by virtue of the decision of the Supreme Court, Georgia would become a howling wilderness.' A LETTER from the city of Augusta, the place where your meeting was held, informed the Editor of the National Intelligencer, that I did not speak the sentiments of the people of Georgia. Now I had every reason to suppose he firmed his opinion upon the views of his neighbors, if he spoke the truth; and if so the political opinions of that city are at variance with the rest of the good people of Georgia, for the information thus given by the Augusta letter has, in all its parts, been wholly unconfirmed. And this induced me to fear that there might be an interest in that flourishing city, not altogether in unison with the good southern feeling of the rest of the state. Be this as it may, the decision of the Supreme Court has been nullified, or the matter is now thrown upon the general government to take its course. If it yields the authority of that Government has been held in perfect contempt and rendered null and void. If it proceeds, than all the consequences of revolutionary action and the effusion of blood so much dreaded in relation to the tariff, must be the inevitable result.

The decision purports to be founded upon the Intercourse Law passed by Congress in 1802, to regulate trade with the Indians, and also upon the solemn Treaties of the United States declared by the Constitution to be the supreme law of the land.- Now it is resisted by the State of Georgia, upon the ground that the Treaties are unconstitutional.

What is the planned fair inference to be drawn from this case? If a state can rightfully resist a law which has not only gone through the usual forms of legislation, sanctioned by the Executive and Legislative branches of government, but has been pronounced constitutional by the highest Judicial power, than is, passed all the guards that can give the stamp and authority of law, surely there can be but little cause to dread a similar opposition to the tariff act founded open and equally flagrant usurpation. But we are told they are not similar cases. Let us examine this point. The Intercourse Law is founded upon that power in the Constitution, which give to Congress the right to regulate commerce with the Indian Tribes. The tariff act is said to rest upon the right to regulate commerce with foreign nations. Now mark, both of these powers are found side by side, in the 8th section of the 1st article of the Federal Constitution. Suppose both laws, for the first time had been passed at the last Congress. The first, containing a provision that the Cherokee Nation of Indians within the limits of Georgia, was an independent nation, and not subject to the laws of Georgia.  The second, containing a provision that the people of Georgia should pay a tax to the northern capitalists to protect the manufacturers. What would Georgia do with the first law? Need I answer that she had already nullified precisely such a law, in the present Intercourse Law, and the decision founded thereon. If then she would nullify the first law, can there be a sensible difference in point of effect or principle between that and the last?  It is said their difference is their consequences, the first applies to a single state, the other to all the states; and pray what has one sovereign state to do with the rights of other sovereign states in their separate capacities? It is not recollected that one state has nothing to do with another, only in the stipulated articles that have confederated them together, and so soon as the confederated government passes law out of these articles, each state throws itself upon its original separate rights, and may employ whatever means it pleases to prevent the operation of that law, or if it chooses it may submit to its authority. The other states may desire the protective system, indeed more than two thirds clamor for it. Can this be any good reason why Georgia shall submit to it?

Suppose all the other states, like Louisiana and Kentucky, should be bought up and become reconciled to the late act, can it be contended that Georgia must become so too? Does it not occur to every mind, that there can be no possible difference between robbing the states, by piecemeal, of their constitutional rights, or doing it in one general attack upon the whole sisterhood? The reasoning that would attempt to make a difference, will establish this position. If a ruffian attacks a single individual, he must repel him immediately, but if he attacks him in company with twenty- three others, sixteen of whom are willing to be robbed, and the other seven doubting whether they will fight or submit, he must wait until they make up their minds! From such logic I beg leave most heartily to dissent. All infractions of the zconstitution are alike, whether they be great or small, so say all divines in reference to the moral law; the progress of the mischief may be different, but the final result will be the same.- The beautiful green field may be as effectually destroyed by the admission of its despoilers at a single gab as if they had rushed upon its luxuriance from a prostrated broadside.

The fourth case, strange as it may appear, is actually going on almost unnoticed, at the present time, and though silently, yet as certainly as the other three. I allude to the survey and occupation of the Cherokee Nation.  Thousands who are now decrying the term nullification are perfectly willing that it should not be arrested in the case referred to, and perhaps into the threat of your 3rd resolution, would vote against any man who should be opposed to its success. The last legislature authorized a survey and disposition of this whole country, and I understand the survey is made; the commissioners are convened, preparation is making for the lottery, the drawing is to commence in October next, and in all probability the possession of the lands will pass from the Indians before the close of the year. Now what becomes of the treaties that have guarantied this very territory to its present inhabitants? The constitution of the United States declares all treaties to be the supreme law of the land, anything in the constitution and laws of the states to the contrary notwithstanding. The violation of a treaty often involves a nation in war, and but for the weakness of this nation, such might have been the consequences of this proceeding on the part of Georgia.

Can it be possible that this will not be called a plain and palpable case of nullification! The matter is too clear; concerning it there can be no manner of doubt. And although an individual, I cannot agree that it is right, yet under my doctrine, based upon the opinions of Mr. Jefferson, that a state has the right to 'jude for itself, as well of infractions (of the compact) as of the mode and measure of redress,' and the state having pronounced these treaties unconstitutional, and therefore NULL and VOID, if she is invaded by the general government, I go to support her decision 'right or wrong,' for my first allegiance is due to the state of Georgia. This is my kind of nullification; will your meeting do this?  If they will, there is no difference of opinion between us; if they will not, I leave the people of Georgia to judge which doctrine suits their notion of patriotism best. Now what case can tend to blood and revolution than this?  And yet I do not believe that this or any other case, will ever produce such a result. The thing is unreasonable. No oppressive and unconstitutional law can be enforced against a sovereign state. It is a free agent in a mere voluntary confederation which is wholly unnecessary to its internal municipal regulation. Having gone into the union for external objects, the moment these are lost, and an attempt is made to rob her of her inherent rights, the same free agency that made the compact ca dissolve it, nay it would become so by reason of the fraud of the opposite party. Force is out of the question. Four times has Georgia tried this matter, and just as certain as fate four times, she will meet with the same success, for no man can believe, that when the alternative is presented to the general government to give up the Union, or to cut the threats of her citizens to pamper the wealth of a privileged order, that the choice will occasion even an instants hesitation.

In all cases of usurped or assumed powers, Mr. Jefferson's doctrine maintain three things:

1st. That nullification is the rightful remedy

2d. This is a natural right.

3d. That 'every state,' of its 'own authority' as a right to 'nullify within her own limits.'

Upon this last it may be necessary to say but a word. A state entitled to 'judge for itself, as well of infractions, as the mode and measure of redress,' cannot part with its sovereignty (without becoming dependent) to any other state so as to make the other the judge of its violated rights. A submission of this kind implies an obligation to abide by the award, and such a course every body must perceive requires a state to give up its own judgment to the decision of one who may not have half the same interest at stake, or anything like a proper knowledge of the bearings of that interest. What would have been the consequence if Gov. Troup had waited till he should have submitted the case of the old and new treaty to a convention of southern states, or it Gov. Lumpkin had done the same thing in relation to the missionaries or the survey of the Cherokee Nation? Think you not the decision would have been against us? And what security has any state against any other result, when she trusts her sovereign powers to an arbitration?  I subscribe most unequivocally to the doctrine contained in the above three points, and consequently I am for a convention of the people of the state to determine the best method of removing the burthens imposed by this unconstitutional, usurped, and unjust law, and whatever that method may be, I feel bound to submit to it.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6, 1832

We refer our readers to an act of Congress published in this paper, authorizing the appointment of a Commissioner over the Indian Department, for the administration of the various affairs growing out of their relations with the Indian Tribes, ' for other purposes. The 4th section prohibits the introduction of ardent spirits into the Indian country, under any pretence whatever. If this section of the law was intended to operate in all the Indian countries, why is not this provision executed in this nation? This is the very country, and the proper time, if Congress intended to benefit the Indians by it, for the enforcement of this law. This part of the Cherokee country ever since the extension of Georgia jurisdiction over it-that portion bordering on the Tennessee State, as also that of Alabama, continues to be supplied, in traffic with the Indians, by the white persons permitted by the President to occupy and intrude on the Indian lands, in great quantities of this consuming fire. The Cherokees have at different times, called on the President for the enforcement of a law (Mar. 20th 1802) containing provision more ample for the suppression of this pernicious but he has as often refused.  This law provides heavy penalties against the whites for dealing in spirituous liquors with the Indians, but it has been regarded as a law unfit for the execution of the President. A new section has now appeared from Congress, containing four lines prohibitory of this traffic, but without a penalty for its infringement. A law in this condition we had always viewed, as a matter of Counsel and not of law, the pleasure of the subject superseding its supremacy, and altogether inefficient to govern the object for which it was obtained.  If Congress were candid in the passage of this section, and this part of the Indian country was intended to be embraced, it would be nothing more than an act of simple justice, to which we had at least a just claim; the enforcement would be salutary, and might go far in white washing the act of the President for refusing to execute the provisions of a much better law.

An act to provide for the appointment of a Commissioner of Indian affairs and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled. That the President shall appoint by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who shall under the direction of the Secretary of War, and agreeably to such regulation as the President may from time to time prescribe, have the direction and management of all Indian Affairs, and of matters arising out of Indian relations,and shall receive a salary of _______ per annum.

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of War shall arrange or appoint to the said office the number of clerks necessary therefore, so as not to increase the number now employed; and such sum as is necessary to pay the salary of said Commissioner of the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, shall be, and the same hereby is appropriated out of any money in the treasury.

Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That all accounts and vouchers for claims and disbursements connected with Indian Affairs, shall be transmitted to the said Commissioner for administrative examination, and by him passed to the proper accounting officer of the Treasury Department for settlement; and all letters and packages to and from the said Commissioner, touching the business of his office, shall be free of postage.

Sec. 4.  And be it further enacted. That the Secretary of War shall, under the direction of the President, cause to be discontinued, the services of such sub-agents, interpreters, and mechanics, as may, from time to time, become unnecessary, in consequence of the emigration of the Indians, or other causes.

Approved: July 9, 1832.

_____________________________

The following communication is from a respectable person, the truth of whose statement there can be no doubt. The decision of Judge Clayton in which he refers, was also nullified by Governors Gilmer and Lumpkins, but the still 'small voice of justice' was still recorded in the books of the Superior Court which the Honorable Judge has thought proper to banish and deprive the Indians of that justice which they are certainly entitled to from him, in regard to the gold mines.

Mr. EDITOR:- On Monday in September last, I had session to attend the Superior Court of Cherokee County, so called. I arrived there on Monday morning in time to hear Judge Daugherty deliver his charge to the Grand Jury. The court house being small and so much crowded I of course had to take a station on the outside, therefore, I could not hear all that the Judge had to say. But this much, I well recollect, in giving his charge, he stated to them, that the same Justice should be meted out to the red man as the white man. On the same evening I learnt (sic) that the next day (Tuesday) three Cherokees were to be brought before the Court for the crime of digging for gold on their own soil, I felt a deep interest, and waited to see the trial. On Tuesday, about 10 o'clock they were brought to the court house and seated on a log in front of the court house door. I went up to them, and took each of them by the hand; on doing this it recurred to my mind, where are the Treaties and laws of the United States, and has the executive arm become too short that it cannot protect the Indians in their own rights and privileges? I then inquired who they were, and from what part of the nation. I found that one of them was a nephew of the venerable Maj. Ridge;- and the other two were connections of our worthy Representative Walking Stick.  They stated that after they were arrested, they were taken before some of the justices of the peace and committed to jail in Dekalb county, Georgia, and were brought to that place for trial.  They were coupled one to the other as they sat on the log by the ankles, with a common trace chain, ' a padlock suspended to each ankle. About 11 o'clock they were brought before the court and the counsel, adverted to the decision of Judge Clay, viz:- the State of Georgia vs. Cunnetoo, which decision is well known to your readers; but the Judge over ruled the plea, and stated he had nothing to do with the acts of the legislature, but to enforce them; if the State had a right to restrain her white population from digging gold, she had the same right to restrain her Indian population from doing the same. The prisoners gave bond and security for their appearance at the next term of the Court which will be on the 4th Monday in March next so that the opinion of Judge Clayton of the unconstitutionality of the law, is declared by Judge Daugherty, as constitutional. What a contradiction! One other Cherokee case and I shall have done. A certain white man by the name of Bogan had a claim on the estate of Jesse Vann deceased, and commenced an action, Peacock, uncle of the deceased, and recovered a judgement against the Peacock on an open account of fourteen years standing, or upwards, and what is more strange, the magistrate had allowed the accounts to draw interest; which case was taken up to the Superior Court, and brought for trial, and let it be said to the Honor of the Court, the case was thrown out with cost of suit on Bogan.

A SPECTATOR.

Oct. 3d 1832

_________________

The Christian Soldier, a highly respectable paper published in Boston, and devoted primarily to religion, makes the following remarks on the letter of resignation by the late editor of this paper.

________

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

Mr. Elias Boudinot has resigned his situation as editor of this paper, and recommends that it be discontinued, on account of the pecuniary embarrassments of the Cherokee Nation. Mr. Ross, the principal Chief, in communicating the resignation to the Committee and Counsel says:

*              * *                  * *

We sincerely hope the paper will not be discontinued; and we cannot refrain from expressing our surprise at the recommendation of Mr. Boudinot. 'Knowledge is power,'- and the publication s of a weekly paper among the Cherokees in which the subject of their rights shall be freely discussed, and containing such other articles as shall be calculated to instruct and reform the people,and afford them necessary information of passing events, will be of incalculable benefit. We say to them, 'Don't give up the ship;' maintain the paper, if possible; it may be that God will yet send you deliverance.




      


From the _______

THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES.

Rev. S. A. Worcester and Dr. Elizur Butler, missionaries, are still in confinement in the Penitentiary at Milledgeville, Georgia.  There is a cruelty and injustice exhibited in the case of there missionaries, that is a national shame and reproach. In no part of the civilized world in modern times, under the authority of any government, has a subject or a citizen been subjected to an ignominious imprisonment contrary to the opinion and judgment of the highest tribunal of that government, except the missionaries.

Mr. Worcester is employed in the Penitentiary mostly as a mechanic at the bench; and Dr. Butler at the lathe wheel-they are dressed in ordinary dress of the prison, made of coarse cotton; the initials of their names are painted in large red letters across their breast and waist.  Thus attired they perform their daily task in company with felons. In three departments there are one hundred prisoners. Mr. Worcester has about 30 with him, and Dr Butler with him 27.  Each convict has a blanket to lie upon or to cover himself on the floor.

These gentlemen were residing in the Cherokee Nation in the capacity of duly authorized missionaries under the authority of the President of the United States; and never were required by him to leave it. Mr W. at the time of his arrest, was engaged in preaching the Gospel to the Cherokee Indians; and in translating the scriptures into their language, with the permission and approval of the Cherokee Nation.

Crime alleged against these men and for which they were prosecuted, was residing within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, without a license or permit from the Governor of Georgia, and without taking an oath required by the Act of Assembly of Georgia.

It is no longer a question, whether these missionaries committed any offence, by their residence for pious purpose, in the Cherokee Nation.- The Supreme Court of the United States at their session in February last, have settled that question. After giving every consideration to the pretensions of Georgia, as well as the rights of the Cherokees under Treaties and Laws of Congress, that high court, with ability and independence which distinguishes it, delivered the opinion, that these men had committed no offence and violated no law. That opinion is supported at great length by a train of reasoning that is unanswerable and conclusive to every dispassionate mind.

In that opinion, it is stated, 'that the Cherokee Nation is a distinct community occupying its own territory, with boundaries accurately described in which the laws of Georgia have not force,' and which 'the citizens of Georgia have not right to enter, but with the assent of the Cherokees themselves, or in conformity with treaties and acts of Congress.' 'The act of the State of Georgia under which Mr. Worcester was prosecuted is void, and the judgment a nullity.' 'These acts of Georgia are repugnant to the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States.' 'They are in a direct hostility with treaties, repeated in a succession of years, which mark out the boundary that separated the Cherokees country from Georgia; guarantied to them all the land within their boundary; solemnly pledge the faith of the United States to restrain their citizens from trespassing on it; and recognize the pre-existing power of the nation to govern itself.'

'They are in equal hostility with the acts of Congress-for regulating this intercourse and giving effect to the treaties.'

'The forcible seizure and abduction of Mr. Worcester who was residing in the Nation, with its permission; and by the authority of the President of the United States, is also a violation of the acts of Congress, which authorize the Chief Magistrate to exercise this authority.'

'Will these powerful considerations avail Mr. Worcester? We think they will. He was seized and forcibly carried away while under the guardianship of treaties guaranteeing the country in which he resided, and taking it under the protection of the United States. He was seized while performing under the sanction of the Chief Magistrate of the Union, those duties, which the humane policy adopted by Congress had recommended.  He was apprehended, tried, and condemned under color of a Law, which ha been shown to be repugnant to the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States.'

'It is the opinion of the Court that the judgment of the Superior Court for the County of Gwinnett in the State of Georgia, condemning Samuel A. Worcester to hard labor in the Penitentiary of the State of Georgia for four years, was pronounced by that Court under color of a law which is void, as being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States, and ought to be reversed and annulled.

'It was ordered and adjudged by said Court that the judgment of said Court of Georgia be and hereby is reversed and annulled, and that all proceedings on the said indictment surcease, and that the said Samuel A. Worcester be and he hereby is henceforth dismissed therefrom and that he go thereof quite without delay. And that a special mandate do go from this Court to the said Superior Court of Georgia to carry this judgment into execution.'

Such was the reasoning and the decision of the High Court, and how has the decision of this Court been enforced and respected?  The mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States, to the Court in Georgia, to which it was addressed; and that Court refused to obey it-the Georgia Court also refused a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of the missionaries, and even denied a copy of its proceedings in this case, totally disregarding the mandate of the Supreme Court, and yet disregarding it.

With such injustice, oppression and cruelty practiced in our Republican government under color of law; where is the supremacy of the law and security of the citizen.

The Supreme Court of the United States, decided that the imprisonment of these Missionaries was contrary to and a violation of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States; and more than six months have passed since that decision, and yet these men are confined at hard labor with felons in a penitentiary

Whose official duty is it to maintain the Constitution of the United States and execute the laws? The President of the United States has taken an oath, that he 'will to the best of his ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.'

By the same Constitution it is provided that the President 'shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.'  Notwithstanding the Supreme Court have in the solemn manner adjudged that the Constitution, laws and treaties were violated by the State of Georgia in the imprisonment of these missionaries, yet President Jackson has not done anything to maintain the Constitution or execute the laws. We have not seen or heard that he complained to Georgia of her proceedings, or uttered a single word of disapprobation of the course pursued by her authorities.

How different was the conduct of Mr. Adams, during his administration, when the State of Georgia attempted to violate the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States? The Georgia Legislature passed a law authorizing the survey of the lands of the Creek Indians; the surveyors under the authority of Georgia proceeded to survey-what complaint was made by the Indians to the President of the United States, of the violation of the laws and treaties. On the receipt of complaint and appeal of the Indians, President Adams on the 19th January, 1827, Mr. Barbour his Secretary or War, notified Gov. Troup of Georgia, 'That the pretensions of Georgia under which the surveys were attempted are in direct violation of the Treaty, and if persevered in must lead to a disturbance of the public tranquility.' He significantly made known 'That charged by the Constitution with the execution of the Laws, the President will feel himself compelled to employ if necessary all the means under his control to maintain the faith of the nation by carrying the treaty into effect.' Orders were at the same time issued to the Marshal and District Attorney of the United States for Georgia, to execute the laws against the intruders. Mr. Adams in a special message to Congress declared 'that if the legislative and executive authorities of the State of Georgia should persevere in acts of encroachment upon the territories secured by a solemn treaty to the Indians, and the laws of the Union remain unaltered, a superadded obligation even higher than that of human authority, will compel the Executive of the United States to enforce the laws and fulfil the duties of the nation,by all the force committed for that purpose to his charge.'

Gov. Troup of Georgia, after this, blustered excessively, and issued his orders to his Civil Magistrates to discharge all who might be arrested by the U. States authority, and he required some of his Major Generals to hold in readiness their several regiments. The course taken by President Adams, satisfied Georgia that the Chief Magistrate of the United States was determined to enforce the laws. The matter ended with only blustering and threats on the part of Georgia, and there were no further encroachments on Indian lands during Mr. Adams' administration.

These encroachments were however renewed with increased aggravation, during the Administration of President Jackson, without any opposition or remonstrance from him. The Georgians must have known his sentiments and inclinations on the subject or they would have not dared to set at defiance the Constitution, laws and authorities of the United States. The imprisonment of the missionaries, contrary to law, is an outrage on the rights and liberties of the citizen that is tolerated by President Jackson, in violation of his duty and his oath as Chief Magistrate. As Gen. Jackson is a man influenced by strong passions and attachments, it may well be suspected that he supports him in his measures and pretensions and encroachments because Georgia supports him in his measures and pretensions. The politicians of that State know how acceptable adulation is to our infatuated President; for at a late meeting in Oglethorpe, Georgia, where they had a President and ten vice Presidents, after resolving 'that the laws having for their object the encouragement of domestic manufactures, are deliberate, palpable and dangerous breaches of the Constitution, which to as free citizens of Georgia  we ought not, cannot, will not longer submit.' and declaring their co-operation in nullification, they alone for all to our Chief Magistrate, by resolving, 'That to prevent misconstruction at home or abroad, we aver our confidence in the patriotism of Gen. A. Jackson, unshaken. He is entitled to, and will undoubtedly receive, the most unanimous suffrage of Georgia.'

Such a resolution is the last, with President Jackson, will cover a multitude of political or other offenses.

Will the people of these United States, agree that for such considerations our Constitution, laws and treaties to be violated and our innocent fellow citizens imprisoned without offence and contrary to the law and judgment of the highest Court under the Constitution?

PUBLIUS.




      


From the New York Advertiser.

REVIEW OF GENERAL JACKSON'S ADMINISTRATION.

The political aspect of our country is at the present time unprecedented, and certainly not a little threatening to the peace and harmony, if not the very existence of the Union. One state promulgates doctrines utterly inconsistent with the constitutional powers of the national government-another denies the legitimate authority of one of the great branches of the government,and declares a fixed determination to oppose, by force, if necessary, the decree of the highest judicial tribunal known to the zconstitution. Powers usurped by the President of the United States, in the exercise of which the execution of the laws of the United States if suspended, and their force and obligation are made to depend upon the caprice or perverseness of man of no fixed political principles, one whose conduct is governed by his passions who is grossly ignorant of the Constitution under which he holds his office, and who is totally regardless of the solemn obligations which devolved upon him when entering upon the duties of chief magistrate of the Union. When Gen. Jackson was elected President, and took the oath of office, the United States were enjoying peace and prosperity-the Constitution was revered, the laws were obeyed, and the Union was sincerely cherished. Not a single act of oppression was seriously alleged to exist not an unconstitutional measure complained of, not a threat of dissolving the confederation was heard from any of its members. In the course of three years and a half a wonderful change in the circumstances of the country has taken place;and already are we threatened with insubordination, discord, a dissolution of the Union, and a destruction of the government. That this revolution in the state of things exists, cannot be denied, and its possible, and perhaps probable consequences must be deeply explored and deprecated.  The causes which have produced such effects should be carefully sought after, and ascertained, in order that the calamities under which the country already labors may be removed, the evils with which it is threatened may be averted, the progress which is making towards disunion be stayed, and the national government be preserved from total destruction.

It then becomes an object of seri-(sic) importance to review this course and conduct of the administration, since Gen. Jackson came into power, in order to ascertain how far the evils under which the country is suffering are chargeable directly to his account. If they are justly so, they can be but one opinion in regard to him, and his qualifications, among all the real disinterested friends of their country and that must be, and that he is not only unfit for the office which he holds, but a dangerous man to hold and exercise the executive powers of the government.

It is a remarkable fact, that more has been accomplished in the course of three years and a half in which Gen. Jackson has been at the head of the government, to shake the confederacy, and threaten the dissolution of the union, than during all the preceding administrations.  When he took the reins of power, he had a decided majority of his friends in both houses of Congress, who were devoted to his interests, as well as his politics. He, and his partisans, had succeeded, by what means it is not necessary to say, in rendering the administration of his immediate predecessor extremely unpopular; and he had no serious obstruction in his way, to prevent him from bringing to pass all the benefits which his devoted friends had promised as the certain fruits of his election.  It is not necessary at this time of day, to say, that none of these promises to have been realized. So far from it, according to his recollections, not a single important measure recommended by him in three successive official communications to Congress, with the exception of that relating to the removal of the Indian tribes, has been carried to effect by Congress. No reasonable person could require stronger evidence of incapacity in a chief magistrate, than that just stated. Even upon the strong majorities to which we have alluded his recommendations produced no effect-they were disregarded, and the measures proposed were unattended to, or not deemed worthy of adoption. The bill for the removal of the Indians, and the practices under it, he may without hesitation lay claim as great a proportion of the merit as he may choose. No honest, uninterested man of intelligence, will attempt to deprive him of any share of it.

In estimating the amount of credit to which Gen. Jackson is entitled for his sentiments on the Indian question, it will be necessary to examine the subject somewhat minutely. In doing this, it will be part of our intention to consider the question of justice and oppression toward the Indians. This is altogether foreign from our present purpose. Our object is, to show the consequences that have proceeded, and must be expected to proceed from the interference of General Jackson with the legitimate powers and duties of another branch of government, and with his usurping powers with which the Constitution has not clothed him. The usurpation was manifested immediately after he took the Presidency, by his assuming to decide that certain treaties and laws of the Union were unconstitutional, and therefore not binding upon our government. Whatever the character of those treaties and laws might have been, it was no part of Gen. Jackson's official duty, nor had he the least particle of power by the Constitution to decide questions of this description. But, in his first message to Congress, he took upon himself that authority; and thus gave the government of Georgia to understand, that the Indians were at their mercy; and let the state do what they pleased, he would not interfere. Up to the time of his accession, the validity of the treaties and laws alluded to was not questioned. So late as 1825 only four years before Gen.Jackson's message, to which we have referred was delivered, the Governor of that State, who,if we are not mistaken, was the same Mr. Troup who is now a Senator in Congress, and who some months ago published a letter respecting the decision of the Supreme Court of the most ultra and extravagant tenor, issued a proclamation in which among other things he says-

'Whereas it is provided in said treaty, that the United States shall protect the Indians against the encroachments, 'c. of the whites so they shall suffer no encroachment 'c in their persons, goods 'c. until their removal shall have been accomplished according to the terms of the treaty;'

'I have therefore thought proper to issue this my proclamation, warning all persons citizens of Georgia  or others against trespassing or intruding upon lands occupied by the Indians within the limits of Georgia, either for the purpose of settlement or otherwise, as every such act will be in direct violation of the provision of the treaty aforesaid, and will expose the aggressors to the most certain and summary punishment, by the authorities of the State, and the United States. All good citizens, therefore pursuing the dictates of good faith will unite in enforcing the obligations of the treaty, as the supreme law,' 'c.

We quote this passage from the opinion of Mr. Justice M'Lean, in the case of Worcester decided the last term of the Supreme Court. This proclamation alone is sufficient to show that as late as 1825 at least the Indian treaties were considered, even by the State of Georgia, as the supreme law of the land. But when General Jackson's opinions on the subject were promulgated, then the politicians of that State, finding a chief magistrate of the nation holding and avowing directly opposite doctrines, availed themselves of the advantages which the fact afforded them and immediately claimed the right of absolute jurisdiction over the Indians and their territory. And now, when the highest tribunal of the Union had solemnly decided, that the Indian nations are, what Gov. Troup declared them to be, in his proclamation just quoted-viz;-'the supreme law of the land.' and the acts of Georgia are tending jurisdiction over them to be unconstitutional and void, aware that the sentence of the court cannot be enforced without the eventual aid of the Executive of the Union, they threaten forcible resistance, if any attempt shall be made to carry into effect- a course that if ___ to the final result, will overthrow one of the main pillars of the government and in the end destroy the Constitution itself.




      


INDIANS.

From the Washington Globe

THE INDIAN WAR OVER-BLACK HAWK AND THE PROPHET TAKEN

Copy of a letter to the Editor dated

U. S. Indian Agency at Prairie du Chien, 3d. Sept. 1832

F.P. Blair, Esq.

Dear Sir: The Indian War is over. The celebrated leaders of the hostile Indians, Black Hawk and The Prophet, were delivered to me at this place on the 27th ult. by the Winnebagoes of my Agency. The day after Generals Scott and Atkinson left this place, I sent out two parties of Winnebagoes to bring Black Hawk, The Prophet and Niapope to me. They returned the 27th ult. about 10 or 11 o'clock, and delivered the two first. The same day I turned them over to Col. Taylor, commanding Fort Crawford, and expect to accompany them with a military escort to the Headquarters of General Scott, at Rock Island, in a day or two.

I am now waiting the return of an express sent up the Mississippi by which I expect to receive about 50 or 60 more prisoners, taken by the Indians. There is(sic) now 48 in the Fort, delivered to me by the Winnebagoes of my Agency, and I have previously delivered to General Atkinson 48 prisoners taken by the Winnebagoes and Menomenees.

From the moment the hostile Indians entered the limits of my Agency by crossing the Wisconsin with the aid of the Commanding Officer at this Fort, I assembled the Indians of my Agency, and encamped them before my door, where they remained until the battle of the Mississippi, and the rout of the hostile Indians.

I herewith cover to you an account of the delivery of Black Hawk and The Prophet to me.

Your most Obedient servant.

JOS. M. STREET.




      


Extract of an oration delivered at the celebration of Independence in Macon County, N. C. on the 4th July, 1832 by J. R. Williamson.

'But the time warns me to proceed in the consideration of the next principal subject of my address viz: the bill for the removal of the Indians, and our conduct generally, towards that unfortunate people.

In the midst of the general apathy, there is one at least, who dares to address the cause of the wretched and forlorn red man of the woods. And where shall I begin to count his multiplied wrongs? Shall I call upon the bleached bones of the warrior, that are now lying and crumbling far to the East? Shall the desponding heart broken and forsaken remnant of a fierce and lordly tribe of the South alone give evidence? Cannot the sequestered shades of the West tell tales of oppression?  Are the gelid and moss grown rocks of the North free from the reminiscences of the Indians' woe? No; nor time nor place-from the landing of Columbus to the passing of the act we discuss--from the Amazon to the Frozen Ocean are periods and regions marked with an outrageous encroachment upon the Indian soil, on Indian rights, and Indian privileges. The name of Indian has indeed been intensified with every species of freebeing, injustice and oppression. Whether it is evidenced under the specious garb of legislative toleration, or by the skulking miscreant; who goes among them, to carry fraud and treachery into their very bosoms, it is one ' the same thing-the eternal laws of justice equally forbid; and the wholesome maxim so use yours that you do not injure mine has been violated by this whenever it has waged an unjust and exterminating war against them, or intruded upon them an oppression and overstretched legislation. Our conduct towards them has been indeed singular and inconsistent. We have treated with them as a free people--we have declared war against them as independent nations--there has been a semblance of regard to their national rights, in all our conventional notices of them, and yet we are endeavoring to force them into our notions of their welfare as slaves, as savages, as brutes; and this last stab to the Indians' hopes is now given. Yes, descendants of the once uncontrolled proprietor of the mountain crag and the waving valley, east of the Mississippi, in this unhallowed act of Congress read your death warrant, and you who roam yet free in the prairied(sic) west, divine how soon your time will come.

The proper manner in which to notice this subject, is, to examine the features of the bill. After detailing the means and the instruments of removal, most lame and cruel conclusion it says to the Indian, if you do go in a certain given time, we will withdraw our protection from you, we are your friends but if you do not submit to the terms of our despotic friendship, the rapacious white man may despoil you of your lands, your homes and your dearest rights.  What is the answer of the Indian? Away with your cankering friendship; you promised us the peaceable enjoyment of the chase and the wigwam, our lands and our flocks, on the banks of the Holston; were there extended you the hand of frank and unsuspicious friendship, and you in return promised us love and protection, calling upon the Great Spirit, and the great seal of the United States to witness the solemn transaction. But this act of protection has been drawn with a dagger in its hand, not to shield us from our enemies, but to assist them in the red mans extermination. It is true, you promised us money and blankets and rifles, but what care we for these things without the means of enjoying them! Think you such paltry considerations are sufficient to reconcile us to the idea of being forced to leave not only our comfortable homes and our corn-fields, but our churches and our school houses, which you persuaded us to build, and go to the West and become savages again? And further, think you that we have not like yourselves, that heaven born attachment to the place where our fathers are buried--where we first looked upon the great sun that lights the day--the clear brook where we first quenched our thirst--the hill where we first struck fire for the hunting camp. Yes the Great Spirit gave us these feelings--we enjoy them in common with yourselves; and we like you, when done with the troubles of this world, wish to let our bodies molder in the valley beside the whitened bodies of our fathers.

But it is to the consequences of this bill, that we are to look for the chief injury of the Indian tribes that are the objects of its enactment; and what are these consequences? The States of Mississippi and Georgia have extended their civil and military jurisdiction over the tribes that are within what they claim to be their respective boundaries. What despotism, what inhumanity are couched in these terms, the extension of jurisdiction! Need I tell any man in this assembly that by the Constitution of these States an Indian would be excluded from the most common immunities of citizenship? Can an Indian give evidence against a white man?  Can an Indian make a contract that would be binding on a white man? He can neither hold an office, nor has he a voice in the election of these officers who are to dictate to him the destinies of his property, his honor and his precious life. What are the Indian's feelings on these things?- Hear him in his secret ejaculations to the Father of his Spirit: oh take me to thyself ere these calamities befall me. My ancestors were as free and as unrestrained as the winds of heaven-the spirit of freedom is engrafted in my very nature-if the white man is to restrict this, let me cease to exist. I have born his encroachments, his insults and his depredations with becoming patience.  Anything but subjection to the white man's laws and customs-death ten times inflicted, rather than subjected to the disadvantages of these laws, without the enjoyment of their advantages.  The white man boasts of this liberty, to secure which his people fought. If this is the use he makes of liberty, oh King of Nations never let the sin of liberty rest on my head! But, says Congress, you are savages, and never will become inured to the customs of civilization -go to the wilds beyond the Mississippi, and there enjoy the sports of the forest--there indulge your propensity for a roaming life. May it please your honorable body retorts the Indian, we have no security in your promises. We have before listened to such deceptive advice. You have persuaded us to give back from one point to another, and you shall still surround us, and moved with us, and destroyed us. In you last treaty with us, we were promised us the enjoyment of our lands in fee simple forever; and appealing to the strength of your national army, you promised to protect us from intrusion.  But what is the fact, we are now the slaves of Georgia, enjoying fewer privileges than your dejected sons of Africa.  If we leave our long cherished homes, what right have we to expect any better treatment beyond the farther of rivers, the discontented white man is there too, and will there continue to go until we are again overwhelmed with his bosom like jurisdiction.

I see fellow citizens, in the present method of disposing of the Indians, but one doom for them, viz; gradual, certain, and painful extermination from the face of the earth. I read it in the fates of the Catawbas, the Tuscaroras, and the six bold Nations of the North,the two former entirely, and the latter almost dwindled into total extinction; and the time is not far distant, when not a solitary red man will be left to tell the sad tale of his country's wrongs. Let us then hope that this nation will avert such a heart rending doom, in so immediate determination, in favor of truth, justice and humanity.




      


The following article is from the Washington Globe.  We publish it as a specimen of the miserable, paltry prevarication to which the confidential paper of General Jackson and the administration can resort, for the purpose of extricating 'their illustrious' master from the odium so justly his due, for the agency and influence he has had in subjecting the Missionaries to imprisonment in the State Prison in Georgia, and for the continuance of their punishment under an illegal and unconstitutional sentence of a court of that state. We copy it from the Mercantile Advertiser of this city.

N. Y. Advertiser.

'GEORGIA MISSIONARIES,- One of the falsehoods which the bank agents and lawyers employ to operate upon the hearts of the religious and benevolent to turn them against the President, is that which they connect with the missionaries. They assert that the President has refused to enforce the decision of the Court. This is one of the most wilful and disgraceful falsehoods ever fabricated by the unprincipled party, who have been employing every species of chicanery to drag religion into the arena of politics. The President has never refused to enforce the decision of the Court. He has never been called upon to execute it. The question is still pending between the Federal and State tribunal the terms not having continued in session so as to receive notice of the course of the State Court, and to authorize any execution of its order by a federal officer, on the failure of the State Court to obey the mandate. The counsel for the missionaries, we learn from a gentleman connected with the Indian Bureau, 'admit that in the present position of the case, he (the President) has no right to interfere'

After thus violating the truth to induce the belief that the President has refused to do his duty, in regard to the Missionaries, the Machiavels of the opposition endeavor to enlist the sympathies of the people against him, by accounts of the most distressing kind, in relation to the treatment of the missionaries, pending the issue of their case between the two courts. It is pretended that the Missionaries are treated as felons. This also we understand is utterly untrue. So far from being driven to hard labor, they do nothing more than take as much exercise as will contribute to their health.  And as to their confinement, every body knows it is perfectly voluntary; Governor Lumpkin, who is himself a member of the Church, having offered them a free pardon, on condition of a pledge on their part not again to violate the State Laws. This they refuse. In the meantime, however, they are permitted to receive the visits of their friends, and a free intercourse. We know that very recently their families spent some time with them; and as a decisive refutation of the wanton calumny that they are treated with cruelty, we state, upon unquestionable authority, that, while in Milledgeville, the families of the Missionaries resided in the family of Gov. Lumpkin.

It is a poor apology for the conduct of General Jackson in relation to these grossly injured and oppressed men, that he has not, in terms, refused to enforce the judgment of the Supreme Court, declaring the sentence of the Georgia tribunal illegal, because the legislative act of that State under which their (sic) were convicted was unconstitutional and void.- There is no doubt he waits with great patience for the slow and tedious process of technical measures for the relief of these persons, well knowing it must take at least a twelve month to bring the question formally before him, that he may take it into consideration, and act with all the deliberation and dignity that becomes the executive head of a powerful republic.  Fortunately for himself, this moderation and philosophical calmness, is not at all disturbed by the reflection, that these mock, humble, unoffending, and exemplary ministers of Christianity, are suffering under the iniquitous decree of the Georgia court--a decree that would have done credit to Nero, and added a deeper tinge to the sanguinary record of Draco-among felons, the most degrading punishment that the penal codes of modern legislation have been able to devise and inflict.

But it is necessary to go back further on the track of this injustice and disgrace and ascertain who induced Georgia to set the laws, the courts, the judgments, and the Constitution of the United States at defiance? Who took care to let the people and government of Georgia, as well as the Cherokees understand that he should not interfere between the State and the Indians-that he should not mind courts nor judgments, but should construe the Constitution as he understands it, and it is understood by others; and that-for such was the necessary inference from his doctrines and declarations-Georgia might plunder the Indians as much as she pleased, as far as he was concerned, for that he should not lift a hand to prevent her. Having resolved on pursuing this course, what absurdity is it to pretend that he may enforce the decree of the court, when it shall come technically and formally before him? The Missionaries will have suffered the hardships, the cruelties, the oppressions, and the disgrace, if such men can be disgraced by the exercise of such tyrannical injustice, for nearly two years; and at the end of it must be told that General Jackson, suspends or executes the laws when, where and how he pleases--that he construes the Constitution as he understands it, and not as it is understood by the court-that he and the court are correlative posers, and he has as good a right to control them, as they have to control him; -and as a conclusion to the whole matter he will do nothing to execute the decree of the court notwithstanding it has come formally before him. The public, in this view of the subject, will be able to form a just estimate of the integrity of the editor of the Globe, in this attempt to deceive and hoodwink them in this paragraph.

But it is said, that the Missionaries are not treated as felons, that 'they do nothing more than take as much exercise as will contribute to their health.'  We presume it was not the prime object of the legislature of Georgia, in forming this new and unheard of felony, nor of Judge Clayton when he sentenced the Mission aries to four years hard labor in the state prison, merely to consult their health, to give them more wholesome bodily exercise than they could find in their appropriate and pious labors among the Cherokees. But why is it that their case is singled out among their associates in the prison, and their labors lightened? Every man will give the answer. Oppressive ' tyrannical as the whole proceeding has been, and infamous as is the object, the authorities of Georgia, though deaf to justice and humanity, are not stout hearted enough to meet public opinion, and virtuous indignation, and therefore they fall into the implied acknowledgement that their acts, their judgments and their punishments are unjust, severe, and unconstitutional, endeavor to compound with their consciences by lightening the severity of those punishments and their sufferings of the Missionaries.

It is said that their confinement 'is voluntary, because Governor Lumpkin, who is himself a member of the church has offered them a free pardon, on condition of a pledge on their part not again to violate the state laws,' we would advise him to look over with close self-examination the confession he made, and the covenant he entered into, when he formed that connection, and see how far his conduct towards these ministers of religion squares with his own profession. The condition annexed to his proffered pardon was impracticable, and he must have known it. The Missionaries, as honest men, much more as Christian ministers, could never acknowledge as a law, an act which they believed,-that belief has been established by the court,-to be unconstitutional. They had rather suffer hardships and injustice in their master's service, than experience the remorse of wronging their own consciences.

If the families of the Missionaries resided in the family of Governor Lumpkin, when visiting these excellent victims of injustice at Milledgeville, we should think they must have been reduced to more than ordinary inconvenience in obtaining lodgings, before they could have consented to be under such obligations for such hospitality.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6 1832

(This is the date on the paper. It should read Oct. 27, 1832)

The General Council of the Cherokee Nation convened at Red Clay on the 8th inst., but could not proceed to business in the absence of the Principal Chief, whose arrival at the time fixed for the meeting had been prevented by the unusual and incessant rains that have fallen until the 2d. day of the session when he delivered his message which will be found below. We can make no remarks that would add anything to the merit of this interesting document. Its declaration 'there is no safety for this nation to change the relation it sustains to the United States on emigration' is entirely in accord with the feelings of the Cherokees at large and will be approbated by them.  The council proceeded to the consideration of the liquidation of the expenses of government for the past year, and the election of Judges of the Supreme and Circuit Courts which had become vacant, by extension of the term, of the presiding Judge ending this council.

Mr. Elisha N. Chester attended again and laid before the Principal Chiefs a communication; accompanied by a letter to him from the Secretary of War, in which a hasty glance we had of it at Chester's he reiterates the argument heretofore used by government, and alleged that a crisis had arrived, which placed the safety and welfare of the Cherokees upon a removal west of the Mississippi.

This communication had not been submitted to the council when we left there. It was a subject matter, so dry, or unwelcome, that it had found but little place in the topics of common conversation.

These communications we hope to lay before our readers in the next weeks paper.

Some curiosity exists in the minds of our people, respecting the consistency and rectitude of Mr. Chester's conduct. He was counsel for the Rev. S. A. Worcester and Dr. E. Butler, when prosecuted and condemned in the court of Georgia; in their behalf, he carried their case up to the United States Supreme Court and from it carried to Georgia a mandamus for their release.  This mandate being disregarded, he returned to Washington to take further legal measures in their case.  While there, he was appointed by the President messenger to the Cherokee Council, to promote the humane policies of President Jackson, the effect of which had already been the imprisonment of his clients--our worthy missionaries. Our people think this was a smooth somerset, that placed him in the employ of two parties which they consider opposite to each other.

Mr. Chester appears to be an intelligent man, and may think his conduct consistent, while he opposes the views of Jackson and Georgia respecting the Missionaries, he may accord with them both since he is promoted to be a special agent to urge on us a treaty, but scarcely any appointment by the President could be more unpopular with the Cherokees except it be that of Governor Lumpkin, which he states will be made, if the council do not accord to the propositions of government and if the Cherokees treat hereafter they must do it through him.

To the Committee and Council in General Council convened.

FRIENDS AND FELLOW CITIZENS--You have once more met in your legislative capacity, for the purpose of deliberating upon the affairs of the Nation; and, to adopt such measures, as its interest and welfare shall seem to demand. Therefore, as a preliminary step, I will take a cursory view of such topics, as in my opinion commands your attention.

At your late extra session you deemed it impossible, for the people to hold the General election in peace, agreeably to the mode prescribed by the Constitution, because Georgia had placed her military array against the system; consequently, the subject was referred to a committee of the people from several Districts, who devised and reported a plan, for keeping up the Government of the Nation during the continuance of our present difficulties with that state ' which plan was accepted, and then referred to the people and by them adopted so far as I am informed, the necessity which dictated this scheme of expediency has been duly appreciated and the measure will be received by the people, thro' out the several Districts.

Whenever we scrutinize the acts of the United States Government towards Indians generally and especially in reference to this nation, we cannot fail to see, that, those acts have been directed by a systematic course of policy, adapted solely to promote the views, wishes, and interest of the General or State Governments, and, that those few acts of benevolence on the part of the United States for Indian improvement and civilization have been adapter only from secondary considerations, and more with the view to advance their own glory and national aggrandizement, than to promote the true interest and permanent happiness of our race. I wish not to be misunderstood. I make no insinuation that such feeling has always existed in the controlment of the actions of the General Government towards Indians. There was a day, when better feelings directed the helm of Government, and in that day, justice stalked abroad in the land. The features of the numerous existing treaties between the United States and this nation, plainly exhibits the ligament of our political connection and the stipulations contained in them, unequivocally recognizes and acknowledges all the rights for which we have been contending and by virtue of which the Supreme Court has finally decided them in our favor. The time was, when the intellectual capacity and habitual propensities of the Indian to receive civil and religious instructions and to conform to the habits of civilized life were openly repudiated as problematical and visionary--this formed the basis of argument for those who opposed the encouragement of Indian improvement. But no sooner than the surrounding States becoming coterminous with the locality of our nation, the intercourse between their citizens and our increased with such rapidity as to produce a change in the habits of our people which finally led to the establishment of schools in our country by individuals and benevolent societies; the great progress made in the improvement of the youth both in moral and religious point of view soon dispelled all doubts in regard to the practicability of Indian civilization.

Thus by experimental demonstration the argument of the skeptic has been prostrated, and the insinuating dissembler continued and brought to silence on this head. By the treaty of 1819 Georgia discovered that the United States had so firmly acknowledged the rights of this nation, and so fully provided for its permanent security and the final civilization of its citizens, and being moved by the spirit of cupidity and avarice she became extremely pressing in her applications to the Government of the United States, for the negotiation of a new treaty with this nation for an additional cession of land for her benefit; and the Executive of the Union being disposed and ever ready to meet the wishes of the State on this subject, Commissioners were soon appointed for that object; but finding all overtures unavailing, Georgia became more restless and clamorous in her importunity and openly charged the General Government with the crime of having encouraged and facilitated the progress of Indian civilization, and thereby teaching this nation how to appreciate the value of our country and the consequent inability of the Government ever to purchase more land from us. To this illiberal charge, Mr. Monroe, the then President of the United States, in a message submitting the whole subject before Congress, very correctly responded, thus-'I have full confidence that my predecessors exerted their best endeavors to execute this compact (between the United States and the State of Georgia) in all its parts, of which, indeed, the sums paid, in fulfillment of its stipulations, are a full proof. I have also been animated, since I came into the office, with the same zeal'- I have no hesitation, however, to declare it as my opinion, that the Indian title was not effected in the slightest circumstance by the compact with Georgia, and there is no obligation on the United States to remove the Indians by force. The express stipulation of the compact that their title should be extinguished at the expense of the United States when it may be done peaceably and on peaceable conditions, is a full proof that it was the clear and distinct understanding of both parties to it, that the Indians had a right to the territory in the disposal of which they were to be regarded as free agents. An attempt to remove them by force would in my opinion be unjust. In the future measures to be adopted in regard to the Indians within her limits, and in consequence, within the limits of any State, the United States have duties to perform and a character to sustain to which they ought not to be indifferent. At an early period, their improvement in the arts of civilized life was made an object with the government, and that has since been persevered in. This policy was dictated by motives of humanity to the aborigines of the country,and under a firm conviction that the right to adopt and pursue it was equally applicable to all the tribes within our limits.' After the submission of this message, the Georgia delegation waived the discussion and final action of Congress on the subject at that session; and during the next session, the President presented another special message to Congress, accompanied by a report of the Secretary of War recommending the policy of adopting measures for the exchange of lands, with the various Indian tribes, residing within the limits of the States and Territories of the United States, and for the general removal and concentration on lands to be assigned them to the westward and northward thereof. In the proceedings of the Executive branch of the General Government in reference to us, since that period, it will be seen that they have run counter to their former treaty engagements with this nation, having for its object the general welfare and happiness of the Cherokee people in the permanent enjoyment of their national rights--And with the view of giving effect to this new fangled system of policy, for changing the existing relations established between the United States and the Indian nations under former treaties; and to make the system a general one, Congress under the auspices of President Jackson's administration passed a law entitled an act 'To provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or territories, and for their removal west of the Mississippi.'

This act 'makes it lawful for the President of the United States to cause so much of any Territory belonging to the United States west of the Mississippi, not included in any state or organized Territory, and to which the Indian title has been extinguished, as he may judge necessary, to be divided into a suitable number of Districts, for the reception of such tribes or nations of Indians as may choose to exchange the lands where they now reside, and remove there and to cause each of said districts to be so described by natural or artificial marks as to be easily distinguished from every other, and further, to exchange any or all of such districts so to be laid off and described, with any tribe or nation of Indians now residing within the limits of the States or Territories, and with which the United States, have existing Treaties, for the whole or any part or portion of the Territory claimed and occupied by such Tribe or nation-and that in the making of any such exchange or exchanges solemnly to assure the Tribe or nation with which the exchange is made, that the United States will former secure and guarantee to them and their heirs or successors, the country so exchanged with them; and if they prefer it, that the U. States will cause a patent or grant to be made and executed to them for the same, Provided always that such lands shall revert to the United States if the Indians become extinct, or abandon the same, 'c, 'c, 'c.'

It will at once be seen that by this act, every Indian tribe who may exchange for any of the Districts of land set apart by the President under this law and who shall remove upon it, that moment its national character as a distinct community will cease, and its relations with the United States under former treaties as such dissolved. Here then is a country in extent, agreeable to the report of the surveyor, six hundred miles long and two hundred miles wide, bordering on the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas spreading over an extensive prairie badly watered and only skirted on the margin of water courses and poor ridges with copses of wood, to be laid off into districts of various dimensions according to the contracts to be made with several Tribes of Indians, and to be assigned to and occupied by some fifteen or twenty different tribes, and all speaking different languages, and cherishing a variety of habits and customs, a portion civilized another half civilized and others uncivilized. And these congregated tribes of Indians to be regulated under one General Government; by no doubt, white rulers-but whether Congress is to be employed in digesting a municipal code of laws for them, and in mending it from session to cession (sic) or whether the President of the U. States, is to be sole legislator or whether the business is to be delegated to civil or military prefect, or placed under the diocese of 'the Indian Board,' we are not told. But of this it is certain that the sovereign jurisdiction over the country is exclusively vested in the U. States and that Congress has not given the President any power to relinquish it, to the Indian Tribes or Nations--and should any tribe who have been located, ever become dissatisfied with its situation and remove therefrom, Congress can authorize it to be settled by citizens of any states ' by a late act of Congress three Commissioners have been appointed to locate the emigrants and to adjust the boundaries of the several tribes and other difficulties that exist between them, and the said Commissioners are also required to report to the War Department a plan for the government of the Indians. In a circular written by one of the agents of the U. S. employed in exploring ' surveying the Districts of lands assigned to the several emigrant tribes and addressed to the philanthropist and Christians in the United States, he remarks, that 'most of the Tribes are changing places ' are concentrating in one territory, where the relation which they are to sustain to one another and to the United States is to be new. Under these changes we apprehend a crisis in their condition, approaching, ' speedily it is to be made either better or worse.' Again, 'In a retrospect of three centuries, we perceive little else in the history of American Indians, than their decline and misery. In this state of things, their destruction being inevitably, in relation to them, notwithstanding the new state of things might be a MERE EXPERIMENT.'  'Hitherto the several tribes have not been united to one another, nor to the U. S. Here they are united in one common boundary constituted an integral part of the United States.' I have thought proper to make references to these extracts merely to show that in the prosecution of the emigrating scheme the policy of the United States has never been fully developed by these agents to our people, and that there is no safety for this nation to change the relation it sustains towards the United States, under existing treaties and to adopt the new one by emigration. In the present state of things, you can do little more by legislation than to adopt such measures as will be calculated to keep our citizens correctly informed of the true posture of the public affairs, that they may remain united in the support of our common interests ' national rights-also securing the administration of justice. Justice between individuals in their private transactions so far as it may be practicable to do so. Confiding in the justice of our cause and the righteous decision of the Supreme Court of the U. S. upon it, and also in the constitutional power of the General Government to have it executed--we cannot but hope that the virtue of the people of the U. States will ultimately control the faithful execution of their treaty, obligations for our national protection and under this reliance let us still patiently endure our oppressions and place our trust under the guidance of a Benignant Providence.

Red Clay Cherokee Nation, Oct. 10th 1832.

JOHN ROSS.

________________________

The following poetry was sent us by the mail, accompanied by a statement, that it was copied from over the door of Coque Betty, a widow living at the gold mines within the limits of Tennessee, and was supposed to have been written after a 'calamitous reave' by a member of the Poney Club.

We are glad if even one of the Poney Club pities us, under the many calamities they have superinduced, and has engaged in the more reputable work of writing poetry. For his political orthoxy(sic) we cannot be responsible, but as he has been accustomed to more injurious liberties in another way we grant him poetic license. We are not sure that a more hungry swarm of vermin would not prey upon his wild bird were it to fly over the river and that it would not one day be cooped in another undesirable cage.

For the Phoenix.

Copied from over the door of Coque Betty, supposed to have been written after a calamitous reave, by a member of the Poney Club.

Alas, poor Betti,

Small good ye get,

You live in anxious trouble:

Hope ye to hoard?

Nauty Ledford

Makes still that hope a bubble.

With ruffian arm,

Or serpent charm*

Each villain, safe, here meets you;

The white man's laws

Distinction draws;

Each rogue here boldly entreats you.

The white's your foe-

O, Coquo! go,

Our vermin then can't grip ye;

If once you'll roam,

And make your home,

Beyond the Mississippi.

Go nature's child,

Your home's the wild,

The Indian here is droop'd

His doom's hero weav'd

Oh! I am griev'd

Thus to see the wild bird coop'd

_______

* Having particular allusion

___________________________

The State of Georgia is about to perpetrate one of the most shameless and atrocious depredations, that was ever committed in times of profound peace; upon any nation or people. Without awaiting the extinguishment of the Indian title, as pledged by the General Government to that State; -without regarding the existing title of the Cherokees- without regard to the most solemn treaties, guaranteeins (sic) forever to the Cherokees the occupancy on their lands, her Governor has fixed upon the 22d. inst as the day when she will commence drawing for our lands and gold miles by a lottery system. The progress of her iniquity, and our grievances has not been without our observation. We have been cast into dungeons there to lie, until some humane gentleman interposed for our relief. Our hands have been fettered, for daring to dig our own gold, and our backs have been scourged by weapons in the hands of the Georgia Guard. Our lives have been endangered, and some have been laid cold to rise no more, by the hands of the midnight ruffian. Our missionaries have been torn from their families, and churches, and schools and incarcerated in the loathsome penitentiary, and our moral and religious improvement has been retarded. The property of our ineffending(sic) citizens has been taken and continues to be taken by intruders, and without redress. What we have submitted to one calamity another and another like the billows of an angry sea has rolled upon us. Still our position has not been moved, nor not even by the appointment of that day when Georgia's honor was to be run through sporting wheel to enable her to seize our lands. We have looked forward to the crisis, when the President of the United States, would be moved by public opinion

to the execution of our treaties, and would restore to us the rights affirmed to us by the Supreme Court. But the President continues to withhold his fostering care of these rights, and refuses to fulfil in good faith our treaties with him. In the interim messengers and agents of the President have been arriving at our councils soliciting the exchange of lands, but we have as promptly refused. Animated by the justice of our cause, and confiding in the constitutional requisition and power of the government to restore us our rights, let us hold fast our religious belief, that a righteous cause will never fall. The drawing of the lottery and the settling of our lands can never convey to Georgia a title; it can be only a forcible entry, and illegal possession of the premises, and if persisted in, will certainly endanger the stability of the American institutions, and plunge the gen. government into deeper and darker chaos. To ward off this impending darkness a lowering on the present policy of the government, let us hope the good people of the United States, will not be insensible to a speedy termination of this unhappy controversy, by a restitution of the rights of which we have and may be deprived. In conclusion we have to state to our readers, that ere this time, the lottery may have gone into operation for the drawing of our lands, and a few days more, may perhaps disclose their seizure. But let us continue in the path of rectitude and peace, educate our children, encourage temperance, improve our farms, and sow quantities of grain for the subsistence of our families next year.




      


Jackson's notion of the Supreme Court.-- Everything that falls from the lips of him who was miraculously, and more than miraculously inspired to study the Constitution, as he has said he did, before it was made, which exhibits his views of that instrument, must be precious to the eyes, and dear to the soul of every true democrat; and, at the same time, a curious subject for consideration to the simple friends of the instrument itself, and lovers of the country, which country it is. We may make another, out of the same ground, under the sway of some six or eight penny tyrant;- but who would live in it, that could find a dwelling elsewhere, either in the wilderness, or under some honest and unaffected despot? And yet, that the Constitution is to be destroyed at least in its most important and essential features, if Gen. Jackson should be re-elected, provided he and his friends can effect its destruction, we have accumulating evidence every day. Let every person who venerates that Constitution, read the following statement, the truth of which cannot be denied, and then by the wayward old man, who has his parasites say, 'WAS BORN TO COMMAND.' After Messrs. Sergeant and Wirt had concluded their arguments in the Cherokee case, before the Supreme Court, General Jackson thus expressed his opinions to a gentleman of Philadelphia, with whom he was conversing, or rather to whom he was making an angry rhapsody upon the subject:-

'He expressed the most outrageous anger that the court should have dared to entertain the case; and heaped in unmeasured terms, his bitter denunciations upon the heads of the Judges. Heated to excess of anger, he swore eternal vengeance against the court. 'We shall never be a free people, Mr._, he observed, until the Supreme Court is abolished. It is a greater tyrant than the inquisition. And sir, if I am re-elected, I will put it down-- or it shall put me down! It is a usurper on the Constitution.- We can have no laws-no legislation-no Executive; as long as this court exists. It is a mere cabal of faction, to interfere with and defeat my plans for the public good. There is Sergeant at the head of it-and Wirt too!-Sir, it is not for the Indians that they stir it-but they hope to put me down by it--but that they can't do.--I knew the man that moves it,' shaking his long finger with a significant gesture of hatred towards the West-'but this court. Mr__. and shall be put down. Your representatives deserted me on the repeal of the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, or we should have drawn its teeth this last session-but it shall yet be done, or it shall put me down. We have no liberty as long as we have a Supreme Court!!!'




      


THE PRESIDENT ' THE MISSIONARIES.

From the Protestant- The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions appealed to the President of the United States in behalf of the imprisoned missionaries, praying that he would execute the judgement of the Supreme Court and rescue them from the penitentiary. The following is General Jackson's reply.

'Gentlemen- I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your memorial, stating that certain missionaries in the State of Georgia have been imprisoned for alleged offenses against that state, and requesting my interference in furthering their release.'

'In reply, I have to inform you the power vested in me has been placed in my hands for the purpose of seeing the laws of the United States justly and impartially administered and not for the purpose of abusing them, as I must assuredly should do were I to interpose my authority in the case brought before me in your memorial. The state of Georgia is governed by its own laws, and if any injustice has been or is committed, there are competent tribunals at which redress can be obtained without an appeal to me. I do not wish to comment upon the causes of the imprisonment of the missionaries alluded to in the memorial; but I cannot refrain from observing that here, as in most other countries, they are by their injudicious zeal, (to give it no harsher name) too apt to make themselves obnoxious  to those among whom they are located.'

ANDREW JACKSON.




      


The following excellent article is extracted from the Christian Advocate of the present month--

The month past has furnished us with nothing of much importance to chronicle from Asia, Africa, and South America. But we feel ourselves constrained to notice; before we conclude our view of public affairs, the answer returned by President Jackson to a Memorial, addressed to him by the American Board of Commissioners for Missions, in behalf of the missionaries of that Board, imprisoned in the State of Georgia.  It is our fixed purpose, as it has been our uniform practice hitherto not to meddle with any subject merely of a political character, which may be discussed in our country. But we have never hesitated, and we never intend to hesitate, if a subject directly involving the interests of morality and religions is treated by our public functionaries--no matter how elevated their station--in such a manner as to injure or disserve those interests, to remark upon what they say or do, with all the freedom which a freeman enjoys-always guided and controlled by the principles and spirit of the gospel. The Board of Commissioners, it appears, prayed the President to execute the judgement of the Supreme Court, and rescue the missionaries from the Georgia Penitentiary.  This is the statement we have seen, extracted from the paper bearing the title of the Protestant; and we are unable to say whether it is correct or not.  If correct, we remark, that we are aware it is denied by the friends of President Jackson, that he has any right to interfere in that concern, till a return should be made to the Supreme Court, of the inexecution of their decree and that this has not yet taken place.  Now, if this opinion is well founded, as we doubt not the President believes it is, it would surely have been easy, and we think dignified as well as courteous, so to have replied to the memorialists; and with such a reply, we say for ourselves, that if not satisfied, we should have been silent. But it seems to us that the whole answer of the President is a gratuitous reflection on the Board; and that the conclusion is a severe and undeserved censure of missionaries and missionary operations in general. He says,'I do not wish to comment upon the causes of the imprisonment of the missionaries alluded to in the memorial; but I cannot refrain from observing, that here, as in most other countries, they are, by their injudicious seal (to give it no harsher name) too apt to make themselves obnoxious to those among whom they are located.' We think it undeniable that the clear meaning of this sentence is, that in this country, and in most other countries, the injudicious zeal of Christian missionaries has rendered them justly obnoxious, either to popular resentment, or to governmental restraint, or to both; and that even more than this might be said with truth. We ask, is this a correct statement? If it is, all the missionary operations of the present day, in ever part of the world, with few exceptions, have been and still are, conducted in a very exceptionable and improper manner, and is this the sentence pronounced on the missionary cause as now managed by the Chief Magistrate of the United States!  We confess it has filled us with astonishment and regret. Still, however, the question returns, and it is a most solemn question-is the sentence just and true? We fearlessly declare it is our opinion, that it is not-that it is an unmerited denunciation.  We have been familiar with this subject for more than thirty years; and although we pretend not to say, that there have not been individual acts of indiscretion in missionaries--they must indeed have more than mortal, if among so many in a series of years; there have been no indiscretion-yet we affirm, and think we can incontestably prove that in general missionary operations have been conducted, and missionaries themselves have acted; with an exemplary prudence and discretion. It always has happened, from the time of Christ, and his apostles, and it always will happen until the millennial age, that the preaching of the gospel with fidelity, whatever be the discretion with which it is accompanied, will be offensive to vicious men, and if they be armed with power, it will produce persecution. But in regard to the missions of the day in which we live, although they have been opposed and decried for a time in the East Indians, in the Sandwich Islands, in Africa, in Demerara, and in the West Indies, yet on a fair investigation, the missionaries have been justified, not only by public sentiment, but (with the exception of autocratic Russia) by civil authority. By the constitutional and constituted organ of our own beloved country--the Supreme Court of the United States- the Georgia missionaries have been justified; and it is with both grief and surprise that we read their condemnation by President Jackson, in the reply of which we have felt it our sacred duty, as a Christian advocate, thus freely to remark.

(Extract from an article in the Mississippi Gazette.

President Jackson has in two cases acted towards this State, in a manner calculated to insult our feelings, degraded our character, and destroy our independence. He has directly and indirectly interposed in the legislation of this state. At the session of 1830, when the Indians were made, by enactment, citizens of the state of Mississippi, it was done according to the suggestions and evident desire of Gen. Jackson. A letter in his own hand writing was shown amongst his partisans for that purpose, and one of them, Mr. Marsh, avowed the fact in the House. Mr. Haley who was an active and efficient agent of the President's and who had just arrived from Washington City, and who was known to be entrusted personally and confidentially with his designs, and had the letter before mentioned in his possession, was untiring in his exertions and the Bill passed.

Again, he admitted the propriety and constitutionality of the law, destroying the tribal character of the Indians. But the Constitution of the United States only authorized treaties to be made with 'Indian tribes,' and there is no such thing as treaties between governments and individuals.

Again he admitted that it was right and proper to destroy all the appearance of nationality, which then was amongst the Indians, by making it penal for anyone to hold the office of 'head man, warrior, mingo, or chief.' But unfortunately 'Indian treaties' cannot be made without these worthies.- Boston Centinel




      


From the Journal of Commerce

AMERICAN BOARD OF MISSIONS.

The annual meeting commenced in this city on Wednesday morning, and will close today. In the course of yesterday morning's session, the letter which has been extensively published in the newspapers, purporting to be President Jackson's reply to the memorial of the Board in respect to the Cherokee Indians, was alluded to by one of the members; and the Prudential committee stated that no such a letter had been received by them, and that they had no reason to suppose that it was genuine. The following gentlemen were elected officers of the Society for the ensuing year:

Hon. John Cotton Smith, President.

Hon Stephen Van Rensselaer, Vice President.

Rev. Calvin Chapin, D. D. Recording Secretary.

Prudential Committee

Hon. William Reed

Rev. Warren Fay. D. D.

Hon. Sam'l Hubard,

Rev. B. B. Wisner, D. D.

Sam'l T. Armstrong, Esq

Charles Stoddard, Esq

Sec's.

Rev. B. B. Wisner, D. D.

Rev. Rufus Anderson

Rev. David Greene

Henry Hill, Esq Treasurer

Auditors.

John Tappan, Esq.

William J. Hubbard

The next annual meeting is to be held at Philadelphia, on the 3d Wednesday in September, 1833. Rev. Dr. M'Auley, of that city, was appointed to preach the annual sermon, and the Rev. Dr. M'Murray of New York his alternate.

PUBLIC ANNIVERSARY MEETING.

The public meeting of the anniversary addresses 'c. was held last evening in Chatham Street Chapel.--A numerous concourse assembled on the occasion.

The Speakers were:

Rev. Mr. Smith, Missionary to Persia. Hon. Mr. Frelinghuysen, and the Rev. Dr. Beecher.

It appeared from the annual Report, that the receipts of the year had amounted to $130,574.12 viz: donations $117,349.93, legacies $10,349.93; interest of permanent funds and temporary loans $2,832.19.-  Expenditures, including $2,941.95 for which the Board was indebted at the beginning of the year; $123,896.48.  Leaving a balance in the treasury, $6,677.64

The Society has missions at the Sandwich Islands, in the Mediterranean, in Ceylon in continental India, in China, in Siam, and among the aborigines of our country The accounts received from them are in general highly encouraging.

Bombay- At Bombay and vicinity, there are 35 schools under the direction of the missionaries, containing 1946 scholars, of which 455 are girls; a fact which Americans will hardly appreciate as they ought.- Until very recently the idea of a female learning to read, would have been regarded by the native population as the height of absurdity. The mission press is very active having printed during the year 1831, 1,481,300 pages, and since the first establishment of the mission, 11, 481,000 pages.

Ceylon-This mission has been, in many respects, far more successful than of Bombay.  The number of native children and youth in the schools, is 3,560, of whom 617 are females. There is a sort of high school at Batticotta, to which students of promise in the lower schools are transferred after they have advanced to a certain stage of progress, containing 83 native young men, 35 of whom are members of the Mission Church.  The whole number of native church members connected with the mission is 170.

China and Siam.- The only missionary which the Society has in China, is Rev. Elijah C. Bridgeman, he has not been long there, and has been engaged, so far, mainly in acquiring a knowledge of the language. A printing press has been sent out to his aid, ' a printer, Mr. S. W. Wells of Utica, is expected to go out in the course of a few months. The missionary at Siam. is Rev. David Abeel, formerly of this city.

Mission among the Cherokees.- This mission has been greatly embarrassed in consequence of the proceedings of the State of Georgia, and the refusal of the National Executive to afford protection either to the missionaries or Cherokees. The consequence is, that two of the missionaries, Messrs. Worcester and Butler, are in the Georgia Penitentiary, and most or all of the others, except a few females, have removed into those parts of the nation not claimed by Georgia.   As this subject is of great importance to the public, both in civil and religious point of view we subjoin a considerable extract from the Report, embracing a succinct view of the history of the persecutions endured, and the present state of the mission.- The number of church members connected with the mission, exclusive of the missionary families is about 230. Many of the schools have been broken up, and of course the number of children is greatly diminished.

Extracts from the Report.

It was stated in the Report of last year, that the missionaries have been driven from Carmel, Hightower, Haweis, and New Echota, by the Georgia guard. The missionaries at the former places, after having been once arrested and discharged by order of the Court in Gwinnett County, Ga. thought it expedient, when they were threatened with a second arrest; to remove their families out of that portion of the Cherokee territory over which Ga. claimed jurisdiction. On this point the committee, when consulted, left them to act according to their own conviction of duty, as citizens of the United States and missionaries of the Lord Jesus Christ.

* *              * *                           Messrs Worcester and Butler were arrested and brought to trial before the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia, sitting in Gwinnet County, on the 15th of September. The Jury in their verdict, declared them guilty of residing in that portion of the Cherokee territory claimed by Georgia, contrary to the laws of that State, and on the following da they were sentenced to four years imprisonment at hard labor in the Penitentiary of that State. Nine other persons were sentenced to the same punishment by this Court;--one of them was a preacher of the Gospel, of the Methodist denomination, and four others were professors of religion. On their arrival at the Penitentiary, pardon was offered to them, on condition that they would promise not again to reside in the Cherokee country. With these offers all complied except Messrs. Worcester and Butler, who were accordingly thrust in prison, where they have remained to the present time. Mrs Worcester and Mrs. Butler, still remain at New Echota, and retain possession of the mission premises.* *               * *

Messrs. Worcester and Butler, on their trial before the Superior Court of Georgia, had the aid of good legal counsel, who urged in their defence, as a bar to the indictment, that the Cherokee country was not within the jurisdiction of Georgia, and that their arrest and trial under the laws of that State were contrary to the Constitution, Treaties, and Laws of the United States. They therefore determined, with the approbation of the Prudential Committee, to appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States. Measures were accordingly taken to bring their case in due form before that tribunal.

In the meantime, as the Missionaries entered the Cherokee country with the express sanction and protection of the Executive of the United States, the Committee, in accordance with the instructions of the Board at its last annual meeting, forwarded a memorial to the President, containing a full statement and injuries to which the Missionary property in the Cherokee Nation had been and were subjected, together with the circumstances connected with the arrest and imprisonment of Messrs. Worcester and Butler, and praying that the power of the Executive might be interposed to protect the Missionaries in their labors from further molestation and violence, and that the Attorney General of the United States might be instructed to commence a suit against the offending officers of the State of Georgia for the arrest and imprisonment and other injurious treatment of the Teachers and Missionaries.  In violation of the Treaties and Laws of the Union, and their rights as citizens of the same.

The President replied to this memorial through the Secretary of War, simply stating that as Georgia had extended her laws over the Cherokees, the various Acts of Congress providing a mode of proceeding in such cases, inconsistent with the State laws, became imperative and that he, therefore had no authority to interfere.

A writ of error was granted by one of the Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States on the application of Messrs Worcester and Butler, and the case was brought up and ably argued on the 20th, 21st, and 23d day of February last, by Messrs. Wirt and Sergeant, in behalf of the plaintiffs in error. The decision of the Court was pronounced by Chief Justice Marshal on the 3d of March last. The Court exhibited at great length in a very lucid and convincing manner the nature and extent of the right of discovery, the original ground upon which different European powers laid claim to the continent, the manner in which the lands of the Indians have heretofore been obtained, the import and binding obligations of the treaties which have been made with the Indians, and the manner in which the Constitution of the United States and the Acts of Congress relating to the Indian affairs are to be understood. The laws of Georgia enacted within the last two or three years, extending the jurisdiction of that state over the Cherokee country, were also examined by the Court, and declared to be repugnant to the Constitution, Treaties and laws of the United States. The mandate of the Court was immediately issued, reversing and annulling the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia, and ordering that all proceedings on the indictment against the prisoners do forever surcease, and that the prisoners be and hereby is dismissed therefrom.

A motion was made on the 17th of March in the Superior Court of Georgia by Messrs Chester, Underwood and Harden, the counsel for Messrs Worcester and Butler, that the mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States be received and entered upon the records, and that a writ of habeas corpus be issued to bring the prisoners before the Court, for the purpose of their discharge in obedience to said mandate. After this motion had been argued, the Court refused to obey the mandate of the Supreme Court, or to discharge the prisoners. The Court refused to allow the motion, or the decisions of the Court upon it, or any matter relating to the case, to be entered on its records.

On the 4th of April the principal counsel for the prisoners addressed a letter to the Hon Wilson Lumpkin, Governor of the State of Georgia, enclosing the decision and mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States, and the doings thereon in the Superior Court of Gwinnet County, praying that he would exercise the power entrusted to him as Chief Magistrate of the State, and discharge the prisoners. To this application Governor Lumpkin refused to answer in writing, but gave a verbal denial.

A memorial to the President of the United States was prepared by the counsel for the prisoners in their behalf, praying him to interpose his authority for enforcing the decision of the Court; but after consideration, it was deemed inexpedient to present it in the state of the case. It was also, after consultation with the friends of the Board and of the Indians in Congress, deemed inexpedient to petition that body on the subject during their last session. The case will probably be brought before the Supreme Court again at their next term, when they will take such measures as in their wisdom they shall think best, for enforcing their decision.- It must be left to Providence to decide how this painful business shall terminate, and what shall be its influence on the Indians, and on our own government and country. In the meantime, the Missionaries and their bereaved families are earnestly commended to the continued prayers of the members of the Board and its patrons and to the merciful care of the Great Head of the Church.

During the year, Messrs Worcester and Butler, while separated from their beloved families and labors, condemned to an ignominious punishment, and shut up in a Penitentiary with felons, have been placed in a most trying situation, requiring great fortitude, and a firm reliance on the faithfulness of their covenant God and Savior. They have, without doubt, shared largely in the sympathies and prayers of the churches throughout the land, especially of the Cherokees; and it ought to be a case of devout thanksgiving in their behalf that they have been so full satisfied as to their duty, have possessed so much contentment and peace of mind, and enjoyed so many manifestations of the Divine presence and favor, and have had so much spiritual enjoyment.--Nor should it be noticed with less gratitude that they have been enabled so well to maintain the Christian character and to exhibit in all the trials and sufferings to which they have been subjected by the officers of the State of Georgia, that meekness and benevolent forbearance which the Gospel requires. It is believed that in all their correspondence there has not been one word which indicates an angry, unforgiving or vindictive spirit.

It is due to Charles E. Mills, Esq. keeper of the Penitentiary to mention that Messrs Worcester and Butler, as prisoners, have been treated with great kindness. Their tasks have not been severe. They have been allowed to see their friends and to correspond with them as freely as the regulations of a prison could be expected to permit, and every indulgence seems to have been granted them which could be expected in such circumstances for promoting their personal comfort.

Their health during most of the year has been good.  Mrs. Worcester and Mrs Butler visited the prison last Fall and had an interview with their husbands, and were expecting to repeat the visit the present autumn. They have daily read the Scriptures and prayed with the prisoners confined in the same building with themselves, with much religious conversation.  They have also held stated religious services on the Sabbath, and during the last four or six months all the prisoners have been assembled, and Mr. Worcester has been required by Judge Mills, the keeper to preach to them one half the day. A spirit of inquiry has, to some extent, been awakened among the prisoners. A number have broken off their iniquities, temporarily at least, and a few, it is hoped, have been savingly and permanently benefitted.

During the year, the missions at Hightower and Carmel have been much exposed to injury. The former station was violently seized by the Georgia Guard, a portion of whom have been quartered there the most of the year. The produce of the fields, which was ungathered at the time they took possession last fall, has been consumed or destroyed, as have been also the fowls and swine belonging to the mission. Early in the winter, it was stated by persons connected with the Georgia Guard, that all the stations situated in the portion of the Cherokee country claimed by Georgia, would be taken possession of, and rented or sold for the benefit of that State. Mrs. Worcester and Mrs. Butler were also informed that they must leave the premises at New Echota and Haweis, and in case of their delaying to do so, the Guard would be sent to eject them, and their families. It was, however, though inexpedient for them to remove until force was actually applied. They have been suffered to remain unmolested to the present time.

According to the laws of the State of Georgia, surveyor have been sent into the Cherokee country; the division of it into lots is now nearly completed, and the Lottery by which these tracts are to be distributed among the citizens of Georgia, is to be drawn about this time. Much effort has been made during the year to induce the Cherokees to enroll as emigrants, and the places of all such as have been enrolled have been rented or sold to white men who are filling the country.  The Cherokees have generally been much united, ' notwithstanding they have been so harassed and distressed, they have still almost unanimously resolved not to remove, until driven from their country by force. Recently, when an Agent of the Government appeared in their Council and proposed to them to meet commissioners for the purpose of making a Treaty for ceding their lands, they unanimously rejected the proposal without debate. It is said, however, the people are becoming somewhat divided; --some after having their wrongs and grievances laid before the people of the United States without redress, and despairing of being reinstated in their rights, supposing that ultimate removal will be unavoidable, and that it is expedient for them to make the best terms they can, without protracting a wasting and unsuccessful opposition. The great body of the people, however, it is believed, including most of their intelligent and influential men are still determined to test the question fully, whether they can obtain a redress of their wrongs, and be reinstated in the rights and immunities which they formerly enjoyed and which have been guarantied to them and their posterity by numerous Treaties, by the Government and People of the United States.

[From the Journal of Commerce, of this Morning.]

American Board of Missions.- We should have stated yesterday, in our notice of the proceedings of the Board, that the number of missionary stations under its care is 55; ordained missionaries 68; physicians not ordained 1; printers, 3; teachers, 17; farmers and mechanics, 20; females, married and unmarried, 125; making a total of 237 laborers in heathen lands, dependent on, and under the direction of the Board.- There are also four native preachers, 30 native assistants, 1257 schools, 59,786 scholars. The printing presses at different stations have sent forth about 14,200,000 pages of Bibles, Tracts, 'c. during the year, and from the beginning of the operation, of the Board, about 61,000,000 pages, in eleven different languages. Eight ordained missionaries and their wives,--one male and three female teachers and a printer,--are about to proceed to different fields of labor in heathen lands, and five other missionaries and a printer are expected to sail in the former part of the next year.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6 1832

(This is the date on the paper. It should read Nov. 3, 1832)

We find in the proceedings of the Tennessee legislature, presentations of petitions, for the extension of jurisdiction over the Cherokees within the limits of that state. When we saw this,we thought it could not be possible, that the legislature was moved by the old saying, 'that when a man goes down hill, every one give him a kick, Georgia had kicked, until we had bled, while Alabama was thrusting a thorn in our side, Tennessee was about to do the same. But such we fear is the moving principle and we regret to see it. The Petitions referred to in the proceedings, was signed by a white man from Georgia, resident in the nation, within the limits of Tennessee, and cognominal of the intruders on the Cherokee lands.- Now, we had expected, that the magnanimity of the legislative was of that lofty kind, that it occupied a position so high that it was far above the paltry disposition, even for a moment to consider the propriety of becoming a party in the oppression of the much depressed Cherokees. But to the facts, the legislature has been petitioned by a Georgian, an intruder on the Cherokee lands, to extend the jurisdiction of that state over the Cherokees, who are represented, as being anxious to receive the laws of the state, and without any other evidence of the facts, than the statement; the honor of the legislature at a special called session, and in its sovereign capacity have been induced, to consider the grave subject of taking care of the Cherokees, on the wilful misrepresentation of a Georgia intruder. We hope the legislature will yet pause, to preserve its high reputation.

TENNESSEE LEGISLATURE

Sept. 24th 1832.

House of Representatives. Mr. Vernon presented a communication from a citizen of the Cherokee Nation concerning the extension of laws of the State over said Nation, which communication was referred to the select Committee on that subject.

______________________

We perceive by the Southern prints, that the failure of a treaty with the Cherokees by the Gov't last July council at Red Clay is confidently stated to have arisen from the circumstance of a proposition of a company from Tennessee to rent the gold mines of the Cherokee Nation. We are astonished at the credence given to rumors by those prints who ought ever to be the sentinels and heralds of truth to their readers, to propagate a statement to an enlightened public, having not the least foundation in truth. The fact of the propositions of a company, was made to the council, for a term years  but it was not the influence of this proposition that induced the Cherokees to reject a treaty. Col. John Williams, and Cox of Knoxville, Tennessee, had previous to Secretary Eaton's leaving the Department of War, obtained from him, a full sanction in writing to work the gold mines of the Cherokees, provided he obtained a permit or grant from the Nation, and upon this basis he solicited of the council a permit to work the mines which was refused, on the ground that the Cherokees had determined never to sell any more lands, and that it was no object to the Nation to let the property to citizens of the United States

The cause of the Cherokees rejecting the proposition of a treaty, was contained in the address of the council to Secretary Cass, published by us sometime ago.

'It is stated to us, and on good authority, that the cause of the late failure to form a Treaty with the Cherokees was the offer, by a large Company from Tennessee, to rent their gold mines. Col. Williams is said to be at the head of this Company.-Georgia Courier.

________________________

The General Council of the Cherokee Nation at Red Clay, closed its session on the 31st ult. We had promised our readers the publication of Mr. Chester's communications to the Principal Chief, renewing the propositions to the Cherokees to enter into a treaty, but they have not come to hand. The council made no reply to his communications, more than a notice to the War Department, through the medium of Col. Montgomery the agent, that a delegation had been appointed, composed of John Ross Principal chief, and Senators R. Taylor, J. Vann, and J. Baldridge, to proceed to Washington, to attend to the interests of the Cherokees. This is the second time Mr. Chester has decidedly failed, in effecting the measures of the Government. Secretary Cass is now enabled to set down his final failure to negotiate a treaty, shut his book, with the conviction of having mistaken the influence of Mr. Chester, over the Cherokees, when he was appointing him to effect the views of the President. As to the appointment of Governor Lumpkin, which the Secretary has already intimated, to hold treaties with the Cherokees, we will not condescend to sell a nation to a man who is now about to rob us. The Cherokees will enter into no treaties at a time when they are proclaimed to be a nullity.




      


From the Boston Daily Advertiser and Patriot

THE CONDUCT OF THE ADMINISTRATION.

ARTICLE SEVENTH

THE INDIANS AND THE MISSIONARIES.

This is the darkest chapter in our history.  If it were possible to draw a veil over it, we would gladly do so for the honor of our country and of humanity.  But it is not. The work of iniquity is still in progress. The only hope of arresting it before it reaches it s consummation, must be founded on the awakening sense of justice of the people.  The strongest appeals have been made repeatedly to the executive and legislative departments of the government, as they are now constituted, but without effect. The judiciary has nobly taken its stand in defence of the right, but without the cooperation of the executive, its interposition will probably be ineffectual. It is only by a change in the character of the administration, and of the majorities in Congress, that we can expect to redress this great wrong, and prevent the final extermination of a civilized and Christian community. If there were no other objection to our present rulers, this alone ought to be considered as decisive; and it is therefore of the highest importance that the facts in the case should be constantly kept before the public mind.

What then, are these facts? The Cherokee Indians, occupy a territory somewhat smaller than the state of Massachusetts, situated at that point where the boundaries of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama approach each other-partly in each of these states, but principally in Georgia. The possession of this territory has been solemnly guarantied to them in a succession of treaties, first by Georgia herself, and subsequently by the government of the United States, those of the latter class being not less than sixteen in number. In all these treaties, they are expressly recognized as a distinct community; their rights of property and jurisdiction are formally admitted; ' it is stipulated that no citizen of the United States shall enter their territory without a passport. In all these treaties there are mutual concessions; the Cherokees make grants and promises in exchange for the guaranties and promises which they receive. All these grants and promises so made by them have been faithfully executed-we have had the whole benefit of them;- it is not even pretended that there has been any breach of faith. The Supreme Court has declared that the treaties are valid and binding. Finally, the Intercourse Act of 1802 authorizes and requires the President to employ, if necessary the military force of the country, for the purpose of securing to the Indians the rights and privileges to which, under these treaties, they are entitled.

Such are the rights of the Indians. Let us look now at the manner in which they have been treated by Georgia and the general government. In a time of perfect tranquility-without a pretext even for complaint against the Cherokees-the state of Georgia, by a public act of her legislature, extends her jurisdiction over them and their territory; in other words, declares that she is herself the rightful sovereign of a territory of which another community has had from time immemorial quiet possession, and which is guarantied to that community in a series of treaties by Georgia herself and the Union of which Georgia forms a part. Truly, a modest pretension! But even this is not the worst. The object is to obtain; not merely the jurisdiction but the property. Another act is passed authorizing the survey of all the lands not in the immediate occupation of the Indians, and their division into lots, for the purpose (will posterity believe it?) of distributing them by lottery among the inhabitants of the state. In order to render the quantity of land not included in this distribution as small as possible, the Indians are subjected to personal disabilities which must render their residence in their ancient abodes intolerable, and if the system is continued, will compel them all to emigrate.

Assailed in this unexampled manner by a stronger neighbor, whose aggressions they are wholly unable to resist by open force, the Cherokees appeal to the General Government and invoke the execution of the laws and treaties by which their rights are secured. They appeal at different times to the three great departments, the Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary. The Supreme Court, answers their appeal with its usual prompt and yet prudent energy. In the first case in which the question came up-that of Corn Tassel, a prisoner indicted for murder, a mandate was issued immediately requiring the State of Georgia to appear in Court and defend the constitutionality of her proceedings. No sooner was the fact known, than the Legislature of Georgia, which was then in session, passes a set of resolutions, denying entirely the right of the Supreme Court to interfere with the course of her criminal jurisdiction, and requiring the government to resist any such interference by force. In open contempt of the authority of the Court, and with a disregard for the common feelings of humanity that makes the blood run cold, the prisoner, his trial still pending in the ordinary course of law- was ordered to execution and actually executed, or in plain English murdered under the forms of justice.  When the case came on at Washington, the State of Georgia made default; the Court, with the dignified moderation and correct sense of property which constantly marks their proceedings, took no notice of the contumacious conduct of that State which was not regularly before them, and decided the case on a point of form in her favor.

The next year the affair came up a second time in the case of the Missionaries, and the Court, with a manly firmness, not less honorable to them than the steady impartiality which they had exhibited before, gave an unequivocal opinion against the constitutionality of the laws of Georgia. When that opinion was sent down for execution, the authorities of Georgia, in their usual spirit of insubordination, refused to carry it into effect, and actually retained and now hold in close confinement in the State Penitentiary,  TWO MINISTERS OF RELIGION-one of them a citizen of Massachusetts-under a process which the highest judicial authority of the United States has declared to be unconstitutional.

Such has been the conduct of Georgia. In the mean time what has the President done?  The President is bound by the Constitution and his oath of office, to see that the laws and treaties are faithfully executed, and as we have said, is authorized and required by the Intercourse Act, to employ if necessary the military force of the country, for the purpose of securing to the Indians the personal, political and territorial rights guarantied to them by the treaties. What then has the President done? In what way has he interfered to check these violent and unconstitutional usurpations of power by Georgia, and to sustain the Judiciary department in the rightful course of its constitutional functions? What sort of countenance and aid has he given to the feeble and distressed remnant of a once powerful people, who have come to him in their utmost need-to invoke not merely the friendship for the beloved Cherokees of which they had received so many homed assurances, but the PLIGHTED PUBLIC FAITH of the Union? When thus called upon by the Cherokees, the President informed them, through the Secretary of War, that whether the proceedings of Georgia were or were not in accordance with the treaties, the United States could not and should not undertake to oppose them. When the Supreme Court declared these proceedings to be unconstitutional, the President's Secretary of War attempted to refute the decision in a long manifesto, published in the semi-official paper call the Globe. When the State of Georgia, in carrying her unconstitutional laws into execution invaded the territory of the Cherokees, the President, instead of employing the military force of the country in their defence, actually withdrew a corps of troops which was previously stationed there, and left them entirely at the mercy of their enemies. Instead of lending them his countenance and aid to the unequal struggle in which they are engaged, he is continually laboring, through his agents, official and unofficial, to persuade them that they are in the wrong, that they cannot maintain their ground, and that they would do much better to quit their improvements-abandon their cultivated territory; and emigrate to a distant wilderness two or three thousand miles off-in one word, that they would do better to abjure civilization and Christianity and return to barbarism. When the state of Georgia, after setting at nought the claims of common humanity, and the majesty of the laws and Constitution of the country, went still farther and laid violent hands upon the persons of MINISTERS OF RELIGION for no other cause than zeal and activity in their sacred calling-the President not only did not, as he was bound to do by law-protect them, but actually withdrew from one of them the character of a functionary of the United States, which he had held before, for the express purpose of exposing him entirely naked and defenseless-to the full sweep of the blows that were aimed at him by the brutal agents of the tyranny of Georgia.

Such has been the conduct of the President.  Even Congress-we blush for the honor of the country and of humanity, when we say it-even Congress has thus far been so completely enveloped in the toils of party management, that it has been found impossible by the friends of the country, notwithstanding, their unremitted laborious energetic and most praiseworthy efforts, to obtain even a          resolution that it was expedient to maintain the Public Faith of the Union.

Such are the facts in the case of the Indians and Missionaries: Let us now very briefly consider the character of these proceedings under the various aspects, in which they naturally present themselves-their PERFIDY:-their VIOLENCE;-their MEANNESS:- their BRUTALITY:- the alarming resistance to the constitutional authority of the Supreme Court:-the revolting and outrageous defiance of the moral and religious feelings of the community.

[TO BE CONTINUED]




      


From the Knoxville Republican.

THE CHEROKEES.

The following clause is taken from the 23rd Section, Article 1st, of the Constitution of Georgia:

'And provided, also, The Legislature may give its consent, to the establishment of one or more governments westward thereof; but monopolies of land by individuals being contrary to the spirit of our free government, no sale of territory of this state, or any part thereof, shall take place to individuals or private companies, unless a county or counties shall have been first laid off, including such territory, and the Indian rights shall have been extinguished thereto.'

With such a clause in the Constitution, how can Georgia proceed to sell the lands of the Cherokees? Can she pretend that the title of the Cherokees has been extinguished?  With all her effrontery, we believe she has never set that up as an excuse for the illegal and inhuman course she has taken. The constitution says no sale of lands in the State shall take place until, 'counties shall have been first laid off, including such territory, and the INDIAN RIGHTS SHALL HAVE BEEN EXTINGUISHED THERETO.' But it seems Constitutions mean anything or nothing, in the present enlightened day, just as it may suit avarice or ambition. And for this glorious era in jurisprudence, the world may research of the great constitutional lawyer, Andrew Jackson.  He that upon the resignation of his Judgeship in the Tennessee, confessed he was not qualified to discharge the duties of his office, and who, when Judge in Florida, procured a lawyer to write decisions in causes (sic) which that lawyer had argued before him.

__________________

It is well known that the Chickasaws agreed by treaty, to sell their lands and remove across the Mississippi, whenever a suitable country could be found for them.  A deputation from that tribe made a full examination of the western regions, for the purpose of finding one.  They found but one suitable place, not already occupied by other tribes; and that proved to be, not in the United States, but in Texas. On their return, Major Eaton, late Secretary of War, and Gen. Coffee, commissioners  on the part of the United States, called a meeting of Chickasaws and Choctaws, for the purpose of making some arrangement by which both might settle on the land to which the Choctaws were then removing. Some in the Choctaws replied that, as the government had promised never to ask them to sell that land, it might have been as well to let them set their feet upon it before violating that promise. The meeting was thinly attended, and nothing done. So much has long been public.

The commissioners thought best to make another trial. They attributed the thin attendance to bad weather, and pronounced it no test of the sentiments of these tribes.- They write down a talk to both tribes, and a separate talk to each of them, recommending the proposed arrangement.  They stated, as plainly as words could express it, in their talk to the Chickasaws; as a reason why they should consent to settle in the Choctaw country, and be one people with them; and in their talk to the Choctaws, as a reason why they should receive the Chickasaws; that the United States has no other land; to which the Chickasaws could be removed. This document, we believe, has never appeared in the newspapers printed solely for circulation among the two nations; but someone procured a copy from an Indian agent; to whom they were committed distribution, ' sent it where we saw and read it. Nothing further has been done for the removal of the Chickasaws.

'Here we have it officially announced, that the United States have no land to which the Chickasaws can be removed; and this announcement is confirmed by the subsequent conduct of the government towards the Chickasaws, to what place shall the Cherokees be removed, if they leave their present residence? And fair what ' honorable intentions can our government have in continuing to harass them on this subject?'

Who that has flesh and blood, can avoid the rising of indignation at the recital of such disclosures! We do not wish to speak evil of our rulers, to call in question the honor, or the reputation or the purposes of men in power; but here are facts that must speak for themselves,and we suppose there is no doubt of their truth. Men of sense and candor, that are not too far gone in party politics to be capable of just reflection, must and will draw their own inferences.--Vt. Chronicle.




      


From Poulson's Advertiser.

INDIAN WRONGS.

This day's vote may frustrate the evil designs of those who would at one fell swoop drive the Indians into the Pacific Ocean.

Then let us go to the polls and vote the whole Anti-Jackson ticket, particularly for Ritner; by so doing we may be the means of turning out Jackson and his retainers, and in their room elect men who will act with good faith towards the Indians.

The aboriginal nations are not looking to us as to their last hope-our neglecting to vote may seal their fate, and brand our country with infamy.

We,the people of the United States, and GEORGIA in particular, have no more right to the Cherokee lands and gold mines than we have to the mines of Golconda!!

PENN.

__________________________

From the New York Journal of Commerce

Governor Lumpkin, of Georgia, has announced by Proclamation, that the drawing of the Cherokee lands and gold mines, by lottery, will commence on the 22d of October. Tell it not in Algiers, publish it not in the streets of Constantinople, lest traitors and pirates cry out with horror at the injustice-lest it cover our nation with infamy.

_________________




      


Those of our subscribers who have not settled for their subscriptions ending the 4th Volume, are requested to remit to us by mail, or by safe conveyance, the amounts respectively due. We are anxious for an early compliance of our patrons in order to enable us to meet the expenses incurred in publishing our paper.




      


MISCELLANEOUS.

AN OSAGE WAR DANCE.

The Rev. W. F. Vaill, one of the missionaries of the A.B. C. F. M. among the Indians of the Arkansas country, in a letter to the editors of the New York Observer, dated Union, July 25th, thus describes an Osage War dance, which he witnessed on one of his recent preaching excursions.

In our late preaching tour through the Osage villages, we fell on the Little Osage town, when it was all alive with a war dance. The warriors or braves, fitted out in their wild fantastic style, were all assembled. As we approached, a runner met us, and asked of our interpreter our business, but did not offer us his hand. This was not owing to malice but to custom. Their war dances are their most sacred seasons. During the ceremony they separate themselves from the touch of the vulgar and profane. Being told our business, he ran back and reported, and our approach seemed to cause neither derangement nor suspension. We eagerly rode up to the scene of action, getting our horses as near as we could, although they were affrighted by the music, the fathers (sic), shields, and the Star-Spangled Banner of the United States fluttering in the wind.

The position in which we found these warriors was that of a large ring, one circle standing, and another squatting, and all facing towards the center of the circle. Well, what does this mean? What next?  sooner than thought could fancy an answer, one of the circle partly rises with his shield one hand,and tomahawk in the other, and dances towards the center; first facing this and then that way, holding his shield first on this and then on that side, and then occasionally making a brandish with his tomahawk; as though he was saying, 'See here, my comrades in arms, see how I will defend myself with this hand and this shield, while with this I will level my foe.' Having proceeded to the center, he returned, and squatted in his place. Another then performed a similar feat, and then another, till all had given a specimen, by way of anticipation and sample of their approaching conflict, and expected victory. Meantime, the hoarse, hollow sounding criers, who appeared to be already exhausted by constantly over straining their voices, in their zeal to make those hear, who stood only a very short distance-stood yelling, with their hands bracing their empty

stomachs and exciting the warriors to bloody deeds. One perhaps had lost a wife, another a child, or they represented those who had lost them, and now they were inspiring these official murderers to be courageous, and bring home a scalp, and so avenge their loss.

There was much variety in the costume of these Indians. Some had the skins of white wolves, as large species found somewhere to the west in their hunting excursions, hanging behind with the face, eyes, and nose projecting above their heads. Others had ravens' bills or eagles' claws, and all some terrific emblem. One had a snake's skin hanging from his neck to the ground:-I said to him, 'Vateseh hee!' i.e. What a serpent!  He answered, by snapping at me so sharply as to startle me. This proved quite amusing to his comrades. All were entirely naked except the usual flap, and their bodies were painted black-black as an African. Of all the human beings I ever saw none approached so near my idea of devils.

Much of the ceremony was taken up in a sort of dancing march round the streets of the town, between their lodges. Their dancing has nothing to do with the light trip of the foot; it is properly a pounding of the earth with both feet at once.  As they passed our lodge, it seemed as if a little earthquake was passing by. The osages, and I think all other Indians whom I have seen in their dances, strike the earth with both feet at once, jumping along with their bodies bent, their faces turned, first this way, and that, first looking askance under one arm, and then turning a wild vacant look over the other shoulder, and all the while brandishing shields, tomahawks, 'c.

In their marching around the town, the warriors were followed by a band of musicians, some rattling the gourd shell, some drumming on a piece of deerskin stretched over the head of a keg, and others,singing their wild war songs. Among the retinue I observed a great many youth, about the right age for going to school, who appeared to be young disciples, learning the art of war in the prospect of future renown. Another group followed, who appeared to be mourners, crying for vengeance on their enemies, to reward them for the death of some relative.

So busily employed were these warriors, that the ceremony ceased only for a small part of the night.- Early the next morning, before it was yet day, we heard their music and their singing, and their pounding up and down the streets. Our tarry among them was about 24 hours. When we arrived, we found them in the ceremony, and on our leaving the town they had not finished it. It is attended with extreme fasting, for their custom forbids them to eat, before the sunsets. And I believe they often fast, eating once a day, till the battle is accomplished, and they are returning with their scalps rejoicing. They are not allowed, moreover, to eat with their families; they must sleep separately; must go naked, flap excepted; offer many prayers,- and, as the climax of all, sacrifice a dog. In this ceremony they were engaged as we left the village, for we saw two or three braves most ceremoniously washing the parts of a dog at a branch which we had to pass.

My dear friends! look at their iron chain with which Satan hath bound these people for more than a thousand years. You have heard of the dark places of the earth-here they are, within a month's travel from your own city; and the chains all strong as Indian's cast, or China's imperial veto's (sic).

But you will wish to hear how we got along with preaching. As we stood gazing at the wonderful works of Satan, and waiting to ascertaining which was the chief's lodge, the Big Soldier, a term corresponding with that of General among the whites, came and most pleasantly invited us to his dwelling, and treated us with every mark of hospitality we could desire. He is of a most elegant form, perfectly well proportioned, a little above middling height, as portly and symmetrical as that of our departed friend, Cornelius-while his countenance is even more placid. I think it is the pleasantest (sic) countenance I ever saw.

Having refreshed ourselves, we requested him to send for the crier and give notice of our intention, and invite all to come and her the Gospel. Some came and attended our different meetings, but the greater part cared for none of these things, or cared more for the war ceremony; and its mighty expected profits. Some of the young men would occasionally rush in and stand near the door, displaying their tall, naked forms for a few minutes, then rush back to their favorite ceremony.

In the morning one host told us we were welcome to hold our meetings in his lodge, but he himself had to go to the Agency, 15 miles distant, to procure tobacco, for his warriors to smoke on their expedition, in testimony of his hearty cooperation, he being excused from going out to war himself-there being subordinate officers in abundance.

We held several meetings, and preached the Gospel to all we could collect, and intended to tarry two nights; but as the people were actually under alarm for fear of the Pawnees, having lately lost some horses, and as we had to keep our horses confined over the first night, through fear, we did not deem it prudent to tarry. And moreover, as the leading chiefs were both absent, we feared also some of these braves might most bravely take our horses, and be off to war with them before morning. So we set off for the next village.

I had visited these people, for the first time, the year before,-they being situated 120 miles from Union, and near to Boudinot. Had they improved during the year? Truly the signs were against them. The Government, about three years ago,built a good house for their leading chief, at the expense of 2,000 dollars. In this we lodged and preached the year before. It had three spacious rooms-a frame building, and valuable. Now it was razed to the ground, and the materials had been consumed for common fuel. In the morning, when I visited the site, about half a dozen women were hacking away upon some of the sleepers, cutting and splitting them, and then carrying them away. I asked them why they did so. They said the 'latus saggy'-the wind first started off the shingles-and perhaps some of the roof-so they had followed on to destroy it.

Such is a specimen of the people to whom we were originally sent. So we have turned to the Creek Gentiles, and are doing good among them for which we bless the name of the Lord.






      


RELIGIOUS

ARKANSAS CHEROKEES.

Communication from Mr. Washburn,

dated May 18, 1832

RELIGIOUS MEETINGS AT DWIGHT.

This mission has presented many facts of common interest for more than a year past, as will be seen by recurring to p. 220 of the last volume, p. 182 of the present year, 'c.

I returned on the 5th inst. from an useful tour amongst the Cherokees, Creeks, and Osages. I shall in this communication give you some account of our meeting with these Indians, and the prospect of spiritual good among them.  The first meeting was held here.  It began Friday and continued till Sabbath evening. Mr. Dodge from Boudinot, Messrs. Vaill and Montgomery from Union, Mr. Palmer from Fairfield, and Mr. Newton from Forks of Illinois were  present, and all took in the public exercises of the meeting. A large congregation for this place were present. A prayer meeting was held each morning at sunrise. The regular public exercises commenced at 10 o'clock A.M..  Two sermons were preached and interpreted in the forenoon and two in the afternoon. About half of the prayers ' singing were in the Cherokee language.  In the evening a meeting for prayer and extortion was held. On the Sabbath the Lord's supper was administered.  Before the meeting commenced it was evident that many in our family and in the neighborhood around us, were under the influence of the Holy Spirit. This indeed has been the case for more than a year. At the very opening of the meeting there was a feeling in almost every heart that God was in the midst of us.- Christians were more humble in their confession of sin, more deeply penetrated with a sense of their unworthiness, and of the presence of a holy God, were more affected with the guilt and anger of sinners, and felt stronger desires for their salvation, and rested with a simpler and stronger faith on the divine promises.- We trust they prayed in faith. Several, who before had indulged a tremendous and doubting hope, were brought to a fuller submission to God, to a single and entire trust in Christ, and of course, to a clearer and more joyful hope. The awakened were brought to a clearer sense of their guilt and felt the duty of repentance. Whether any, if any, how many yielded their hearts to Christ, I cannot say. Of some, we hope they did.-- Those who came to the meeting careless could not avoid a solemn sense of the realities of religion, and we hope some such will indeed henceforward, 'seek first the kingdom of God.'-- More than forty persons came to the anxious seats requesting the prayers of God's people. Of some of these we indulged hope previous to this meeting, and several more gave us reason to hope before its close. The day of judgment alone will disclose the results of this meeting; but we doubt not its influence will be long felt in this nation.

Meeting at the Forks of Illinois.-- From Dwight. Mr. Dodge and myself accompanied Mr. Newton to the Forks of Illinois. We spent one day in the neighborhood and on Bayon Menard, near Cantonment Gibson. The day was devoted to family visiting. At sunrise we went to the house of one of the female members of our church, whose husband has been a long time serious. The family, with the servants and a few neighbors, who were occasionally there, made up a little congregation . A hymn was sung and prayer was offered. The presence of the Holy Spirit was very obvious. Not a soul was indifferent. After two prayers and three exhortations, another hymn was given out before the closing prayer. The hymn was 'the successful resolve,' beginning, 'Come, humble sinner.' Before reading the hymn it was proposed that every one present who did then make the resolution expressed in the hymn, should stand while singing. The hymn was then read. When the reader came to the stanza beginning, 'Perhaps he will admit my plea.' the husband before alluded to, whose emotions during all the exercises had been very deep arose, and when the hymn was sung, every soul present arose, and at the close every one dropped upon their knees while one lead in prayer, expressive of our application to Christ as our only refuge, and of our determination to trust only in him. I trust every Christian did go to Jesus and surrender himself wholly to him. That anxious husband we hope was one of them.-- Since then his hope in Christ has been constant; clear and joyful.  Impressions were then made on several that we trust will be permanent. Three other meetings were held in the course of the day, similar to the preceding. In all of them, there was deep and solemn feeling, and from that time a revival has been manifestly in progress in that neighborhood. Several of the full Cherokees have expressed a hope of salvation, and others are anxiously enquiring. Mr. Newton's prospects of usefulness are very encouraging.- We spent the night on Bayon Menard with a hospitable family, with whom we had religious exercises, singing exhortations and prayer. In the morning we rode to the garrison. At 10 o'clock a meeting was holden at that place. Most of the officers, with their ladies and all the privates who were off duty, attended. I have never witnessed a more respectful attention to the word of God. If the army were furnished with chaplains of the right character, there is reason to hope that great good might be done. If a healthful, moral influence could proceed from the military post in the Indian country, these posts would become important auxiliaries to missionary efforts for the improvement of the aborigines. Such as influence, it is reasonable to expect, might be secured, if the army were supplied with pious, faithful and laborious chaplains.

Meeting among the Creek Indians.- In the evening after the meeting at the garrison, all our party met at Dr. Weed's in the Creek country. During the three following days, the last of which was the Sabbath,we held religious meetings among the Creeks. The meetings were held in a grove, where a rude kind of pulpit had been erected and logs placed in the form a square served the congregation for seats. The number of persons collected, especially on the Sabbath, was very considerable.--Great seriousness and good attention were manifested. The work of God was steadily advanced during the last year. Nearly forty persons came forward to the anxious seats. The number of communicants on the Sabbath was about sixty.  The religious prospects of the Creeks are very encouraging. A revival has been steadily in progress for more than two years, and there is no apparent abatement of the work at this time. They have however suffered for want of a resident missionary. The brethren of Union Mission have done what they could, but this has, of necessity been little, in comparison with the wants of the people.

One great error in Indian missions has been to go over too much ground at once __e the number of missionaries has been so small, that in order to extend their labors to the whole tribe,none have been instructed with that minuteness and to that extent which is necessary to the formation of the Christian character in all its symmetry and perfection .

Meeting among the Osages.- From the Creeks we went to the Osages. We visited and held meetings in their villages except two.  We also held meetings at Union.  At Hopefield we had a promiscuous congregation of males and females, old and young, at the other villages we had separate meetings. One congregation was composed exclusively of men, another of women and girls, and a third of boys. In general there was much willingness to attend meeting, and much better attention to preaching than last year. There is a considerably extensive conviction on the minds of the Osages, that their old superstitions and religious ceremonies are useless, foolish, and wicked.--This conviction added to the interested attentions given by many to preaching, satisfied us that, if they could be steadily assailed by divine truth, there is as much encouragement to labor for them as for any other people.

The different reception given to us this year, the access granted us to different classes, and the greater interest manifested in the truths of the gospel, are all the effects of divine truth. It is true we found no one convicted fully of sin, no one anxiously inquiring after the way of salvation, but we did find several that expressed a conviction that their system of idolatry and superstition was sinful, that it provoked God, and was the cause of their poverty and misery, that they never would be happy and prosperous till they embraced the true religion. This was clearly expressed by some of the most intelligent and influential men among them.--Miss. Her.




      


SINGULAR CONVICTION ON CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE

In the year 1723 a youth who was serving his apprenticeship in London, to a master sail-maker, got leave to visit his mother, to spend the Christmas holidays. She lived a few miles beyond Deal in Kent; he walked the journey, and, on his arrival at Deal, in the evening, being much fatigued, and also troubled with the bowel complaint, he applied to the landlady of public house, who was acquainted with his mother, for a night's lodging. Her house was full and every bed occupied, but she told him that if he would sleep with her uncle, who had lately come ashore, and was a boatswain of an India man, he should be welcome. He was glad to except the offer, and after spending the evening with his new comrade, they retired to rest. In the middle of the night he was attacked with his complaint, and awakening his bed-fellow, he asked him the way into the yard. The boatswain told him to go through the kitchen, but as he would find it difficult to open the door into the yard, the latch being out of order, he desired him to take a knife out of his pocket, with which he could raise the latch. The young man did as he was directed, and after remaining near half an hour in the yard, he returned to his bed, but was much surprised to find his companion had risen and gone. Being impatient to visit his mother and friends he also rose before day and pursued his journey, and arrived home at noon. The landlady, who had been told of his intention to depart early was not surprised; but, not seeing her uncle in the morning, she went to call him. She was dreadfully shocked to find the bed stained and every inquiry after her uncle was in vain; the alarm now became general, and on further examination, marks of blood were traced from the bed room into the street, and at intervals, down to the pier heard.- Rumor was immediately busy, and suspicion fell of course on the young man who slept with him, that he committed the murder, and threw the body over the pier into the sea, a warrant was issued against him, and he was taken that evening at his mother's house. On being examined and searched, marks of blood were discovered on his shirt and trowsers; and in his pocket were a knife and a remarkable silver coin, both of which the landlady swore positively were her uncle's property, and that she saw them in his possession on the evening he retired to rest with the young man. On these circumstances, the unfortunate youth was found guilty. He related all the above circumstances in his defence, but as he could not account for the marks of blood on his person, unless he got them when he returned to bed, nor could he account for the silver coin in his possession, his story was not credited; the certainty of the boatswain's disappearance, the blood at the pier, traced from his bed room, were too evident signs of his being murdered, and even the judge was so convinced of his guilt, that he ordered the execution to take place in three days. At the fatal tree, the youth declared his innocence and persisted in it with such affecting assertions that many pitied him though none doubted the justice of his sentence.

The Jack Ketches of those days were not so expert at their trade as modern ones, nor were drops of platforms invented; the young man was very tall, his feet sometimes touched the ground, and some of his friends who surrounded the gallows, contrived to give the body some support as it was suspended. After being cut down, those friends bore it speedily away in a coffin, and, in the course of a few hours, animation was restored, and the innocent saved. When he was able to move his friends insisted on his quitting the country, and never returning. He accordingly travelled by night to Portsmouth, where he entered on board a man of war, on the point of sailing for a distant port of the world, and as he changed his name and disguised his person, his melancholy story never was discovered. After a few years of service, during which his exemplary conduct was the cause of his promotion through the lower grades, he was at last made a masters mate, and his ship being paid off in the West Indies he, with a few more of the crew, were transferred to another man of war, from a different station.  What were his feelings of astonishment, and then of delight and ecstacy, when almost the first one he saw on board his new ship, was the identical boatswain for whose murder he had been tried, condemned, and executed five years before. Nor was the surprise of the old boatswain much less when he heard the story. An explanation of all the mysterious circumstances then took place. It appeared, the boatswain had been bled for a pain in the side by the barber, unknown to his niece, on the day of the young man's arrival at Deal; that when the young man awakened him, and retired to the yard, he found the bandage had come off his arm during the night, and that the blood was flowing afresh. Being alarmed, he arose to go to the barber, who lived across the street, but a press gang laid hold of him to the pier, where their boat was waiting; a few minutes brought them on board a frigate then under way for the East Indies and he omitted ever writing home to account for his sudden disappearance; thus were the chief circumstances explained by the two friends, thus strangely met; the silver coin being found in the possession of the young man could only be explained by conjecture--that when the boatswain gave him the knife in the dark, it is probable, as the coin was in the same pocket, it stuck between the blade, of the knife and in this manner became unconsciously the strongest proof against him.

On their return to England, this wonderful explanation was told to the judge and jury who tried the cause and it is probable they never afterwards convicted a man on circumstantial evidence.

This was the heinous offence with which they were charged, and for which they were doomed to four years hard labor in the penitentiary. One of these Missionaries, Mr. Worcester, was a Post Master in the Cherokee Nation at the time he refused to take the persecuting oath, as such, being an officer of the United States Government, the Georgia guard dare not take him unless he was turned out of the Post Office. Application was made to the executive department of his removal, and he was removed. The Georgia guard then took him-he was tried and sentenced as before stated.-Indiana Phoenix.




      


(Continued from our last)

1.PERFIDY- A whole series of solemn treaties negotiated and concluded, successively during a period of fifty years, under all the administrations that have held the power of government since its organization, are openly violated, without the slightest pretext or apology. It is not pretended that we were surprised or forced into the conclusion of any of them.  They were free, fair and equal compacts, or rather they were compacts in which the advantage was entirely on our side.  It is not pretended that they have not been observed in good faith by the Indians. The lands which they granted, have been occupied and the public stipulations in our favor have all been excepted-we have had the benefit of them to the last fraction. It is not even seriously pretended that the treaties were informal although if such were the facts, it would furnish no excuse for the violations of a bona fide engagement of which we have had the benefit. But it is not what we have said, seriously pretended that the treaties were even informal. An objection of this description was indeed not forward by Georgia, who meanly attempted to pick a flaw in the form of an instrument of which she has had the benefit, for the sake of escaping from the payment of the consideration; but the Supreme Court has put the extinguisher at once upon this feeble and unmanly effort. There is not even the poor and stale plea of state necessity. It is not pretended that the observance of the treaties would be productive of any material inconvenience either to Georgia or the United States. The immediate motive for violating them is, to procure for Georgia the opportunity of distributing the Cherokee land by lottery among her citizens. The proceeding is an act of open, avowed, unblushing, deliberate, premeditated NATIONAL PERFIDY.

Is this a light thing Are the people of the United States prepared, by continuing their present agents in power, to give their sanction to and take upon themselves the responsibility for this monstrous abuse of authority? We answer for them boldly, emphatically, and decidedly, NO; a thousand times over NO. The PUBLIC FAITH MUST AND SHALL BE PRESERVED. The unprincipled and reckless tools of party, who are endeavoring to fasten upon our national character the stamp of indelible dishonor, by the violation of these treaties, must and shall give way to men who have at least the common honesty to feel and acknowledge the obligation of a contract.

2. VIOLENCE AND MEANNESS. Independently of the positive engagement which we are under to the Indians; were there no relation between them and us, but that which is created by the law of nature and fact of neighborhood; -the proceedings towards them are such that they can hardly be parallel even in history of barbarous nations. There no doubt is and always has been a great deal of injustice and violence in the world.   Wars have been carried on;-states have been invaded and conquered for the mere gratification of personal ambition. In turning over the bloodstained rolls of history the friends of humanity must too frequently -

---------Learn with abhorrent to rate

What millions died that Caesar might be great

But in almost all the instances on record, even of gross and substantially unproved aggression, there is at least some pretext put forward by the aggressor, which if true, would in some degree excuse the outrage. Even in the celebrated case of the partition of Poland, which in form approaches perhaps more nearly to the present than any others; - a case in which as in this, three prosperous and powerful states combined to parcel out among themselves, the territory of a weak and unoffending neighbor, there was at least a pretence of state necessity. The transaction was justified by the partitioning powers, on the ground of the inconvenience and danger which they suffered from the troubles which habitually disturbed the interior of Poland.--The proclamations that were issued, are filed with loud complaints of injuries and insults received from that dangerous government. They breathe an edifying tone of justice and humanity-Russia, Austria and Prussia, if you believe them, are three peaceable and well disposed powers who have combined to abate a common nuisance. All this we know, was false and hollow; but it showed at least some sense of shame in the parties to the outrage; some disposition to assume a virtue although they had it not;-to discharge that tribute of hypocrisy which vice habitually pays in virtue.  But that a state, claiming to be civilized and Christian, should in time of profound peace, without even a pretence of injury or provocation, appropriate to itself the sovereignty over a weaker neighboring community, destroy its political existence, subject its members to the most atrocious indignities, and distribute their territory by lottery among its own people!--This, we confess, appears to us to be entirely a new case. We have paid some attention to political and diplomatic history, but we have met with no other exactly like it.

When we say that Georgia puts forward no pretenses in justification of her proceedings, we mean that she makes no allegations injury or fraud on the other side which, if well founded, would justify her course.--The attempts at apology which she has in fact made are of such a kind as rather aggravate than extenuate the injustice of her conduct.  She says, for example that when she took possession of her territory, she found the aboriginal inhabitants barbarious, and become immediately their rightful sovereign, because a civilized community possesses a natural right of sovereignty over its barbarous neighbors.  The right thus acquired she ceded away in a series of solemn treaties. She now claimed the right of rescinding these treaties, and resuming the sovereignty which had been granted away by them. Why? Because the Indians are now civilized. Such-if our readers will believe us-is actual, bona fide intent and meaning of the language of the judges of Georgia assembled in convention to decide upon the case of Tassels. The authorities of Georgian in earnest, or are they sharpening the sting of oppression by a bitter and criminal mockery? We will not trust ourselves to comment seriously upon such reasoning. It would be impossible to keep within the limits of moderation which are fixed by the dignity of the parties to this cause.

The attack of Georgia upon the Cherokees is therefore destitute even of a plausible pretence of justice. And let it be observed that her pretensions extend much farther than they could be carried by conquest in the ordinary forms of civilized warfare. The law of nations is not understood to permit a conquering people to take advantage of its success for the purpose of appropriating the territory and reducing to subjection the persons of the conquered. These are the practices of barbarous communities; they were practices of the northern hordes that overran the Roman Empire. The principles of public law, as established by the practice of civilized nations, only permit the conqueror to proceed until he has reduced his enemy to terms and obtained satisfaction for the injury which he has suffered. If he go beyond this,he puts himself in the wrong. It appears, therefore that Georgia, in a time of profound peace, and without even a pretence of provocation has proceeded in her aggressions upon the Cherokees infinitely beyond the point which would have been authorized by actual conquest in a war waged for a sufficient cause.

And then the meanness- the paltry, dastardly, pitiful meanness of the whole transaction. A man of real power, and who has withal a single spark of the lofty and generous spirit which so naturally accompanies a consciousness of strength, scorns to use his advantages, either in his public or private concerns, for the purpose of crushing the weak and unoffending. He would feel himself dishonored forever by such conduct.- So true is this sentiment to nature that we find it exhibiting itself even in children. An overgrown lubber, who should undertake to treat with harshness an unoffending school fellow of smaller size, would be hooted out of every village in the country.  But what do we see in this affair? Three or four prosperous and powerful states, numbering on an average not less than half a million souls each, backed by a Union of twenty-four sovereign states and thirteen million inhabitants, are pouncing with all their combined strength upon a little peaceful society, composed of some fifteen thousand persons, incapable, of course, of offering the least resistance, or of defending themselves in any way but by an appeal to the sixteen treaties in which these very aggressors have solemnly guarantied their political existence and the integrity of their territory. Is there an honorable man in the country whose cheek is not on fire with shame when he feels that, as a citizen of the United States he is unconsciously a party to such a transaction? But even this is not the worst.

3. BRUTALITY. Mean and pitiful as it is in all cases for an individual or a nation to abuse power for the purpose of injuring the feeble, there is in this affair a feature of a still more revolting character. These Cherokees are not merely a peaceful and unoffending little community, but they are a community of very peculiar and interesting character.- They are among the last remnants of the once powerful native race that in former days occupied the whole country - they are the only tribe of this great family that has made any considerable advances in civilization.  It has often been doubted whether it were possible to induce these natives to assume the habits that belong to European culture; and, until within a short time, the general opinion was decidedly in the negative. For two centuries in succession the government and people of the United States have been urging, entreating, praying, compelling them as it were, to come within the pale, but all in vain. At length, a single tribe takes us at our word, and comes in. They adopt our religion, form of government, dress, manners, and customs; learn our language, make an alphabet for their own rise, in short, very nearly to a level with ourselves in all the arts and accomplishments of civilized life.- A community which has risen in the way from civilization to barbarism, in the life time of a single generation, is a great moral and political curiosity. Their history forms a very valuable addition to the experiments that have been made upon the fortunes of our race. Every enlightened man would for this reason-independently of any other circumstance-watch their further progress with peculiar interest, and would anxiously desire that no unfortune(sic) accident might interfere with it. How, then do we treat them? How do we- a civilized and Christian community- conduct ourselves towards this tribe of barbarians, whom we have succeeded in converting into a civilized and Christian country like ourselves? Georgia says to them, Gentlemen, we have succeeded in converting you from a tribe of barbarians into a civilization and Christian community like ourselves, and to show you the satisfaction we feel at your success and our own, we proceed to appropriate your country, confiscate your property, subject your persons to atrocious indignities and destroy your political existence. They appeal for redress to the government of the United S. The government tells them-What? That it cannot and will not protect them-that, whether Georgia be right or wrong, she must have her way, and that they had much better quit their country, emigrate to a distant wilderness on the borders of the Red River, and there resume their former modes of life. Strange, astonishing-incredible as it may appear, after we have labored for two centuries to civilize these Indians, and have at last succeeded with a single tribe, the first salutation which we address to them is a recommendation- what do we say?- a preemptory injunction issued in contempt of a whole series of treaties, to return to barbarism.

And all this for the noble purpose of distributing a few more acres of land by lottery among the inhabitants of a state where the population is now hardly ten to the square mile!

4. But the most important and also alarming aspect under which we can look at these proceedings, is in their relation to the constitutional authority of the Supreme Court. We have now reached that fearful crisis in our history when a few months will decide whether the Constitution and with it the Union of the States shall stand or fall.  It is useless to attempt to conceal from ourselves that if Georgia carries her point against the Supreme Court in this great case, the authority of that tribunal, and with it the basis of all our institutions, is destroyed forever. The decision of this question will depend upon the result of the election of President. At the next term of the Supreme court to be held at Washington next winter, a return will be made of the refusal of Georgia to execute the decree of last winter, and the Supreme Court will then agreeably to the provisions of the statute, address a precept to the marshal of Georgia requiring him to execute the decree himself and release the missionaries from the penitentiary. Should we have in office at that time a President who has the intelligence to know, and the manly firmness to do his duty, Georgia will not venture to resist; the missionaries will be liberated; the Cherokees will be sustained in the rights secured to them by treaty, and the whole affair will pass off without further trouble. If the present incumbent should be reelected and Georgia should feel that she is sustained and encouraged by the very power whose duty it is to arrest her mad course, she will probably resist. Jackson will refuse to employ the military force of the Union in aid of the court, as he has already refused to employ it in the execution of the Intercourse Act; the decree will not be executed; the reign of law will terminate-that of terror and violence will commence and with it will commence for us the long series of internal commotions, prescriptions, confiscations, wars, foreign and domestic, with all their frightful accompaniments and consequences, which make up the history of most other nations, and from which, in the goodness of Providence we have been thus far almost wholly exempt.

How fearful to reflect that such immense national interests are staked upon the almost fortuitous results of a popular election, which is to take place within six weeks throughout the whole country!  Are the wise and good-the fathers of families, who wish to bequeath to their children the same blessings which they inherited themselves from a virtuous and patriotic ancestry, sufficiently alive to the emergency of the crisis? Are they straining every nerve with the intense anxiety that men ought to feel who know that everything valuable is at hazard?

5. There is still one consideration connected with this subject, more solemn than any to which we have hitherto adverted. We have seen in this affair the authorities of Georgia and the President of the United States combining to violate the respect due to the sacred character of a minister of Religion, with a grossness hardly to be paralleled even in the history of barbarous communities. We have seen the MISSIONARIES, after having been not merely authorized, but invited, encouraged, and urged by the government to prosecute their labors of love and piety in these remote regions, suddenly torn from their homes-dragged IN CHAINS, and at the imminent risk of their lives, through the wilderness, subjected to a mock trial, and then committed to the Penitentiary-and all this without their having been guilty of the slightest offence against the public peace or the laws and Constitution of the country. We have seen this course of more than brutal violence continued after the highest judicial authority of the country has solemnly declared their innocence.

Is this again a trifling thing? Will the Christian people of the United States give their sanction, by placing him again in office, to the conduct of a President who treats the minsters of the christian religion with open outrage-loads them with chains-drags them from their peaceful homes to the Penitentiary, and violently keeps them there against the decision of the highest law authority affirming their innocence For throughout this whole business we are to recollect that the real difficulty lies not in the perversity of Georgia, who would not dare to act unless she felt herself supported at head quarters, but in the continuency of the President, who tacitly and openly bears her out in all her violence. Will the People then sanction these proceedings by continuing the President in office? Once more we answer for them NO-- a thousand times over NO.

On this topic it would be vain and idle to enlarge. The ministers of the Christian religion detained against law like common criminals in the Penitentiary! All the eloquence of Demosthenes and Patrick Henry could add nothing to the effect of such a sentence. Gen. Jackson will feel it to the cost at the polls.

One of these ministers of religion, Dr. Butler is a citizen of this commonwealth. He owes allegiance to Massachusetts, and Massachusetts in return is bound to protect him at home and abroad, from illegal violence. He is now violently detained in person by the authorities of Georgia in defiance of a decree of the Supreme Court declaring his innocence. If this violence should be continued after the court shall have ordered its own officers to execute the decree, and the civil process shall be entirely at an end, will it not be time for Massachusetts too to begin to think of her reserved rights? If the Government of the United States cannot or will not protect our most respected citizens in the exercise of the highest and most solemn functions from the Penitentiary, will it not be time for us to begin to think of taking their protection into our own hands?

But we must here finish this too long article.  We cannot conclude without expressing our admiration of the noble firmness which has been shown by the Cherokees in refusing to accept the insidious proposals to emigrate, which have been made to them by the General Government. With the fragments of sixteen violated treaties scattered round them, is it not something like mocker for the government of the United States even to ask them to conclude a seventeenth? Can it in good carnes (sic) reasonably be supposed that they would be tempted by any terms, however apparently favorable? No;- let them perish--if it must be so--in defence of their rights--by their firesides--on the tomb of their fathers! Let them fall--if it be so--as so many of the best and bravest of all nations and ages--as so many of our own forefathers fell before them--fighting manfully the good fight of innocence against oppression! How can they ever find a noble or a happier way of passing from the trouble scenes of this transitory world to the permanent glories of a better?

But we do not apprehend this result. The Supreme Court, with a manly firmness not inferior to their own, has already declared in their favor:- the people are preparing to sustain the sentence of the polls:- the agents of Georgia, who have bullied and blustered at their ease while they knew that there was no danger, will make great haste to draw in their horns, when they find themselves encountered by the power of the United States in the hands of a President who knows and will do his duty. The Cherokees will be supported in their rightful pretensions. THE PUBLIC FAITH MUST AND WILL BE PRESENTED.




      


Missionaries- Where are the Missionaries that were lately employed in learning the Cherokees to read and write? They are now in the Georgia penitentiary, in company with felons, and they themselves are treated as such. Why were they put in prison? Because they would not swear to support the laws of Georgia; or, in other words, because they would not swear to join in and help persecute the Cherokee Indians.

It seems to us a far fetched infliction of cruelty to compel the imprisoned missionaries to make the Lottery wheel which is to distribute the Cherokee lands among the merciless Georgians. At any rate, it shows the spirit by which the Georgians are actuated; a spirit of wanton outrage and persecution, even where no possible benefit can result to them from the act. The missionaries, however, are not first who have been forced to yield themselves the unwilling instruments of oppression; and the Georgians are not the first who have played practical witticisms upon suffering victims who were by far their betters. The Spanish Inquisition, and the History of the Martyrs, furnish many such examples.  The day of retribution will come, we fear, and the missionaries themselves may yet live to see it, and possible to administer relief to some of those who are now their persecutors.

P. S. When we speak of the Georgians in this connection, we mean only their public agents, and so many of the people as concur in their measures of oppression. ____Jour. of Com.




      


From the Columbus Enquirer.

The Lotteries- It will be recollected by our readers that the Land and Gold Lotteries commence drawing on Monday next. What hopes, what fears, what anxieties will these two inanimate machines, containing the names and prizes create in the agitated breasts of thousands!  What a palpitation of heart-what a solicitous inquiry for the last news from the Lottery-what a tremulous handling of lists to hunt up the valuable prize attached to you fortunate name! What enveyings, what jealousies, what covetings will they produce! Here we see the unfortunate debtor waiting the good news to rid him of his inexorable creditor--there the young prodigal, to pay his 'debts of honor' and fill his pockets that he may continue to 'go it'. Here we behold the maiden hoping to heighten her personal charms by the not less brilliant but more substantial contents of the mine--there the lover, looking forward to the happy hour when he shall be enabled to pour his wealth at the feet of his adored fair. Here the poor but honest head of a large family, whose desire extends no further than 'a good tract,' that he may provide for his own household-there the ambitious 'single gentleman,' who would sell his chance of heaven for the poor momentary gratification to swell and strut and domineer his little hour above his fellow mortals. Here the humble follower of Him who gave us all, that he may do his deeds of charity and alms commensurate with his benevolent heart--there the miserable miser, that he may hoard and hoard and hoard to his own destruction. What thousands of opposite and contending emotions, we repeat, are concentrated in those two mute unconscious whirligigs as they roll and tumble the gold and land of the Cherokee country on the one hand, and the distinguished and obscure, reputable and disreputable names of the good people of the Commonwealth of Georgia on the other! Well, we have each a chance- May fortune favor the lovely, and brave and the deserving.

_____________________________

Georgia, the Cherokees, and the Land Lottery. -The annexed statement from the Savannah Georgian, should be generally read. The tone of it is in keeping with the matter it relates. Oppression, avarice, and the gambler's hopes, have all mingled to work the destruction of the Cherokees, and the lawless appropriation of their property to the Christian! people of Georgia, by the connivance of President Jackson. It is possible there may be those devoted to this personage who, believing all right in his course towards Indians generally will particularly approve that towards these Cherokees; and such persons will naturally enough be delighted with the generous and Christian spirit, which it is related, that the lottery wheels, whence the prizes in Indian Lands and gold mines are to be distributed, were in part made by the hands of Christian missionaries, held in duress in contempt of the solemn decision of the Supreme Court of the United States.

[From the Savannah Georgian. of Oct. 4-]

Land Lotteries.--We have mentioned that the lotteries are to be commenced on the 22d inst. The following, as we learn from Milledgeville, are the number of draws placed in the wheels, and the prizes to be awarded them,viz.

The Land Lottery in which the prizes are square lots of 150 acres each; names given in 85,000 prizes, 18,309; or about four and half blanks to a prize.

In the Gold Lottery, in which the prizes are square lots of forty acres each; names given in, 133,000; prizes, 35,000; or nearly four blanks to a prize.

The commissioners have been industrious to prepare such a mass of tickets (which are printed) together with the numerical books necessary in so short a period. The wheels containing the names are of great circumferences, and so weighty with the tickets that a strong man can hardly turn them. They were manufactured in the Penitentiary, and these important aids towards speedy distribution of Cherokee territory were constructed with the united help of two persons whose stubborn zeal in asserting its independence has thus made them remote agents in its dismemberment-we mean the Missionaries-- Great accuracy being requisite in his registry, it will hardly be possible to draw more than 250 or 3000 names per day, so that with the latter number it will occupy seven months before the prizes are exhausted and the lottery finished. It is proposed to draw a day alternately from the wheels of each.




      


News from the Rocky Mountains.-- Capt. Sublett's Fur company have just returned from the Rocky Mountains, and state, on the 12th of July last, in Pier's Hole, on the waters of the Columbia River, about 1600 miles from this place, Captain S. was attacked by a party of Black Feet Indians, and 4 Americans, 1 Frenchman, and 1 half breed were killed, and 4 wounded, among whom was Captain S. in the shoulder; 7 friendly Indians called the Neperse(sic) were also killed, and 6 wounded.- Five days after 7 persons were attacked near Jackson's Hole, not far from the Tetons, and Mr. More of Boston, and Mr. Fay of the state of Mississippi, were killed; and Mr. Alfred K. Stephens of St. Louis, was wounded and died five days after.

In the first engagement, at Pier's Hole, were nearly 250 men; mostly of Captain S's Fur company; some of Capt. Wythe's Oregon company besides about 10 of the Neperse (sic) and Flathead Indians, against about 100 of the Black Feet Indians.

Mr. Fitzpatrick, one of the fur company, was run into the mountains by a party of the Black Feet Indians, where he kept hid five days, and lived upon two meals, and finally made his escape by night. He lost 2 horses. The company 11.

During the fall of 1831 and the spring of 1832, 28 trappers have been killed by the Indians. The set of the mountain hunters are generally healthy. Captain S. who is considerably recovered from his wound, has with him 168 packs of fur, valued at more than $80,000.-  Missouri paper.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 6, 1832

(Note this is the date printed, should be Nov. 11,)

We anticipated in our sixth number, the drawing of the Ga. Lottery, ' the occupation of our lands. Our papers from Ga. brings us accounts of the operations of the lottery at Milledgeville, and the drawing of the lands and gold mines of the Cherokee Nation. We were prepared to see Georgia step, to perpetrate, one of the darkest and most shameless moral crimes that has ever been consummated in Christendom, but the magnitude of this atrocity on our property, has created feelings of astonishment, that language fails to describe, and in a degree not less than if the event had been unexpected. The arguments on the part of the President, for the purpose of inducing the Cherokees to remove west of the Mississippi has been exhausted; but he has sustained Georgia in the nullification of our treaties, and taking possession of our land. The voice of the Cherokees in the assertion of their conventional rights, must likewise be fruitless; the Supreme Court of the U. S. having defined them, by authority of their supreme judicial power; to the full extent claimed by the Cherokees, our remarks therefore is necessarily limited to a brief summary of the numerous barriers which have been erected for the security of the national rights of the Cherokees, and now trodden under foot, and the extent of the loss which the Cherokees will sustain, by the fortunate citizens of Georgia taking forcible possession of our lands. In the year 1785 the United made their first treaty with the Cherokees, in which boundary lines were established, marked; and defined the limits of the Cherokees lands.  The U. S. from that time continued to make treaties with the Cherokees down to the treaty of 27th Feb. 1849 amounting to sixteen in all. Each successive treaty contains a successive guaranty by the United States for the remainder of the Cherokee lands forever. These treaties, the President is sworn to have faithfully executed, but he has refused to enforce them, and they have been placed under the dominion of the Georgia Lottery.- The estimated quantity of lands guarantied to the Cherokees by the latter treaty, which lies within the limits of Georgia, is about five millions of acres. This territory has been surveyed into lots of 40 and 160 acres, and are now drawn for the citizens of Georgia,* and her Governor will acquire such a title for his citizens to this property, as we would have to his purse, if we were to take forcible possession, without having previous claim to it. The law of the U. S. of 1802 prohibiting its citizens from surveying Indian lands, has likewise been nullified, the faith of sixteen solemn treaties prostrated, and the genius of liberty has taken its flight from Columbia's happy land.

*The lots which embraces the Indian's improvements are reserved to them by the laws of Georgia.




      


OBITUARY

________________

DIED

At Oougillogee, of the consumption, on the morning of the 21st ult. Mrs. SUSAN NAH C. WATIE, aged about forty six.

The subject of this notice was a Cherokee, born amidst the ignorance which then enshrouded her countrymen. Like them she was brought up without any hope of enjoying the blessings of civilization and the comforts of religion. Through the kind Providence of God, however, she lived to enjoy the one, and died supported by the other.

Although she was herself ignorant of letters, or of any other language but her own, she manifested the greatest desire that her children might be educated and instructed in the paths of virtue. Her exertions in support of a desire so commendable were such as are not common to be met with in persons of the same limited advantages. Those of her children who survive to mourn her loss can never forget with what anxiety she watched over their morals-how worthy of imitation was her example before them, and what parental authority she exercised to keep them from the vices and temptations of youth.

She was an exemplary member of the Moravian Church for upwards of ten years.- During her lingering illness she exercised a spirit of submission to the Divine Will, and expressed her willingness to depart looking to the merits of her Redeemer as her only hope of a blessed immortality.

_____________________

DIED- At Haweis, missionary station, Oct. 23rd. Mr. JOHN WALLIS apparently about 20 years of age. His disorder was believed to be a bilious fever.- He had been taken sick nearly two weeks previous in Carroll Co. Georgia-was confined to his bed three or four days, then resumed his journey on foot and alone, ' reached the place where he died, on the twentieth of October. He was returning to his parents who he said resided in Tennessee, 35 miles from Nashville.  He named the county,and perhaps the town where they live, but they are not recollected. He was not apprehended to be in immediate danger until it was too late to make further inquiries.

Should this meet the eyes of his weeping parents, brothers, and sisters, it will be a small alleviation of their grief to know that though their dear departed relative bade farewell to earth among strangers, they were those whose hearts were touched with sympathy from the first moment of his arrival, which continued with increasing interest while he lived. He greatly endeared himself to them by his patient and unassuming deportment.

May his bereaved friends remember the injunction 'Be still and know that I am God.' May young persons remember that youth and health and loveliness furnish no security against the approach of the 'king of terrors.'

[Communicated.]




      


LOOK AT THIS!

I have been informed by respectable authority, that a Judgement is out against me for the sum of Two Hundred dollars given and signed by Isaac Bushyhead which I pronounce to be a base forgery as no Judgment for that amount has ever been claimed against me in any court of Justice in the limits of the Cherokee Nation.

Therefore I caution the public to beware of any imposition being put on them, I presume the said Isaac Bushyhead has signed his name officially as he was the clerk of the Circuit Court but no Judgment as have before stated has ever been issued by the Court for any amount against me.

JAMES FOREMAN

Red Clay, C. Nation Oct 22, 1832.






      


RELIGIOUS

From New York Observer

PRAYER FOR THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES

Remember them that are in bonds. as

bound with them'

The word remember, intimates we shall forget them. If they are in bonds, they are out of our sight; and what is out of sight, is apt to be out of mind. But those in bonds have not always been forgotten.--When Herod had imprisoned Peter, 'prayer was made without ceasing of the church, unto God, for him.'  They did not cease to pray, until their prayer was answered in his deliverance; for we are told, that on the very night when this joyful event happened, 'many were gathered together praying.'

Christian brethren, I wish to stir upon mind and yours to remember the dear missionaries who are incarcerated in the Georgia penitentiary. I fear we do not pray for them with as much fervency and frequency as we did on our first hearing of their imprisonment. Things have transpired which have been calculated to dishearten us. A change in the supreme magistrate of the state where they are imprisoned did not operate in their favor, as their friends hoped it would have done. The decision of the Supreme Court of the United States honorably acquitted them of all crime; and yet it has not effected a deliverance from their confinement.  The petitions of their friends brought their grievances before the national legislature; but this also failed of affording them any relief. We are now in danger of sinking into despondency, and concluding that it will  do no good to pray for them any more.  Permit me to suggest several reasons why we should not cease to remember in our prayers these brethren who are in bonds.

1. We need the benefit of this exercise ourselves. If we cease to pray for them, we shall cease to sympathize with them. We are required to feel for them as if we wore the bonds with them. A frequent remembrance of them in our prayers will more than anything else, enable us to do it. It will transport us to their prison, and help us mingle our sorrows and joys with theirs.

2. Our prayers for our brethren in adversity may greatly benefit them; even in case they should not serve to shorten the term of their imprisonment. From some letters which they wrote to their friends, soon after they were lodged in the penitentiary, we were pleased to learn, that the state of their minds was uncommonly tranquil and happy. As their sufferings for Christ abounded, so also did their consolation by Christ. This gloomy prison, was no doubt a precious answer to prayer, not merely to that which ascended from their own hearts, but to that also which was poured forth by thousands of the friends of Christ in all parts of the United States. Nor is there any reason to doubt beyond the seas.--For these divine comforts, which are better than all the joys of life, they are still dependent. Should their brethren cease to pray for them, their long continued bondage may yet depress their spirits, and terminate in mental dejection.

3. Ceaseless prayer for the imprisoned missionaries should it fail to procure their releases may nevertheless be of incalculable importance to the cause of Christ. We have reason to believe that, hitherto, this glorious cause has not suffered by their means; but, on the contrary, that it has been honored and advanced. Still, we must not forget that our afflicted brethren are nothing but men, imperfect men. And Solomon tells us that 'oppression maketh a wise man mad.' Should their protracted sufferings, which they are now compelled to endure, against the imperative demands of justice, declared by the highest tribunal of their country, chafe their minds and disturb that Christian meekness which is so honorable to the religion of Christ, it would not be strange; nevertheless it would be injurious to the best of causes. Their exemplary conduct is of more consequence than their personal comfort; in relation to this particular, we should, therefore be very earnest in the petitions which we make in their behalf. Though our brethren are shut up within the walls of a prison, they are placed on a hill,-that is a situation of great conspicuity-and it is of indescribable importance to the honor of their Savior, and the progress of religion in the world, that their light should shine before men; that they should continue to possess a meek and a quiet spirit, which in the sight of God is of great price; that they should continue to be patient in suffering, active in doing all the good which it is in the power of their hands to do.

4. Our prayers may yet procure their release from prison. This was the effect of the prayer which was offered in behalf of Peter by the church of Jerusalem. Perhaps it will be said, 'But those were days of miracles: his prison was opened by the ministry of an angel.' To this it may be replied, the power of God is as supreme now as it was then; nor have angels ceased to be ministering spirits sent forth to minister to the heirs of salvation. Though God does not at the present period manage the kingdom of providence by miracles, as he did in times past, during the days of inspiration, still this does not render him impotent, or incapable of answering the prayers of his saints. Jay, in his 'Closet Exercises' makes a remark to this effect: that God would still make use of miracles, if he cold not answer the prayers of his people without them. The Scriptures represent God as having the control of all the hearts in the world; so that even the hearts of kings (the Bible word for rulers) are as much in his hands as the rivers of water. In answer to the united, persevering, and fervent prayers of his people in behalf of the imprisoned missionaries, it is not too much to hope that God will give them favor in the eyes of nations ' soften the hearts of the oppressors that he will so influence in the choice of rulers, whether in the particular state which is the scene of their sufferings, or in the general government, as shall be most conducive to their enlargement. While his people are praying for their enlargements, uninfluenced by party politics, and without making any calculations of their own concerning the means by which their prayers will be answered, God can with perfect ease, and consistency take this method to do it. By terrible things in righteousness (said the divine monarch) will thou answer us, O God of our salvation. The cholera may be the messenger, which the Lord will send to open the prison and bring out his servants. By sending this pestilence, he may answer the prayers of his people; and again, in answer to their prayers, he may remove it. The church of the redeemed, whether living in the age of miracles, or in any other period, may say, 'Our God is in the heavens; he hath done whatever he pleased.'- And Jehovah their God has declared, 'I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain.' And their own experience of his readiness to attend to their requests has led one and another of them to testify. 'God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, Nov. 18, 1832

We publish in our eighth number, a letter of President Jackson to the American Board of Missions, in answer to the memorial of that board to him for the liberation of the imprisoned missionaries.--This letter was said to be taken from a paper called the Protestant, and which was copied from some of the New York papers. This letter is now stated to be a forgery, and entitled to no credit.

____________________

LETTER FROM DR. BUTLER.

Mr. Hicks,

A few says since, a Cherokee young woman, who had been a member of Dr. Butler's mission school permitted me to read a letter addressed to her after the recent decease of her mother. It may perhaps gratify some of your young Cherokee readers.

MY DEAR ELIZA:

But few Cherokee gils (sic) have a mother that is so faithful to them; as yours was to you But she is now gone and you can see her no more in this world. It is right for you to mourn her death; and I hope you will profit by this heavy affliction, you are in a much better situation to profit than most of your people of your age. Your friends were so good as to send you to school where you learned to read the bible (sic) and were instructed about the Savior. It is time for your to make a good use of what you have learned. She who taught you to read is not (I trust) a bright seraph above. Remember how she used to pray for you, and how much she taught you about the Lord Jesus.  Think to of all the good things told you by your mother. The Holy Spirit has ofted(Sic) made you pray and think you would repent; believe on the Savior and love him, but I fear you have never done these things, you know I love you and wish you to do well, and be happy in the world and the next. Then will you not listen to me and do what I say Do now repent, grieve the Spirit of God no longer. Do not live another day without loving the Savior, He can make you more happy than you ever were, or could be with your mother without religion, then give ourself away to him and be wholly his. I hope you will write me again and tell me about all your feelings and what your determination is in serving God, ' ask me any questions you wish.

Your affectionate friend,

ELIZUR BUTLER.

Penitentiary, Aug. 1st. 1832.




      


Cherokee Grants.- We learn that apprehensions are entertained that Grants will not be issued by the Governor for the lands drawn for in the progressing Lotteries. All such fears are without foundation, and must proceed from the Governor's enemies. We assure the people, that any man who draws a land or gold lot, can obtain his Grant, so soon as the clerk's books are filed out for the day on which it is drawn. One grant has already been issued.--- Fed. Union.




      


THE MISSIONARIES.

There is an act of Gen. Jackson's administration which so strongly appeals to the sympathies of every good man, as his cruelty towards the Georgia Missionaries. The melancholy tale has been oft told, and yet there are advocates among a Christian people. Three missionaries under a license from the President, entered the Indian territory, for the purpose of preaching to them the 'glad tidings of great joy.'  They were violently seized upon and incarcerated in a loathsome prison. The President is appealed to. He refuses them protection, and hauntingly refers them to the courts of law.- The courts decide that the imprisonment is illegal.  He refuses to carry this decision into execution, and says that he is independent of the judiciary; and that every public officer must construe the law and the Constitution for himself. And what are the consequences? The ministers of peace on the earth are held in dura_ce vile, among murderers and thieves, and felons of every description. They are compelled to labor as felons; to eat the food of felons; to wear the prison livery of felons; and, worse than all, to have as their daily companions and associates, none but felons.- National Republican Advocate.



____________________

THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES.

Ten gentlemen from Bellefonte, Pa. solicited the opinion of Wm. W. Potter, Esq, on the following inquiries:

1st. Has the President of the United States any power, under the Constitution of the Union, to reprieve or pardon the missionaries, confined in the penitentiary of Georgia, in pursuance of the sentences of the court of that state.?

2d. In the preceding and present stage of the case of the missionaries, has the President any power, under the Constitution and laws, to coerce obedience to the decree of the Supreme Court, by calling out a military force, or in any other mode? The following is a REPLY copied from the Centre Democrat.

 BELLEFONTE, Sept. 18, 1832

Gentlemen:- Your note of the 15th inst, has been received.  In respect of the first inquiry, whether the President of the U. States power under the Constitution and laws to reprieve or pardon missionaries, confined in the penitentiary of Georgia, in pursuance of a sentence of the Criminal court of that state, after trial and conviction for a violation of the laws of Georgia, the only answer that can be give it, that the laws and constitution clothe the President with no such power. As well might the Governor of Pennsylvania claim the right to pardon the missionaries, as the President of the United States. The offence or crime alleged against Messrs. Butler and Worcester was created by the municipal regulations of Georgia. Their trail and conviction was had before a state tribunal. In all such cases, the power to pardon is confined by the Constitution of Georgia, to the Governor of that state. The 2d section of the 2d article of the Constitution of the United States, gives the President power 'to grant reprieves and pardons to offenses against the United States,  except in cases of impeachment.' This section contains the sole power created in the President, on the subject or pardons or reprieves ' confines his power specially to offenses against the United States.  As the missionaries committed no offence against the United States, and were not convicted, a pardon by the President would be a void and nugatory act, unconstitutional and unauthorized.

A brief history of the proceedings so as they have progressed, in the missionaries, is necessary to elucidate the answer of your inquiry relating to the power of the President to call out a military force to carry into effect the decision of the Supreme Court. Messrs Butler and Worcester were arrested, tried, and convicted in the Superior Court of the county of Gwinnet, in the State of Georgia, for a violation of a statute of that state, and sentenced to imprisonment for two years in the penitentiary.  They appealed from the judgment of the State Court to the Supreme Court of the United States; which Court, on the 5th of March, 1832 reversed the judgment of the Superior Court of Gwinnet County, and ordered that judgment be awarded, that the special plea in the case of the defendants is good, and that the indictment, and all proceedings there  on, do for surcease, and the defendants be discharged therefrom and go thereof quit without delay; and that a special mandate do go from this Court, to the Said Superior Court to carry this judgment into execution. The record, accompanied by the decree, was forewarded to the Court in Georgia, and when produced, obedience to its mandate was refused by the judge of the Criminal Court of that state. Thus, the case at present stands, and will probably remain, until the session of the Supreme Court, in January next, when I suppose, application will be made to the Court, to execute its own judgment in favor of the missionaries, under the laws, which provide 'that in cases where the State Courts do not execute the judgment of the Supreme Court, that Court may issue its own process should it be resisted, it will be the duty of the Marshal of the United States, for the district of Georgia to summon a posse comitatus to aid in enforcing the judgment.  If this civil power should prove unavailing, from resistance by a combination too powerful to be overcome, then and not until then, on the requisition of the law being complied with the President has power to place the army ' militia of the United States at the service of the civil authority. In the present stage of proceedings in the case, the President has no power by the Constitution and laws to interfere. As the agent and officer of the people he is limited by the authority vested in him by the Constitution, and dare not transcend the power intrusted to his care. He is as amenable to the people for a violation of constitutional injunctions or a disregard of legal restraint, as the lowest executive officer known to the laws.  Illegal and outrageous as has been the conduct of the Court of Georgia and her legislature; wicked and flagitious as has been the continued imprisonment of the missionaries, after the decision of the Supreme Court, yet it would afford no apology for a premature  and unconstitutional interference of the Chief Executive. The power of the President to act in enforcing the laws, is very limited, and can only be reported to, when all other civil means have proved inefficient. The 3d section of the 2d article of the Constitution of the United States, directs 'that the President shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.' By ch. 14 15 of the 8th section of the 1st article, power is given to Congress to provide for the calling forth of the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions.' In pursuance of this authority, Congress by the act of the 28th of February, 1795 provided for calling forth the militia; ' by the act of the 3d March 1807 authorized the President to employ 'such parts of the land and naval forces of the United States, as shall be judged necessary to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions.' As a prerequisite to the constitutional exercise of the power of the President, to resort to military force, 'to cause the laws to be faithfully executed;' these acts require 'that either the chief justice or associate justice for the Supreme Court, or the judge of the district, shall certify that the laws of the United States were opposed, or their execution obstructed, by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by the power vested in the marshals. It is evident, that before the President, as an executive officer can act, proof attesting the resistance and obstruction in the execution of the laws, by combinations too powerful to be overcome by the civil officers of the law, must be submitted to the executive and laid before the judge, on which the certificate to the President is predicated.  After the certificate is given, it is required, that the President issue a proclamation, calling upon the insurgents to disperse, and cease their resistance to the laws before he can resort to coercion by military power. It was the desire of the statesmen who framed the Constitution and enacted the laws, as it must be the wish of every friend of civil liberty, to avoid a resort to military coercion, if obedience to the laws could be produced by any other means.  It is only to be used when a lawless section of the Union have forcibly set at defiance the laws, a declared by the highest judicial tribunal, or as expressed by the constitutional authorities of the nation, and then to be proceeded in as the dernier resort, with the utmost care and deliberation; so as to prevent, if possible a civil war, which would drench any part of our happy country with the blood of American citizens. As the final act of the Supreme Court has not been taken in the cause; as there has been no evidence of a resistance to the execution of the decree of the Court, by a combination too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, as not one single prerequisite necessary by the constitution and laws to enable the President to employ a military force 'to cause the laws to be faithfully executed,' has occurred, the case contemplated by the Constitution, and acts of Congress for the interposition of the President, has CLEARLY NOT HAPPENED, and for him to have acted heretofore or at the present period, would have been a violation of the Constitution and laws, for which he ought to be impeached and punished. When the antecedent constitutional steps are taken if resistance should be preserved by the people of Georgia, the President should be bound by the most high and solemn obligations to employ that force under the provisions of the act of Congress, which the Constitution has placed at his disposal, to suppress a criminal opposition of the due execution of the laws.  He will be constrained by the awful responsibility of his official oath-by his high reputation for patriotism, and by the very existence of the Government, to enforce at all hazards, the judgment of the Court. It is to be presumed that the President will not disregard the dictates of official duty. His devotion to liberty, his sacrifices and services to our country, from youth to old age, are pledges of his fidelity to the Union. So far, the President has had nothing in his power; certainly the abuse lavished upon him for the continued imprisonment of the missionaries is entirely gratuitous and undeserved.

Your fellow citizen,

WILLIAM W. POTTER.




      


From the New York American

The conduct of President Jackson towards the Cherokees, in their controversy with the State of Georgia and in regard to the missionaries who are now suffering the punishment of felons in the Georgia State penitentiary in contempt of a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, excites, as it is well fitted to excite, the indignation of all who are accustomed to respect the faith of treaties, and to reverence the authority of law. Hence, it becomes an object with his partisans to give such a coloring to his conduct as may help to divest it in some degree of its enormity; and accordingly, we find Mr. Benj. F. Butler, of Albany,- the most respectable man of his party, laboring at a recent public meeting at the Capitol to reconcile Gen. Jackson's course towards the Indians and the Missionaries, with the principles of faith, law, and morality. Let us see with what success. The charges against Gen. Jackson are-

1st. That he has assumed to abrogate the law of 1802, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indians-which law had been in uninterrupted and unquestioned force from its date to the accession of General Jackson.

2d. That he has assumed of his own authority to abrogate treaties between the Indians, thus usurping the function of the judiciary.

3d. That he has made known both to Georgia and the Indians that the United States Government would not interfere to protect the latter against the claims of the former to reduce them under their laws and take possession of their lands.

4th. That in order to carry out this notification to its full effect, he has caused to be withdrawn the troops of the United States, then actually stationed in the Indian country in order to prevent the encroachments of the white men on the Indians, and their settlement among them.

5th. That certain missionaries were with the consent and approbation of the United States, stationed among these Indians, and that they refused to acknowledge the law of Georgia requiring them either to remove or take an oath of allegiance to a State, the protection of the United States was withdrawn from them; and one of them, Mr Worcester, who still as a postmaster was exempt from the operation of State laws, was deprived of that post, so as to leave him and his associates to the full sweep of the laws, as they are called, of Georgia;- the mercy of these laws had been exemplified by imprisoning among felons those ministers of religion who would not abandon their sacred posts, nor recant them by virtue of an unlawful oath.

How does Mr. Butler dispose of these unquestionable facts. Simply by passing them over in silence, and with an advocate's dexterity, presenting his case in his own way. He first insists, that, as Mr. Adams, when President, expressed his opinion that the residence of Indians, as independent communities in the bosom of the States, was fraught with inconvenience and mischief. Gen. Jackson, in urging upon the Cherokees their instant removal beyond the Mississippi, has only acted upon the same opinion. But he omits--what, as a lead advocate, perhaps, he might omit what, as an honest man purporting to enlighten the people as to the facts, we know not how he could omit that in order to coerce the Cherokees into emigration, Gen. Jackson informed them that the General Government would not, in the event of their persisting to retain on their own lands, interpose to protect them from the laws of Georgia, that is to say, that the treaties and laws of the United States under which these Indians had before felt secure, should secure them no longer; -whereas, Mr. Adams, while urging them to go West, plainly notified to Georgia, that if she should attempt to resort dominion over the Indian country, the authority of the Federal Government should be interposed to prevent it.  Does this proceeding of Mr. Adams justify that of General Jackson- and if not, can Mr. Butler justify himself in foro conscientiae- not in the conscience of a party, but his own, for seeking to assimilate them?

The great argument, however, of Mr. Butler, is-in so much as it has been asserted, that Gen. Jackson is responsible for the continued imprisonment of the Missionaries, and has not offered to carry into effect the decision of the Supreme Court declaring the law under which they are imprisoned invalid,- that a deliberate imposition has been thereby made upon the people; because Gen. Jackson has not yet, and in the present stage of the legal proceedings could not be called upon to enforce that judgment of the Supreme Court.--Now, although we deny that the statement made by Mr. Butler is a fair version of the censures usually and justly leveled against the President, an account of the treatment of the missionaries-yet, if for the sake of argument, we admit it, what does the defence amount to, beyond a mere technical quibble? It is true, the return of the process unexecuted to the court, whence it issued, the calling out the posse, and the other steps preliminary to an official call upon the Execute (sic) to enforce the judgment of the Court, are yet to be taken, and therefore the President has not been called upon formally to interfere. But whence is it that these steps have become necessary whence is it that the spirit of defiance to a mandate of the Supreme Court has been manifested by Georgia? Whence but from the 'foregone conclusions,' founded upon the official acts and declarations of the President, that he had prejudged the question? That he deemed the law of Georgia constitutional, however it might be viewed by the Supreme Court of the United States? And that acting upon the (sic) his views of the obligations of laws, treaties, and the Constitution, he would not interpose the federal arm between the laws of Georgia and those upon whom its penalties would fall.--Whence but from this 'foregone conclusion' has Georgia derived the audacity to set at defiance the laws and sovereignty of the Union? And if this is so, is it not a mere technical subtlety to say, that Gen. Jackson is not to blame for the imprisonment of the missionaries, because their case has never been officially before him? From the moment that Gen. Jackson abrogated the laws and treaties which protected the Indians, and all legally residing within their borders, he assumed the responsibility and must hear the censure, of all the lawless violence which has since occurred--and it is, therefore, strictly true to say that he is the cause, both of the original imprisonment of the missionaries, and of its prolonged agonies-in contempt as we said before of a solemn decision of the Supreme Court of the United States.




      


The Lottery.- The drawing of the Gold Regions and Land Lotteries, long a matter of doubt disputations with the politicians--the subject of the anxious inquiries of many, and of the golden dreams and joyful anticipations of the sanguine, has at length commenced.  But little progress has yet been made by the commissioners. On Monday, the first day, only 150 numbers were drawn, partly from the gold and partly from the land; and on the second, two hundred from the gold.--Southern Rec.




      


MISCELLANEOUS

SINGULAR ADVENTURE

Mr. Bradbury in his travels in the interior of North Country relates the following singular adventures of a man named Colter.

Colter came to St. Louis in May 1810 in a small canoe from the head waters of the Missouri, in a distance of 3000 miles, which he traversed in 30 days. I saw him on his arrival, and received from him an account of his adventures after he had separated from Lewis and Clark's party; one of these, for its singularity, I shall relate. On the arrival of the party at the head waters of the Missouri, Colter observing an appearance of abundance of beaver being there, got permission to remain and hunt for some time, which he did in company with a man of the name of Dixon who had traversed the immense tract of country from St. Louis to the head waters of the Missouri alone. Soon after he separated from Dixon, and trapped in company with a hunter named Potts; and aware of the hostility of the Black-feet Indians, one of whom had been killed by Lewis, they set traps at night, and took them up early n the morning remaining concealed during the day. They were examining their traps early one morning in a creek about six miles from that branch of the Missouri called Jefferson's Fork, and were ascending in a canoe, when they suddenly heard a great noise resembling the trampling of animals; but they could not ascertain the fact, as the high perpendicular banks on each side of the river impeded their view. Colter immediately pronounced it to be occasioned by Indians, and advised an instant retreat, but was accused of cowardice by Potts, who insisted that the noise was caused by buffaloes, and they proceeded on.

In a few minutes afterwards, their doubts were removed by a party of Indians, making their appearance on both sides of the creek, to the amount of five or six hundred, who beckoned them to come ashore.  As retreat was now impossible, Colter turned the head of the canoe, and at the moment of its touching an Indian seized the rifle belonging to Potts; but Colter who is a remarkable strong man, immediately retook it, and handed it to Potts, who remained in the canoe, and on receiving it, pushed off into the river. He had scarcely quitted the shore when an arrow was shot at him, and he cried out, 'Colter, I am wounded!' Colter remonstrated with him on the folly of attempting to escape, and urged him to come a shore, Instead of complying he instantly leveled his rifle at the Indian and shot him dead on the spot. This conduct, situated as he was, may appear to have been and act of madness, but it was doubtless the effect of sudden, but sound reasoning; for if taken alive, he must expected to be tortured to death, according to their custom. He was instantly pierced with arrows so numerous that to use Colter's words, 'he was made a riddle of.' They now seized Colter, stripped him entirely naked, and began to consult on the manner he should be put to death.

They were first inclined to set him up as a mark to shoot at, but the chief interfered, and seizing him by the shoulder, asked him if he could run fast? Colter, who had been for some time amongst the Keekatse or Cree Indians, had in a considerable degree acquired the Blackfoot language, and was also well acquainted with Indian custom, he knew that he had now to run for his life, with the dreadful odds of five or six hundred against him, and those armed Indians; he therefore cunningly replied that he was a very bad runner, although he was considered by the hunters as remarkably swift. The chief now commanded the party too remain stationary, and he led Colter out of the prairie three or four hundred yards and released him, bidding him 'save himself if he could.' At this instant the horrid war whoop sounded in the ears of poor Colter, who urged with the hope of preserving life and with speed at which himself was surprised. He proceeded towards the Jefferson Fork, having to traverse a plain six miles in breadth; abounding with prickly pear, which he was at every instant treading with his naked feet. He ran nearly half way across the plain before he ventured to look over his shoulder, when he perceived that the Indians were much scattered, and that he gained ground to a considerable distance from the main body; but one Indian who carried a spear, was much before all the rest and not more than ninety or a hundred yards from him. A faint gleam of hope now entered the heart of Colter, he derived confidence from the belief that escape was within the bounds of possibility, but that confidence was nearly fatal to him, for he exerted himself to such a degree that the blood gushed from his nostrils, and soon almost covered the forepart of his body.

He had now arrived within a mile of the river, when he distinctly heard the appalling sound of footsteps behind him, and every instant expected to feel the spear of his pursuer. Again he turned his head, and saw the savage not twenty yards from him. Determined if possible, to avoid the expected blow, he suddenly stopped turned around, and spread out his arms. The Indian surprised by the suddenness of the action, and perhaps by the bloody appearance of Colter, also attempted to stop; but exhausted with running, he fell whilst endeavoring to throw his spear, which struck in the ground and broke.  Colter instantly snatched up the pointed part, with which he pinned him to the earth, and then continued his flight.  The foremost of the Indians, on arriving at the place, stopped till others came up to him join them, when they set up a hideous yell. Every moment of time was improved by Colter, who although fainting, and exhausted, succeeded in gaining the skirting of the cotton tree wood on the border of the Fork, through which he ran and plunged into the river.

Fortunately for him, a little below this place was an island against the upper part of which, a raft of drift timber had lodged.  He dived under the raft, and after several efforts got his head above water amongst the trunks of the trees covered over with smaller wood to the depth of several feet. Scarcely had he secured himself, when the Indians arrived on the river, searching and yelling as Colter expressed it 'like so many devils.' There were frequently on the raft during the day and were seen through the chinks by Colter, who was congratulating himself on his escape, until the idea arose that they might set the raft on fire. In horrible suspense he remained until night when hearing no more of the Indians he dived under the raft and swam silently down the river to a considerable distance, where he landed and travelled all night. Although happy in having escaped from the Indians, his situation was still dreadful; he was completely naked, under a burning sun; the soles of his feet were entirely filled with the thorns of the prickly pear; he was hungry, and had no means of killing game, although he saw abundance around him; and was at least seven days journey from Liso's Fort on the Bighorne branch of the Roche Jaune River. These were circumstances under which almost any man, but an American hunter would have despaired. He arrived at the Fort in seven days, having subsisted on a root much esteemed by the Indians of the Missouri, now known by naturalists as psoralsa esculenia.- Wyoming Republican.






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA. NOV. 24, 1832.

The message of Governor Lumpkin to the Georgia Legislature will be found in our columns. His Excellency congratulates his fellow citizens of the undiminished state of their attachment to the system of governments under which they live, therefore encourages an increased zeal, for the preservation of their happy institutions. He then makes known the conflicts of that State with federal usurpations, in the case of Worcester and Butler, as a cause of distrust and dissatisfaction, and his readiness to have resisted any branch of the Federal Government, in the enforcement of the decision of the Supreme Court. The reversal of the criminal jurisdiction of Georgia by the Supreme Court, his Excellency, like all his cruel and selfish predecessors, takes the ground, that the Court has attempted to prostrate the right of jurisdiction, within the limits of Georgia proper. The assumption of this ground will not be sustained by acts. The question of jurisdiction involved in the case of Worcester and Butler, as decided by the Supreme Court, had only a reference to the right of Georgia exercising that power in the Cherokee Nation, which the court decided by an elaborate opinion, and supported by detailed authorities of the Constitution, Treaties and Laws of the United States, to belong to the Cherokees, and consequently the nullity of the Georgia laws over the same. The fallacy which Governor Lumpkin has discovered in the decision of the court-its tendency to consolidate the states into one mass-the infirmaries of the judges, as the cause of this decision, are allegations, it seems to us, better calculated to represent the angry passions of the human mind, and the cause of injustice, rather than of truth and calm reason.

His Excellency's early communication which he says he made to the President, on the subject of surveying and occupying the Cherokee lands, we do think are proceedings at which humanity must at least shudder. Has piety ceased to mourn over this dark iniquity? Yes, Gov. Lumpkin the Christian Governor of a civilized state, has communicated to the President, the necessity of taking possession of his fellow creature's and his neighbor's lands. He then represents the solicitude of the President with Georgia for the amicable adjustment of their territorial embarrassments, and that the President had proposed to the Cherokees, liberal terms to induce them to remove-to fulfil the objects of his solicitude, and benefit that deluded race. By whom have the Cherokees been deluded? If his Excellency means that the General Government had deceived or cheated the Cherokees in promising them protection  ' the sanction of their sovereignty, it is to be observed that the state of Georgia of which Mr. Lumpkins (sic) is the head, has been chiefly instrumental and it has been at the instance of that very State, that the principal part of the treaties have been made, which have secured to the Cherokee the rights affirmed to them by the Supreme Court.

His Excellency then states that the enemies of the President and of Georgia succeeded in preventing a treaty being made with the Cherokees, and the arrogant reply of the Cherokees to the propositions.--We feel no hesitation to say to this statement, that the enemies of the President and of Georgia, have had no influence with the Cherokees, in their rejections of a treaty, this grave subject have been from time immemorial exclusively under the control of the Cherokee councilors and the people.

Again, His Excellency states that the reply of the Cherokees to the propositions 'evinces a most arrogant and uncompromising spirit.' The reply which the Governor has reference to is that given to the Secretary of War at the July Council and already published by us. We must here take the liberty of correcting in a few words, the view which the Governor has taken of our reply. The council after rejecting the propositions, called the attention of the President to their former decisions on that question--great intrusions on these lands by the whites,--to have them removed according to their treaties with the government-the Cherokees indures by the Georgia military--but to remove this encroachment, and then, they would be placed in a situation to enjoy freedom ' liberty, which would enable us to speak ' act on the subject of our national interests.- This is the substance of our reply. If there is any pride of haughty disposition evinced in this reply, as his Excellency has taken it, let the impartial reader decide.

From the message, it can be no longer doubted, that the occupancy of the vacant lands of the Cherokees, by the state of Georgia will now soon be attempted we deem it; therefore necessary to say a word to the effects of this forcible occupation of our lands, in the event of the non-interference of the federal government. His Excellency has called the attention of the legislature to the serious deliberations of the condition of the Cherokees. Special and appropriated legislation he deems necessary to secure to them their rights of property. If each Indian has five hundred bushels of corn, and the Governor was to take by force four hundred of it, would it not be a mockery of justice to deliberate seriously at the same time, to secure that which was left?  Such an act we have no doubt would be pronounced outrageous and atrocious. But the hardships arising out of the land case are much greater; in this place and elsewhere, two to five families reside and cultivates in one enclosure, and by the laws of Georgia, it is embraced generally by lot of one hundred and sixty acres.- This is the only lot granted to these families by the laws of Georgia and their right of occupancy to any more are debarred forever.  Where is (sic) the children of these families ' the others not similarly situated, when they arrive at maturity to seek for lands on which to settle?  Where will these families procure their supplies of wood when their vacant lands are taken? Shall we go to Arkansas? But it is said, there, no wood is to be found.- Shall we go to Milledgeville?  It is said, there justice ' precepts have parted. The grave deliberations of the legislature recommended by his Excellency will be productive of enormous injustice to the Cherokees, and their endless sufferings.  To this confiscation of our property, we will not submit, we would choose to be placed in the silent regions of death, and be gathered to our fathers, than to remain depressed by Georgia oppression.

The Guard of Governor Lumpkin at the Sixes gold mine has again spilt Cherokee blood, A Cherokee by the name of Nicojaek was discovered digging for gold, when one of the guard fired, and severely wounded the Indian in the arm and leg.- He has nearly recovered.

_____________________

From the Federal Union.

MESSAGE:

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, Ga.

Milledgeville, 16th Nov. 1832.

FELLOW CITIZENS-- When we take a survey of the events of the closing year, it produces mingled emotions of pleasure and pain.  Our actual condition and enjoyments as a people, arising from climate, soil, and good government, when compared with other portions of the world, admonish us to admire and adore the Divine Author of our multiplied blessings. Nothing has transpired to lessen our attachment, or diminish our confidence in the good systems of government under which we live; we should therefore cherish an increased zeal, and an abiding hope for the perpetuation of our free and happy institutions. The truths of history do not authorize the belief, that we are to enjoy the inestimable blessings of liberty and free government, founded on principles of equal rights, without vigilance and constant exertion on the part of the people, who are the only legitimate source of governmental power.

Our conflicts with Federal usurpation are not yet an end; the events of the past year have afforded as new cause for distrust and dissatisfaction. Contrary to the enlightened opinions, and just expectations of the people of this, and every other state in the Union, a majority of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States, have not only assumed jurisdiction in the cases of Worcester and Butler, but have by their decision, attempted to overthrow that essential jurisdiction of the State, in criminal cases, which has been vested by our Constitution in the Superior Courts of our own State. In conformity with their decision a mandate was issued, directed to our conduct concerning a reversal of the decree under which those persons are imprisoned, thereby attempting and intending to prostrate the sovereignty of this State in the exercise of its constitutional, criminal jurisdiction.-  These extraordinary proceedings of the Supreme Court, have not been submitted to me officially, nor have they been brought before me in any manner, which called for my official action. I have however been prepared to meet this usurpation of Federal power, with the most prompt and determined resistance in whatever form its enforcement might have been attempted by any branch of the Federal Government. It has afforded me great satisfaction to find that our whole people, as with the voice of one man, have manifested a calm, but firm and determined resolution to sustain the authorities and sovereignty of their State against this unjust and unconstitutional encroachment of the Federal Judiciary. The ingenuity of man might be challenged to show a single sentence in the Constitution of the United States giving power, either direct or implied, to the General Government, or any of its Departments, to nullify the laws of a state, enacted for the government of its own population, or coerce obedience by force, to the mandates of the Judiciary of the Union; On the contrary, the Journals and proceedings of the Conventions that framed the Federal Constitution abundantly evince that various attempts were made to effect that object, all of which were rejected. This proves that the States of this Union, never did and never will permit their political rights to be suspended upon the breath of the Agents of Trustees to whom they have delegated limited powers, to perform certain acts. I however deem it unnecessary for me at this time to animadvert on this decision of the Supreme Court. Its fallacy, its inconsistency with former decisions, and its obvious tendency to intermeddle with the political rights of the States, and to change our Federal System into one consolidated mass, has been so often exposed by the most able jurists, and statesmen, that a large majority of the people of this union are confirmed in the conviction of the fallibility, infirmaries and errors of this supreme tribunal.--This branch of the General Government must henceforth stand, where it always ought to have stood, in public estimation as being liable to all the frailties and weaknesses of erring man.

Shortly after the adjournment of the Legislature of December last, I communicated directly to the President of the United States, the views of this State as manifested by her legislation on the subject of our unoccupied lands lying in Cherokee County, and at the same time frankly communicated to him my views, especially as to the necessity and importance of an immediate survey, and perhaps the occupancy of these lands.  The President has manifested equal solicitude with ourselves, to affect as amicable and satisfactory adjustment of our territorial embarrassments. We proposed to the Cherokee people, terms of the most liberal character, with a view to induce them to emigrate to the West, and thereby to enable him to effect like great object of his solicitude, in permanently benefiting that unfortunate and deluded race, and at the same time to fulfil the long delayed obligations of the United States' government to Georgia, entered into by the compact of 1802.

Notwithstanding the extraordinary liberality of the propositions submitted to the Cherokees, and the kind spirit in which they were presented, the enemies of the President and of Georgia, have so far succeeded as to prevent any satisfactory arrangement or treaty with them; and their reply to those liberal propositions evince a most arrogant and uncompromising spirit.

Every day's experience has afforded new evidence of the utter impracticality and impolicy of attempting any longer to maintain our laws and government over the Cherokee part of Georgia, without an increased and better population. Every effort has been made by the Executive, to maintain the inviolability of the laws of the State in Cherokee country, but these efforts have not been attended with the desired success. Our laws have been repeatedly violated, and for the want of the moral force, which pervades counties inhabited by a more dense enlightened and virtuous population, the transgressors have sometimes escaped merited punishment. Our scattered population of good character who now inhabit this country have often found themselves destitute of security from the depredations of dishonest men; and when they have sought protection from the laws of the land, they have often found those laws evaded and perverted by combinations of such characters aided by the advice and council of those whose enlarged acquirements should have directed their influence in aid of the cause of justice, and the supremacy of the laws. Legal and pettifogging subtleties, in this country, seem measurably to have triumphed over equity and a fair administration of the law.

Not only the Supreme Court of the United States, but the Superior, and even the Inferior Courts of our own State, have so far aided in overturning our laws and the policy of our State government, as to declare them unconstitutional and order the discharge of prisoners arrested and confined under their provisions. Nevertheless, amidst all these irregularities, strifes and disorders, there is much cause of sincere gratification that the events of the year have produced nothing more seriously injurious to the interests and character of the State.

The Survey of the county of Cherokee in conformity with, and under the provisions of the several acts of the Legislature has been completed without any serious obstacles or difficulty; and in the exercise of that discretion confided to me by law, I have not hesitated to move forward in that direct line, which I deemed best calculated to ensure a speedy settlement of the unoccupied lands in Cherokee county. Accordingly, in due time, the Justices of the Inferior courts of the several counties were notified and required to execute the duties devolving on them, in regard to receiving and returning the names of persons entitled to draw in the lotteries; which having been done according to law, and the tickets having been prepared, the Lottery Commissioners were convened and commenced the preparatory arrangements for the drawing; which was commenced on the 23d October last, and is now in progress, under their superintendence.

I deem it unnecessary at this time to enter upon an enlarged vindication of the policy which has been pursued by the authorities of Georgia on this subject. Suffice it to say, that I have daily increased evidence that our policy has been founded in wisdom justice and true benevolence, and will ere long, terminate in the preservation of a remnant of those unfortunate Indians; and our State will be relieved from the libels and embarrassments of a thirty years' controversy.

It now becomes my duty to call the serious and deliberate attention of the Legislature to the subject of the present condition of the Cherokees who remain within our State. By our existing laws their homes and improvements are secured to them as long as they may choose to remain thereon; but these laws are by no means adapted to the security of their persons and property. Therefore special and appropriate Legislation is most earnestly recommended, whereby these objects will be secured to them, and their rights be as effectually shielded from violation as those of the white man.  It is due to the character of the State, that this dependent people should be protected by laws as liberal as may be consistent with their moral and intellectual condition. To afford them such protection, and to extend to them suitable privileges, without endangering the rights of our own citizens, will require the most careful deliberation and prudent forecast.

*                  * *                 *

The territory embraced in Cherokee County, should be divided into counties of suitable size and form to promote the convenience that portion of our population who may inhabit that section of the State; and the organization of such counties should be provided for without unnecessary delay.




      


INDIAN TREATIES.

The last Missouri Republican states that on the 16th ult. a Treaty was concluded at Rock Island with the Winnebago Indians, by which they cede to the United States all the lands south and east of the Wisconsin and the Fox River of Green Bay, amounting to nearly 5,000,000 acres for which they are to receive an annuity of $10,000 for twenty seven years. A school is also to be established and maintained among them during the same period, at an expense not to exceed $3,000 annually; and they are moreover to be supplied with agricultural improvements, oxen, 'c. of the yearly value of $2,600 until the expiration of the same term. There is likewise granted them a tract of country called the 'Neutral Ground' extending 40 miles along the west bank of the Mississippi, and running back 70 miles; and they are on their part to deliver up nine of their warriors who stand charged with having murdered unoffending white citizens.

A Treaty has been also concluded with the Sac and Fox Indians; by which they cede to the United States to defray the expenses of the war, and for the security of the frontier, a tract of country extending along the Mississippi about 300 miles, and running west of that river about 53 miles, with the exception of a reservation of 20 miles square, embracing the principal villages on the Ioway (sic). They are to receive by way of compensation for this territory, an annuity of $20,000 for thirty years; and a black smith is to be maintained among them during that same period. Provisions for immediate use, and 6,000 bushels of corn to be delivered in April next, are likewise to be furnished them. Black Hawk and sundry other Chiefs, are to be detained as hostages, for the good conduct of their followers during the pleasure of the President; and no warrior or brave of the hostile band is to be permitted in future to exercise any authority whatever in the Nation.




      


THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES

[The following spirited appeal to the religious public, in behalf of the imprisoned Missionaries, is published at the request of a friend, who is one of the most active, intelligent influential members of the Methodist Episcopal Church of this city. It comes to us in a printed circular.]

The mere annunciation of the fact that missionaries are imprisoned, would awaken the attention of the whole Christian community-and every heart which pulsated the feelings of brotherhood, nay, even of humanity. Common humanity, would swell with anxious solicitude and the question would be asked by thousands, at the same moment--'where? where?'

If the answer were, in pagan lands-among people who yet inhabit the dark places of cruelty-in the distant islands of the sea, among barbarians-what would the Christian do? - fold his arms!-seat himself by his fireside, amidst the comforts of home, and leave those pioneers of the gospel to their fate? The bare question is revolting! No- But from North to South, and from East to West, one noble generous effort would be made and differing sects would be found acting in harmonious concert to find the ways and the means to liberate their captive brethren.

The case is not a fancied on- 'missionaries are imprisoned!' - not in pagan lands-not among a heathen people, not in the distant and barbarious islands of the sea--but in the midst of Christendom; among a people professing to be Christians, and a people professing to be free!

Yes- in the penitentiary of one of the States of this Republic, in Georgia-and in the capital of that state, Milledgeville, may be found two faithful, devoted followers of the meek and lowly Jesus-preaching of his everlasting gospel, classed with felons, wearing the ignominious badges of the loathsome penitentiary, and doomed to the labor and toil of working, day in and day out, and subsisting upon the coarse and unsavory fare of that dismal place!

And for what has this terrible punishment been inflicted? For crimes committed? No.-  For any violation of the law? No. Or offenses of any sort, either against the rightful government of the State, or the United States? No-No. Christians, no ye honest men of all parties- no ye freemen of America,-but for being found preaching the gospel to and teaching the Cherokee Indians! For this,and for this only have these good men and brothers in the bonds and fellowship of the Gospel, been dragged from their holy employment, and in violation of the laws and treaties of the land, and in the face of their written authority given by the executive of the United States to go in among these people and enlighten and bless them, has this outrage upon their persons, rights, and their liberty been committed.

And by whom has this been permitted? Who in the first place winked in ignorant prejudice at this daring outrage of Georgia, and then refused, afterwards, to interfere and execute the laws that his oath binds him to execute, and by so doing, liberate those holy men; and who after the case had undergone judicial investigation, and the incorruptible Marshall had pronounced the judgement of the Supreme Court, virtually commanded them to be set free--who we ask, is it, that in contempt of this, still refuse to execute the power vested in him by the laws, and enforced upon him by the Supreme Court, and which his oath demands him to obey-who is he that causes to break those penitentiary fetters, and give back to light and liberty, and society, and usefulness these missionaries? We answer, ANDREW JACKSON.

Is this doubted by anyone? We know the bosoms of the humane- the hearts of the patriots- and the generous and noble feelings of the Christian, may well harbor a doubt whether it be possible that even Andrew Jackson could thus defy obligations so binding in a cause so imperative and so sacred. But we will put those doubts to flight. To do this, we introduce here an official letter from the Secretary of War, which the reader will see, puts the extinguisher upon all hope that while Gen. Jackson remains President, these abused Christians will be released from their bondage.

When Paul and Silas were by unjust judges thrust into the inner prison and when at midnight they lifted up their voices in the solitude of their cells an angel came and delivered them. Those were times when prejudice and ignorance like scales hung upon the eyes of the people; and when the agency of Heaven was employed in a direct was to awaken and enlighten the sleeping and stupid multitude of that day, and establish, by the test of miracles the authority and the truth of God.

But now our angel, to effect the liberations of the Pauls and the Silases of the present day, is enlightened public opinion and virtue. Direct means employed by the master of life, for the accomplishment of such great ends are withdrawn, and He had placed the power in our hands by human agency to accomplish the same ends. It is left to our intelligence and our virtue.

Read this letter-and then judge what hope remains for the liberation of the devoted Worcester and his companion in prison, while General Jackson has the power to keep them bound-and let every Christian heart ask itself what is its duty!

 To be Concluded.




      


THE MISSIONARIES

From the Journal of Commerce we make the following extract from the Report of the American Board of Missions:

'A memorial to the President of the United States was prepared by counsel for the prisoners in their behalf, praying him to interpose his authority for enforcing the decision of the Supreme Court. But after consultation it was deemed inexpedient to present it in the present stage of the case. It was also after consolation with the friends of the Board and of the Indians in Congress, deemed inexpedient to petition that body on the subject during their last session.'

Now, why did they not apply to the President to interpose? We are told explicitly that 'after consultation it was deemed inexpedient' to present the memorial `in the present stage of the case.' Nor would they make any application to Congress upon the subject. The reason for this is obvious. The Board of American Missions, upon consultation with the counsel of the prisoners, ascertained that it was a case still pending, and within the cognizance of the Courts, and that the President could not, without violating the rights of the Court, and alter the principles of the situation `interpose his authority for enforcing the decision of the Court.' And they furthermore ascertained from their counsel that for the same reason both branches of Congress, united with the Executive, could not interfere with a question pending between the Courts.

Upon what pretence does Mr. Clay in person, as well as the opposite prints, beginning with the Bank Gazette charge the President with failing in his duty to the Missionaries, when even their own counsel declare that he could not properly be asked to interpose in their behalf? The whole system on which the unprincipled partisans of the Bank and Mr. Clay act is a tissue of deception. They know that the President cannot rightfully move in this business, and yet they pretend he can. They know that the Board of Missions have expressly declined addressing a memorial to the President; and, yet, the scrupulous, high minded opposition have actually FORGED and published a letter signed with the name of the President responding to this call which the Board of Missions declare was never made on him. Globe.






      


THE IMPRISONED MISSIONARIES

Concluded

Department of War

November 14, 1832

Sir: I have received and submitted to the President, the memorial of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, transmitted in your letter of the 3d inst., and am instructed to inform you, that having on mature consideration satisfied himself that the Legislatures in the respective states have power to extend their laws over all persons living within their boundaries, and that when thus extended the various acts of Congress providing a mode of proceeding in cases of Indian intercourse, inconsistent with these laws, become inoperative, he has no authority to interfere under the circumstances stated in the memorial.

I have the honor to be,

very respectfully

your obedient serv't

LEWIS CASS.

William Reed, Esq. Chairman of the Prudential Committee of the A. R. C. F. M. Boston.'

A state, in President Jackson's view of the subject may therefore nullify 'acts of Congress'!!!-and he takes upon himself to exercise the kingly prerogative to decide the question though the Supreme Court has rendered against his decision--which, however, he respects as little as he does the 'acts of Congress'  the reason is he is 'independent of both,' when 'born to command' and the people to obey.

But we leave this branch of the discussion to the judgment of an enlightened public, and proceed.

Yes, Fellow Citizens, it is he who ought to be the President of the people, the guardian of our rights, the supporter of the Constitution, the executor of the law, but who has told us he is above law or what is the same thing, that he is 'independent of both Congress and the Supreme Court.'  And that he shall execute the laws, and administer the Constitution according to his interpretation of them; it is this usurper, who with more than kingly daring, looks on composedly and sees a state exercising usurped  power, to afflict and disgrace men for preaching the gospel to a remnant of the original owners of our country!

If a pagan despot were to act thus, though in ten thousand miles distant, and did oceans roll between us and the victims of his malice, all the energies of our souls would be employed to break down his power, and thousands and hundreds of thousands of gold and silver would be looked upon as the dust in the balance, when compared to the great object of liberating our brethren from such unjust and cruel slavery. And he who would not aid in effecting the great object no matter by what Christian name called, would justly subject himself to the indignation of insulted humanity.

But our despot is at hand. He breathes with us the air which our Fathers taught us to believe was the air of liberty- and as it was until the breath of Andrew Jackson contaminated it. He is moreover within our reach, and at our disposal, and the liberation of the missionaries is within our power. Nor are we called upon to fit out armaments to cross seas, nor to batter down the castle of the despot with ____ and ball, nor expend hundreds and thousands to accomplish so great an object; we have it in our power in a few weeks from this day, by going to the ballot box and voting against the re-election of Andrew Jackson, to demolish the castle of despotism which has been upwards of three years in building, drive the tyrant from it into his original obscurity, reestablish the empire of law, and let the missionaries go free.

We ask, where, where is the christian, where the citizen, where the man, who will refuse to come forward, and lend his power, the exercise of which will not cost him a single cent to aid the country of the Usurper who has shown himself to be a despot; his conscience is to be impervious to the obligations of his oath, and his heart steeled against the cries of suffering humanity?

Where we ask, is the man? Let him who would refuse to smite in a cause so holy, hold up his hand-let him stand out before angels and men, and announce his insensibility to such a call, that he may not be mistaken before any righteous community in the future. But no, we will not believe that there lives one man, having the feelings of a man, to say nothing of Christians who would, under such circumstances feel indifferent to the fate of the heralds of the gospel, or withheld his efforts to release them from a bondage so lawless, so cruel, and so unjust.

When Rome was free, the declaration of one of her sons--no matter how humble his condition, I am a Roman citizen, made the despot relax his hold, in the certain prospect if he did not, that all Rome would rise to defend the victim and avenge the insulted honor of the Republic.

But here, in America, how have our hearts felt and our energies been employed during the many months that the voices of two of our citizens have been mournfully uttering the complaint, we who are American citizens, are here incarcerated in this loathsome prison-our crime being the preaching of the everlasting gospel to the aborigines of the country?

Will we stand still any longer?- Will we permit the opportunity to pass which is now to be brought to our very doors to liberate our brothers? Will any man consider the toil for the accomplishment of so great an object too great, which requires only that each person shall vote against the re-election of Andrew Jackson.

Our Fathers pledged themselves, each to the other, in their property, and their sacred honor, eye, and in their lives, to win the boon of freedom-to lay the foundation of equal and just laws in this Western world-to secure to every man his rights, and confer upon all the blessings of free government. Nobly did they resolve, and nobly did they achieve.  Treasure and blood, and life, were freely given, and the eye of the dying patriot, catching a glimpse of the glorious future, would impart to his heart as it ceased to beat, a tranquil joy that compensated for the agonies of the death wound and the loss of life!



 But had that part of the future been revealed, when the place of Washington, and Adams, and Jefferson, and Madison, and Monroe, and the second Adams, should be filled by one who in utter disregard of the laws would erect the throne of the despot, and decree that free men, and the sons of free men, and the ministers of the gospel of Christ should be thrust into a penitentiary for no earthly crime, to mingle with felons, the joy of the dying patriot would have been turned to sorrow- and `how vain is it' he would have said with his expiring breath, `for me thus to shed my blood, and yield up my life for my country and for freedom.'

Happy thrice happy, for man, is it that a curtain separates his view from the events of the future.

But we live when that which might then have been announced by some prophet has become a sad reality.--Will we permit its continuance? What say ye? you who revere the memory of your patriot fathers-`what say ye?' you who love liberty and law-what say ye? you who are followers of Jesus, will you let slip the opportunity, the only opportunity which is at hand, to thrust from his seat the author of all the wrongs that are heaped upon the memories of our fathers- and of the disgrace which has been inflicted on our liberty and our law- and of the

violence which has been so ruthlessly exerted upon our brothers?

'No'- We hear the indignant and heart swelling answer from thousands, 'no we will not.'

Then let the response be heard in the midst of all who are free- in our churches in the hamlets, and upon the mountaintops, let all come up with the glorious purpose, to thrust the despot from his throne, and save our country, our liberty, our altars, and our hopes.

Let our watch word be 'down with the despot and liberation to the incarcerated missionaries.'




      


THE MISSIONARIES AND LOTTERY WHEEL

It gives us pleasure to state that the assertion in a paragraph from the Savannah Georgian respecting the imprisoned missionaries and the Lottery wheel, which has been extensively copied by newspaper editors in this part of the country, is without foundation. The following letter has been addressed to us by Messrs Worcester and Butler.--Observer.

PENITENTIARY

Milledgeville

October 29, 1832

To the Editors of the New York Observer.

GENTLEMEN--We notice in your paper of the 20th inst. a statement made on the authority of the Savannah Georgian, that we have been compelled to aid in the construction of the lottery wheels by means of which the land and gold mines of the Cherokees are distributed. While we are sorry that any editor should make such a supposed fact a matter of exultation, we have the happiness to assure you and your readers, that the editor of the Georgian has been misinformed, and that we were not called upon for any assistance whatever in the construction of these wheels. we would add, in gratitude to the principal keeper of the Penitentiary, that at some sacrifice of convenience, he studiously avoided calling upon us to assist in that work, from the apprehension that it would ba a task ungrateful to our feelings.

Respectfully yours,

S.A. WORCESTER

ELIZUR BUTLER.




      


CHOCTAW NATION.

Major Armstrong, the agent for removing the Choctaws, has arrived here from the Nation, and informs us that about 2,300 Choctaws are now on their way to this place, and will probably arrive on the first of November. Arrangements are made for their immediate transportation across the Mississippi, and their final settlement on the western frontier. It is supposed that between seven and eight thousand will remove this fall.

We also learn from Maj. Armstrong who passed by the Chickasaw Council of Treaty, that up to the 18th ultimo. the day on which he left, the Treaty had not finally been ratified, but the prospect was still flattering.----Memphis Times.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA Nov. 24, 1832

(This is the date on the paper. Should be Dec. 1, 1832)

The following poetry we admit to our columns, we do it the more readily in order that our readers may give it their interpretation. The transactions to which it has reference is that of the United States troops, who have been stationed since the early part of this year at the gold mines in the Nation, within the limits of Tennessee, who were ordered to the Nation by the President at the instance of the Governor of North Carolina, to remove the gold diggers from the limits of the latter State; and it would appear by our poetical genius, that they have commenced building on Cherokee land, ' as we understand him, from which it was thought intruders would fly it. A similar circumstance is known to have occurred in the Nation in the Georgia limits. The President stationed six companies of troops in 1830, at the gold mines, to remove intruders 'c. The fu'gay note was sounded, and axes too, built houses also, but they went further; they drove the Cherokees from their mining operations, and left their station to the Georgia Guard.

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

October 23

Mr. Editor,

I found a queer sort of paper upon my table the other morning, and as I cannot make anything of it myself, take the liberty to send it to you for your interpretation; although it seems plain to me it was not intended for either of us. It is suspected to have a reference to the doings of the United States military, in this vicinity.

Waes me! waes Me! that I maun do it,

A hopeless cause, yet I maun sue it;

O cease your axe to fa' and hew it,

The pride o'ages;

Each reckless wight, how can ye view it?

His wild war wages.

O,lang these forests have held their quiet.

O, lang has freedom here run riot,

And when ye came--Ah! why belie it?

So sweet your fife sang,

Intrusion only, thought to fly it;

Fu'gay its notes rang.

But was't for this ye have come here?

Ye, blast e'en them the best o'fruits

bear

Ye knell the hopes o'ev'ry new year

Wi sound o'axes!*

And greedy wrath, 'gainst them wi'

fruits rare

More eager waxes.

Each vale was fu' o'white face niggers,

And joy'd was I to see your triggers,

But now the odds, 'tis not in figures

How much I rue it;

A Saxan thou to Pictish diggers,

The times do shew it.

___________

* Alluding to the destruction of forest in building, and also of the chestnut trees, by the men after fruit.




      


CHICKASAW TREATY

We understand the principles of the late treaty to be these:--The whole Indian territory is ceded to the United States; not one acre is reserved. The President is to have the country surveyed as soon as possible and to advertise and sell it at public sale in the same manner, and in the same terms in all respects as other public lands-the sale to be made as soon as the land can be surveyed. It is stipulated that the Chickasaws are to select for themselves, a country west of the Mississippi River, and if possible to move away before the first public sale of their lands.- Should they be unable to remove before that time, they are permitted to retain a tract of land for each family to live on until they fix upon the place of their future residence.  It is expressly agreed however, that they will remove as soon as they can, and when they go, those tracts upon which they resided, shall be sold as the other lands are, all the Indian territory not now occupied by them, is to be sold, when surveyed.- No persons are permitted to move on the ceded lands, until the sales take place should any presume to do so, they will be driven off. The Chickasaws are to receive the net proceeds arising from the sale of the lands, deducting all incidental expenses connected with the survey and sale of the same. Three fourths of all the money derived from the land sales, are to be vested in stock at interest by the Gen. Government, for the benefit of the Chickasaw Nation, allowing them to use the interest, but never touch the principal reserving that as a fund for the use of the nation forever.- The ceded territory is about 100 miles square and the number of acres is estimated at 7,000,000.






      


This issue in two pages only

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA. Nov. 24, 1832

(This is the date on the paper. Should probably be Dec. 8)

Governor Lumpkins (sic) continues to distribute to the citizens of Georgia, by the lottery wheel the lands and gold mines of the Cherokee Nation. The preceding two or three weeks we have been the spectators of proceedings by the citizens of Georgia, having no parallel in the history of mankind, and to our feelings of the most unnatural kind. If such a case was progressing in any other civilized country, than the North American Republic, however regardless it might be of its honor, for the sake of simple justice,and respect for the feelings of mankind, we believe such proceedings as we have been compelled to witness, would be promptly prohibited.  The fortunate drawers ( so called) of our lands have been passing and repassing single and in companies, not unlike that of John Galpins race to the country seat, in search of the splendid lots of which the rolling wheel had pictured to their imaginations. Ho sir, where is the nearest line to this place, what district, number, corner, lot, station, 'c. are the impertinent questions forced upon us. When we see the pale faces again, they are closely viewing the marked trees, and the carved posts. The gold drawers have been arriving at the gold mines, and they are compared to the great flocks of pigeons that hasten to the ground in search of their food. Every lot has been viewed, and as many paths beaten by the passing and the cross passing hunters. The Pica man in Georgia is now richer, the poor Georgia orphans have drawn Gold lots belonging to the oppressed Cherokees. Esqr._____ has been lucky, he has drawn a rich lot in the bottoms of the Etaw-wah ' Chattachooshy (sic) Rivers.  Mr._____ will be relieved from his embarrassments he has drawn a first rate lot and is worth hundreds of dollars.  These are a few of the deeply absorbing subjects which engross the conversations of the Georgia circles, and it would seem as thoughtlessly of the Cherokee claim to the property, as if they never existed. Such is the progress of the Georgia measures, that the drawer of our lands are now entering the Nation to settle on them, at a time when they are in the possession of the aboriginal proprieties, and their right to them unrelinquished. To this invasion of our property we protest; and we state to our readers, our right to the lands, money has never bought. We hold the bond and seal of the republic to protect this property. We have stricken off from our nation province after province in consideration of this promised protection.

The Indian Bill of 1830, sanctioned by Pres't Jackson himself 'provides that the existing treaties with the Indian tribes shall not be violated.'

The Supreme Court have decided that our treaties are binding on the Government and the laws of Georgia are a nullity.

The Superior and Inferior Courts of Georgia have decided that the right of soil belongs to the Cherokees, and the law of Georgia to the contrary notwithstanding. Let us therefore calmly await and see if the Government will not yet acquiesce in the numerous authorities we have cited, from which we claim our relief or whether the government will choose to have their laws nullified by a state as the easiest mode of releasing itself from enforcing them.

_______________________

We should have stated before this, the suspension by the President, of enrolling the Cherokees by his travelling agents for removing them west of the Mississippi. These agents after performing the difficult service of nearly two years in traversing the settlements of the Cherokee mountains and vale,nook and corner, of paths and hog trails, in search of Cherokees for emigration, the President found that the project was not so successful as he anticipated in a message to Congress that 'two thirds of the Cherokees would remove west of the Mississippi' and hence it is presumed the discharge of his agents from the service. The number of Cherokees white men, colored, and slaves removed since the commencement of their enrollment, may be computed at the one fortieth part of our whole population, so that the decrease falls considerably short of the increase of our population. At these rates, President Jackson never can succeed in removing the Cherokees west of the Mississippi under the present policy. The improvements abandoned by the emigrants which were generally on the Georgia frontier, are now occupied by numerous Georgians composed of farmers, judges, sheriffs, bailiffs, merchants, and tipplers introducing great quantities of spirituous liquor in opposition to the laws of the United States, and sanctioned by President Jackson.  This is the first President who has encouraged his citizens to violate the laws which he was solemnly sworn to have executed.

______________________

The elections of electors in the several states for President and Vice President of the United States have resulted in the election of a large majority favorable to the present administration. President Jackson will be President again for the term of four years commencing from the 4th of March 1833.






      


Extracts for the Cherokee Phoenix.

 From an old book entitled-'The non such professor'---

1. The harp sounds sweetly; but it hears not its melody.

2. As the shadow of sun is largest when his beams are lowest; so, we are always least when we make ourselves the greatest.

3. Saints should resemble a spire steeple which is smallest where it is highest. The deep rivers pay a tribute to the sea than shallow brooks, yet empty themselves with less noise.

4. Believers resemble the moon which emerges through the eclipse by keeping her motion and ceases not to shine because the dogs bark at her.

Paul who turned the world upside down could not be turned upside down by the world.

The higher the flood swells on earth the nearer the ark mounts to heaven.

5. For saints to set their hearts upon that whence hearts set their feet, is as if a man should desert a golden mine to dig a pit of gravel.

6. There is a proverb, but none of Solomon's 'Every man for himself and God for us all' but where every man is not for himself the devil will have all.

7. A religious man in the company of the wicked is like a green branch among dry burning brands. They can sooner kindle him than he can quench them. Christians are not always like the rose which preserves its sweetness among the most noisome weeds, or like the sun which shines throughout an impure world and yet knows no impurity.

8. Some too much resemble sponges; which greedily suck up the waters, but will not yield a return of them till they are squeezed. Though the son of charity rise at home, it should always set aborad, showers that fall upon the highest mountains, should glide in the lowest valleys.

Your benevolence should seek the poor, before the poor seek your benevolence.

9. A believer is like a vessel cast into the sea, the more it fills, the more it sinks. It is the night-owl of ignorance that hatches the peacock of pride.

10. Those trees bend the most freely that bear most fully.

11. Small fishes bites the fastest. Oh how few great men do we find so much as nibbling at the gospel book.

12. The dial of our faces does not infallibly show the time of day in our hearts, unclean spirits may while at the chamber when they look not out at the window,

The skin of an apple may be fair while it is rotten at the core.

13, It is dangerous to smite those with our tongue whom God has smitten with his hand. His right to correct is not ours.

14. He that takes fire to cast at an adversary is in danger of burning his own fingers.- He that blows into a heap of dust is in danger of putting out his own eyes.

15. Those who profess to forgive but cannot forget injuries are like persons who sweep the chamber, but leave the dust behind the door.

16 A word will do more with others. A Venice glass is not to be rubbed so hard as a brazen kettle.

Dashing stones do but destroy the seed while gentle showers nourish it.

Some are very angry in reproving anger.

17. Sin is like a nettle which stings when it is gently (word is unclear) but heres not when it is roughly handled.

18. He that hates reproof is like a vicious horse, that strikes the grove while he is rubbing off the dirt.

19. Believers should be like sheep, which change their pastures at the will of their shepherd.

20 Our worldly pleasures would be a sea to drown us, were not on crosses a plank to save us.

21. Worldlings love religion not for the beauty existing in it, but for the dowry annexed to it. They are like the fox that follows the lion, for the prey that is falling from him.

22. When the snow drops of youth appear in the garden of the church, it evinces that there is a glorious summer approaching.

If youth be sick of the will-nots; old age is in danger of dying of the shall-nots. An old sinner is nearer to the second death than he is to the second birth. O how amiable are the golden apples of grace in the silver pictures of blooming youth.

23. Those trees that are unsound at their roots, cease from putting forth leaves in their season.- Those that are inwardly corrupt will be outwardly profane. The wool of a sheep's back, if A be shaven will grow again; but the wool on the sheep's skin, clip that and there will come no more in its room. Hypocrites the fiery meteors, fall to the earth. Fixed stars remain in the heavens.

24. The Devil could never come off a conqueror, were he not joined by our forces. The fire is his but the tinder is ours.

24. The firmament is made more glorious by the sun than by all the stars that steed the heavens.  Thus Jesus Christ hath more glory given to him by one saint than from all the world beside.

26. By how much the higher the morning larks are in their flight, by so much the sweeter are their notes.

The higher a Christian is raised above this world, the more he is ravished with the joys of heaven.

27. The world is but a looking glass, there is a face presented in it, but there is no face seated in it.

28. Good works are so indigent that no man ca be saved by them, and yet so excellent that no man can go to heaven without them.

[To be continued.]




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA DEC. 8, 1832

(This date should read Jan. 5, 1832)

Owing to the indisposition of our principal printer our paper has not been issued for three weeks. It is not here as it is in cities, where printers can be had any day or hour, here if a workman is unable to perform, we have to await his recovery to resume the work or ride hundreds of miles in search of another. Our subscribers are entitled to a volume of 52 numbers, all of which when printed will be regularly transmitted by mail, and the circumstance as above stated and unavoidable to us, will we hope apologize for this seeming neglect of forwarding our papers.

___________________________

Extracts from the message of the President, to Congress, and from the reports of the Secretary of War on the Cherokee question will be found in our columns. We are gratified to find that the message has left out the bold assumption of state jurisdiction over the Indians, that his former messages had set up. The reference which the President makes to his message of Feb. 1831, as the continuation of his opinions on the Cherokee question, we presume, is the one which he submitted to Congress, on a call made upon him 'for his reasons of the non execution of the law of Mar. 30th, 1802 to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes.' Recurring to memory alone, and if it serves us correct, the President stated in this document, that the above law was prospective in its operation; its enforcement was a discretionary power vested in the executive. Since the communication of these views as he now terms them, the Supreme Court has decided that the laws and treaties of the United Sates are binding and that the Cherokees are under the protection of the United States. Will the President in his exalted station, in the contemplation of his great moving navies, glistening bayonets, sublime Congress, growing treasury, suffer his action for our relief, to continue suspended on this small and trivial thread?  We hope not, and that his re-election to the Presidency by a people celebrated for their benevolence and learning will enable him to scorn the oppression by a state, of a people who have waded in aboriginal blood, to brighten the laurel which has placed him in the high station , where treaties should be sustained to be the supreme laws of the land.

_____________________

The President of the United States has issued proclamation to South Carolina in anticipation of the nullification by that State, of the laws of the United States regulating duties on imports of foreign manufactures.  The proclamation contains the most unqualified denial of the President to the right of a state, in any manner to impede the operation of the United States laws. He announces the principles by which he will be governed, in the event of her attempting to nullify said laws of which we make a few Extracts: 'Our Constitution does not contain the absurdity of giving power to make laws, and another power to resist them.

'The Constitution declares that the judicial powers of the United States extends to cases arising under the laws of the United States, and that such laws, the Constitution and treaties, shall be paramount to the state constitution and laws.'

'The states have surrendered the right to make treaties, to declare war and collect taxes, and exercise exclusive judicial and legislative powers.'

'But the dictates of a high duty obliges me solemnly to announce that you cannot succeed, I have no discretionary power, my duty is emphatically pronounced in the Constitution.'

From the above principles avowed by the President, of his determination to enforce the laws of the United States against South Carolina, a question necessarily arises, why are they not applicable, and directed likewise to Georgia? Georgia nullification and the one intended by Carolina are absolutely analogous--if there is any difference between the two cases, it consists only in the difference of the laws. What is Georgia nullification? It is resisting the authority of the Supreme Court in a question decided and arising out of 16 solemn treaties, held by the Constitution to be the Supreme law of the land, by which these treaties are rendered a nullity. These treaties are proclaimed by all the Presidents to be obligatory, and all the citizens of the United States are enjoined to conform and observe every clause and article thereof. These treaties the Government cannot rescind of its own pleasure on constitutional principle. The Carolina intended nullification makes void a purely municipal law of the General Government which the legislative department can at any time rescind. The Georgia resistance so called conflicts with the treaties, the Supreme law of two nations, the United States and the Cherokees; by which the virtual operation of these treaties are destroyed.  Now we humbly conceive, if the exercise of nullification has ever been attempted, it is palpably, and we cannot be mistaken that it has been practically attained by Georgia. From the attitude in which Georgia is now placed, by the exercise of this power, and the opinions of the executive of the United States proclaimed in opposition, in a parallel case, we shall await with anxiety at a time the state is robbing us of our lands, secured by these treaties whether or not, the government will inhibit the exercise of this new but destructive principle.

_____________________

EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.

I am happy to inform you, that the wise and humane policy of transferring from the eastern to the western side of the Mississippi, the remnants of our aboriginal tribe, with their own consent and upon just terms, has been steadily pursued, is approaching, I trust, its consummation. By reference to the report of the Secretary of War, and to the documents submitted with it, you will see the progress which has been made since your last session, in the arrangement of the various matters connected with our Indian relations.  With one exception, every subject involving any question of conflicting jurisdictions, or of peculiar difficulty, has been happily disposed of and the conviction evidently gains ground among the Indians that their removal to the country assigned by the United States for their permanent residence, furnishes the only hope of their ultimate prosperity.

With that portion of the Cherokees, however, living within the State of Georgia, it has been found impracticable, as yet, to make a satisfactory adjustment. Such was my anxiety to remove all the grounds of complaint, and to bring to a termination the difficulties in which they are involved, that I directed the very liberal propositions to be made to them which accompany the documents herewith submitted. They cannot but have seen in these offers the evidence of the strongest disposition on the part of the Government, to deal justly and liberally with them. An ample indemnity was offered for their present possessions, a liberal provision for their future support and improvement, and full security for their private and political rights. Whatever difference of opinion may have prevailed respecting the just claims of these people, there will probably be none respecting the liberality of the propositions, and very little respecting the expediency of their immediate acceptance. They were however rejected, and thus, the position of these Indians remained unchanged as do the views communicated in my Message to the Senate of February, 1831.

________________________

EXTRACTS OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR'S REPORT.

In my report of November 21, 1831, I stated it 'had been suggested that a considerable portion of the Cherokees were desirous of availing themselves of the provisions of the treaty of May 6, 1828, for their removal.' And that, 'with a view to ascertain this fact, and to afford them the aid offered by that treaty, if they were inclined to adopt it, a system of operations had been adopted, and persons appointed to carry into effect.' But that 'sufficient time to form a judgment of the result of this measure had not then elapsed.'

Under this system, about seven hundred Cherokees have claimed the benefit of the treaty of 1828 and have been removed, in conformity with its stipulations, to the country west of the Mississippi. But the operations have for the present been suspended. And until recently there was reason to hope that their resumption would have been rendered unnecessary by an arrangement for the cession of the whole Cherokee title East of the Mississippi, and for the emigration of that tribe to the country offered for their permanent residence. With this view, the liberal propositions authorized by you were made to them a copy of which is annexed to this report. It will be seen, by reference to it, that the offers were conceived in spirit of kindness and liberality, which justified the expectation of their prompt acceptance. They contained ample security for the permanent establishment of the Cherokees, and for the perpetual occupation of the country allotted to them. They provided the means for their moral, social, ' political improvement; and they offered all the pecuniary aid necessary to their present ' future subsistence and support. Their acceptance would have determined the difficulties, in which the Cherokees are involved, would have united the dispersed portions of the tribe, and would have laid the foundation of their permanent improvement and prosperity. But it will be seen, by the answer which is submitted to you, that this effort has been unavailing, and that, unless there is a change in their councils, no favorable change in their condition can be expected.

It will thus be seen that with the Creeks, the Choctaws, the Chickasaws, and the principal Appalachichola bands, certainly,and with the Seminoles, probably, such arrangements have been made as will prevent the occurrence of any difficulties resulting from the assertion of jurisdiction by the state or Territorial Governments, on the one hand, and the unfounded claims of exemption from their authority by the Indians, on the other. These tribes embrace all the aboriginal population now remaining the country east of the Mississippi, and south of the Ohio, with the exception of a few individuals, too unimportant for recapitulation; and with the exception, also of the Cherokees. Of these latter Indians, it is computed that about thirty five hundred reside west of the Mississippi, and about eleven thousand within the chartered limits of Georgia, and the States of Alabama, Tennessee, and North Carolina. All the embarrassments arising out of the anomalous situation of the Indians, which have engaged the public attention, and occasioned much anxiety to the government, are confined, in their operation, to that portion of this small band living within the state of Georgia.  Could they be induced to pursue the only course which promises them stability and prosperity, and to remove to, and re-establish in the West, their political and social systems, with such modifications as experience and the change of events have rendered necessary, the country might soon look forward to an entire removal of the whole Indian race east of the Mississippi, and to a termination of all those perplexing difficulties which inevitably result from the existing relations established between them.




      


From the New York Advertiser.

Conventions were in session during the last week, both in South Carolina and Georgia, for the purpose of obtaining relief from the alleged oppressions of the tariff laws. The South Carolina politicians proposed to accomplish their object by a system of nullification; the Georgians, if we understand their sentiments by secession from the union. The latter condemn nullification in very decided terms and at the same time claim the power as well as the right of seceding from the Union, whenever in their opinion the national government transcends its constitutional limits.  Now it seems to us, that the distinction which is so zealously contended for by these two classes of politicians is hardly worth the labor of an argument. However widely they may nominally, or professedly differ, they must both meet at the point if they carry their measure into effect, and that point is the severance of the Union. That being the necessary result of their measures, it is a matter of little moment whether it is accomplished under the name of nullification, or by a voluntary secession from the Union. That the measures of both lead to this result, cannot be questioned. In the case of Georgia it is their avowed object. When, or to what manner, it is to be brought about, it is thus far pointed out.- They may withdraw their senators and Representatives from Congress, and give notice in for to the national government, that henceforward they will have no connection with the Union; or, when the time occurs, they may resist the execution of the laws, and the decrees of the Judiciary, and thus stop by force the powers of the government over them. The South Carolina plan seems to be to resist the government by preventing the collection of customs, and resisting the enforcement of the revenue laws. Georgia purposes to make it a highly criminal offence of a lawyer, employed as council by a Cherokee, to question the constitutionality of their legislative acts extending jurisdiction over the Indian country, or to assist in carrying into effect the judgement of the Supreme Court in the Missionary case. The last measure, when carried in execution, will be levying war against the United States.

We should think it hardly worth while for the politicians of Georgia to condemn those of South Carolina, in the prosecution of their system of measures in opposition to the laws of government of the Union. The plans of both states are incompatible with their obligations, as members of the confederation, to support the Constitution and laws of the United States, that Georgia being, in our judgment, the most flagrant of the two. In both instances, the claim the right of determining for themselves what laws of Congress are, and what are not constitutional, thereby denying the legitimate authority of the Judicial branch of the government. Each may pursue a different course in reaching the object in view; but when accomplished, the effects upon the Union, and the national government, will be precisely the same.

Since the above was in type, we see by a Charleston paper, that a part of the Georgia convention have protested against the further proceedings of that body, on the ground that a large portion of the State is not represented. We publish the protest this morning.




      


'Putting all these things together, we are led to conclude, that Governor Lumpkin and Governor Hamilton think pretty much alike on the general subject; but that the former is not disposed to drive on quite so furiously as the latter. Now there may be political as well as philosophical reasons for this show of moderation in the Georgia governor. That state are now engaged in prosecuting their measurers against the Cherokees, in which they are countenanced by President Jackson. Their first object is to secure the Cherokee case. When that is accomplished, they will probably be ready to undertake another crusade. It is well known to them, that General Jackson intends to crush nullification at least in S. Carolina; and if Georgia were to be found cooperating with her neighbor in her opposition to the revenue laws, she might run the chance of losing his good will in the warfare against the Cherokees. As the latter controversy is farther advanced than the other, it is natural enough for them to conclude that it may be sooner terminated; and then Georgia will be at liberty to take up the other quarrel and go on lovingly with her neighbor.'

N. Y. Adv.

____________________

 Georgia Nullification.-- A project has been introduced to the Legislature of Georgia, for a Convention of the State of Georgia, Virginia, North and South Carolina, Mississippi, and Tennessee, 'which shall take into consideration the Tariff System of the General Government, and devise and recommend the most effectual and proper mode of obtaining relief from the evils of that system.'

The Georgians seem to have declined, for the present, a state nullification of the Tariff laws; but the nullification advocated by the South Carolinians, is in no respect more extravagant or more fatal to the existence of the national government than that urged and enforced in Georgia in opposition to the constitutional authority of the national Judiciary. The measures pursuing in the State for crushing the Court, and destroying the power of that branch of the government, are quite as fatal to the Union and the Constitution as the doctrine promulgated in South Carolina will be when carried into full effect.

It ought not to be forgotten, that if these disorganizing proceedings end in disunion, the sin and the shame will rest forever upon the head of General Jackson. If he had not countenanced the unhallowed proceedings of Georgia, in appropriating to her own use the land and gold and silver mines of the unhappy Cherokees- if he had enforced the laws for the protection of Indian rights from the encroachments of the robbers--if he had not lent all the influence of his high station to bring the decisions of the Supreme Court into contempt, we should not now have been reduced to this extremity. It is the executive sanction that has been given to practical nullification in Georgia, which has emboldened the theoretical nullifiers of South Carolina to carry out their plans to an extent which now admits of no retreat, and of no amicable termination.- Salem Gazette.




      


Land Lotteries.- We understand from our Lottery correspondent under date of 29th ult. that the legislature have suspended the drawing of the Land Lottery for the present, in order to investigate charges of fraud made against Mr. S. Bogan, one of the Commissioners appointed in 1830. Mr. Bogan is from Gwinnett County, and is accused by his fellow citizens of having fraudulently drawn with bought chances, several of the most valuable lots in the territory, two of which adjoin each other, and two others with valuable sites for ferries on one of the rivers. It was expected that the Committee of investigation would be occupied about a week in the examination.

The Gold Lottery will, we presume, progress as usual, as we have the drawing of the 29th ult.

Georgian.






      


Extracts for the Cherokee Phoenix from an old book entitled.- 'The non such professor'-

[Continued]

29. There is no instruction to be got from the sundial of duty, except the sun of righteousness shine upon it.

30. The law condemns those as criminals, who lay claim to the crown royal, when they are not of the blood royal.

31. A believer is like the mariners compass, which is governed by the constant heavens, and not by the variable winds.

32. It is dangerous to dress ourselves for another world by the looking glass of this world.

33. Great men's vices are more imitated than men's graces. The Persians thought a crooked nose a great ornament because seated on the face of their Emperor, and the whole court would go away, because such a neck was on the shoulders of Alexander.

34. There is a rotten possessor who says in his heart,'why may I not be drunk as well as Noah and commit adultery as well as David? Did you over hear any who beat out their eyes because others were smitten with blindness? Their faults are not landmarks to direct travellers, but sea marks to warn mariners.

35. Grace is not such a beggarly Visitant, as will not pay its own way.

36. Many a man's days deceive him, they pass away like a shadow by moonshine which appears longest, when the moon is lowest.

37. He who now gives way to the least sin, way be given up to the greatest sin. Why should you venture on slippery places who can scarcely stand upon the firmest ground? Who will pity the man whose house is blown up with powder if he heap his barrels in the chimney corner? The fable saitih that the butterfly enquired of the owl, how she should do with a candle that had singed her wings. the owl counselled her not so much as to behold its smoke.

38. He who would not hear the bell of eternal death should not finger with the rope of sin.

39. Too  many think that God is cutting down the tree when he is but lopping off its luxuriant branches, putting out the light when he is but snuffing the candle. When the stars do not shine; the sun appears, repairing the loss of lesser lights with brighter beams.

39. (this number is repeated) Because Justice seems to wink men suppose her blind. Security resembles a flash of lightening which at _____ in a clap of thunder. The rising sun in the morning was no proof that sodom should not be entombed in its ashes before the evening.

40 To prise (sic) ourselves by what we leave and not by what we are, is to estimate the value of the Jewel by the golden frame that contains it. The most curious parts are often enclosed in the most rugged shells.

41. All the grapes in Christ's Vineyard, must pass rough the winepress.

42. Spiritual prayer resembles Noah's dove which returned with an olive branch. It is a traffic for those commodities which are laid up only in heaven's storehouse.




      


INDIANS

'LO! THE POOR INDIAN.'

God save the Indians from the tender mercies of the avaricious people of this land!- Secretary Cass says 'a very extensive tract of country lying to the west and north of Arkansas Territory, has lately been set apart for the colonization of the Indians.'

And is this the place fellow citizens to which 'your servants' are about to drive these helpless children of the forest?  Do they-do you know what kind of a country it is?

The celebrated Red Jacket, speaking of a much better location than that now under consideration remarked, it could not be better,(if as good) as where he then was, else why did the white man want him to go there?  Why not go there himself?

So we may now ask, if that country be as good as the Indian Territory, why not give it to those who are thirsting after the lands which of right belong to the Cherokees?--ah no! these crafty whites know it is good for nothing IT IS A BARREN DESERT!! If a line be drawn a little west of south from Council Bluff, on the Missouri to near the junction of the 'False of Washita' with the Red River, which separates us from Texas, it will show the beginning of a great desert six hundred miles in width east and west, and extending nearly the whole breadth of the country; at all events it may safely be said to extend from the line above described 600 miles westward to the foot of the 'Rocky Mountains' and from Rio Roxo or Red River on the south, to the Platta River on the north.

[TO BE CONTINUED]




      


 Black Hawk- It seems to be a matter of some speculation to determine on the course that will be adopted by the government in reference to this chief.  That he and his misguided followers have carried desolation and death along an extensive frontier, is well known, and that this was done in violation of treaty engagements between the United States and his tribe, is equally true. But having been engaged in open warfare against the United States, and having been recognized as a chief of an independent nation by various treaties, can he be regarded otherwise than a sovereign? If he is entitled at the hands of the captors to the rights of a prisoner of war, as acknowledged by the law of nations by what authority is he detained in custody after a new treaty of peace has been formed? He can only be detained, either as a hostage for the due observance of the treaty or for the purpose of punishment. Should a trial take place, his offence must be judged of by the civil courts; but has the mere breach of a treaty and subsequent capture (in open war) of a sovereign, ever been deemed sufficient to put him on trial for life?  And such had been the doctrine, half the crowned heads of Europe would have fallen on the scaffold.

These ideas have occurred from contrasting the condition of Indians, said to be independent, with civilized nations where no doubt exists. If Black Hawk applies for the usual privileges and immunities of a sovereign, we should much doubt whether they would be granted. If he is not held in captivity as a hostage; he may probably try the efficacy of a writ of habeas corpus, and thus present another interesting question of Indian rights for the decision of the United States Court. The definition of their true character, (subject, as they are in a great to the control of the United States, and yet possessing some of the forms and attributes of sovereignty,) seems to baffle the ingenuity of the most acute jurist.-   

New Haven Herald.




      


From the Franklin Repository.

Extract from the speech of Mr. Wirt, in the case of the Cherokee Nation vs. the State of Georgia, argued before the Supreme Court of the United States, at January term, 1832

The seventh article (of the Treaty of Holston,*) contains the guarantee, so often spoken of, which had been the subject of previous consultation and arrangement between the President and the Senate of the United States:

'Article 7. The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands not hereby ceded.' that is to say, the United States pledge the faith and honor of this nation, to protect and defend the Cherokees, by force of arms if necessary, in the possession and enjoyment of all their lands not ceded by treaty: for such we have seen is the exposition of a guarantee, as given by Washington, and approved by the Senate. The states of this Union, the State of Georgia concluded, are the parties to this guarantee. The engagement is not that they will not themselves disturb the possession, but that they will not permit it to be done by others. Each state of the Union stands bound, as a member of the confederacy, by the most solemn pledge of faith and honor, given in the sight of God and man, that she will not permit it.

It is no excuse, therefore, to the several states which compose this Union to say that they are notdisturbing the Indian possession; for their engagement is that they will not permit it to be done by others; but on the contrary, that they will prevent it by force of arms if necessary. Being then bound to prevent it, this pledge is not redeemed by expressing regret at it, and crying 'shame' on the offending state. The obligation which they have assumed is not one of sentiment, which is to be acquitted by having a sentimental sigh. It is an obligation of action and of vigorous and effectual action. The United States have undertaken, in the most solemn form, to protect the Cherokees, or their possessions by force of arms if necessary; and if thus engaged, they permit that possession to be intruded they are participants ariminis, and actually guilty with the invading state. There is no moral difference between them; and if these things shall be permitted, the faith and honor of this nation are gone; they are not worth a rush. Punic faith will be quite as respectable in history.

It is that the Cherokees are now weak and unable to call us to an account, that we held ourselves absolved from the obligations of this treaty.- Are we so lost to character as to excuse ourselves on that ground, and to make the tacit admission that we hold ourselves bound by our engagements only so long as we can be compelled to fulfil them? That we will be very faithful and honorable to the powerful, who can punish us from being otherwise, but as to the weak, we will only be just so far faithful as suits our case and convenience: and having solemnly undertaken to defend such, by force of arms if necessary, we consider the obligation sufficiently discharged by the unprofitable expression of our sympathies and our regrets.

If such be the point of degeneracy, to which we have already sunk since the age of Washington, farewell to the honor of the American name: happy it is for that patriot that he was called from the scene of things, before he witnessed this heart-striking degradation of this country.

_____________________

* This treaty was concluded on the 2nd of July 1791, and headed 'A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of the said Nation.'

+ Partakers in the crime.




      


Indian Lands.- We are sorry that we cannot assent so cheerfully to the sentiments in the Report of the Secretary of War regarding the Indians, as to those on the two preceding topics. But if the Indians are to be removed from their native home they will not probably remove under better auspices than those of the Secretary of War. The feelings expresses in his Report are kind and sympathetic towards that unfortunate race. We only regret that they do not lead to a different system of measures in relation to the location of the Indians. He speaks of 'their present unsuitable residences'- and of their future 'establishment in a region, where we may hope to see them prosperous, contented, and improving.'  But the way, if our memory serves us, the writer of a long article on the subject of the Indians, in the North American Review, two or three years ago, took the ground that the Indians are so fixed in their habits that they never will improve-they will be Indians still, whatever their circumstances may be,and whatever is done for them. As to 'their residences,' we presume many think they are specially 'unsuitable' since the discovery that gold exists there,and the cupidity of Georgia is burning to possess it.

We learn from the Report that a new principle has been introduced into the treaty with the Chickasaws-

'The whole value of the country ceded is assigned to the Chickasaws, and the United States become in fact trustees to make the necessary arrangements for their benefit.

It is stipulated, that the ceded territory shall be surveyed and sold, and the whole proceeds, deducting only the actual expenses applied to the various objects enumerated, connected with the temporary subsistence, removal, and permanent establishment, of these Indians.  A residuary fund is to be vested in some productive stock, and the income to be annually appropriated for the public and private objects stipulated in the treaty. A country for the residence of the tribe is to be procured by themselves, and it is probable they will be able to make a satisfactory arrangement for that purpose with the Choctaws, a kindred people, who are in possession of a much larger district, than is required by their numbers.'

It is proposed to adopt this principle in all future treaties with the Indians for lands. And why, if injustice has been done by our Government heretofore in this matter, is it too late to repair the wrong even now? Will it do to say that we have oppressed and cheated the Indians out of so large a part of their possessions, that we can afford to deal honestly and justly, and even kindly with them in future, while we retain the avails of our possession? It seems to be desired by some that the lands owned by the General Government should before long be given up to the States within which there are located. But if the United States are about to divest themselves of the national domain, why not relinquish a part of it to the former owners, from whom, as now conceded, it appears to have been obtained without a fair equivalent?

The manner in which the efforts of those who have contended for the right of the Cherokees to live in the land of their fathers, and to establish a government of their own choice, are spoken of in the Report, is far different from that sometimes employed. It is candid, liberal and elevated--such as might be expected from that source.-

Our great objection to a removal, which has been urged by the more discreet Indians, and many by our own citizens, who are honestly seeking their improvement, is the prospect, judging by the past that their location west of Mississippi would be temporary, as they would be soon pressed for new cessions, and would yield, as they heretofore yielded, successive applications for this purpose. Although the nature and objects of their removal, and the spirit of the act of Congress, which introduced the system, are opposed to such attempts, still the apprehensions entertained, and proved injurious.- Probably no course would better satisfy them upon this subject, than the introduction of a principle, which would secure to them the full value of the property, under all circumstances; thus lessening the probability, in their view, of any wish on our part to acquire it, and insuring on theirs, if not the power and disposition to retain it, at least the means of converting it to the greatest advantage?




      


GEORGIA NULLIFICATION

Whilst the nullification of South Carolina excites much observation, that of Georgia calls for little notice.-- And yet the one is only in preparation, and other is effective.  Georgia nullification is in favor with the President of the United States-that of South Carolina is under his ban.  Every other matter serves to cast disrepute upon the nullification of Georgia. A most greedy and discreditable mania for land speculation lies at the bottom of it, which has given the Government of the United States a great deal of trouble.

It is not perhaps generally known that the foundation of the Colony was a canting piece of land begging. The original application was for a 'grant of land for the charitable purpose of transporting necessitous persons and families from London to procure a livelihood by their industry.' Upon this foundation the grant was made and the colony settled.

After the Revolution, Georgia claimed to own most of the territory that now composes the states of Alabama and Mississippi.  In August, 1786, when New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Virginia, at the suggestion of Congress, had granted their waste lands to the Union, upon a most pressing request from Congress, Georgia proposed to cede to the United States, a very small portion of these lands on terms so unreasonable, that their acceptance was refused.- At that time, the boundary between Spain and the United States was not ascertained, and whilst the negotiations between the two governments were in a favorable train, the State of Georgia commenced her land speculations on a prodigious scale.

In January, 1795 she passed a law for selling her vacant lands, to form companies of land traders. Under this law, one company effected the purchase of a tract of land, beginning where the 31st degree of latitude intersects the bay of Mobile, ' running into the Alabama River, to the 4th degree of latitude, west to the Mississippi River. This was commonly called the Yazoo sale. At the next session of Georgia Legislature, notwithstanding the sale had been completed under the law of the state, and a patent issued by the Governor, it was resolved to nullify the whole. An act was passed, declaring the sale to have been fraudulent, directing the law and the act to be expunged from the records and asserting that the title to the land remained in the state. Here was real nullification with a vengeance. And out of this sale, and the assumption of a power to rescind it has arose the present difficulty with the Indians and the United States. The States within whose territorial lines there are large bodies of waste and unappropriated land, at the completion of the Revolution, claimed those lands as there (sic) individual separate property. The justice of the claim was not admitted by the other States. The acquisition was obtained at the common charge.  It was a consequence of the successful termination of the War of the Revolution; and that had been achieved by all the States together, who had jointly borne the expense as far as it was paid, and were jointly liable for what remained due. It was by way of compromising this intricate and delicate question, that Virginian (sic) took the lead in ceding much the largest portion of her unsold land to the United States. And upon the same principle other states followed her example. The sale made by Georgia to the land companies just noticed, and the attempted nullification of that sale greatly embarrassed both the States and the United States. The purchaser denied the power of the States to rescind the sale, the State stoutly stuck to its right to nullity.--Public opinion was divided as to the title, whether it was in Georgia or the purchasers. Jurists and statesmen differed; and in the meantime the lands remained, and were likely to remain a wilderness. With a view to dis-embarrass the title, the United States, in the year 1802 accepted a cession from the state of Georgia of the disputed lands, with some more territory upon certain specified terms and conditions, one of which was that the United States should 'extinguish for the use of Georgia, as early as the same could be peaceably obtained, on reasonable terms the Indian title to certain lands within the states.' It is upon this stipulation that Georgia has been constructing difficulties for years. In 1803, after the compact was made with Georgia, Congress passed a law authorizing the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Attorney General, to receive, from purchaser, under the rescinded law, and grant of Georgia propositions of compromise. Such propositions were received, and a compromise agreed upon, and an act of Congress was passed in the Spring of 1806 for confirming it.

For some time this was an absorbing topic of political discussion. The Yazoo fraud was rung upon thousand changes. It furnished to John Randolph a theme for declamation. To innumerable demagogues it was a sweet morsel to roll under their tongues. Many of our citizens cannot have forgotten the furious attack made upon Mr. Morrow, then our single representative in Congress, because he voted for perfecting the companies. A Mr. Pritchard of Jefferson County, was put in nomination against him, at the October election of 1806, and the canvass was a most furious one. The principal charge against him being that of voting to compromise the claims of these purchases. The courts of the United States came in for their share of opprobrium. The Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, in a case brought before it, had decided that the State of Georgia could not by legislative act, rescind her own grant, thus affirming the title of the purchases.  The decision was subsequently affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States. See 6th Cranch 87. Hence the Georgia nullifiers, in Georgia and elsewhere, denounced the court. Its opinion sustained the rights of individuals against the pretensions of the State and therefore it became obnoxious.

The United States, having removed all claims of Georgia and of the purchasers under her to the lands in question, put them into the market, and they soon sold so as that now the States of Alabama and Mississippi have been erected out of the territory they secured. The population improvement and cultivation of these lands have tended to greatly increase the value of the lands of the Cherokee Indians within the State of Georgia.- Cupidity to possess them has been long excited and very much increasing.- At first it appeared only in Georgia importuning the United States to purchase the Indian title. The importunity suggested the plan of sending the Indians west of the Mississippi.  Then came the McIntosh treaty with the Creeks and the murder of McIntosh, the wrathful controversy between General Gains and Governor of Georgia, in respect to which there was but one opinion here at that time. At length Georgia started the doctrine that she had a right to extend her laws over the Indians within her own jurisdiction. She was staid from practically asserting this power by the declaration of President Adams that he would call the military force of the Union to protect the Indians in the quiet possession of their lands. President Jackson, however, very soon after entering on the duties of his office, took occasion to announce his opinion in favor of the pretension of Georgia, to make it known that he would not interpose the shield of the Union between her and the Indians. In the preparatory and progressive measures of the state of taking possession of these Indians lands, Tassels has been hung and the Missionaries imprisoned, in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States, as adjudged, by the Supreme Court. So far Georgia has nullified and speculated with impunity. With what of honor or morality, the reader is left to form his own judgment.-------------Cincinnati Gazette




      


'Georgia- Mr. Chester has notified Gov. Lumpkin that he shall apply to the Supreme Court to enforce its decision in case of the Missionaries.- The Governor has communicated this fact to the Legislature, with his usual talk about resistance.

The drawing of the Cherokee land lottery has been stopped, on a supposed discovery of fraud in the drawing, by one of the managers. He is impeached before the State, and the drawing ordered to proceed. We do not believe they can get such a dishonest business honestly done.'




      


'THE PROCLAMATION, by the President is a document of too much interest and importance to be omitted or abridged. We have therefore inserted it entire, to the exclusion of other matter. It is certainly notwithstanding some considerable violations of good taste, a powerfully written document. The main arguments against nullification is (sic) perfectly conclusive.- It is in fact, just an abridgement of Mr. Webster's argument in his celebrated contest with Mr. Hayne. It is however none the worse for that; and it is to the President's credit, that he would use the best argument, though a political opponent had used it previously. The sentiments of the proclamation, generally, so far as we can learn, meet with a high degree of approbation. We like them, because they are precisely what we have maintained from the beginning on the 'Indian question.' We have maintained that Georgia had no 'power to annul a law of the United States,' regulating intercourse with the Indians; that 'the laws of the United States must be executed;' that the President has 'no discretionary power on the subject;' that his 'duty is emphatically pronounced in the Constitution.' We have maintained that the Constitution of the United States, with the TREATIES and laws made under it, are 'the supreme law of the land'-of every part of the land, even in Georgia- and that the Judges in every State should be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution and laws of Georgia' to the contrary notwithstanding.' But we need not multiply quotations. The doctrine of the proclamation is evidently that which the friends of the Cherokees have urged from the beginning. South Carolina 'extends her jurisdiction' over the custom house at Charleston, and makes laws for the government of all persons and things found there. Georgia must say, she has a right to do it; for the custom house is within 'her chartered limits.' These laws are a part of her'criminal code.' They impose a fine, at least, on all persons who shall reside there, demeaning themselves as the laws of the United States allow and require; and Georgia says that the general government must not interfere with proceedings under the 'criminal code' of a state.  The President, however, sets all this sophistry aside at once, and 'proclaims' that he will 'take care that the laws be faithfully executed.' We suppose therefore, that when regularly called upon he will enforce the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Worcester ' Butler, 'to the extent of the power vested in him by law;' and that he will in the same way enforce whatever decisions that Court may hereafter pronounce, on actions which the Cherokees may bring for removing Georgia surveyors, 'c. from their limits. Indeed, we do not see how one can feel any respect, either for his honesty or his understanding, and yet suspect that such are not his intentions. We shall be surprised, if the Georgians do not understand the proclamation as we do, and if it does not unite them at once in feeling at least, with South Carolina




      


Compact with Georgia- Mr. Forsyth has introduced a bill into the Senate to provide for the fulfillment of the Compact of 1802, by which the United States stipulated to extinguish the Cherokee title to their lands within the limits of Georgia, which has never yet been accomplished by the Government, from the unwillingness of the Cherokees to leave their native soil. The bill has been referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs. This will bring up the Indian question once more; and we hope it may be settled agreeably to the strict principles of justice and equity.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA.Jan 19th 1833

We contemplated an improvement of our paper at the commencement of this year with new type; but the absence of our printer by indisposition obliged us to defer it to the present number. We present now to our readers the CHEROKEE PHOENIX printed with a type entirely new, and of a smaller letter, which will enable us to publish a little more matter than was contained in our former numbers, and without increasing the price. The motto of the Cherokees granted them by treaties, which crowned the rising PHOENIX, and so earnestly urged upon the President for 'PROTECTION' and without effect, has been discontinued to give place to the ordinary but splendid capitals which will hereafter stand at the head of this paper.

It is deemed unnecessary at this time for us to enumerate more particularly the principles by which we shall be governed in our future labors, as we presume they are generally known to our readers.- The support of the rights of the Cherokees. The improvements which have been made is not without considerable expense to the Nation, and in order to the continuation of our paper we again solicit from a candid public an increased patronage.

__________________

The beautiful and beloved country of the Cherokees is now passing to the occupancy of the Georgians. The drawing of the lands and gold mines of the Cherokees continues to be prosecuted with vigor, under the authority of the enlightened and Christian Governor of Georgia. The fortunate drawers (so called) are daily entering into possession of the arable and otherwise valuable lots which they have drawn, and obtained by a game of chances. The Cherokee country is now wedged with settlers, and droves of land hunters, to which the Indians cry daily, and it is literally Robbery! Robbery!  This crusade on our rights forms a new era in the history of the United States by which the Cherokees are denationalized, treaties destroyed, the legislation of Congress to carry them into effect annulled, and the faith of the republic fled to the western wilds.  The approach of the crisis we were loth to believe; because it was unjust, it was uncouth, and incompatible  to the known promises of protection by the government. Will Georgia be tolerated to plunder the Cherokees of their lands of incalculable worth and wrested from the guaranty of treaties, at a time when the sullen cannon is pointed, and bayonet is brandishing by the President against Carolina, to preserve inviolably a law, involving a question of taxation of doubtful legality? We are here in darkness; why of this distinction, we ask light on this question.

Query. Why are not our treaties as binding now, as when they were negotiated and ratified?

_______________________________

What does this mean?

We are informed from an authentic source that the Honorable Secretary of War has invited a delegation of Cherokees to attend at Washington City. About the time when the Principal Chief left the nation with a delegation for that place to attend to the interests of the Cherokees Nation, Secretary Cass, had conferred an appointment on Jack Walker with authority to select three others, and proceed to Washington. In accordance to the requirements from the White House, on Saturday last (not saying their honors) were to have moved and probably have proceeded, and as we are informed without any authority whatever from the Cherokees as a tory delegation on the road to Washington.- But we fear the road of Benedict Arnold.

_____________________

The following article we copy from one of our exchange papers, which is said to be taken from the Globe, the Government paper.  The condition in which the commissioner has represented the western Cherokees is so prosperous, that the friends of the Indians and of truth will hardly credit it. By what means the commissioner ascertained the surplus of 28,000 bushels of corn, is not stated. It must be borne in mind that the Secretary of War reported to Congress the number of Cherokees of Arkansas at 3500 assuming this number, would give to each hand including women and children 800 bushels of corn. Truly this is preposterous! But we think it a fine cloak to cover many sins, and each statement should not be credited on the face of the Globe.

_________________

PROSPEROUS CONDITION OF THE INDIANS

WEST OF THE MISSISSIPPI

It will gratify the true friends of the Indians,and go far, we think, to convince those who have apprehended their position, west of the Mississippi, was an unfavorable one, to read the following extract from letter recently received from one of the Commissioners, now engaged in the adjustment of unsettled Indian matters, in that region:

'The condition of the Creeks and Cherokees is very prosperous. The Cherokees can, I think, disposed of 23,000 bushels of this season, and the Creeks 50,000 bushels; (this is over and above their own consumption.) Education is becoming an interesting topic. Five schools have been and are now being established among the Creeks, independent of benevolent school. The Cherokees have employed four native teachers at four hundred dollars each, and Mr. Guess, the inventor of the alphabet, at four hundred , thus consuming 'their own fund' of two thousand dollars. This, si to the Indian nations a most interesting time.'

_____________________

From the Boston Recorde.

GEORGIA PENITENTIARY.

A letter before us from a gentleman who lately visited the Georgia Penitentiary says:

'We found the prisoners [missionaries] apparently in good spirits, and Dr. Butler in excellent health. Mr. Worcester had been sick with ague and fever for about two weeks, but was so much better that he had been laboring the day on which we left Milledgeville. The situation of the prisoners, and of our brethren in particular, was much more comfortable than I had anticipated. Their [Messrs. W. and B.] clothing was decent and _______ for what I saw, their food also.  Col. Mills [the keeper] is____________ loved by the prisoners, who consider him their friend. A great reformation has been effected in the morals of the convicts, fourteen of whom give evidence of a change of heart, while as many more have pledged themselves to abandon their wicked courses.'

The fact last mentioned is a remarkable instance of the over-ruling Providence of God, in bringing good out of evil and causing even the wickedness of men to subserve the interests of his kingdom.  It also shows very strikingly the power of Christian character.- The missionaries have doubtless acted on the minds and hearts of their fellow prisoners at least as much by their example-by the consistent and pervading holiness of their lives-as by direct oral instructions and appeals. Without the former, indeed, the latter must have been powerless with such men.- It is also an instructive and encouraging fact for those interested in prison discipline.  It is an important testimony to the practicability of reform, and to pure Christianity as a reforming principle even for the most vicious and degraded classes of men.- Once more; It is a fact that ought to excite the gratitude and encourage the hearts of the friends of missions. God does not permit their labors and prayers to be frustrated even by the interference of iniquitous and oppressive laws. The light that they send out in the persons of their missionaries, if those missionaries be found faithful, cannot be hid. Chains and imprisonment-torture and death itself, may be resorted to; but the power of the Gospel in the human heart and character is stronger than chains-stronger than death.

Let us hope that the justice which has ben awarded to those men by the highest tribunal of their country, will soon be actually secured to them. In respect to the case of South Carolina the President says:

'But reasoning on this subject is superfluous when our social compact in express terms declares, that the laws of the United States, the Constitution and treaties made under it, and the supreme law of the land'-and for greater caution adds, 'that the Judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' And it may be asserted without fear of refutation, that 'no Federative Government could exist without a similar provision.'

This provision the President declares himself determined to abide by and enforce. And if in the case of South Carolina, why not in that of Georgia also?  In principle there is not a particle of difference in the two cases; and till facts shall compel us to relinquish it, we shall cherish the hope that the decision of the Supreme Court will be enforced by the Executive-the language heretofore used in public documents notwithstanding.




      


From the N. Y. Courier and Enquirer.

WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENCE

November 28, 1832

The Representatives of the American people have never convened at a crisis more interesting. South Carolina will proceed to nullification. If coercion be attempted, she will secede from the Union 'peaceably, if she can; forcibly if she must.' In the latter movement, she will be sustained, directly or indirectly by a portion of the other States.

Georgia will resist, forcibly, if necessary, the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States in relation to the Cherokees. Both these subjects will occupy the attention of Congress.

The charter of the United States Bank in a modified form will agreeable brought under discussion; and in all probability its fate connected with the other great political questions.

As the Supreme Court does not meet until February their mandate in Georgia cannot be issued and a return made to it until a few days before the adjournment of Congress. The affairs of the Cherokee Nation in the ordinary course of legislation would not therefore come under discussion during the approaching session; but it is believed the question will be brought up in anticipation of resistance by Georgia; and certainly will be agreed during the S. C. debate.

_______________________________

The President's proclamation will be read with deep interest by all - and we fervently hope that its effect on nullifiers of the South may be such, as to induce them to abandon their mad projects in time to save the country from civil war.

After expressing the sentiments avowed in the Proclamation, it may rationally be concluded that the president has resolved to enforce the decision of the Supreme Court in the Georgia case; and that he will not sanction the expulsion of the Cherokees from their lands contrary to the provisions of the existing treaties, and to the express injunction of the law of 1831.

[Balto. Chronicle]






      


INDIANS

THE PAWNEE BRAVE

One of the most prominent modern characters in Thatcher's LIVES OF THE INDIANS, is the celebrated Miami, LITTLE TURTLE, called in his own language, NESTECUNNAQUA. Mr. T. gives him, on the authority of Schoolcraft, the credit of doing much to abolish the practice of human sacrifice among the savages of the West.  The passage reminds us of a well authenticated anecdote of a young Pawnee Brave, who visited Washington some ten years since.

The Pawnees were at war with another trans-Mississippian tribe, living several days' journey to the South of them. In one of their forays into the enemy's country, a party of warriors captured a beautiful Indian girl, and carried her home in triumph. A council of the Pawnees was called, and the prisoner was decreed to die at the faggot.  The fatal pole was raised in the middle of a wide plain near the villages of the tribes; and an immense multitude of all ages and sizes-for the Pawnees are still quite numerous-collected to witness the ceremony.- Just as the flame was about being set around the trembling victim, a gallant young war-chief rushed forward to the pile, leading two fleet horses, thoroughly caparisoned for a journey. He unloosed the bands which confined the prisoner at one stroke of his knife-helped her to mount one of his steeds-mounted the other himself-and, before his countrymen had recovered from their first surprise, had cleared the ring, and was a mile or two on his way to the South. He continued his attendance two days, and then left her within the territory of her own tribe, and with provisions for the residue of the way.  On his return home, not a word of reproach was uttered against him. He was popular; and the Pawnees not only thought proper to overlook the liberty he had taken in consideration of his bravery; but they ascribed the act to the inspiration of the Great Master of Life.  It is said there has been no instance of sacrifice among them from that day to this.

We have forgotten, if we ever knew this gallant fellow's name; but he was much complimented at Washington, and especially by the ladies of the city, as the PAWNEE BRAVE.- N. Y. Con. Adv.




      


From the Auburn Free Press

EARLY WARS AND MASSACRES OF THE INDIANS.

1609 Thirty of the Virginia colonists killed by the Indians

21 Massacre of 317 Virginians by the Indians.

37 The Pequod Indians in Connecticut subdued by Capt. Mason.

Mystic , their fort, composed of 70 Wigwams, was burnt with many women and children, and 500 or 600 Indians killed.

42 War with the Indians in Maryland. This war was caused by Clayborne, and lasted several years, bringing much

distress upon the inhabitants.

43 War between the Indians and Dutch in New York. Indians subdued, 1646.

46 A severe battle was fought at Horseneck, now Greenwich, Ct.-1646, in which the Dutch were victorious, though on  both sides great numbers were slain.

51 Civil war in Virginia.-Berkley Governor of Virginia, sub-

dued by Royal troops.

Civil war in Maryland, between the Catholics and Protestants.--Catholics submit.

55 The Swedes on the Delaware are conquered by the Dutch.

73 The Dutch take New York-Restored to the English 1674

75 King Philip's War Begins-Lasts till 1676

Seventy young men slain by the Indians at Bloody Brook near Deerfield. Capt. Mosely attacks the Indians, kills 96, wounds 40, losing but two men.

Thirty-two houses in Springfield, burnt by the Indians, October.

Great depredation committed in New Hampshire and Maine, by the Taranteens.

Capt. Hutchenson, with 16 men, slain by the Nipmucks.

Brookfield burnt by the Indians.

The Narragansetts defeated and their Fort burnt, Dec. 19. Loss English 280 Indians 2000. This battle lasted 3 hours. 1000 Indian warriors were killed, several hundred made prisoners, and 600 Wigwams burnt, many perishing in the flames.

76 Capt. Pierce with 50 men was slain by the Indians, March.

In April, Capt. Wadsworth and 50 more, met the same fate.

Philip is finally defeated and slain at Mount Hope, August 12.

Bacon's rebellion in Virginia creates great disorder.  Bacon dies.

The English meet with great success in the war with the Indians.

78 Peace concluded with the Indians throughout the New England colonies.

During this war with the Indians, N. England lost 600 men, the flower of her strength; twelve or thirteen towns were destroyed, and 600 dwelling houses consumed. Every eleventh family was houseless and every eleventh soldier had sunk to his grave.

89 King William's war begins-lasts till 1697.

Montreal is destroyed by the Five Nations, and 1000 persons massacred.

New Hampshire suffers much from Indian barbarity.

Dover [N.H.] is attacked by the Indians, 23 persons killed, and 29 carried captive to Canada.

90 Schenectady [N.Y.] burnt by the French and Indians, February 8th, -60 persons killed and 30 taken prisoners. The destruction of Schenectady was marked with the horrid barbarity.

Solmon Falls [N.H.] burnt by the French and Indians, March 17, - 30 persons killed, and 54 made prisoners.

Casco, in Maine, also destroyed, and 100 killed and captured.

Several other excursions were made into the eastern parts by the French and Indians, in which many people were killed and some buildings burnt.

Nova Scotia is taken by a fleet under Sir William Phipps, May.

Expedition against Canada by New England, in October.  Unsuccessful.

91 Maj. Schuyler attacks the French near Lake Champlain, and kills near 800 men.

94 A settlement on Oyster River [N.H.] is destroyed by the enemy.-Several other places burnt, and many of the inhabitants carried into captivity.

97 Peace of Ryswick, which established peace between the French and English colonies.

1702 Queen Ann's War begins-Lasts till 1713.

Expedition of Gov. Moore against Florida.  Unsuccessful.

3 Gov. Moore subdues the Appalachian Indians in S. C.

4.Deerfield, in Massachusetts, burnt by the French and Indians, February 29- 47 persons killed, and 112 carried captive to Canada.

3 Benjamin Church, with 500 men, destroyed several towns on the Penobscot and St. Croix Rivers, and took many of the enemy prisoners.

The English capture the Seine, a large store ship belonging to the French, whose cargo was estimated at nearly a million of lives.

During the two or three years following, the French and Indians in small parties continued to hover about the frontiers of New England, burning, scalping and taking prisoners.

6 A French and Spanish fleet is repulsed from Charleston, S. C. with a loss of 300.

7 Expedition against Nova Scotia by New England-failed.

8 Haverhill on the Merrimack, plundered and burnt-40 killed and many taken prisoners.

10 Port Royal in Nova Scotia, taken by Col. Nicholson.

11 Expedition against Canada,[commanded by Nicholson and Walker]- failed.

Nine Englishman transports, engaged in this expedition, were wrecked, and 1000 lives lost.

12 Many places along the frontiers of New England plundered by the enemy, and great numbers of the inhabitants massacred by the Indians. One hundred and thirty seven of the inhabitants of North Carolina are surprised and massacred by the Tuscaroras, but they are soon subdued by Col. Barnwell, with a loss of 3000 killed and 1000 prisoners.

13 PEACE OF UTRECHT, which established peace between the French and English colonies.

It has been computed that during the two preceding wars, in the Colonies of New England and New York, as many as 8000 young men fell by the sword of the enemy, while defending the land of their fathers.

15 War with the Yamasee Indians in South Carolina.

A secret combination was formed of all the tribes from Florida to Cape Fear. They fell suddenly upon the inhabitants of Port Royal, and in a few hours massacred 90 persons, then hurried in parties towards Charleston. Gov. Cravan, at the head of only 1200 men marched against them, and after an obstinate battle totally defeated them, at a place called the Salt Catchers.

It was computed that the force of the Indians exceeded 600 fighting men.

Four hundred of the Carolinians were slain in this short war.

22 War commenced against New England by the Indians-Lasts three years.

The Indians ravage the Northern Frontiers, doing much damage.

26 Peace concluded with the Indians at Falmouth, Maine.

36 Canada sends a large party against the Chickasaws in Tennessee, but they are defeated, 60 being slain, and all the rest being tortured and burnt to death.

39 War declared against Spain, October 23, and France and Spain, March 31, 1744.

40 Oglethorpe's invasion of Florida-Unsuccessful.

Expedition, [part from Canada, and part from New Orleans] sent against the Chickasaws, who sue for peace, which is granted.

42 A Spanish fleet is sent from Havana against Georgia.- Unsuccessful.

44 Old French war begins-Lasts till 1748




      


INDIANS

Upper Missouri, August 5, 1832

The Mandans or see-phos- kanu-ka-nee, 'People of the Pheasant,' are perhaps one of the most ancient tribes of Indians in America. There(sic) villages is undoubtedly of very ancient origin, and at a former period have been a very numerous and powerful nation; but by the continual wars which have existed between them and their neighbors, they have been reduced to the number of 19 or 18,000 souls.

There (sic) villages situated on the bank, on one of the most beautiful valleys on the river. Their lodges are closely grouped together, leaving but just room for walking and riding between. They appear without to be built of dirt, but one is surprised when he enters to see the neatness, and comfort, of these earth covered dwellings; they all have a circular form, and are from 50 60 feet in diameter.- These cabins contains from 15 to 20 persons-a family and all their connections. They sleep on bedsteads similar to ours, but not quite so high; they are made of round poles rudely framed together. A buffalo skin is strained across it like a sacking bottom, on which they place a number of buffalo skins, making the best bed in the universe. The Mandans have nothing in their personal appearance to distinguish them from the neighboring Indians, excepting the singular appearance of face hair. Their hair has all the shades and variety of a color that are seen among white society. Many children at the age of ten fifteen, are seen with their hair of a bright silver gray, and some almost perfectly white. Many of the young women are extremely beautiful-they marry at a very early age, and dress with much neatness ' practice more pure, native modesty, than any female society that I ever was in. Their beautiful white skin dresses are ornamented in a variety of ways with porcupine quills, beads of different colors, elk's teeth, and shells.  After becoming matrons, that blushing modesty in a degree disappear and they wear a dress made of elk skin, shorter and better calculated for the labors duties they have to perform, as slaves to their lords. Perhaps nothing ever more completely astonished these people than the operations of my brush. Soon after arriving in their village, I invited and painted the two principal chiefs; in a very few minutes after having exhibited them, the whole village was crowding upon me to see them. The likenesses were recognized, and some commenced yelling, some singing and others crying. The eager curiosity and astonishment which they gazed upon me, plainly showed they considered me some strange being; they soon resolved, that I was the greatest medicine man in the world, for they said I had made living beings;-said they could see them laugh, and if they could laugh they could speak, and must be alive. The squaws soon raised a cry against me, saying that I was a dangerous man that I could kill them when I pleased, and that some bad luck would happen to these whom I painted. In this way they excited fear in the minds of a number of Chiefs who had agreed to sit; my operations, of course were completed at a stand. I finally had an interview with a number of them, and assured them, that I was but a man like themselves, that my art had no medicine or mystery about it, but could be learned by any of them if they would practice it as long as I had. I was taken by the arm by the Chiefs and led to their lodge where a feast was prepared for me in their best way. In this manner I was taken from one lodge to another, and treated in the cordial manner. I hope is an universal disposition in the Indian character to admire curious works of art, and particularly for paintings, for which they seem to have the greatest passion; it is not therefore to be wondered at that they were astonished at an operation so novel and unthought of by them, and that I should for once in my life, have been considered a great man and a great painter.  It was reported in the village that a large herd of buffalo were insight, and in a few minute about one hundred young men were mounted with bows and arrows in their hand and ready for the onset. An old chief offered me a fine horse to ride, which I mounted and swept off in the flying throng to see the sport. We were soon in sight of the unsuspecting band, who knew not their danger until they completely surrounded by their enemy; here then ensued a scene equal to any military manoeuver. The animals, afrighted, rapidly fled in a body, but the fleet cavalry closed so rapidly in front of them, waiving their small robe, and raising their frightful yells, that they turned about in confusion, and bent their course in a different direction, where they also met their yelling foes advancing in the rear-during which time they were so closely hemmed in, that they rushed together in the greatest confusion, being able to move in no other form than in a circle.- The Indians then commenced riding round them in a ring-the whizzing arrows began to fly, and the work of death commenced-not a mere scene of laughter, but a battle scene of the most spirited kind, for the bulls often would turn upon them with the greatest fury, in which case their only safety was flight. I often saw the Indians dismounted in the midst of the confusion and struggle-the instant their feet touched the ground, the small robe from their waist was in readiness for the bull,and as quick as thought, this robe is thrown over his horns and face. The Indian leaps by his side,and his arrow flies to the heart. About fifteen minutes closed the scene and all was silent; about 300 were slain, and not one of the band escaped. Though the scene had been as spirited and picturesque, that I looked upon it with riveted feelings of delight, yet I could not look upon this field of slain, who had so nobly died, without sensations of pity and regret.--Com. Adv.




      


'LO, THE POOR INDIAN.'

The territory to which the powers that now  be, are endeavoring to drive the aboriginal inhabitants of this land, is a barren inhospitable desert!! a vast ocean of sand! destitute of wood; destitute of water, and almost destitute of vegetation except prickly pears and a few useless plants that belong to an arid sterile soil, it is true there is a strip of tolerably good land averaging about twenty-five miles in width, between this great desert and the state of Missouri and Arkansas territory, but this will hardly be sufficient for neutral ground between the Indians and their savage white neighbors.

I now appeal the PEOPLE of the U. States, and ask, are you willing to tear these rightful owners of the soil from the land which by the laws of God and nature belong to them; and which the supreme law of this land has guarantied to them, and to drive them out into this inhospitable desert to endure the scorching heat of summer and to remain unprotected from the bitter blasts of winter as they come howling from the Rocky Mountain? with not a tree for fuel or for shelter, and scarcely a drop of water to allay their thirst in summer.

The rivers as depicted on the maps may exist in winter, but in summer, after running a small distance eastward from the Rock Mountains, they sink into the sand and for hundreds of miles do not appear upon the surface. Comment is unnecessary, if you are determined to extirpate these helpless unoffending people do it at once. The Paxton boys themselves were more merciful, they surrounded the church whilst the Indians were on their knees at prayers and beat their brains out with mallets; cruel as that was, it was not more cruel than to send helpless old men, women and children many of whom are now more civilized and Christianized than their white neighbors, into such a place as is destined for them; there to perish by hunger and thirst, or whilst they live to endure alternately the scorching rays of a summer sun, reflected by the unshaded sand, or the piercing northwest wintry winds as it comes sweeping from the mountains.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: JAN. 26, 1833

We present to our readers below the correspondence of Messrs. Worcester and Butler in relation to their pending case in the Supreme Court, against the State of Georgia, which has resulted in their liberation from their confinement in the penitentiary.

The position in which Georgia had placed herself against these worthy men, we had always believed was a useless one; her resistance even with the bayonet, had the case been prosecuted, would not have invalidated the decision of the Supreme Court. The decision of this high court, touching the rights of the Cherokees, is by no means weakened, by the discharge of the Missionaries from their confinement. If the United States were as intent at the preservation of their primary tribunals as they are at a revolution, the decision of the Supreme Court would be sustained, and the rights of the Cherokees as a nation would be protected according to treaties.

It will be seen that these Missionaries have made no concessions to the State of Georgia by accepting of their release, for while they avowed the justice of their cause in the face of Gov. Lumpkin; the case could be borne no longer, he ordered their discharge.

NEW ECHOTA, Cher. Na. Jan. 23, 1833

Mr. E. Hicks,- Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir,- The following communications of Dr. Butler and myself to Messrs. Wirt and Sergeant and to the Governor of Georgia are at your disposal,

Yours respectfully,

S.A. WORCESTER.

PENITENTIARY, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jan. 8. 1833.

HON. WM. WIRT AND HON. JOHN SERGEANT,

GENTLEMEN, We write to inform you that, by considerations of a public nature with which you are already familiar, we have been led to the conviction that it is not expedient, under existing circumstances, further to prosecute the case in controversy between the State of Georgia and ourselves, in the Supreme Court of the United States. It is our desire, therefore, that you make no motion on our behalf before that Court.

You may expect a further communication for us in a few days. In the mean time we are,

with great regard and esteem,

yours very truly

[Signed] S.A. WORCESTER,

ELIZUR BUTLER,

PENITENTIARY, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jan. 8, 1833

To His Excellency  WILSON LUMPKIN,

Governor of the State of Georgia,

Sir,--In reference to a notice given to your Excellency on the 26th of November last by our counsel, in our behalf, of our intention to move the Supreme Court of the United States, on the second day of February next for further process in the case between ourselves individually as plaintiffs in error, and the State of Georgia as defendant in error, we have now to inform your Excellency, that we have this day forwarded instruction to our counsel to forbear the intended motion, and to prosecute the case no farther.  We beg leave respectfully to state to your Excellency, that we have not been led to the adoption of this measure by any change in views in regard to the principle on which we have acted, or by any doubt of the justice of our cause, or our perfect right to a legal discharge, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Court in our favor, already given; but by the apprehension that the further prosecution of the case under existing circumstances injurious to our beloved country.

We are respectfully yours,

[Signed]

S.A.WORCESTER

ELIZUR BUTLER.

PENITENTIARY, MILLEDGEVILLE, Jan 9, 1833

To his Excellency Wilson Lumpkin,

 Governor of the State of Georgia.

Sir- we are sorry to be informed that some expressions in our communication of yesterday were regarded by your Excellency as an indignity offered to the State or its authorities. Nothing could be further from our design. In the course we have not taken it has been our intention simply to forbear the prosecution of our case, and to leave the question of the continuance of our confinement to the magnanimity of the State.

We are yours respectfully,

[Signed] S.A. WORCESTER

ELIZUR BUTLER

___________________________

From the Federal Union

GEORGIA.

By Wilson Lumpkin, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State, and of the Militia thereof.



To CHARLES C. MILLS, Esquire, Principal Keeper of the Penitentiary.

WHEREAS at a Superior Court, held in and for the county of Gwinnett, at the September Term 1831, Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler were convicted of illegal residence within the Territory of this State, then inhabited almost exclusively by Cherokee Indians, and such other persons as were unfriendly to the rights and interest of the State:- Whereupon they were sentenced to four years confinement in the Penitentiary of this State.

And whereas sound policy has, since the confinement of said persons, induced the constituted authorities of this State to provide by law, for the legal settlement of the unoccupied part of said Territory, by a free white population-and having provided for the organization of said Territory into counties of suitable form and size for the convenience and regular administration of public justice, and the due execution of the laws of the State. And the Legislature being assured at their late session, that under existing arrangements, which were daily going into execution, the country would shortly contain a sufficient number of well qualified inhabitants, to carry fully into effect these several objects-did therefore repeal the law under which the said Samuel A. Worcester and Butler were convicted and sentenced as aforesaid:

And whereas the said Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler have made known to me, that they have instructed their counsel, William Wirt and John Sergeant Esquires, to prosecute the case which they had though fit to institute before the Supreme Court of the United States against the State of Georgia, no further; but have concluded 'to leave the question of their continuance in confinement to the magnanimity of the State.'

And moreover, taking into consideration the earnest solicitude for the release of these individuals, which has been communicated to me, in the most friendly and respectful manner, by many of the most distinguished friends of the State, residing in various parts of the Union-amongst whom are many of those who have sustained the State and her authorities throughout this unpleasant controversy. And also taking into view, the triumphant ground which the State finally occupies in relation to this subject, in the eyes of the Nation, as has been sufficiently attested, through various channels, especially in the recent overwhelming re-election of President Jackson, the known defender of the State throughout this controversy. And now believing as I do, that not only the rights of the State have been fully and successfully vindicated and sustained in this matter, but being assured as I am, that the state is free from the menace of any pretended power whatever, to infringe upon her rights, or control her will in relation for this subject. And above all other considerations the magnanimity of Georgia being now appealed to-I therefore, as the organ of the State, feel bound to sustain the generous and liberal character of her people.

Whatever may have been the errors of the individual-whatever embarrassments and heart burning they may have been instrumental in creating-however mischievous they may have been in working evil to the State, to themselves, and the still more unfortunate Cherokees-and whatever may have been the spirit which has influenced them to the course they have pursued, and however obstinately they may have adhered to the counsels of their employers, aiders and abetters, yet the present state of things is such, that it is enough-that they may submit the case 'to the magnanimity of the State.' They shall therefore go free.--And know ye, that for and in consideration of all the forgoing circumstances, and many more which might be enumerated-I have thought proper to remit, and do, in virtue of the powers vested in me by the Constitution, hereby remit the further execution of the sentence of the Court against the said Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler, and order that they be forthwith discharged.

In testimony where of, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the Ex. Department to be affixed, this fourteenth dy of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, and of American independence the fifty-seventh

WILSON LUMPKIN.

By the Governor:

Rholom A. Greene, Secretary.




      


CONGRESS

On the 12th inst. Mr. Forsyth introduced in the Senate a bill to provide for the fulfillment of the Compact of 1802 between the United States and the State of Georgia, which was twice read and referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs.






      


(Note, this issue 2 pages only)

INDIANS,

INDIANS IN LOWER CANADA.

In the legislature of Lower Canada, on the 15th inst. Mr. Nelson presented a petition from the Lorrette Indians, representing their claims upon the seigned (sic) of Sillery, and praying redress.  It was couched in respectful terms and, though coming from those we call savages, stated their hard case clearly and well. It was upon a well known subject of that conmlian (sic), had been agitated a great number of years, and had even, as a dernier resort, induced the poor Indians to send a mission to His Majesty George IV where they got fair words, gold medal, 'c. But were referred back for justice to the very usurpers of their property,-the Colonial Government. The property was included in that belonging to the Jesuits Estates, and now that those had been given up to the province, they came to claim the rights that had been wrested from their forefather.- They represented the miserable plight they were in. They were not only debarred from receiving that instruction for which the grant was originally made, which would advance them in the scale of civilization, but for want of their inheritance, the most robust young men, and the most industrious women amongst them could with great difficulty procure a bare subsistence. Mr. Smart, considered this petition to be one of a public character. Nothing could be more so than anything relating to the conduct and connections between the red men of the forest and the descendants of the Europeans. Is it because they are poor and few in number that we are not to listen to them? Our ancestors, listened to their ancestors, because they were numerous and powerful; but now these poor red men of the forest, whose property we are enjoying, by what right he did not enquire, for he did not mean to enter into the merits of the petition, are to be put off on account of an informality. He thought this was distinctly and plainly a public petition and ought to be received as such.

Mr. Speaker said, with respect to the reception of the petition, that had it been a general representation from the whole body of Indians, it would then have been a public petition, but this was from a particular set of men, claiming particular lands. But he thought the rules in this case should not be followed up to the utmost rigor, and as it appeared to be the general sense of the House that the petition should be received, he should not, for his part, object to it. The petition was then received and referred to a Committee of five.




      


The Washington Globe of the 3d inst. contains a correspondence between the SECRETARY OF WAR, and Messrs KING, MADRIS and CLAY, members of Congress from the State of Alabama, in reference to the course which the Government will pursue towards the white settlers on the Indian lands in that State, ceded by the late treaty. It will be remembered that reservations are not to be selected after survey for the exclusive use of the Indians. The Representative from Alabama stated that the treaty does not seem to contemplate the removal of any of these settlers, necessarily, 'unless they shall have trespassed on the improvements made by and actually in the possession of the Indians.' They ask, therefore, that no removals be required, from sections 'where the settler occupies under contract of purchase or lease from the head of the family, and that no removal be required at all until thirty days after the selection of the Indian reservations.'

Governor Cass replies that the Government wishes to avoid all unnecessary severity towards the settlers; but it is his duty 'to preserve the public faith, and to fulfil, on the part of the United States, those compacts under which the Indians cede very important and valuable rights.' He thereupon explains, that person who have obtained peaceable possession of the land upon which they live, and do not retain it to the exclusion of any just Indian title, may retain it until the Indian reservations are selected, but must remove from the reservations within thirty days thereafter.

Balto. Amer.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: FEB. 2, 1833

The following account of a massacre of two white families, by the Cherokees is taken from the National Intelligencer, and on the authority of a rumor by the Augusta Courier, the gentlemen of the Intelligence (sic), sound it to the world as lamentable. We are sorry that these popular editors, should have uttered the sentence at the head of the article, destitute of facts as they must have been, where with to allege the barbarities of the Cherokees. Although the words spoken are but few, it may be productive of immense injury to the Cherokees.- It awakens the prejudice of the whites, and strengthens their hatred to the Cherokees, for supposed offenses having as we know in the present case, no foundation in truth We will briefly relate the case which is blazoned to the world, and for the facts of which it is our aim that our relation shall be strictly true.

A white family of four persons resided at Saloquoyah ten miles distant from this place, Lawson Bowman, wife, child ' mother-in-law. Bowman was a young man brought up partly in the Nation and lived 3 or 4 miles from any house. The week preceding Christmas, two Indian boys passing his place, found that the house had burned to the ground with the occupants of it. The boys made it known, and many Cherokees proceeded to the place to make some discovery whether this painful loss of lives was occasioned by murder or otherwise. It appearing the house had been burned four or five days previous, and a heavy rain, no circumstances appeared which would justify the conclusion that it was a case of murder. Nothing could be found of the remains of the persons, but small pieces of cinders. An out-house contained some property undisturbed. In the mean time, Bowman's relations had charged the perpetration of this crime to the Cherokees, and the Guard were sent for, to arrest them. The writer of this article advised the Indians to submit. They did so.  The Georgia Guard rushed to the Indian settlement with the spirit of Samson when he went down to Askelon, or like a lawless storm, frightened the poor women ' children from their homes in the cold days of Christmas and chained fast together 8 or 10 Cherokees.  They were kept in this condition for several days; we saw some driven along the muddy roads to some magistrates for examination, but in the absence of any testimony whatever against these men, they were all released. This is the only case that has occurred where the loss of lives has been charged to the Cherokees, and so far they have proved unfounded.

The authorities of Georgia not being satisfied with dipping their hands in the blood of George Tassels and Ahcayaley, we hear that the guard have arrested an Indian named Took, of infamous character, of whom, as of the others, the sight of Georgia justice may be the penalty of death.

The Cherokees are not such savages as is so liberally lavished on us by the Courier; our readers are therefore informed, that women and children are ever exempt from the violence of the Cherokees. In conclusion we would enquire of the editors of the Intelligencer why have they not applied the same language to Georgia for robbing us of our lands, and the nullification of our Treaties?




      


The following lamentable information is from the Augusta Courier of January 4: Nat. Int.

'A passenger in the stage last night, who came through the Cherokee Nation, says that there was great excitement there.  Some person who had drawn a tract of land, on which were improvements, attempted to take probably violent possession, and was resisted by the Indians, and that two families consisting of nine persons, had been massacred by the enraged savages. He says the Georgia Guard is in close pursuit of the murderers.'




      


We stated in our paper of week before last, a new delegation, through the medium of J. Walker had been invited to proceed to Washington City.- In accordance with the orders of the Secretary of War, Walker selected 3 other persons with himself to proceed. A day was fixed on for their departure, when one of the members declared, that it was treachery to go on without authority from the Cherokees. A second feigned himself sick. A third, an old warrior, declared he could not visit Washington with a man having no authority, rather than, as the wagoners says is 'stall on level ground,' Walker with the orders from the White House in his pocket, has taken a seat alone, and followed on the cracking of the whip. A law of Congress say, if Government invite a deputation of Indians to Washington, their expenses shall be paid. But as the President has refused to pay the Cherokee Nation their annuities according to treaties, the Cherokees are inclined to the opinion, that the President will construe the former to be a prospective law.

________________________

Scarcity of paper compels us to issue but half a sheet this week.

______________________

The following remarks are from the New York Spectator on the great fraud of Shadrick Bogan (so called) for obtaining by fraudulent means, as commissioners of the lottery distributing the lands of the Cherokees, taken by the State of Georgia. It appears the impeachment of the gentleman for the offence, has cost him is reputation and liberty. If one rogue reproved another for the same act, we could not wonder; as such, what will they not do? But when a civilized community robs another of their lands in time of profound peace, and punishes its citizens for obtaining by fraud a part of the same lands, it seems to us the whole world cannot furnish such an instance. It is a monster!

___________________

It is altogether a mistake to denounce this as 'one of the most stupendous frauds ever practiced upon any community.' It is trifling, both in its extent and its enormity, compared with the FRAUD in which the Government of Ga. is engaged against the Cherokee community.  Bogan was endeavoring to compass the robbing of John Ridge-the eloquent ' accomplished Cherokee Chief who was in this city last winter-but the employers of Bogan are engaged in robbing the whole Cherokee Nation of the property. No doubt Bogan deserves the State prison. But what angry bolt of heaven is red enough with wrath, to punish his employers!






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: FEB 2, 1833

(Note this is the date printed, it should be Feb. 9.1833)

The following communication in relation to the Governor of Georgia and the Missionaries we willingly admit to our columns.  The references which the writer makes to the Proclamation of the President that the decisions of the Supreme Court are to be sustained as the law of the land, ' we cannot see it _______on the President and Georgia at the time when the Court has pronounced her measures void, than it will be on South Carolina on the happening of that contingency.

We may here remark that the Gov. of Georgia would make it appear, that the extension of his clemency was solely at the instance of the missionaries. But the facts are not so, they exist on the other hand. He, the Governor, gave authority to Senator Forsyth to interpose who found his way to the office of Mr. Wirt in Baltimore and entreated him withdrawing the case from the Supreme Court. The policy of Georgia charging in this case Messrs Worcester and Butler at all other times, were ready, and adopted an unconditional restoration to their liberties of which they had been so unjustly deprived.

The Israelites trembled at the mighty thunderings on Mount Sinai, so the disobedient leaders of Georgia wished to hear no more of the Supreme Court.

__________________

Cher. Nation Jan 27th 1833

Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir:_ In reading the Proclamation of the Governor of Georgia for the release of the Missionaries from the Penitentiary dated the 11th inst. I am much surprised to find so may mistakes made (as I think there are) by a person so elevated in office.

He states the manner in which the Missionaries were tried, and sentenced to four years imprisonment in the Penitentiary for 'illegal residence in the Territory of this state' which a man not professing to know so much nor holding any office, would call legal residence in the Cherokee Nation; which has been sufficiently proven to be the call to the satisfaction of any unprejudiced man who can read, from the high station of the Governor down to the beggar, by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, that the State of Georgia claiming jurisdiction within the boundaries of the Cherokee Nation as defined by Treaties of between the United States and them, was unconstitutional null and void are also the President's Proclamation to the State of South Carolina, say that the Laws of Congress, the Constitution of the United States and treaties made under it are the supreme law of the land.

Now it seem curious to me that the Governor, must have read the Proclamation; and yet will say that 'President Jackson is the known defender of the state throughout this controversy.' Will the Governor of Georgia try to make the world believe that his friend who he intimates has defended the state in robbing the Cherokees of their lands and gold, after the President himself has published to the world his sentiments that 'did not speak with a  forked tongue' 'nor never told a red brother a lie 'c.'

After permitting the state to do these things and even so far suffer her as I say to rob, murder and plunder the Cherokees at will for years, then survey their lands prevent them with an armed force from digging their own gold, make a lottery, have it all drawn and settled and all this without the consent of the Cherokees and also without any equivalent whatever. I say after all this the Governor will try to make the world believe his friend will yet speak with a forked tongue with one fork to South Carolina and the other to Georgia.

Shame! Shame! All this shows the magnanimity of the State, the Christian and patriotic spirit of her leading men and legislators who all must of course know the decision of the Supreme Court and read the President's proclamation all know their acts as respects the Cherokee Nation were pronounced null and void yet they have passed laws for the government of the Cherokee country and divided into counties 'c. and this as the Gov. says as sound policy dictated to them. The Cherokees could no better than this although termed a savage people he says 'the Territory of the state was then inhabited exclusively by Cherokees and others unfriendly to the rights and interests of the State.'

If Robbery and possession afterwards, is the right and interests of the State who would be friendly to it? The Gov. says the President is the known defender of the State in it, can any man of common sense believe this after reading the Proclamation? We hope for better times. The President may have winked at these things, heretofore from the hope the Cherokee lands would be given up by the Indians and all agree to remove west of the Mississippi- But no, he has proclaimed his sentiments to the world, he cannot, constently and we hope will not now talk with a forked tongue as the Governor wants him to do.

The Governor says he is well as____-ed that the state is free from the _________ of any pretended power whatever to infringe upon her rights or control her will in relation to this subject. The Governor certainly would seem to have forgotten that the state of Georgia was a party in creating the Supreme Court of the United States and is bound to respect and obey its decisions whenever it comes in the way, as long as she is one of the United States-this is the true cause why the Missionaries were released, (that is the fear of the Supreme Court, whom she had placed over herself, would manage and control her will on the subject.  Can any men of any firmness suppose that the President of the United States in his high and responsible station, the highest which the people of the United States can confer on any man, will degrade himself so far as to suffer Georgia to go on ' trample under foot solemn Treaties, Laws of Congress and the high acts of the Supreme Court of the United States, after telling South Carolina and the world knows his views and sentiments on these subjects? No.  The President of the United States cannot be the man the Governor represents himself to be, else the people of the United States would not have placed him in the executive chair a second time, or would they choose a man who would talk with a forked tongue, in preference to one who would not? I suppose not.

So, I presume the fear of another power of menacing and controlling the will of the state on the subject caused the Governor to release the missionaries. The power I speak of is President Jackson, although the Governor says, 'he (Jackson) is the known defender of the state throughout this controversy.'

The Governor says he hereby 'remits the further execution of the sentence of the court against the said S. A. Worcester and Elizur Butler.' Very kind magnanimous State of Georgia. To condescend so far as to remit an unconstitutional sentence declared so by the Supreme Court of the United States long since. But if it is so as the Governor would have it be then indeed we Cherokees are in a desperate situation; we are in darkness, the promises and acts even of the highest authorities of this much 'Talked of Union is nothing more than wind,' and a rope of sand.

CANDOUR.




      


CANDY'S CREEK,

Jan. 24, 1833

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.



Sir:_ As the memory of the late Rev. A. Hoyt, will long be cherished with peculiar delight by his missionary and Cherokee friends, I trust a few lines from his pen will not be either unwelcome or unprofitable to your readers. The following was written at Willstown, March 30, 1826, and addressed to his sons, preparing for the ministry at the Theological Seminary, Maryville. As this has fallen into my hands, I take the liberty of forwarding you a copy.

Yours respectfully,

D. S. B.

MY EVER DEAR SONS,

I hope you have been enabled to pass your school examination, in a good degree, to the satisfaction of your instructors, and without bringing any discredit on the Seminary. You are not to have a little respite from your studies, which may afford you time for reflection. You may find it profitable to review the past. I have no doubt but you have been 'diligent in business.' You inherit from your parents a disposition to persevere in whatever you undertake. But as the remainder of the test, 'Fervent in spirit, serving the Lord.' You inherit from the same source, a dreadful clog,-a backwardness-a death-like stupidity, to all the finer, and more noble exercises of the soul,-to all that elevates man above the spirited animal,-to all that assimilates to angels, and the spirits of just men made perfect. If you have had a good degree of this fervency of spirit,--this devotedness to God, you are indebted for it wholly to free mercy; and abounding grace. If the sciences have so occupied your attention, that you have had little life in religion, and have made no progress in piety, we shall all have reason to lament that so much time has been spent to so little purpose. Therefore while you are taking a retrospect of the winter past, permit a father to ask you to look into your closets, and your hearts; and in view of a preparation for the sacred ministry, see what progress you have made in piety. If you would please your Savor, seek first of all a nearness of heart to Him. The same is requisite for your usefulness and comfort here and a meekness for the saints in light. I wish you to be learned in the sciences I wish you to be mighty in the scriptures, but above all, that you be eminent for spiritual mindedness and ardent piety. This spirit is the gift of God, who has said, 'ask and ye shall receive.'

Few perhaps sufficiently realize the value and importance of closet devotion. Of all the neglects of my very unprofitable life, those of the closet cause the deepest regret. I wish my children to shun my false steps, and to follow me only as I have followed Christ, you will remember that it is said of Him, ' He overcame strong crying and tears.' If you add occasionally a day of fasting, I think you will find it beneficial. In  your seminary do you have any days set apart for fasting? At Andover I think the professors and students have, stated by a semiannual fast.  Perhaps the mixed character in your school, may render this inexpedient in the view of your directors. But there can be no objection to an occasional private fast, when your other duties will admit of it. In a word, 'It is good to draw nigh to God.' Our duty and interest,- our comfort and our usefulness are combined in urging us to do this by all the means which he appointed. You doubtless now consider it your great business to prepare for usefulness in the church below, I trust however that you will at the same time, seek to be useful as your pass along, strive to let no opportunity for usefulness pass unimproved. I would have you forward to bring yourselves into notice, or ever seem to obtrude yourselves into any service which does not belong to you, but what I mean is, that with meekness and unaffected humanity, as in the sight of God, you should at all times seek the advancement of the Redeemers kingdom; and never put off for tomorrow what can be done today. The future is all unknown to us- many young men of promising prospects with the dead before they had prepared to go out. What you call our time of preparation, may then be your only time of life. Let it then be improved for your own profit, and the profit of others, that at the day of judgment your present, and all your future days (be they more or less) may be reviewed with joy by yourselves, and by all with whom you are connected.






      


INDIANS

Among the most interesting events of this stirring age, are the pardon and release of the two Georgia Missionaries. Gov. Lumpkin has published his manifesto to the world, setting forth that they have thrown themselves upon the magnanimity of the State,-that the State has done enough for glory,-and there in all the dignity of conscious rectitude, and perfumed with the full odor of sanctity, she turns the key of the penitentiary, and with clemency transcending that of Titus himself, she bids them go in peace. In other words the missionaries finding that an unconditional pardon was to be given them, have abandoned the process by which they were endeavoring to obtain their liberty, and are pardoned.

Truly it becomes Georgia to talk about magnanimity, and to instruct her officers to boast of the dignity and honor with which she is clothed. We wish her all possible joy, if she finds anything to gratify her pride in the laurels she has won, and the prizes she has drawn. Her own vain glorious boastings,-and self commendation however, must be more valuable than we think them, if they furnish a fair offset against the unmeasured abhorrence and aversion of the civilized world. She has indeed earned for herself some reputation- a reputation that bids fair to be remembered while that of Algiers is forgotten.  At the very moment while by her officials, she is canting about magnanimity and clemency, she is consummating one of the most extensive robberies which the world ever witnessed,-and without a shadow of title, in defiance of the decisions of her own Courts, as well as those of the Union, in utter contempt of public faith and private memory with no motive but sordid and impertinent avarice, she seizes the houses, farms, gold mines and lands of the defenseless Cherokees, and sells them by lottery to her own citizens. The lawful property of these poor wretches she takes by conquest, her citizens attempt to win possession from the desperate owners by force, and can in many instances maintain that possession only by murder.

The magnanimity of Georgia! The Buccaneers of old were equally magnanimous; like Georgia, they seized what they wanted, with strong hands and made good their title by conquest, and where necessary, by extermination. Their motives were not in the least degree more selfish, or less magnanimous than those of Georgia.- They shed more blood than Georgia has yet caused to now,-but they did not in their whole history deviate more widely from the eternal rules of strict justice ' honor,-they did not even perpetuate a more palpable booty, they never gave the world more glaring example of the suppression of law by brute force than Georgia does at the moment.

The magnanimity of Georgia! Without law and against right she seizes upon two individuals, and throws them into her dungeons. They have been solemnly adjudged by the highest tribunal known to the laws to be innocent of any crime whatever,-and now she generously remits the remainder of a sentence, which she had no right to enact in the first place, and which in itself was a crime of the deepest atrocity. At the very moment while she is distributing the spoils of the Cherokees, inflicting an incurable wound on the laws and Constitution of this land,-trespassing upon the national faith,-staining with her ___ iniquities the pure ermine of the national honor,-and placing her self at the same level in civilization and justice with the Barbary powers, she rebukes South Carolina for threatening to nullify the laws. When Georgia lets go her ruffian grasp from the throat of the Cherokees,- when she has made all the reparation she can make to those whom her illegal violence has shut up in jail,- she may begin to talk about justice. Even then, it would be unreasonable and premature to mention of magnanimity.

Lowell. Journal.




      


GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES.

The National Gazette contains a communication on this subject, in which is attempted to be shown that the bloody bill cannot be made applicable to the Cherokee case. For some reason or other, we cannot conceive what the Gazette countenances the same idea. We do not wish to charge the Gazette with an attempt at deception, but does not the Gazette know what is well known here and elsewhere that the sections referred to were introduced, we might almost say, expressly for the purpose of being applied to the Georgia case. It was soon known that it was intended for them to be so applied, and whatever doubts might have been entertained upon the subject were soon removed by the Indian delegation. They indirectly refused to sell, although the government made them an offer of two million and a half, and would have gone to three million. We are not sure but that three millions were offered. Has the Gazette never heard that it was with difficulty the President could be got to sign the bill? The truth is, the administration was outwitted. They discovered it, but not until it was too late.  The President gave himself up, bound hand and foot, to his new friends, and they had not the least compassion for him.

But what will Georgia do when the mandate of the Supreme Court comes? Will she acknowledge her sins, repent and obey? Will she look to the White House for countenance and forbearance? In vain! The proclamation stares her in the face.  Will she look to her Union and proclamation men-her advocates of the bloody bill, her Forsyths and her Waynes?  It will be needless. They have sold her to the Philistines, and shortly hope to receive the price of their treachery. Will she look to the Union men of the adjoining States? Alas! their cry is submit! submit! The law of Congress must be executed!

[U. S. Telegraph.]

_________________

Extract of a letter from the 'Spy in Washington'

WASHINGTON, D.C.- March 18, 1833.

Sir:- It is not my general habit to notice the remarks which are made on my letters. But the Intelligencer of Monday contains an article from the National Gazette which claims attention. The object of the writer appears to be twofold. First to show that no section of the enforcing bill can, in any manner affect the case of the Cherokees in relation to their lands. And second, that as the law referred to does not affect the case, no difficulties can have arisen calculated to interrupt the then pending negotiation of a treaty between the Cherokees and the Government.

I entertain a profound respect for the author of the article under consideration who is a distinguished jurist. It is from the pen of Judge Hopkinson of Pennsylvania. This respect forbids that I should comment upon what I consider the cavalier if not dogmatic style of the Judge's production. His honor will pardon me, however, when I say that as he is evidently mistaken, only in the argument relating to the technicalities of the case.  The facts are, as stated.  Difficulties had arisen and the negotiation, as I anticipated, was broken off abruptly. No treaty was concluded. Since the passage of the Enforcing Bill, the Cherokees have advanced in their demands for compensation.

I do not intend through your paper or elsewhere to argue a law point with his honor the Judge. But I think he will find after more minute examination that the bill changes the character of the Cherokee case. May it not be, that although the Supreme Court of the United States had no original, yet that they may have appellate jurisdiction! May not the Cherokees, as individuals, under this bill commence their suit in the State Courts of Ga. and then appeal to the United States Court?- Could they have made such an appeal without the record previous to the passage? But I feel myself warranted in stating to his Honor that the counsel for the Indians, Mr. Wirt, was consulted previous to the passage of the bill, on the particular section referred to, and he supposed that it would cover the case of his clients. I do not assert, but I believe it to be so, that Mr Wirt drafted the section himself. Whether this be true, or not, I take leave to refer the Hon Judge Hopkinson for further explanations, to the learned Counsel.

__________________

From the Washington Globe.



We would not have noticed the silly trash of the New York Spy, about the operation of the Revenue Collection Bill upon the Cherokee country, had we not seen that in respectable prints, his statement was considered worthy of refutation. The National Gazette has correctly said there is no case depending, and given its views of the effect of the act upon this matter. But the whole subject, and all the assertions concerning it are unworthy serious examination of the law.

The 4th and 5th sections are those, which it is said, will operate on the Cherokee question, and constitute the trap in which the President is kindly supposed to have caught himself. Let us see. The 4th section simply provides for the removal of the record or case from the State Court to that of the United States. With this of course the Executive has no concern. His interposition can never be required for the act expressly defines the mode in which the omission shall be supplied. If the State Court fails to send the record.

The fifth section is the one which authorizes the employment of military force, but unfortunately for the truth of all those bug-bear stories, this section is limited in its operation to the end of the next Session of Congress. Now independently of the very conclusive review taken in the National Gazette, of the impossibility of the Cherokees maintaining a suit in the Supreme Court of the United States, it is sufficient to say, that no case involving those questions exists in any Court whatever.  Grant the Supreme Court the most ample jurisdiction over this whole subject, and grant what the Court has expressly disclaimed, the right of the Cherokees to appear before them, everyone who knows anything of judicial proceedings knows it is impossible to institute a suit in one of the State Courts, to carry it to the highest Court of law or equity of the State, whence only in all cases, except those relating to the revenue, it can be removed, and from there to the Supreme court of the United States, procure a final judgment thereon; have process issued; the execution thereof obstructed; the proceedings thereon directed by the statute take place, the facts reported to the President; the proclamation issuing the obstruction to be removed; a neglect or refusal to comply with such a proclamation, and then call out the military under this law, before the end of the next Session of Congress.  All these must be done before the President could interfere. It is not pretended that in any of the intermediate stages of the proceedings force would be interposed to obstruct the process. And when all that is done, if it ever should be done, we presume the President would look at his constitutional duty, and examine the whole matter under the Constitution and laws.

We hope we have said enough to allay all the apprehensions of those who have in such a spirit of amity, conjured up this phantom to trouble the country.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA; APRIL 20, 1833

After an intermission of nine weeks, we are enabled to again present to our readers the Cherokee Phoenix. We have been prevented during this long time from the regular production of this paper, from the circumstances of three successive failures of the Georgia weekly mail, which brings us all our important progress and placed it out of power to furnish our office with copies of the latest news. We did not  wish to have recourse to our old files for news which our readers were already conversant. The long indisposition of the editor was another principal cause in delaying the issuing of this paper, causes which we could not control, our readers we hope will pardon this seeming injustice in not furnishing our paper at the times they are entitled.

____________________________

A Called Council of the Nation will meet at Red Clay on the 12th of May. It is stated by the authorities of the Nation that the session will be a short one and will continue but a few days.

__________________________

We invite the attention of our readers to the Communication below, of the Secretary of War through Mr. Herring, to the Cherokee delegation on the subject of intruders on the lands of the Cherokee Nation. It was our intention to have withheld the publication of this interesting document, until we could obtain the communications of the delegation to which this is an answer, and publish then together; but finding it impracticable, we present the Secretary's alone. The ambiguity in which this letter comes to us, precludes any remarks from us, of the extent to which it will be executed. The reference to which the Secretary makes to his original orders, and of which the present are to be a repetition, we have been informed, (for we never saw the orders) had only a reference to the removal of intruders from the limits of North Carolina; for which purpose two companies of troops were stationed within the limits of that State, during the last year and subsequently marched to the excitement in South Carolina.

The remainder of this communication breaths a spirit of so pacific a character to the future well being of the Cherokees, that, if the Government acts up to its obvious meaning, the golden beams of the sun will have penetrated, and light will have dawned through the dark cloud which has been hanging over the Cherokees muttering their destruction, and our liberty, the rights of freemen the Indians birth right will once more be restored. It is an official notification from the Secretary to the delegation of the purity of his mind to promote the well fare of the Cherokee Nation, and that a detachment of troops would forthwith be ordered to remove intruders off of the assailed parts of the Cherokee lands and no distinction can be discovered of the parts of the land, from which intruders are to be removed, for all parts of the nation are now densely settled by intruders, excepting within the limits of North Carolina. Georgia has taken possession of the Cherokee land within its limits, which constitutes in part the Cherokee Nation as defined by Treaties, we shall await with deep anxiety to see the execution of these orders in this part of the nation.

If the President possess the power which undoubtedly he has by the laws of the U. S. to remove intruders off of Cherokee land within the limits of Ten., we should like to know why he has not the same right to remove intruders from Georgia. The Supreme Court having declared the laws of Ga. null and void over the Cherokee country, the circumstance of that State exercising arbitrary power over the Cherokees surely cannot divest the President of his right to execute the laws of the United States.

[Copy]

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

Off. of Ind. Aff. March 14, 1833

Sir:- Your letter of the 8th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War on the subject of intrusion on Cherokee land by white citizens, has been referred to this office for reply.

It cannot be denied, that your complaints are well founded and that your people has sustained injuries from the rapacity and lawless conduct of our citizens. It is however in some degree an unavoidable evil incident to the present condition of your tribe, and no blame is fairly attributable to the Department on that account. It is due to the Secretary of War to say, that soon as he received notice of intruders having presented themselves on your land, he gave orders for their expulsion.--These orders will now be repeated, and a military force will forthwith be dispatched to the assailed parts of your country, for the purpose of expelling and keeping off intruders. And orders will also be given to the District Attorney of the U. States to prosecute for trespass all such as may dare to return after their expulsion. You cannot consider it a misplaced assurance, and it is made with the utmost sincerity that the Department cherishes deep solicitude for the welfare of your Nation, and will to the extent of its power, endeavor to promote it.

With high respect,

Your humble servant

Signed ELBERT HERRING

Messrs. Jno. Ross and others,

Cherokee Delegates.

__________________

We readily admit the communication of Mr. Watie to our columns. The great quantities of spirituous liquors introduced into the Cherokee country since Georgia has possessed herself of it, is now the fountain cause of the growing intemperance of the Cherokees and the loss of lives consequent upon the use of ardent spirits. We hope, and it is our special request to our brethren to pause and reflect on the sufferings that awaits themselves and families in consequence of the use of ardent spirits ' that it is nothing more nor less than taking the dagger from the hand of the Georgian, and thrusting in into our own breasts

CHEROKEE COURT HOUSE,

March 30th 1833

To the Editor of the Cher,. Phoenix.

Sir:- An accident, having its origin in the immoderate use of ardent spirits, happened to one of our people a few days ago, at a a gold mine some fifteen miles from this place which has caused me to address you this note. Robin is the name of the unfortunate man.,- Whilst in a state of deep intoxication, the fire, by which he was lying, unguarded, was communicated by some means to his clothes and burnt him so severely that his life is despaired of--he is now at home under the care of his family, in this neighborhood.

Were it not for the subsequent sufferings of persons thus unfortunate, such accidents would hardly excite pity. For a reasonable man to drink intoxicating liquor until he becomes a senseless brute, incapable of protecting himself from harm, is truly aggravating. I hope that those fond of ardent spirits may take warning from Robin's case.

Yours Respectfully,

T. B. WAITE.

__________________

Army Changes.- We are informed that company 'E' 2d Artillery, Capt. Merchant, will resume its old station at Oglethorpe Barracks, and that company 'B' of the same regiment, Lt. Mackenzie commanding, at present occupying this post, will as soon as relieved, proceed to Augusta, there to be joined by company 'C' also of the 2d Artillery, and thence march for Camp Armistead.-Savannah Georgian.






      


INDIAN EXPENSES.- From the act making appropriations to carry into effect Indian Treaties, 'c., as published in the Globe of Saturday, we make the following abstract;

For the Winnebagoes, for the treaty of September, 1833, $23,332

For the Sacks and Foxes, $69,474

For the Pawnees and Delawares Oct. $42,350

For the Kaskias and Peorias, $ 8,630

For the Appalchicola tribe $13,000

For the Potawattamies of the Prairie

by treaty of October 1832 and January 1833 $124,779

For the Kickapoos, by treaty of Oct. and Nov. $71,232

For the Potawattamies of the Wa-bash, October $263,661

For the Potawattamies of Indiana $31,520

For the Piankeshaws and Weas $22,262

To enable the President to extinguish titles in

Indiana, Illinois and Michigan, in addition

to grant of last year,                                                                 $3,871

For expenses of the treaty at Butte des Morts,

in addition to former appropriation, $400

For removal and subsistence of the Creeks, 'c. in

addition $16,561

For arresting and guarding Ioway murderers, $1,523

For locating Choctaws, (not before provided for,)                  $1,500

For expenses to Chickasaw deputation to Washington $1,650

For expenses for keeping twelve prisoners of war

of the Sacks and Foxes as hostages, 'c. $250

For Sundry small items-together $4,030

For expenses of removing and subsisting the Choctaw,

Creek, Cherokee, and Ohio Indians $474,013

For holding a treaty with the Potawattamies, to

extinguish their remaining title in Illinois,     $10,000

For carrying into effect treaty with Chickasaws

to be refunded out of sales of their land 1,000,000

For do. do. with the Ottawas $47,400

For do. do. with the Menominees $53,400

For several small items-together, $5,000

For expense if found necessary of repressing

Indian hostilities of the frontiers $10,000




      


From the Cross.

LETTER OF MR. Mc.COY

The letter from which extracts are given below, was addressed to Mr. J. R. John, of Troy, Miami County, Ohio. It contains some facts which we presume will be new and interesting to our readers. Mr. French, if we mistake not, was from Miami county.- The letter having been forwarded to our disposal, we publish the following extracts. It is dated.

SHAWANEE (sic) JACKSON

CO. MO. DEC, 1832

My  Dear Friends;_ Your favor by Daniel French was received by my family in my absence to Arkansas.- We were all happy to hear from you.***

I am located about a mile within the State of Missouri. How I know long this will be my place of residence not.

You are aware, that, in the last five years, I have roamed over a good deal of country. My business has extended from Boston and Washington to the western limits of our Indian Territory. I have encountered much hardship, but the Lord has been my helper.

It has been the pleasure of my heavenly Father, to afflict us in regard to our children. Seven have been taken away, and the last four--all sons-- were taken in less than two years' time. Still the Lord is kind as well as just. Josephus and Rice both gave evidence of the conversion of their souls. The other two sons were small.

My family are now all about home, and in health, and, in all respects except religion my living children are a great comfort to us.

The work of colonizing our Indians is still going forward, though slowly. In the course of five years, I have performed a good deal of exploring, surveying, mapping, reporting, writing, 'c. At this time the government is about forming a code of laws for the government for the Indian Territory.

Mr. French is associated with a Mr. Evans at a mission of which Mr. Lykias has the superintendence, among the Shawanees(sic), about five miles from where I write. We have great hope that he will be extensively useful. We meet there now in the capacity of a church. Our mission among the Shawanees is but just going into operation. I think the prospect of good being done is encouraging. I have been twice to Arkansas since the beginning of fall. I assisted in constituting a church there among the Creeks. We have now a Mr. Lewis, late of New York, and a Mr. Davis, a Creek Indian,  preaching among the Creeks. While I was in that country, on one Sunday, two Indians were baptized; a month afterwards thirty-seven  were baptized, and on the monthly meeting, Sunday, ten more were baptized; a majority of them were negroes,-slaves to the Indians; the residue were Indians, excepting one white woman. A Sunday School has been instituted among the Creeks.

Among the Cherokees of Arkansas, a brother O'Bryant resides with a little church which emigrated to that country with him last spring. A brother Wilson of Philadelphia is now here, and will proceed in a few days to the Choctaws of Arkansas and Red River. I have also received a letter from a brother Burch, a Choctaw Baptist minister, and hope we shall soon be able to place him with Wilson among his people. Burch has baptized 23 among the Choctaws east of Mississippi.

In this upper part of the Territory, we have a knowledge of six openings for mission stations that we hardly know from which the call for help is most pressing. More than a dozen missionaries would be set to work at once under auspices  circumstances.- Do try to find some, and send them without delay.

Most affectionately your brother,

and obedient servant.

ISSAC McCOY.




      


MR. WILLIAM WALKER'S LETTER.

'Immediately after we landed in St. Louis, on our way to the West, I proceeded to Gen. Clarke's, superintendent of Indian Affairs, to present our letters of introduction from the Secretary of War, and to receive the same from him to the different Indian agents in the upper country.  While in this office and transacting business with him, he informed me that three chiefs from the Flat-head Nation were in his house, and were quite sick, and that one (the forth) had died a few days ago. They were from the west of the Rocky Mountains. Curiosity prompted me to step into the adjoining room to see them, having never seen any, but often heard of them. I was struck by their appearance. They differ in appearance from any tribe of Indians I have ever seen; small in size, delicately formed, small limbs, and the most exact symmetry throughout except the head. I had always supposed from their being called 'Flat-Heads', that the head was actually flat on the top; but this is not the case. The head is flattened thus: (here in is a drawing in profile of a 'flat-head') From the point of the nose to the apex of the head, there is a perfect straight line, the protuberance of the forehead is flattened or levelled. You may form some idea of the shape of their heads from the rough sketch I have made with the pen, though I confess I have drawn almost too long a proboscis for a Flat-head. This is produced by a pressure upon the cranium while in infancy. The distance they had travelled on foot was nearly three thousand miles to see Gen., Clarke, their great father, as they called him, he being the first American officer they ever became acquainted with, and having much confidence in him, they had come to consult him as they said upon very important matters. Gen. Clarke related to me the object of their mission, and, my dear friend, it is impossible for me to describe to you my feelings while listening to his narrative.  I will here relate it as briefly as I well can. It appeared that some white man had penetrated into their country, and happened to be a spectator at one of their religious ceremonies, which they scrupulously perform at stated periods. He informed them that their mode of worshipping the Supreme Being was radically wrong, and instead of being acceptable and pleasing, it was displeasing to him; he also informed them that the white people away toward the rising of the sun had been put in possession of the true mode of worshipping the great Spirit. They had a book containing directions how to conduct themselves in order to enjoy his favor and hold converse with him; and with this guide, no one need go astray, but every one that would follow the directions laid down there, could enjoy in this life, his favor, and after death would be received into the country where the great Spirit resides, and live forever with him.

Upon receiving this information, they called a national council to take this subject into consideration. Some said, if this be true it is certainly high time we are put in possession of this mode, and if our mode of worshipping be wrong and displeasing to the great Spirit, it is time we had laid it aside, we must know something more about this, it is a matter that cannot be put off, and the sooner we know the better. They accordingly deputed four of their chief to proceed to St. Louis to see their great father, Gen. Clarke, to inquire of him, having no doubt but he would tell them the whole truth about it.

They arrived at St. Louis, and presented themselves to Gen. C. The latter was somewhat puzzled being sensible of the responsibilities that rested on him; he however proceeded by informing them that what they had been told by the white man in their own country was true. Then he went into a succinct history of man, from his creation to the advent of the Savior, explained to them all the moral precepts contained in the Bible expounded to them the decalogue informed them of the advent of the Savior, his life, precepts, his death, resurrection, ascension, and the relation he now stand to man as a mediator-that he will judge the world 'c.

Poor fellows, they were not all permitted to return home to their people with the intelligence. Two died in St. Louis, and the remaining two though somewhat indisposed, set out for their native land. Whether they reached home or not is not known. The change of climate and diet operated very severely upon their health.  Their diet when at home is chiefly vegetables and fish.

________________

Mission to the Flat Heads.- The article which we inserted a few weeks since under the head of 'Wise men of the West' seems to have excited a fine missionary spirit among our Methodist brethren, in whose paper the article was originally published. The following animating letter from the Rev. Wilbur Fisk, we find in the Christian Advocate and Journal of last week.-  N. Y. Obs.

HEAR! HEAR!



Who will respond to the call from beyond the Rocky Mountains?

Messrs Editors.- The communication of brother G. P. Disasway, including one from the Wyandot agent on the subject of the deputation of the Flat Head Indians to Gen. Clarke, has excited in many in this section intense interest. And to be short about it, we are for having a mission established there at once. I have proposed the following plan: Let two suitable men, unencumbered with families, and possessing the spirit of martyrs, throw themselves into the nation; live with them-learn their language-preach Christ to them-and as the way opens introduce school, agriculture, and the arts of civilized life. The means for these improvements can be introduced through the fur traders, and by the reinforcements with which from time to time we can strengthen the mission.  Money shall be forth coming. I will be bondsman for the church. All we want is men. Who will Go? Who? I know of whom I can say, I know of none like him for this enterprize. If he go, (and we have written to him on the subject) we only want another, and the mission will be commenced the coming season. Were I young and healthy, and unencumbered how joyfully would I go! But this honor is reserved for another. Bright will be his crown; glorious his reward.  Affectionately yours,

W. FISK

Wesleyan Seminary, March 9, 1833.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA; MAY 4, 1833

PROGRESS OF THE GEORGIA LAWS.

It will be recollected the Legislature of Georgia passed an act for dividing the Cherokee country into ten counties to be named Forsyth, Lumpkin, Union, Cobb, Gilmer, Cass, Murray, Floyd and _aulding, providing for the organization of said counties and the election of officers, 'c. Pursuant to this act of usurpation on the 4th of March last, a general election for officers was held throughout the said counties, when there were elected fifty judges to the inferior courts, ten sheriffs, twenty clerks for the inferior and superior courts, ten tax collectors, ten country surveyors, ten coroners all residents on the lands taken from the Cherokees, all commissioned by the Governor and now exercising the functions of their respective offices.

The ascendent party in Georgia, or the party in power deny that their measures over the Cherokees to be an exercise of nullification. But we ask, what have become of our sixteen solemn treaties which guaranteed forever to the Cherokees the integrity of their territory. They have been destroyed; and put under foot by the same rule that one man should murder another, and rob him, without having made a previous declaration. In the meantime the President has moved his finger against Carolina for the same offence of infringing on the supreme law of the land, and did not the dormant cannot awake from his slumbers and command Carolina to desist from the intended act of usurpation! If the State of Georgia has not rode the named nullification horse to destroy our treaties and rob us of our lands, she has undoubtedly that of a wolf in sheep's clothing in the presence of the President with her laws over the Cherokees set aside as void by the Supreme Court, legislated for the Cherokees; deprived them of their right of testimony; robbed them of their lands, and superseded the operation of our constitutional treaties. If this is not nullification, and something worth putting to right by the American people, this reprehensible and grossly inconsistent proceedings of the President and Georgia, the Cherokees can never hope for tranquility, until they shall have descended to the tomb and joined their fathers.

____________________

The Southern Recorder in a prelude to an article copied from the Cherokee Phoenix into that print, tells his readers that the Phoenix is under the revision of Ross. The labors of the former Editor of this paper were also claimed by some prints to be the work of the Rev. S. A. Worcester, but the design to make him out incapable utterly failed-as will the Recorder, so long as is the case, absolutely impossible for a Georgia paper to tell one truth on the affairs of the Cherokees.

________________________

ERROR CORRECTED

The 4th number of the New York Spectators, says, that we had taken exceptions to the publication in that paper of some murders alleged against the Cherokees. We are sure that we have not said a word against the honorable course that print has taken in relation to Indian affairs, our cotemporances(sic) have mistaken our remarks, they were intended for the National Intelligencer.

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

MURDER OF CHRISTIAN INDIANS ON THE MUSKINGUM.

A little more than half a century ago there was a Guadenhutten on the Muskingum, a settlement of Christian Moravian Indians, who took no part in the prevailing wars, and were so peaceable they

Lived unknown

Till persecution dragged them into fame

And chased them up to heaven.

Many persons who adopted the sentiments long before advanced in a sermon by a worthy clergyman of Boston, that Indians were Canaanites and should be completely exterminated, were indignant because the Governor of Pittsburgh had released several friendly Indians that had been unjustly imprisoned. One hundred and sixty met at Wheeling and Buffalo and proceeded to Guadenhutten with more than the malice of Satan when he entered Eden. Upon their arrival they professed much sympathy and friendship and easily for the unsuspecting Indians whom they said, they had come to escort to Pittsburgh where they should be protected from their enemies. They possessed themselves of their guns and hatches, which they promised to return at Pittsburgh. In this the brethren acquiesced ' thought they saw in it the protecting hand of God.

A number of the strangers expressing a desire to see Salem, another Christian settlement, they were accompanied by some of the brethren. There also, they possessed much friendship and easily prevailed upon the Indians to return with them. On the way, they entered into much spiritual conversation, for they pretended to be very religious. Suddenly they were seized, bound, and deprived of even their pocked knives ' when they arrived at Gaudenhutten, they found brethren there in the same condition. The murderers then held a council to determine how they should put them to death. Some wished to burn them alive, but it was resolved to scalp them; and a messenger was sent to tell them that as they were Christian Indians they might prepare themselves in a Christian manner, for they must all die the very next day.- In vain they appealed to God for their innocency.  It was enough that they were Indians.  Their doom was irrevocably fixed.  Neither bloodless hands-nor sincere hearts-nor father entreaty, nor mothers tears nor the inoffensiveness of infancy moved the hearts of there determined to do the work of death.

The last night these pious natives spent on earth was employed in praying, and encouraging each other to remain faithful unto the end, and in confessions and expressions of forgiveness and love.

When the morning arrived the murderers expressed great impatience to commence the work of carnage. The brethren declared they 'were ready to die, having commended their immortal souls to God who had given them divine assurance in their hearts that they should be with him forever.'

Immediately after this the defenseless victims were bound two and two together with ropes, and led into two houses which their murderers had prepared and denominated slaughter houses; and there scalped and pierced with swords, so that the blood flowed in streams into the cellars. Thus sixty-two adults, and thirty-four children were butchered, in cold blood. Only two escaped one having been scalped lay among the corpses as dead, till the murderers retired, the other being concealed in the cellar of one of the slaughter houses.

How often do parents fill the minds of their children with recital of murders committed by Indians, and thus creating toward that unfortunate and much injured people an aversion as lusting as life.  Let such think of Muskingum and be silent. While we tell of their cruelties, they can tell more deeds of one that much better befitting Turk than those who profess to have 'drunk the sigh of Calvary.'

______________________

CHEROKEE ANECDOTE

Last Sabbath a Georgian intruder attended a religious meeting, and requested a pious Cherokee who sometimes conducts meetings to appoint at his house. The Cherokee made him no direct answer. At the close of the exercises I observed the Georgian looking as though desirous to know if an appointment had been made stopping to the Cherokee I said 'did you appoint a meeting?' He replied in a low voice 'No, he smell whiskey.'

BRUCE

_________________________

A few days ago a missionary while instructing a Cherokee family remarked, that the wicked would be sent to a place of endless torment. A Cherokee with much gravity enquired-'The same as the Georgians?'  When he was told that all the wicked would be confined to the same place of punishment, he appeared somewhat uneasy and said he would hate to live forever with Georgians.

BRUCE

__________

Two prisoners in the penitentiary at Milledgeville refused to partake in the lottery by which the Cherokee lands are disposed of. Would that Georgia would learn of honesty from some of her degraded citizens.  There may it seems be honesty in prisons when it has none from legislative halls.

BRUCE

_______________________

For a certain lady's album.

Thy looks shall soon be as the dwellings

Of the lamented dead;

Each leaf like a cold marble telling

Of some bright spirit fled.

Oft as thine eye shall wander,

O'er its silent grave;

Sadly thy heart shall ponder,

Upon life's pilgrimage.

And thy full tide of feeling,

Shall turn to worlds above,

Whose ecstacies are stealing

The objects of thy love.

Should I before the slumber;

Then let this stanza tell,

I was of the number,

Who truly wished thee well;-

Wish'd God's mercy peace and grace

Might here thy portion be

And the vision of his face

Through all eternity.

Cherokee Nation, Feb. 1st. 1833.

______________________

MAGNANIMOUS CONDUCT OF GEORGIANS

TOWARDS THE CHEROKEES.

Georgians are continually passing among the Cherokees enquiring 'Have you any whiskey-where is such a district and such a section.' Two men supposed to be of this description called a few evenings ago at the house of one nearest Cherokee neighbor and requested entertainment because they were 'Methodist Brethren.' In the morning they refused to make the poor Cherokee any compensation and even threatened to whip him for telling them he knew they were not brethren because they cursed and swore.

BRUCE




      


From the Columbia (S. C.) Telescope.



 The Dilemma Evaded.- The President, or his directors, have felt the grossness of his conduct, in preparing to use force against South Carolina, for a mere prospective Nullification while he was himself directly encouraging Georgia, in acts of Nullification already put into effect. A new move has therefore been made. The Presidential influence has been tried upon Georgia; perhaps with the intimation that it was no longer possible for the President to evade enforcing the decision of the Supreme Court, unless he likewise yielded to the Carolina proceedings.  Be this as it may, the good Governor of that 'Nullification abhorring State, has pardoned the Missionaries; and they have been enlarged from the Penitentiary.

This is truly shikul(sic). As a more than twelve month of notorious acquiescence-upon favoring of the act of Georgia, could thus be of a sudden reversed and given over to oblivion, whenever it suits King Andrew, that his subjects on the eastern side of a river shall be dealt with differently from those on the other bank?

The missionaries have, it is true, given up their suit against the State; and so far as the President is rid of a present difficulty. But why did he not send a fleet and an army to Savannah, long before he marched against us?  Nay, why does he not now?  Georgia has taken forcible possession of the Indian lands, in direct and violent contravention of the laws of Congress and decree of the Federal Courts. She raised State Troops, for this purpose.  She has enacted and enforced an Oath of Allegiance not only as to the Nullifiers-her loyal citizens-but against the Indians and Missionaries-her Union party. If she has now dispensed with the oath of allegiance, it is (as Governor Lumpkin avers) because he had introduced such a population on Indian lands, as to enable her to execute her laws. The whole possession of these lands is a case of Nullification, as complete as any that is ever likely to happen in South Carolina.  Nothing at all equivalent in point of violence has ever been thought of in this State. Where are the Presidential thunders? Where the fleets-armies-Proclamation?

One word solves the whole enigma-GEORGIA HAS NO UNION PARTY, TO WEAKEN, TO DENOUNCE, TO BETRAY HER; and to call down upon their own State, the fury of her sectional enemies and of an ignorant and savage tyrant.




      


UNITED STATES AGENTS

NOTICE

ALL those Indians who are entitled to pay for improvements on the ceded lands under the Treaties of 1817 ' 1819, whose accounts have been forwarded, and approved by Congress, are notified to attend at this Agency on the 15th of May next, or as soon thereafter as convenient, and receive their pay.

They must attend personally if alive, if dead their legal representatives are entitled.

H. MONTGOMERY,

6th April.






      


INDIANS

From the New York Spectator.

Letter from Washington Irving:- The friends of the distinguished writer will be well pleased to hear from him again, and still more to read the following sketch of his recent journeyings among the wild tribes beyond the verge of civilization; and we earnestly hope, that it will not be long before we have something more than a sketch of this interesting tour; although we believe he has as yet written nothing upon the subject for the press. The letter before us, it will be perceived, was written to a friend in Europe, during Mr. Irving's recent sojourn in Washington.  It reaches us through the medium of the London Athenaeum.

WASHINGTON CITY,

Dec. 18, 1833 (sic)

I arrived here a few days since, from a tour of several months, which carried me far to the West, beyond the bounds of civilization.

After I wrote to you in August, from I think, Niagara, I proceeded with my agreeable fellow travelers, Mr. L. and Mr. P. * to Buffalo, and we embarked at Black Rock, on Lake Erie. On board of the steam-boat was Mr. E. one of the commissioners appointed by government to superintend the settlement of the emigrant Indian tribes, to the west of the Mississippi. He was on his way to the place of rendezvous, and on his invitation, we agreed to accompany him in his expedition. The offer was too tempting to be resisted; I should have an opportunity of seeing the remnants of those great Indian tribes, which are now about to disappear as independent nations, or to be amalgamated under some new form of government. I should see these fine countries of the 'far west' while still in a state of pristine wildness, and behold herds of buffaloes, scouring their native prairies, before they are driven beyond the reach of a civilized tourist.

We, accordingly, traversed the center of Ohio, and embarked in a steam-boat at Cincinnati, for Louisville, in Kentucky.  Thence we descended the Ohio River in another steam-boat, and ascended the Mississippi to St. Louis. Our voyage was prolonged by repeatedly running aground, in consequence of the lowness of the waters and on the first occasion were nearly wrecked and sent to the bottom, by encountering another steam-boat coming with all the impetuous of a high pressure engine, and a rapid current.  Fortunately we had time to shear a little so as to receive the blow obliquely, which carried away part of a wheel, and all the upper works on one side of the boat.

From St. Louis, I went to Fort Jefferson, about nine miles distant, to see Black Hawk, the Indian warrior, and his fellow prisoners-a forlorn crew, emaciated and dejected-the redoubtable chieftain himself, a meager old man upwards of seventy. He has, however, a fine head, a Roman style of face, and a prepossessing countenance.**** * *** ** ** ** *** ** ** * * * * * * * * * *

At St. Louis, we bought horses for ourselves, and a covered wagon for our baggage, tents, provisions, 'c. and travelled by land to Independence a frontier hamlet of log-houses, situated between two and three hundred miles up the Missouri, on the utmost verge of civilization.

From Independence, we struck across the Indian country, along the line of the Indian missions; and arrived on the 8th of October after ten or eleven days' tramp, at Fort Gibson, a frontier fort in Arkansas.  Our journey lay most entirely through vast prairies, or open grassy plain diversified occasionally by beautiful groves and deep fertile bottoms along the streams of water. We lived in frontier and almost Indian style camping out at nights, except when we stopped at the Missionaries, scattered here and there in this vast wilderness.  The weather was serene, and we encountered but one rainy night and one thunder storm, and I found sleeping in a tent a very sweet and healthy repose. It was now upwards of three weeks since I had left St. Louis, and taken to travelling on horse back, and it agreed with me admirably.

On arriving at Fort Gibson, we found that a mounted body of Rangers, nearly a hundred, had set off two days before to make a wide tour to the west and south, through the wild hunting countries; by way of protecting the friendly Indians, who had gone to the buffalo hunting, and to overawe the Pawnees, who are the wandering Arabs of the West, and continually on the maraud. We determined to proceed on the track of this party, escorted by a dozen or fourteen horsemen (that we might have nothing to apprehend from any straggling party of Pawnees), and with three or four Indians, as guides and interpreters, including a captive Pawnee woman. A couple of Creek Indians were dispatched by the commander of the Fort to overtake the party of Rangers, and order them to await our coming up with them. We were to travel in still simpler and rougher style, taking as little baggage as possible, and depending on our hunting for supplies; but were to go through a country abounding with game. The finest sport we had hither to had, was an incidental wolf hunt, as we were traversing a prairie; which was very animated and picturesque. I felt now completely launched in a savage life, and extremely excited and interested by this wild country, and the wild scenes, and people by which I was surrounded. Our rangers were expert hunters, being mostly from Illinois, Tennessee, 'c.

We overtook the exploring party of mounted Rangers in the course of three days, on the banks of the Arkansas; and the whole troop crossed that river on the 16th of October, some of rafts, some fording.  Our own immediate party had a couple of half breed Indians as servants who understood the Indian customs. They constructed a kind of boat or raft out of a buffalo skin, on which Mr. E. and myself crossed the river and its branches, at several times, on the top of about a hundred weight of baggage-an odd mode of crossing a river a quarter of a mile wide.

We now led a true hunting life, sleeping in the open air, and living upon the produce of the chase, for we were three hundred miles beyond human habitation, and part of the time in a country hitherto explored.

We got to the region of buffaloes and wild horses; killed some of the former, and caught some of the latter. We were, moreover, on the hunting grounds of the Pawnees, the terror of that frontier; a race who scour the prairies on fleet horses, and are like Tartars or roving Arabs.

We had to set guards round our camp, and tie up our horses for fear of surprise; but, though we had an occasional alarm, we passed through the country without seeing a single Pawnee. I brought off, however, the tongue of a buffalo, of my own shooting, as a trophy of my hunting, and am determined to rest my renown as a hunter, upon that exploit, and never to descent to smaller game. We returned to Fort Gibson, after a campaign of about thirty days, well seasoned by hunter's fare and hunter's life.

* *   * *  *  * *  * * ** *

From Fort Gibson, I was about five days descending the Arkansas to the Mississippi, in a steam-boat, a distance of several hundred miles; and then continued down the latter river to New Orleans, where I passed some days very pleasantly.

New Orleans is one of the most motley and amusing place of the United States; a mixture of America and Europe. The French part of the cay is a counterpart of some French provincial towns; and the levee, or esplanade, along the river, presents the most whimsical groups of people of all nations, castes, ' colors. French, Spanish, Indian, Half-Breed, Creoles, Mulattoes, Kentuckians, 'c. I passed two days with M. on his sugar plantation just at the time when they were making sugar. *   * *   *  * *  *  * *  *  * *  *




      


From the New York Spectator.

More Indian Treaties.- A treaty was concluded at Fort Armstrong, Illinois on the 21st of September last between the United States on the one part, and the Sac and Fox Indians on the other. It stipulates for a cession to the former of a tract of country included within the following bound, to wit;

Beginning on the Mississippi River, at the point where the Sac and Fox northern boundary line, as established by the second article of the Prairie du Chen, of the 10th of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty, strikes said river; thence up said boundary line to a point fifty miles from the Mississippi measured on said line; thence in a right line to the nearest point on the Red Cedar of the Ioway, 40 miles from the Mississippi River; thence in a right line to a point in the northern boundary line of the State of Missouri, fifty miles, measured on said boundary, from the Mississippi River; thence by the last mentioned boundary to the Mississippi River, and by the western shore of said river to the place beginning.

By a subsequent provision, there is reserved from the forgoing a tract of four hundred square miles for the use of the Indians on both sides of the Ioway River, including Le-o-kuck's principal village.  In consideration of the promises the United States are to pay $20,000 per annum to the Indians in specie for thirty successive years, with sundry other stipulations of minor importance. Black Hawk and The Prophet, with their sons, and five other Indians, are to remain as hostages during the pleasure of the President of the United States.

Another treaty with the Appalachicola band of Indians in Florida, was concluded at Tallahassee on the 11th October last, which likewise stipulates for a cession to the United States of a prior reservation which is described as commencing on the Appalachicola, one mile below Tuski Hujo's improvements, running up said river four miles, thence west 2 miles, thence southerly to a point due west of the beginning thence east to the beginning point.

The United States are to pay therefore the sum of $13,000 and the Indians, 256 in number are to remove on or before the 1st of November next, west of the Mississippi, beyond the limits of the states and territories of the former.

A third treaty between the United States and the Kickapoo tribe of Indians was concluded at Castor Hill in the State of Missouri, on the 20th of October last, by which the latter cede to the former all their claims to lands within the state of Missouri, in consideration whereof they are to receive lands lying southwest of the Missouri Rivers as their permanent residence described as follows:-

'Beginning on the Delaware line, six miles westwardly of Fort Leavenworth, thence with the Delaware line westwardly sixth miles, thence north twenty miles, thence in a direct line to the west bank of Missouri, at a point twenty-six miles north of Fort Leavenworth, thence down the west bank of Missouri, at a point six miles northwest of Fort Leavenworth, and thence to the beginning.'

The United States are also to pay to the Kickapoos $18,000, besides an annuity of $5,000 per annum for nineteen years, with sundry other minor payments, amounting in all to about $30,000. The tract assigned to the Kickapoos contains about twelve thousand square miles.

The greatest objection to these and the preceding Indian treaties that we have noticed, seems to be, that their new locations are still too near the whites. The farther they are removed from us, the better for them. They will probably be but scarcely warm in their new abodes before the encroaching spirit of our border patriots will seek to drive them still farther into the wilderness. Let them, therefore, make new their real remove beyond the Rocky Mountains to the remotest space that can be found for them on this side of the Pacific.




      


From the Arkansas Gazette..

Negotiations with the Indians- We are indebted to an Officer of the army at Fort Gibson for the following letter, giving advice of the progress of the negotiations with the Indian tribes.

'FORT GIBSON, 9th March 1633 (sic)

Sir:- The Commissioners appointed by the President of the United States for the purpose of holding treaties with, and setting matters of dispute relative to land boundaries, 'c. arising between the different Indian tribes, west of the Mississippi River, were to have held a Council with the Osage Nation on the 25th of last month at the Grand Saline, on the Neosho River, and on the 23d of the same month, Maj. Young of the United States Army, with companies A. and D. of the 7th Infantry, and Capt. Bean's company of the United States Rangers, was, at the instance of the Commissioners, detached from this post, for the purpose of attending them during the operations of the council. The detachment arrived at the point of destination on the 24th and formed their encampment near the Neosho. The Osages, about 700 in number, arrived in the course of a few days afterwards, and pitched their camps about a mile distant.

The weather was cloudy and cold, so much so, as to render the movements of the Indians extremely tardy, and they were so much under the influence of a superstition, which is common to the wild Indians of the west that they could not be prevailed on to go into Council during the continuance of the cloudy weather. At length however, on the seventh instant, the day being clear and pleasant, the Indians assembled, and the ceremony of shaking hands-(which is always a preparatory measure with them, to the commencement of business)- was performed; but, in consequence of the utter impossibility, in that place, of procuring forage for the horses of the Rangers, or even the necessary supplies of provisions for the Indians, the Commissioners thought proper to adjourn the Council to this post, where they themselves and the troops arrived yesterday-and the Indians are expected tomorrow. Should they arrive,and weather be fair, the council will progress on Monday, the 11th inst.

The Gazette adds-

By the arrival of the steam-boat Spy, which left Fort Gibson on the morning of the 12th instant, we learn, that one town of the Osages, consisting of five hundred souls, arrived at that post on the preceding day, and that another large body of that nation were expected the day she left, for the purpose of attending the Council with the U. S. Commissioners.




      


The Aborigines of America- It is commented that the aboriginal inhabitants of America amount not to the twentieth part of those who existed when this continent was discovered by Columbus. This decay is ascribed to the intemperate use of ardent spirits, and to the small pox, both of them introduced by the Europeans. They are indebted to us also for the 'intemperate use' of the sword and the dreadful bigotry and cruelties practiced by the religious and avaricious Spaniards, which certainly were not less destructive than the contagion of the small pox, or the poison of spirituous liquors.

Bartholomew Casa affirms that the Spaniards in America destroyed in about forty-five years ten millions of human souls! And this with a view of converting these unfortunate men to Christianity. There is a story recorded of an Indian, who, being tied to the stake, a Franciscan friar persuaded him to turn Christian, and then he would go to heaven. The Indian asked him if there were any Spaniards there.- 'Certainly,' answered the friar, 'it is full of them.' 'Then I had rather go to h__l than to have any more of their company.' were the last words of the dying Indian.- Boston Transcript.




      


FROM ARKANSAS.

Copy of a letter to the Editor of the Arkansas Gazette, from Col. S. C. Stanbaugh, Secretary to the Board of U. S. Commissioners for settling differences, 'c. among the Western tribes of Indians, dated.

'Fort Gibson, Feb. 5, 1833.

'Dear Sir:- An express arrived at this place yesterday, from Fort Towson, bringing the intelligence, from the Commandant of that post, that a very serious outrage has been committed by a party of Osage Indians, in Miller County, Arkansas Territory. Mr. Simpkins, who is represented as a very respectable citizen, has sustained damages in the loss of property to the amount of nearly two thousand dollars; and several other houses have been plundered. Parties of Osage Indians have been discovered within a few miles of this place, within the last ten days, approaching this county from the direction of Red River, loaded with articles of clothing, bed quilts, knives, spoons, and a variety of merchandise, answering to the property stolen. As the depredating Indians used violence, in driving families from their homes, and killed and drove off a number of cattle, it is supposed a military force will be sent in the direction of Fort Towson, from this place, as it is supposed there are still a band lurking in the vicinity.  The commissioners can do nothing more in the matter than direct the Intercourse Law, which is plain on the subject, to be carried into effect-that is, demand the stolen goods of the Indians, and if they refuse to surrender them, to report the matter to the War Department, that the proper steps may be taken to secure indemnity to the party injured.  I am sorry to say, that the Osages have been very troublesome lately-very little behind the Pawnees and Koomanchees (sic).

'The Commissioners are now in the midst of the Cherokee and Creek treaty, for the purpose of establishing their boundaries.  I trust we shall get throu' in two or three days, and that the dispute about their lines existing between these tribes, will be adjusted in such a manner as not only to gratify those who have already emigrated, but who to induce the removal of the whole of the nations still remaining east of the Mississippi. You are aware that this is a matter of deep and absorbing interest to the Government, and the adjustment which we hope to make will be received with much satisfaction by the Government and the States interested.'

_______________________

An Act to protect the Cherokee Indians in the peaceable and quiet possession of the lands secured to them by the existing laws of the state, and also to secure their property and persons from illegal violations, and to provide for bringing to trial of the trespassers upon the lots or fractions of land belonging to the state in the Cherokee country, and prescribing the punishment to which they shall be subjected upon conviction 'c.

Whereas under the provisions of the existing laws of this state, the right of occupancy and peaceable and quiet possession of their lands, has been secured to the Cherokee Indians, who still remain in this state, so long as they can continue to occupy the same; and whereas the unoccupied lands, which surround their present abodes, are about to be granted to and settled by the inhabitants of this state, and whereas that country in a short time will be regularly organized into counties and districts, to further the administration of public justice and whereas, doubts exist that the remnant of Indians remaining in said Territory may be liable to the depredations of lawless and dissolute white men.

Be it enacted by the Senate ' House of Representatives of the state of Ga. in General Assembly met and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same. That ten men under the command of a fit and qualified officer, shall be continued in the Cherokee country, who shall have full and complete power to protect each and every Indian in his and their persons, and also in the enjoyment of all their personal property that may be in their possession; and it shall be the duty of said commanding officer and his guard, to prevent the intrusion no matter by whom on any lot of land already or hereafter to be drawn or fraction undisposed of, on which any Indian or Indians may and do actually reside and occupy, under the provisions of the land act, for the survey and disposition of the said Cherokee territory passed the twenty second day of December, eighteen hundred and thirty.

Sect. 5. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That it shall be the duty of the said commanding officer with the said guard in a body or in detail to continue to examine and visit and inspect all the aforesaid Indians' habitations and settlements, and to see that in the occupation of their lands they are not interrupted or disturbed, and also carefully to protect their persons from assault and abuse, as well as their personal property; and it shall also be the duty of said officer and those under his command, when trespass, or offence has been committed against the legal rights of said Indians and contrary to the spirit and meaning of this act, without delay to reinstate said Indians in the possession of their lands and personal property, and in these two latter cases as well as in cases of the abuse or injury of their persons to bind over the person or persons so offending, in a reasonable sum, with bond and security to answer for such illegal conduct, at the next Superior Court, that may be held in the county where the offence was committed; and that it shall be the duty of the Solicitor General said Judicial Circuit to prosecute to conviction all persons so offending.

Sec. 3 And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said commanding officer and guard aforesaid shall be appointed by his excellency the governor with the same pay and emoluments, and the late Georgia guard for the protection of the gold region, and shall be under the special direction and orders of the executive to be discharged upon the organization of the said counties.

Sec. 4. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That from and after the time the Justices of the Inferior Courts of the several counties which are laid off in the Cherokee territory, have been duly qualified it shall be their special duty, immediately thereafter to convene ' appoint some fit and proper person to act as agent or guardians, to protect the right of person and property of said Indians, say one for each county; and the said agent or guardian shall take the following oath before one of the said justices to wit: 'I, A B do solemnly swear that I will justly and impartially superintend, examine into, protect and defend all the rights of the Cherokee Indians residing in the County of _____ both as respects the occupation of their land and personal property, agreeably in the laws of this state, and against the unjust and illegal proceedings of all persons whatsoever; and that I will to the best of my ability, protect and defend the fractions belonging to the state in said county from the trespass of intrusion so help me God,' which agents had received a reasonable compensation out of the treasury of the state.

And be if further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That it shall be the bounden duty of such agents who may induce said Indians dispossessed of the occupation of their lands or that their personal property has been illegally taken from them, immediately to restore the same to the Indian occupant or owner. Provided never the less, that the person setting up any claim to the aforesaid property, shall have a right to appeal from said agents decision as and acting, which shall be proceeded on as claims on sheriffs levies, but the bunas probandi shall rest on said appellant, and the said appeal or claim, shall be tried at the next ensuing Superior Court, where the offence was committed, but until such decision is made, the Indian owner of personal property or Indian occupant of land shall be continued in possession; and it is hereby made the duty of said agent to guard diligently the fractions lying in the county in which he resides belonging to the state and prosecute to conviction or acquittal any person or persons trespassing on said fractions, by digging gold or otherwise, according to the laws of force in this state. As it is of importance to the humane and just character of the state and the citizens thereof, that in this particular case of the Cherokees, that no wanton, illegal, or oppressive proceedings, acts, or doings should be exercised towards them, during their residence in the said territory.

And be in further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Justices of the Inferior Court, Justices of the Peace, Sheriffs, Constables, and all Military officers, in each of the several counties aforesaid are hereby enjoined to see impartial justice done to said Indians, and to aid in sustaining their just rights.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That to secure the personal property of said Indians any person or persons, who shall actually dispossess them of it or attempt to do so; shall be considered as having been guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to be prosecuted criminally, and the fact being established, he will be subject to a fine of fourfold the value of the property so taken or attempted to be taken, besides such other fine not exceeding two hundred dollars, as the said court may deem fit.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all persons who shall by any act, either forcible deprive or in an illegal manner endeavor to deprive any Indian or Indians of the possession or occupation of any lot of land on which, or any part thereof, the said Indian has resided as a home, shall be subject to be indicted in the name of the state, as a misdemeanor, and in violation of the laws which are in a letter and spirit extended to the protection of said Indians; and on conviction, shall forfeit all right and title to said lot or any part thereof, and be fined in a sum not less than one hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that though the oaths of the Indians are not admitted in our courts of law for the purpose of protecting their persons property and lands, their rights shall be recognized for these special purposes, and be considered as standing on the same footing with free white citizens of the state, though all prosecutions and sentences be and shall be carried on in the name of the state, and on the criminal side of the Superior Court; and the laws shall be so construed as to carry the spirit and intent of this law into effect.

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all persons who shall attempt or actually dig gold on any fraction belonging to the state, or on any lot or lots of land belonging to the persons who have drawn or actually own the same, and who have not actually taken possession of the same, in the territory lately organized in the Cherokee country, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject the offender to a confinement in the penitentiary for a term of years not less than four years nor more than eight years.

And be it further enacted, That any person who shall be guilty of any trespass upon the premises of the Indian resident aforesaid shall be guilty of high misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars and confinement in the county jail for a term not less than three or more than six months.

And be it further enacted, That it shall not be lawful from and after this time, for any inferior court in this state whilst sitting as a Court of Ordinary, to grant letters of administration to any person or persons on the estate either real or personal of any deceased Cherokee Indian or the descendant of a Cherokee Indian.

ASBURY HULL,

Speaker of the House of Rep.

THOMAS STOCKS,

President of the Senate.

Assented to Dec. 21, 1832

WILSON LUMPKIN, Gov.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 18, 1833

In another part of this paper will be found one of the laws of Georgia said to be enacted for the special purpose of protecting the remnant or the Cherokee Indians in the peaceable possession and occupation of their improvements within Georgia. We intended to have given this extraordinary law an insertion at an early time but unavoidable circumstances prevented. It is not our intention to enter into a detailed commentary of the injustice of this law to the Cherokees, as well as of others to which it has a reference, but largely to remark on the unprecedented principle on which the legislation of Georgia on the rights of the Cherokees is predicated. The lots occupied by the Indians which this act processes to protect, recognizes no title to the Indian occupant; but obviously reserved to the Indians, as permissive occupants, at the will of the State.  The compact of Georgia, with the General Government recognizes a title to the lands to belong to the Indians.  The Constitution of Georgia prohibits the laying off of new counties west of the Chattahoochy on lands encumbered with the Indian title. The treaties of the government to which Georgia is a party recognizes a title. The superior and inferior courts of Georgia have recognized the Cherokee title-yet in direct contravention to these existing authorities, her own obligations, the legislature have by a sweeping act disinherited the Cherokees, robbed our rising generation from a participation of our lands, and under the garb of magnanimity of permitting the Indian to stay at his own home, placing him on the same footing of citizenship of a Georgian 'says' the Indians must not testify in a Georgia court, nor letters of administration shall be granted by the property of any deceased Indian. The law of 1830 to which this act makes a reference likewise prohibits the Indians from selling one to another the improvements which they have made with the labor of their own hands, their industry, and during their protracted oppression. This is what we feel to be grasping from us the unalienable rights of free men, and depriving the Cherokees of their personal rights of purchasing from each other improvements made on their lands. This is but a sketch, which we have thought proper to lay before our readers, of the inabilities of which we are rendered by the laws of Georgia.  Americans so tenacious of liberty-what think ye of this Algerine and most cruel legislation? We hold your bond for the security of this property, and the continuance of a good neighborhood.

_______________________

ATROCIOUS INJUSTICE.

It will be recollected in 1831 the Rev. H. Clauder missionary of the Moravians stationed in this vicinity, with a flourishing school, and a prosperous church, was arrested by the Georgia Guard, and ten days given him to remove without Georgia, which he was compelled to do; and after leaving a valuable improvements returned to the society in Salem N. C. Mr. Clauder was again sent out by the society to Spring Place, to supersede the Rev. G. Byhan and the appointment of Post Master at that place. The appointment placed him under the protection of the Gen. Government, and seemed to secure his residence as a missionary there, without the molestation of the Georgia authorities. But it appears that the learned Georgians are wretchedly behind that of the Roman notions of justice, they have not the 'perpetual will of doing right' they surveyed the Cherokee country, placed Mr. C. in a lot with a respectable Indian, drew for it, then granted by the Governor ' the worthy missionary with his Post Office commission driven off from a valuable improvement by the drawer, and utterly destroying two missionary stations in the Cherokees of the United Brethren. The national government have a character to sustain and it is with that government to see her own citizens protected from this persecution of usurpers.

Again: at Ellijay an industrious Indian had by his steady habits improved his premises to be of considerable value, when it was drawn by one of the lottery gamblers in Georgia. The fortunate drawer gathered up his all, including some two or three pistols, and moved to the Cherokee country, loaded his pistols entered the possession of Ootawhensia pointing one at him and drove the innocent Cherokee from his well cultivated field and was without a home the last account we had.

The Cherokee are doomed to suffer.

The following extract of Wilson Lumpkin's letter.

When a member of Congress to the written (sic) of this article will show the sudden revolution of his feelings towards the Cherokees and how faithless are the words of the white man to the Indians:

WASHINGTON CITY 14 MARCH 1828.

'For as a member of Congress, I hope you will not think me too assuming when I say-I consider myself bound to attend to the interest of the Indians in a peculiar manner-and especially those within the limits of Georgia.'

________________________

We omitted to state in our last, the passage near this place about three weeks since, two companies of U. S. troops from Augusta and Savannah on their way to Tennessee in the Cherokee country, when they are at present removing intruders, and burning their improvements. Would it not be a humane policy for the government to remove such poor dependents on the Cherokee lands west of the Mississippi.  In such a measure it would be truly benevolent and laudable; the sterile plains of the west might be made to blossom as the rose incur less expense, and abandon the consummate foolery offer to oppressing the aboriginal inhabitants ' that with the cloak of humanity colonizing them west of the Mississippi.






      


A

(Copy)

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, GA.

Milledgeville April 26, 1833

 Hon. Lewis Cass, Secretary of War.

Sir:- A few days ago, I addressed a letter to the President of the United States, on the subject of our Indian relations, which I requested, might be submitted to you.

In connection with the same subject, I herewith enclose you a copy (of the copy) of a letter, received by me a few days ago from a respectable gentleman who resides in the neighborhood of John Ross. That gentleman, with various others, informs me that Ross is exhibiting this indiscreet letter, and impressing the ignorant Indians and Indian countrymen, with the belief that he is authorized to say, from the authority of the War Department, that in a short time, all the Georgia settlers who have settled under the authority of the laws of Georgia, will be driven from their homes by the United States army. There may be some exaggeration in these statements; but I am forced to the conclusion, from what I have heard, and from the reading of this imprudent letter, that great efforts are making in that country to mislead, and delude the unfortunate Cherokees.

I do not hesitate in my reply, to such communications, to assure the people on place in the views of the Federal Executive, and the Indians so long as they choose to remain in Georgia, must yield implicit obedience to the supremacy of the laws of the state. And that no power of the Federal Government, will ever be exerted to remove the inhabitants, who have settled under the authority of the State, 'c. 'c., 'c; I am engaged in using all the means in my power, to counteract the mischievous influence of the enemies of good order in this half settled country.

But I consider it highly important, that you should with all possible dispatch, make such a communication to the Cherokees, as shall put an end to all false stories of the character pointed out.  Such a communication should be publicly and authentically made to the whole people, who may assemble at their council on the 11th of next month. It is submitted to your considerations, whether a communication from you or the President of the U. States himself might not be made through me to the Cherokees most effectually. At any rate please to let me hear from you immediately on this subject, for I deem it indispensable, at their approaching council, by some means, to remove the idle delusion into which these people are led, by the exertions of bad men. If the copy of the letter which I enclose you, be not a forgery, its deserves strong reprehension. Such production, from such a quarter are most mischievous. With great respect, your obedient servant.

WILSON LUMPKIN

_________

B

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office of Indian Affairs, March 14.

Sir:- Your letter of the 8th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War on the subject of intrusion on Cherokee land by white citizens, has been referred to this office for reply.

It cannot be denied, that your complaints are well founded, and that your people have sustained injuries from the rapacity and lawless conduct of our citizens. It is however in some degree an unavoidable evil incident to the present condition of your tribe, and no blame is fairly attributable to the Department on that account. It is due to the Secretary of War, to say that as soon as he received notice of intruders having presented themself (sic) on your land, he gave orders for their expulsion. These orders will now be repeated; and a military force will forthwith be sent to the assailed parts of your country for the purpose of expelling and keeping off intruders. And orders will also be given to the District Attorney of the United States to prosecute for trespass, all such as may dare to return after expulsion. You cannot consider it a misplaced assurance, and it is made with the utmost sincerity, that the Department cherishes deep solicitude for the welfare of your nation, and will to the extent of its powers, endeavor to promote it. With high respect, your humble servant.

ELBERT HERRING.

Messrs. John Ross and other, Cherokee Delegates.

______________

C.

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

 Office of Indian Affairs.

March 15th 1833

Complaints from various quarters and particularly from the Cherokee delegation to this place of intrusion on Cherokee land, have recently been made to the Department. It is the duty of the Government to put a stop to this illegal and most disgraceful practice of our people. The Cherokees must be protected in the quiet enjoyment of their possessions and our citizens must be punished, if possible, for any encroachment on their rights. The commanding officer at Fort Mitchel will be ordered to station troops at whatever places you may direct, and to assist you in expelling intruders and preventing their return. He will act under your instructions-and in carrying this into effect, you will proceed with firmness and at the same time with all possible moderation. A recurrence to former instructions on this subject will render it unnecessary to enlarge on this topic. Much must necessarily be left to your discretion, and it cannot be doubted that you will proceed with all due caution, and at the same time with all proper energy. Justice to the Cherokees and the plighted faith of the Government, demand instant and thorough attention to this business. If after their expulsion any of the intruders shall have the hardihood to return, you will cause the District Attorney of the United States to prosecute them for trespass. Their punishment would be but a proper atonement for their outrageous conduct and would tend to prevent it in others. You will of course cause public notice to be given to the intruders to depart peaceably and thereby avoid forcible expulsion. I am 'c.

ELBERT HERRING.

Col. H. Montgomery.

_____________

D.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

May 2, 1833

Sir:- I had the honor to receive your letter of the 26th ult. together with the copy of one from the commissioner of Indian Affairs, date March 11th, and addressed to some of the principal men among the Cherokees.

Before the receipt of your letter, application had been made by some of the Cherokees, to know whether any change had taken place in the opinions of the President, respecting the constitutional right of the Executive to remove persons from land claimed by the Indians, where the laws of the states had been extended over such land. They stated, that they made the inquiry because some of their people had taken up such an impression, founded on the above letter of the Commissioner. Correct this misapprehension, and explanatory letters, copies of which I have the honor to enclose, were written and despatched to Col. Montgomery, Cherokee Agent, Major Curry, the special Agent, for emigration, and to the Cherokee persons, who sought the information. These letters will undoubtedly remove any errors, which may have prevailed and will show that the opinions of the President, are unchanged.

Very respectfully, I have the honor to be, your ob't ser'vt.

LEWIS CASS.

His Excellency Wilson Lumpkin, Milledgeville, Ga.



________________

E

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS,

May 1, 1833

Sir:- In consequence of an application from several of the Cherokees, I have been instructed by the Secretary of War, to call your attention to my letter to you of March 15th, 1833, and to say to you that the provisions of that letter relate solely to those portions of the Cherokee country, within the state of Tennessee and North Carolina, and over which the laws of those States have not been extended.- The views of the President upon this subject have been too often and too publicly expressed, to leave any doubt of the course which, in his opinion, should be pursued. And this explanation would have been considered unnecessary, had not some of the cherokees intimated different views. The President yet thinks, as, he has always thought, the Executive has no constitutional right to apply military force to remove persons from any part of the States of Georgia or Alabama.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your ob't serv't

ELBERT HERRING.

Col. H. Montgomery.

___________________

F

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office Indian Affairs.

May 1, 1833

Sir:- Enclosed I transmit your copies of two letters of this date, one addressed to the Agent Col. Montgomery, ' the to (sic) other several of the Cherokees. You will see by these letters, that some misapprehension has existed, or has been affected, respecting the purport of an order sent by this office to Col. Montgomery on the 15th March last for the removal of intruders from the Cherokee country. That order is intended to operate only upon the Cherokee lands within the States of North Carolina and Tennessee, over which the state laws have not been extended.  The views of the Executive on this subject, have been so well known, that it was not supposed that any mistake could arise. If however any has arisen it will be cleared up by these instructions.- I am directed to communicate these facts to you, that you may be aware of the precise views of the President, and that you may correct any erroneous impressions which may have a tendency to prevent a favorable decision by the Cherokee council, which is about to convene.

Very respectfully,

Your obedient servant.

ELBERT HERRING.

Benj. F. Curry, Esq.

____________

G

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office Indian Affairs

May 1, 1832 (sic)

Gentlemen:_ I have been directed by the Secretary of War to acknowledge the receipt of your letter to him of April 5th and to inform you that no change whatever has taken place in the opinions of the President so often expressed to your people, and so clearly stated in the letters to which you allude from the War Department of 2d and 20th Feb. 1833 as well as in previous communications respecting the constitutional right of the Executive to apply military force, to the removal of persons from any part of the Indian country over which the laws of the proper States have been extended. My letter to Mr. Ross and others of the 14th March, and to Col. Montgomery of the 15th of March, were intended to relate solely to that part of the Cherokee country lying within the States of North Carolina and Tennessee, and over which these States have not extended their jurisdiction. The whole views of the Executive, were so well known to your people, that it was not supposed that any misapprehension on this subject could have existed.- And I am directed to state to you clearly, that the opinion is of the President, heretofore expressed, are unchanged, and that no interference with the laws of the respective States on this subject, must be expected. These views have been communicated to Col. Montgomery, though they cannot be necessary for his action in the matter. And I am instructer further to express to you the opinion of the President, that the immediate removal of your people in conformity with the very liberal terms held out to them, offers the only prospect of their permanent and prosperous establishment.

Very respectfully, I am. gentlemen, your ob't servant.

ELBERT HERRING.

John Ridge, Esq. and others, Head of Coosa.




      


From the Political Register

POLITICAL PRINCIPLES

Most persons will find no little difficulty in rightly comprehending the nature of our President's principles.- They vary just as occasion suits. He has one set for South Carolina and the North, and another for Georgia. One set for his friends and the other for those he thinks his enemies. In North Carolina he will execute the laws and treaties, and act in conformity to the decision of the Supreme Court because the people wish it, in South Carolina he will do the same, because the people do not wish it; and, in Georgia he will not do it, because the people do not wish it, and he has an object in making friends in Georgia.

It would thus seem, that a law of Congress and a treaty with the Indians is a law and treaty in North Carolina, but it is none in Georgia. The Government is bound to execute them in North Carolina, but it is not bound to do in Georgia, because Georgia has  nullified the law, and says that neither law nor treaty shall be executed.

When Georgia nullities both law and treaties, and says they shall not be executed, because they violate her right and sovereignty, we hear nothing from General Jackson of his imperative duty to execute the law. He is then a state rights man. Georgia has the right to decide upon the constitutionality of the laws, and she has decided the laws to be unconstitutional, he, the President, has no right to contravene her decision. But, when South Carolina does the same, how quick his blood is up! He is all for war and slaughter, and the imperative calls of duty cannot be resisted! Verily we have a most consistent President!

We are led to make these remarks by a perusal of a correspondence published in the journals, between Gov. Lumpkin and the War Department, published yesterday. It appears that the War Department, through the Commissioner of Indian affairs, writes to the Cherokees that 'a military force will be sent to keep off intruders' on the public Cherokee lands. The Department, probably having in its eye the proclamation and the bloody bill, takes for granted that the principles there avowed and embraced are the principles of the Administration, very naturally, and as a matter of course, sends the letter of the fourteenth of March, and, we presume, orders on the military to carry them into execution.

But, between the fourteenth of March and the second of May a great change takes place in the view of things. The President and the Administration become re-converted to nullification. The proclamation and bloody bill are laid on the shelf quo ad hoc for Governor Lumpkin writes to the President how 'indiscreet' and 'imprudent' it was to tell the Cherokees that the laws should be executed, and calls upon the President indirectly, to make the amende honorable to the sovereignty of Georgia, and recall or explain away the indiscreet' and 'imprudent' letter from the War Department. Well! No sooner said than done. The explanation is given;- and what is it? Why, forsooth, the War Department and Mr. Commissioner Herring meant precisely the contrary of what the words used by Mr. Herring usually mean.  When the Department said they would send the military to 'remove the intruders' they meant that they would send them 'not' to remove the intruders! Why send them then? We presume the order to the District Attorney is 'prosecute those who return,' are explained in the same way-that he is not to prosecute! What a pity that Mr. Commissioner Herring forgot that little adverb, 'not!'.  Strange what a difference these little insignificant letters can make in an affair between two sovereignties!  Peace or war, or, what is of still more importance, the Presidency of the United States, may depend upon their presence or absence.

We are glad, however, to find, that the State of Georgia, recurring to her sovereignty, has made the old hero back out of his proclamation and bloody bill-and Gov. Lumpkin may crow over the chieftain, and appropriate all his military and diplomatic honors to himself.  We presume the Governor will leave with the present incumbent all those he gained in the Cherokee negotiation. He, however, ought to have been content with his victory, and not have required that the retraction and explanation should pass 'through' him to the Cherokees. A little delicacy to the conquered party would not be unbecoming in the conqueror.

The Administration seems to have thought so too, and they would not take the Governor's hint. They made the explanation through the regular agents.

We suspect that the Cherokees will not be able to comprehend distinctly the nature of the protection which is to be granted to them, or how it should depend upon certain metes and bounds. They cannot, for example, comprehend why protection is offered against North Carolina, of whom they do not complain, and refused against Georgia, of whom they do. And still less will they be able to understand that, as soon as they have cause of complaint, against North Carolina, that at that moment the Government will recall its offer of protection, because then they will have no right to complain. In other words, as long as they have no cause of complaint they have a right to be protected; but as soon as they have cause, their right ceases!-Jackson-Van Buren moral and political metaphysics!

But it will be just as we said at first:-the bloody bill will sleep during the Cherokee controversy. Georgia will occupy the land, and extend her laws over the country, and the Cherokee Chiefs will get thrice the value of the land, and the United States will have to pay a few millions extra for the gratification of General Jackson's desire to crush South Carolina, and to get Georgia to vote for M. Van Buren.

We should like to see the letter to Col. Montgomery, of March 15, referred to by Commissioner Herring, in his letter to him of the first of May. How did the Colonel understand it? Did he construe it to mean what it did say or what it did not say? Was the little word

not put in or left out?

The accompanying remark of the Federal Union with the letters of Gov. Lumpkin, show conclusively that the whole manoeuvre is an electioneering one, for the benefit of the company.




      


Extract from the Missionary Herald.

'The grand motive, which induced Messrs. Worcester and Butler to expose themselves to the hardship and ignominious imprisonment which they have endured, was the good of the Cherokees. To the promotion of Christianity and civilization among them they had consecrated their lives. It was a sacred work, to which they felt commissioned as missionaries of the Lord Jesus, and they must not hastily retire from it, through fear of what they deemed oppression and violence, when there were laws, and tribunals, and magistrates, to whom they could appeal for protection. The apostles, it is believed, appealed in every similar case.- Their yielding would have discouraged the Cherokees, by virtually saying to them that the faith of the United States pledged to them, would be violated; ' that all the provisions made for their protection in the Constitution, treaties, and laws, of this Union would not be enforced; and that the missionaries did not to trust their own persons on these provisions.

Besides this great motive of doing good to the Cherokees, the missionaries in disregarding the law of the state of Georgia had some reference to the securing of their own rights as citizens of the United States and ministers of the gospel. These rights are invaluable to every man, as an individual. It may also be a duty, which a good man owes to his country and fellow citizens, to withstand what plainly appears to him to be oppression, and give opportunity for justice to be done by the execution of wholesome laws, even though detriment should come to himself.- The principle, that Christian duty requires every good man to retire before a threatened invasion of his rights would be dangerous in such a government as ours.  Equitable regard to the authority of the United States, under whose patronage and sanction they had been sent forth, and had labored, required them not hastily to abandon the work entrusted to them.

They have yielded none of the principles involved in these motives for the course of conduct they have pursued. They have not yielded the point, that they had originally a right to prosecute, unmolested, their labors among the Cherokees; that their views of the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, under which they acted, were correct; that they were right in appealing from the decision of the court of Georgia to the Supreme Court; that they had a just claim to immediate and unconditional release from imprisonment, in compliance with the decision and mandate of that Court, and that they might justly claim the further interposition of that court for their deliverance according to the due course of law.

Nor have they stopped short of accomplishing every object aimed at by them, which in their view, could possibly be accomplished by them, even if they should carry their suit to the utmost extremity.  The law under which their labors had been interrupted and their persons imprisoned, had been repealed, so that, by  their discharge they are able, without delay or fear of further molestation, to resume their missionary labors.  The Supreme Court in giving an opinion in the case of the missionaries, have incidently, but fully and explicitly, given an opinion respecting the meaning of the treaties and laws which have been made for protecting the rights of the Cherokees sustaining them in all which they have claimed. Whether this unhappy people will be reinstated in these rights, in conformity with the opinion of the Court, will be matter for future history to record.  The Court, also, by deciding unequivocally, in the face of the country, that the missionaries, in the controversy with the state of Georgia, had right and justice on their side, and that they had been arrested and imprisoned contrary to the Constitution and laws of the Union, have done all that the highest judicial tribunal in the nation could do to rescue their character from ignominy and reproach. In the present posture of our national affairs, it did not seem practicable to the missionaries, or to the Committee, to gain more. The ultimate result of this protracted and painful controversy, with prayerful and humble reliance on the wisdom of the divine administration, must be left with HIM, on whose hands the name of Zion is engraved, and who will cause all things to work together for good to those who love him.

In closing this article, it is due in justice, and it affords great pleasure that Col. Mills, the keeper of the penitentiary, continued his great and unvaried kindness to the imprisoned missionaries to the close of their confinement; and gave them every indulgence with respect to correspondence, visits from their friends, the arrangement for their labors, opportunities for instructing their fellow prisoners, and other things of similar nature, which could be expected by men in their circumstances from a Christian brother, and after their discharge he gratuitously furnished them the means of conveyance to their homes. From another gentleman of the state they have received numerous tokens of sympathy and kindness, which are duly appreciated by the missionaries and the Committee.

It is due to Messrs Worcester and Butler, also, to state that in resuming their labors among the Cherokees, they do it with the confidence of the Committee in their firmness, prudence, and devotedness to the missionary work entirely unimpaired.

_________________________

From the Federal Union

His Excellency Wilson Lumpkin,

Governor of the State of Georgia.

The undersigned, citizens of the State of New York, having bestowed much attention on the proceedings in the case of Samuel A. Worcester and Elizur Butler, and viewing those proceedings as likely to affect the welfare of other States and the whole Union, feel it their duty to submit to your consideration, the result of their reflections on the subject. As the expressions of their opinions and wishes, springs from no feelings adverse to Georgia, on the contrary is prompted solely by a regard to what they sincerely believe to be the true interest of all parties, they flatter themselves you will not deem it either obtrusive or improper.

Permit us then to state, that, under all existing circumstances, we deem it a matter of great moment, that the prisoners referred to should be set at liberty, without delay, which as we suppose, can only be done by discharging them under a pardon emanating from the State authority-and such a pardon we earnestly recommend.

The result of the recent election must render it apparent, that the removal of the Cherokees is deemed expedient by the Nation; and under this impression, the undersigned are of opinion that very many persons, who have hitherto counteracted their removal, will now deem it their duty to cooperate in bringing it about; and they have reason to believe and confidently hope, that an influence will be applied to reconcile the tribe to such a result, by those very persons who have hitherto labored to prevent it.

Under such a change of circumstances, the under signed cannot see any possible advantage in the further confinement of the Missionaries. On the contrary they conceive that since it is apparent that the Indians must be removed, the release of the missionaries may be of use in reconciling the Indians to that measure. For we cannot believe, after what has taken place, that the missionaries, any more than ourselves, can doubt the expediency of acquiescing in the policy of the General Government, sustained, as it seems to have been, by the decision of the American people. In the present state of this question, and of our public affairs, every cause of irritation should be removed as speedily as possible; and as we sincerely believe that it is in your power by adopting the course suggested to render an immense service to the Nation, without injuring in the least the interests of your own State, we most respectfully solicit to the subject your early and favorable consideration .

We are, with sincere respect, your most obedient servants.

ELIPHALET NOTT,

W.C.MARCY,

R. HYDE WALWORTH

GREEN C BRONSON

SIMEON DEWITT

R. T. WELCH

B. F. BUTLER

S. VAN RENSSELEAR

DAVID SOUTHERLAND

JOHN SAVAGE

AB VAN VECHTER

JOHN LUDLOW

WILLIAM B. SPRAGUE

J. W. CAMPBELL

WILLIAM LOCKHEAD

ISAAC FERRIS

H. BLEEKER

Albany, December 17, 1833 (sic)




      


CHARLESTON, S.C. June 3.- Southern Indians.- The Cherokee Council assembled at Red Hill, on the 13th ult. to take into consideration the propriety of accepting the offer of the General Government, recently made them for their claims to lands on this side of the Mississippi, was generally attended on the part of the intelligent portion of the people, and very numerously attended by the common Indians. They remained in Council several days, upon this all important subject, and have at length dispersed without agreeing to the liberal proposition of the United States Government, which should have been by all means so very desirable to them.  This result is attributed, by the Auraria (Geo.) Herald, from which these particulars are taken, to a Chief named John Ross, who, it would appear, possesses much influence over the Indians, and is very unfavorable to the General Government, and to the people of Georgia in particular. Many of the most enlightened Chiefs are said to have advocated the acceptance of the proposition, and it is to be regretted that the 'Sons of the Forest' should have suffered themselves to be swayed by one who had more probably acted from personal motives, rather than the advantage of those whom he was advising.

The Milledgeville Federal Union states that the Indians have only postponed making a treaty, until the meeting of Congress, and to prevent any unnecessary delay after that time, an exploring party is to visit the Arkansas country during the present summer, and remarks, we 'believe that our Indian controversies are rapidly approaching an harmonious and satisfactory close.'___ Nat. Banner.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JULY 20, 1833

TO OUR FRIENDS ' SUBSCRIBERS.

We again have to apologize for the absence of our paper for nearly two months, owing to the reasons which we have heretofore assigned, and we presume known to many, of the difficulties of obtaining printers at this place, whenever there is a deficiency in our office. We are enabled now to assure our readers that in all probability, that this is the last of the kind that will be heard from us, and that our paper in future, will appear regularly. We have now obtained a competent printer who will in future present an improved typography of our sheet, of which the present number is a specimen. We would now solicit from the candid public from whom we hope to be sustained in our labors an increased number of subscribers to the Cherokee Phoenix.  The columns of this paper are measurably political, devoted in this branch of the paper to support Cherokee rights as recognized by the laws of the United States. It will detail the measures of the Government and Georgia towards the Cherokees. The controversy with the Cherokees have reached a crisis in our serious opinion that is big with consequences, and will be to the friends of good order and fair dealing, a case full of interest. It is in this light that we are induced to present our wants before the American people for patronage, and it is one we hesitate not to say, this paper will prove highly valuable and satisfactory to subscribers.

_____________________

THE WAY TO EXECUTE TREATIES.

Captain Gardner of the United States Army, of whom some notice had been given in a former number, have been and are now stationed in the nation near the Tennessee line with two companies of troops. In the latter part of April and early in May, this officer with a company of soldiers, made an excursion on the Tennessee line to remove intruders from Cherokee land. But few families were found on this line, perhaps 40 or 50.  Some of these families fled over the Georgia and Alabama lines, of the Cherokees lands for refuge; to take the benefit of the nullification doctrine. The effect of this process is making bad worse, removing intruders from Tennessee to Georgia to intrude on the Cherokees there, already too much oppressed and made unhappy by such people.  The remainder of these scums of society penetrated the mammoth cave at Necoojack, and have since made it their habitations.

Capt. Gardner applied the torch to their houses and wigwams, amounting to about 180, and then returned to their encampment at the gold mines on Croker Creek.

___________________

We call the attention of our readers to the correspondence between the Secretary of War with Gov. Lumpkin, Col. Montgomery, B. F. Curry and John Ridge, on the subject of removing intruders from the lands of the Cherokee Nation. We have had these documents under close inspection since the first of June, and but for the temporary suspension of the operations of our press, our views would have been given sooner. It is with deep regret that we are compelled to avow our convictions, that the difficulties which have arisen in the removal of intruders from within the limits of the Nation, have been created by John Ridge and a few others, who, we take it for granted, and proven abundantly, to our humble opinion, by the documents themselves; an interference of the most unjustifiable nature, to the accomplishment of an interesting object to the Cherokees, have arisen from this quarter.

We have heretofore published the letter of Secretary Cass, to the Cherokee Chief (Ross)* and others, a delegation of the Nation from the limits of Georgia (so called). We have tho't proper again to republish it, in order to present to the impartial reader an opportunity to form his own opinion.

We have likewise obtained from the Indian Agent, Col. Montgomery, a copy of the Secretary's order to him on the same subject, of March 15, marked C. which the Col. informed the writer of this article amounted to a general order, had it not been superseded by subsequent explanations.

On the return of the delegation from Washington, the Commissioner of the Indian Bureau, addressed a letter to them marked B. in which Mr. Herring states in substance; that a military force would  be sent to the assailed parts of the Cherokee lands and the intruders would be removed, and that in future the Secretary would endeavor to promote the interests of the Nation. This document was so understood because officially addressed to a delegation of the Nation, and this construction we presume is fully warranted by the Secretary's order to Col. Montgomery.

Gov. Lumpkin on information of this letter, addresses a supercilious one to Mr. Cass, and demands from him an explanation, to be made through him to the Cherokees, to counteract the mischievous influence of his reprehensible, and indiscreet letter.

In the meantime he of the curtain and others as appears from the tenor of the letter G.(sic) Ridge 'c. had addressed a letter to Mr. Cass, referring to the previous opinions of the President, in the communications of 2nd ' 20th of Feb.; and hence the irresistible inference from the face of this document, that Mr. Ridge had communicated to the honorable Secretary their desire to have him change his order for the expulsion of the intruders, or something of this character. If such was not the fact, would the Secretary withhold this letter from the public? The Secretary upon this communication, and after having failed two or three times a year to effect a treaty with the Cherokees, was induced in our opinion to suspend the execution of the order to Montgomery; and by cherishing this rising spec in the bright political sky of the Cherokees, deferred for the present carrying into effect the order already given,and was encouraged to await a favorable change in the public opinions of the Cherokees.

The Secretary then changes the whole aspect of things, by addressing letters to Gov. Lumpkin, Col. Montgomery, Ben. Curry, and John Ridge, and that the order for the removal of intruders was intended by the Department to operate on lands, only where the States have not extended their laws.

Ben. Curry is entrusted with a letter to Jno. Ridge ' Col. Montgomery, all of which were placed by the Secretary in the hands of Gov. Lumpkin, according to his demand as before stated. His excellency then on the eve of the Council at Red Hill, employed a courier with these letter, who set out to this Council, a distance of 220 miles, and as is well known here, the express failed in this vicinity, but a substitute succeeded in delivering the letters marked E. F. G. and appears to have been written at the same time, and for the same mail, excepting the letter D. which is one day later*. John Ridge and Col. received these letters during the session of the Council, and in concert with Curry made some movements to counteract the mischiefs which the War Minister had created, but finding it detrimental to his reputation abandoned the project at that time.

Again, last year on the return of the delegation from Washington, of which he was the most conspicuous member, a letter was written by Judge M'Lane, to the Cherokee chief (Ross) giving his views of the prospects of the Cherokees, and whether it was advisable for the Cherokees to maintain their ground. This high office of State, advised the Chief of the indisposition of the President to execute the treaties with the Cherokees and the welfare of the Cherokees would promote by a removal west of the Mississippi. The letter we are informed was written at the earnest solicitation of Mr. Ridge, while at the City on a special mission of the Cherokee Chief, to press on the government for the fulfillment in good faith the treaties with the Cherokees. In whatever light this act may be viewed, it is at least exceptionable to us, and placed aside of his subsequent co-operation with Curry and Gov. Lumpkin, the very men who is at this moment robbing our children of their inheritance, and from the face of the documents themselves we are constrained, after maintaining all the affections for him, to enable us to do him justice and consistently with the interests of the Nation and our cause to pronounce his proceedings one of the most consummate acts of treachery towards his country, that the annals of any nation affords. We expose this affair with much pain, after mature and careful consultation and sustained as we think we are by the irrefragable evidence of these documents, of which we think we are not mistaken, and having exposed similar acts of our people heretofore from this press, we have thought it our duty, as sentinels of the watch tower, to apprize the Cherokees of this small, but dark spot in our national virtue.

In conclusion, we have been unable to resist the chain of corroborating circumstances to which we have adverted, without suspicion; as having interposed obstacles to our relief from the arm of the United States. If the acts of the subject of these remarks could have presented a different view of the subject, we would ever been found on the side of its advocates.

In taking leave forever of this subject, those persons of our home readers who may think us mistaken in the views we have taken of this affair will find the columns of this paper open for communication.

_____________________

* The Secretary states to Gov. Lumpkin that these explanatory letters had been despatched to those persons, but is also to be observed that these same letters were brought by the Governor's express man.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.,

Mr. Hicks:- Sometime ago I called at the house of a Cherokee, where I heard a dialogue between a Georgian 'land hunter' and a Pennsylvanian. I send you the substance of it, as a specimen of the many sage things of the same kind, which I have often heard since the 'fortunate drawers' have come among us, like the locusts upon Egypt.

Pennsylvanian: Have you drawn a good lot of land?

Georgian. No! not very. A great deal of the land is mighty poor.

Pa. The Cherokees appear to be content with it. Is it not a pity to take it from them?

Ga. Yes! I allow Georgia should have paid the Cherokees for it before she touched it. But there is a great deal of powerful worthless land in the Nation.

Pa. The poorness of the land does not justify Georgia in taking it. I once heard a preacher say that the man who steals a shilling, is meaner than he who steals a thousand dollars, for he sins with less temptation.

Ga. Oh! but Georgia does not steal the land. It belongs to her.

Pa. When did it become hers?

Ga. Why, don't you know the United States promised it to her?

Pa. Did it ever belong to the United States?

Ga. Why, if they buy it it will.

Pa. True, but they have not bought. They have never given it to Georgia, nor could they give what does not belong to them.

Ga. But did not the General Government say that Georgia should have the country?

Pa. Yes. So soon as it could be purchased fairly from the Indians, but that time has not yet come.

Ga. But does not all this country belong to the United States?

Pa. Surely not. If it already belongs to them why are they continually urging the Cherokees to sell it to them? If I were to settle upon these lands, I would think that every stalk of corn that I raised would call me a robber.

Ga. Georgia does not take the lots upon which the Indians are settled. Every Cherokee holds his improvements.

Pa. So, if you have two horses it would be right for me to steal one of them, because forsooth, you do not ride two at the same time! Occupy all the unoccupied lands, and where will the stock range, and where will the new families formed by marriages among the young Cherokees live?

Ga. Why, that is their own look out.

Pa. The whole transaction is infamous and so you will see it at the day of judgment.

Ga. I told you at the first, that I did not approve of what Georgia has done. Don't (sic) that satisfy you? You still keep edging down upon me.

Pa. If you disapprove why do you partake?

Ga. I may as well have some of the lands as others.

Pa. So any robber might say, here is a traveller that will be robbed at any rate, I may as well have some of the money as others.  But how are the missionaries that you imprisoned coming on?

Ga. They are out.

Pa. Why were they in?

Ga. Because they would not take the oath of allegiance to Georgia.

Pa. Why was such an oath required.

Ga. It is required of all persons coming into Georgia, from any other states.

Pa. You mistake, the law requiring it,was probably made with direct reference to the ministers and teachers among the Cherokees.

Ga. But they were making all the money they could off the heathen.

Pa. And was it the business of Georgia to prevent that? But I think your assertion is not correct-here is a Cherokee girl that has been at school; let us ask her; Eliza, were you not two or three years in Dr. Butler's school

Eliza. Yes, longer than that.

Pa. Did they ever require any money of you?

Eliza. No, Sir.

Pa. How did the missionaries get out?

Ga. They petitioned the Governor, and took the oath of allegiance.

Pa. Here is Dr. Butler, one of them, he can tell us.

Dr. B. We did not petition the Governor; we made no acknowledgement; we took no oath; we would have died rather than have taken the oath of allegiance to Georgia.

Ga. Well, I was told so. How far do you call it to Ridges?

BRUCE.

Cherokee Nation, May 10th 1833.



_________________________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

GEORGIA COURTESY

A few evening ago, a stranger arrived at Hickory Log, about half a mile from Cherokee court house, a little village inhabited by Georgian intruders. While preaching in the house of a Cherokee, six men came in, and set (sic) with their hats on, 'till after the service, and then calling him out, entered into the following conversation.

We have a little business with you.

Stranger. What are your names gentlemen?

They.  Mine is John Daniel, mine is Key.  Here are Mr. Cox and Mr. Brock.

Daniel.  We are sent to arrest you.

Stranger. Who sent you?

Daniel.  Col. Williamson, commander of the Guard?

Key.  I have no ill will against you under the heavens, but was offered twenty dollars to be excused. I was just about to start to Macon.

Stranger. What is my offence.

Daniel.  By what authority do you preach to the Indians.

Stranger. I am authorized to preach, and have as much right as other ministers to preach to Cherokees.

Daniel.  Have you taken the oath of allegiance?

Stranger. The law that required that oath has been rescinded, ' where there is no law there is no transgression.

Key.  Will you go with any persons that have authority to take you?

Stranger. Yes, but I know no such authority can be produced.

Some of them withdrew for consultation, and the stranger walked into the house, and sat with composure 'till they returned.   After making many foolish ' impertinent remarks, ' ascertaining that they could not alarm, they retired.  It is due to state, that not more than one half of them were drunk or profane, and only one was so very drunk that he fell in the water. If any stranger delights in courtesy, let him visit Cherokee Court House. Such attentions to strangers greatly increase the confidence of the Cherokees in their friendship.

BRUCE.

________________

GEORGIAN PROMOTION.

What has become of the Pony Club? asked a Georgian the other evening. 'I believe,' replied a gentleman living in the nation, 'some of them have been selected Judges of the Inferior Courts in these new counties; one was whipped just before his election.'






      


INDIANS

The enterprising Cherokees spoken of in the following description of the civilization of Western Indians, were all brought up in this Nation and educated within a few years excepting Webber, who emigrated many years ago. If these men are civilized, then the Cherokees ought to be permitted to remain here, where it is the most proper place to civilize the rising generation.

From the Journal of Commerce.

THE INDIANS BEYOND THE ARKANSAS.- A letter from Major Hannum, sub-agent for the Quapaw Indians, which we find in the Arkansas Gazette, dated Pine Bluffs, May 27th, announces that a Supplementary treaty has been concluded between Mr. Schermerhorn, Commissioner on the part of the United States, and the Quapaw Indians residing in Jefferson County, (Arkansas) about 60 miles from Little Rock, by virtue of which they are to remove to the country fixed upon by the Government as the residence of the Indian tribes. From the same source, we learn that the conflicting boundaries of the territories allotted to the different tribes in that region, which had given rise to much uneasiness, have been adjusted to the satisfaction of all concerned.

The Indians, says the Major, are rapidly advancing to a state of civilization. Indeed, in many of their families you will find as much good economy and order, as is observed in a well regulated white family. They are giving up the chase, and turning their attention to the cultivation of the earth-a much more certain and sure method of procuring a support for their families, than to rely on the precarious chance of taking game.

The Indians have greatly improved their condition in moving West. They have a delightful country of good lands, with salines more than sufficient to produce salt for the entire Indian population, and white population of the Arkansas Territory. There are six salt establishments now in operation in the Cherokee country, viz: Rogers' Brown's and Van's on the Neosho; and Webber's, Mackay's, ' Guess' on the Illinois. I have been informed that Governor Houston has a very valuable saline on the Neosho, which if put in complete operation, would produce an immense quantity of salt.  It lies about 25 miles from Fort Gibson, has every advantage of water communication with the lower country.

The waters of the Neosho and Illinois are very transparent, and afford great quantities of the best kinds of fish.  The country inhabited by the Choctaws, Creeks, Cherokees, Osages, Senecas, Kaskaskias, Piankashaws, Weas, Peorias, Shawnees, Kansas, and Delawares, with the country yet to be given to the Indians east of the Mississippi, is greater in extent, and comprise more land, than the States of New York, New Jersey, and all the Eastern States together.

The Indian boundary extends from longitude 17, west from the City of Washington, to longitude 23 or the 00th degree from London.  The Choctaws have about sixteen millions acres of land; the Creeks about thirteen million acres of land, and the Cherokees about thirteen million five hundred thousand acres. The Osages have a country about fifty miles wide, and one hundred and fifty in extent. The Senecas have about one hundred thousand acres.




      


The following is a specimen of the stories that the Federal Union is in the constant habit of entertaining its readers.  If there has been a reaction in favor of a treaty, it must be found in the fiction of his own brain, we saw none in the Council. We have said heretofore no truth can be found in these Georgia papers on the Cherokee case, especially in one that advocates the principles of a ROBBER.

'THE CHEROKEES.'- We learn from a source entitled to the highest credit, that the attempts to prevent a treaty with the Cherokees, under the pretence that they would be benefitted by the act for the collection of the revenue, have resulted in a powerful reaction in favor of a treaty. The enemies of the President at Washington, affirmed that this revenue law would prevent a treaty; a portion of our representatives in Congress, on their return to the State, gave currency to the same charge against the administration; and Ross, the principal Chief, played a corresponding part among his countrymen.  But the President, with his characteristic frankness, and decision of character, has shown to the Cherokees their real situation: and a large majority of that hitherto deluded people, are now convinced that if they remain within the chartered limits of Georgia, they must submit to her laws. At the solicitations of Ross, and his partisans, the other chiefs have consented to postpone making a treaty, until the meeting of Congress; and to prevent any unnecessary delay after that time, an exploring party is to visit the Arkansas country during the present summer. We believe that our Indian controversies are rapidly approaching a harmonious and satisfactory close: and the people of Georgia will be on their guard, how they give credit to open accusations, or subtle insinuations against the President.' --Federal Union




      


From the New York American

Indians of South America.- C. Cushing, Esq. in his interesting Reminiscences of Spain makes these remarks:

The destiny of the Indian races in Spanish America has been widely and remarkably different from what is in the United States.  Here the aboriginal nations have little or no physical weight in the progress of events, and are scattered, in weak tribes over the face of the land, withering and dwindling before the overpowering beams of civilization. There, they constitute a large and important element in the population, aggregated into powerful masses, capable by themselves alone of exerting a decided influence upon affairs, whether as independent communities, or as the subjects of the Spanish Americans, a rank in the scale of public estimation from which no conceivable change of dynasty or governments can cast them down, and possessing importance which the late revolution has powerfully contributed to strengthen and perpetuate.

Of the independent nations, like the Araucos, and Abiponians, and the various other tribes in the vast interior regions of the continent, who have never bowed the neck under the Spanish yoke, the spirit, vigor and numbers are well known to be far from contemptible. The possession of that noble animal, the horse, especially by bestowing pastoral habits on the wanderers of the immense savannahs of the South has communicated an energy and a power of forcible and rapid impressions to the movements of the Indians, through the means of which, should they ever become concentrated by any common point of union, they would infinitely surpass, in barbaric splendor, the achievements of the ancient Peruvians and Mexicans. With these Arabs of the West, compare the Creeks, Cherokees, and other tribes in the United States, who, hemmed in by our fixed population, have no resource but either to adopt the manners of civilized neighbors, to be gradually extinguished, or to fly with the feeble remnants of their might beyond the Mississippi and how striking is the relative consequence of South Americans! These nomadic nations, therefore who sweep the verdant plains of the South, on steeds tameless and swift as the winds, uniting the errant propensities of the Indian hunter and the Tartar horsemen, are peculiar objects of interest to the philosophic observer of events intrinsic to America.

But other portions of the Indian population are fast attracting importance from quite different causes. Among these are the Peruvians, and the observation may serve as an apology for now rescuing from unmerited oblivion some of the obscurer incidents of their political history. They have been a despised and an oppressed race. The hand of power has fallen heavily upon them in every age, from the days of the conquest, when the lawless bands of Pizarro trampled on the nation, down through the tyranny of many provincial autocrat, to the time when Tupa Catari shook the walls of La Paz with the cry of liberty or death, and the limbs of Tupac Amaru were torn asunder by four wild horses, but a ray of hope smiles upon their future prospect.- The revolution has raised them in common with the other degraded castes, from the dust where they had been grovelling for centuries. In this democracy, rank must follow the lead of talent and in South America, men of Indian descent particularly those of mixed blood, begin to learn their consequence from the fortune of war.- Mulattoes and mestizos are amongst the best and bravest soldiers of the revolution; and some of them have arisen up on its stormy waters to that distinction which in times of civil commotion, it is impossible to withhold from superior qualities.  It may be long ere the multifarious and many colored classes which compose the population of the revolutionized countries, regular and systematic movement of our own more fortunate land.  But whether in peace or in war, in times of discord or of tranquility, a race of men, which rises to two-thirds of the whole population, which furnishes the laborers and mans the fleets and armies of a republican country, cannot easily relapse into insignificance, or into the state of abject servitude. And a permanent melioration of condition is therefore the necessary consequence of the actual position of the Peruvians.




      


LITTLE ROCK, (A.T.) April 24, 1833.

Judge Ellsworth, one of the United States Commissioners for settling difficulties, 'c. among the Indian tribes in the West, passed down on the steam boat Wyoming, last week, for Fort Gibson on his way to Washington City, and thence to Connecticut, from whence we understand, he designs returning to Fort Gibson in September next, with his lady.

We are much gratified to learn from Judge E. that the Commissioners have succeeded in bringing about a settlement of the differences (though not of a serious nature) that have existed for a long time between the Cherokees and Creeks relative to boundaries. It has been arranged to the satisfaction of both parties.

An arrangement has also been made with the Creeks, for a portion of their lands for the future residence of the Seminoles of Florida, who will form a separate band of the Creek Nation. It is expected that the latter tribe will commence removing next autumn.

At the Council with the Osages a majority of the nation were in favor of the Treaty proposed by the Commissioners, but as it was likely to produce dissatisfaction on the part of the balance of the nation , it was deemed advisable to defer the Treaty until fall, when another Council will be held, at which the Commissioners anticipate no difficulty in effecting a treaty to the satisfaction of all parties.- The object is to purchase a portion of the Osage lands, and remove them some one or two hundred miles northwest of their present location, and thereby make room for other Indians which the Government designs removing to the West.

Gov. Stokes and Mr. Schermerhorn, the other two Commissioners, will proceed shortly toward the Missouri River, for the purpose of holding Councils and making treaties with some of the Indians in that quarter; and, in August or September next, the three Commissioners will rendezvous at Fort Gibson, and proceed to the West, under an escort of U. S. Rangers for the purpose of holding Councils with the Pawnee, Comanche, and other roving tribes toward the Rocky Mountains, between whom and some of the tribes in the more immediate vicinity of our frontiers, continued wars have existed almost from time immemorial. All the tribes with which the Commissioners have had any intercourse, appeared to be friendly toward the United States, and desirous of cultivating a good understanding with our Government.- Arkansas Gazette.




      


From the New York Advertiser

BONAPARTE ' BLACK HAWK

When Bonaparte was dethroned by the allied powers of Europe, after the battle of Waterloo, he was obliged to take refuge on board a British ship of war in the Channel, thus throwing himself upon the clemency of his most persevering and powerful enemy, the British government.  Upon becoming possessed of the person of their most active, inveterate, and dangerous foe, it became a question of great importance, not only to Great British, but to the rest of Europe, in what manner he should be disposed of, with reference to the future peace and safety of that quarter of the globe. For the purpose of securing their object, the combined powers determined to remove him to a place so remote that he could never again disturb their peace, or endanger their safety. In pursuance of this determination, they transported him to a distant island in the ocean, far removed from every region where he could ever expect, even if at liberty, to do any mischief, ' particularly from the countries over which he had exercised despotic dominion for so many years, and on which he had inflicted the most unexampled distress. At the time of this memorable occurrence, the hardship and injustice of the case were exclaimed against by the friends of French republicanism in this country, and the allied sovereigns were execrated most cordially for their tyrannical conduct towards and enemy, of whom they were in great dread, and who had often reduced them to the necessity of accepting even their thrones from his generosity, after he had conquered them and humbled them at his foot-stool.

Last year, we had an Indian war in one of our remote and newly settled states. A tribe who had gradually lost a large part of their territory, and who probably thought the time was not far distant when they should be called upon to part with the remainder, and 'cross the Mississippi,' in a fit of desperation commenced hostilities, and for a while threatened the neighboring country with the horrors of a sanguinary war. And such was the excitement among the inhabitants, that the most prompt and decided measures for their security became necessary and troops were ordered over from the Atlantic coast to the remote borders of the Union, to check the progress of the vindictive enemy. The war, as was to be expected, was terminated by the conquest of the savages; and eventually their brave and patriotic chief, Black Hawk, became a prisoner in the hands of his white and more civilized enemies. After due deliberation, in order to prevent future mischief, and to guard the peace and safety of the inhabitants of that part of the country, it was determined to remove this uncivilized hero to a place of security, where he could be kept and guarded as a state prisoner, or in softer phrase, as a hostage, to ensure the tranquility of the inhabitants upon the distant borders of United States.  Accordingly, the captive chief, with his companions in adversity, had at the last advices (sic) arrived at the seat of government, on the way to Fort Monroe, at old Point Comfort, the place of his confinement.

We do not recollect having seen the slightest remark of disapprobation from any quarter, of the manner in which this Indian Bonaparte has been treated by his conquerors. If Black Hawk was cruel, so was Bonaparte; if Black Hawk was treacherous and vindictive so was Bonaparte; if Black Hawk was ambitious, so was Bonaparte; if Black Hawk was disposed to disturb the peace, and shed the blood of those who stood in the way of his ambition, so was Bonaparte. In what then do the principles of the two cases essentially differ? Black Hawk doubtless considered himself as fighting for his own and his nation's rights, in defence of his own unquestionable dominions, and for the soil on which he was born and to which he was attached by the strongest affection of which his nature was susceptible. Bonaparte was not even a native of France-ambition was the motive to all his conduct, and his renown grew out of the most bloody wars, and the prosecution of the most extraordinary system of military oppression and tyranny, that the history of modern ages contains. We have no doubt that Black Hawk's moral principles, tried by the savage standard, were of a higher cast than Bonaparte's when estimated by the rules of civilization and Christianity.

We should like to hear the opinions of casuists on the relative merits of these two cases. That of Bonaparte must be acknowledged to have been of a more splendid and astounding character, than that of Black Hawk. But this is not the moral view of the cases. In what respect was it more reprehensible in the allied powers of Europe, who had been involved for a long course of years in the most destructive and desolating wars that modern history records, carried on by the exercise of the most remorseless tyranny that the civilized world had ever experienced, to place the author of all this misery, when they had him in their power, in a situation where he could never more disturb their tranquility, than for our government to remove this savage chief, who had made war upon one corner of their territory, to a region many hundred miles distant, for fear he might at some future day break the peace, and endanger the security of a small portion of the Union?




      


Auraria.- A village with the name has sprung up within the last twelve months, the woods of the Georgia gold region. It is situated on the ridge dividing the waters of the Chestatee and Etoah Rivers in the county of Lumpkin, formerly the county of Cherokee. That the Georgians should endeavor to blot out of their remembrance the very name of CHEROKEE, is not at all wonderful, for it must haunt them, as the ghost of Banquoerst (sic) haunted the guilty Macbeth; but they can no more remove the stain of Cherokee oppression than they could extinguish the recollections of the Yazoo affair, by burning up the records. The taste however which selected the name of Lumpkin, to designate the county, in place of Cherokee, cannot be sufficiently admired. What a delightful euphony in the sound of Lumpkin!-but we think it would be an improvement to call it 'Tony Lumpkin County'- in as much as we regard the hopeful son of Madam Hardcastle as a much more respectable character than the graceless individual to whom the name maybe supposed to refer.

Auraria too!-so very descriptive, and withal so very euphonious as to consist entirely of vowels and liquids, without the interruption of a single consonant to break the continuity of sound! Yet here, also, our evil genius leads us to suggest an emendation. Auraria is a title that alludes only to the produce which that a region yields. A more appropriate name should indicate the title by which it was acquired. Let it therefore be called Infernia-Furtaria-Raptoria-Latronia, or any other significant appellation by which the mode of its acquisition may be directly carried down to posterity. -   New York Spectator.




      


From the Missionary Herald.

Messrs Worcester and Butler's reasons for their course in relation to the proceedings of the State of Georgia.

In the Herald for March, at p. 100, an account was given of the transactions connected with the discharge of Messrs. Worcester and Butler from the Georgia Penitentiary. A letter has since been received from them giving their own views in relation to these and previous transactions, which justice to them, and the subject requires should be published. It was written in February last, and is as follows:

It has seemed to us that it might not be amiss to address a letter to you, with leave to make it public if it be thought expedient, giving a summary view of the grounds on which we have acted from the beginning to the end of the late controversy between ourselves and the state of Georgia.

We were residing among the Cherokees for the purpose of communicating to them the knowledge of the way of salvation, in obedience to the command of our Redeemer to preach the gospel to every creature.  This object we were aiming to accomplish by means of public preaching and exhortation, by the publication of the written word of God, and other religious books in the native language, and through the medium of schools. In this residence and these labors,we had the sanction of the Government of the United States, and of the Cherokee Nation.

While we were peaceably engaged in these labors, a law was enacted by the state of Georgia, asserting jurisdiction over the territory where we resided, and forbidding the residence of white men after a specified date, unless they should have taken an oath to support the Constitution and laws of the state, and to demean themselves uprightly as citizens thereof, under penalty for four years confinement in the penitentiary.  This oath the following considerations forbade us to take.

The oath required would have been understood on all hands, not only as including, but as particularly intending, an obligation to support the jurisdiction of the state over the Cherokee people; since the recognition of this jurisdiction was the immediate design of the requirement.

We had always considered the Cherokees as possessing both a natural and conventional right to govern themselves, subject only to such limitations of sovereignty as were expressed in existing treaties between them and the United States.

As we understood this right of self government to be secured to the Cherokees by their treaties with the General Government, and oath to support those laws which deprived them of this right would have been inconsistent with an understanding which existed between ourselves and the General Government, that we should respect those treaties as the supreme law of the land.

We supposed ourselves required by the word of God to respect the rightfully constituted authorities of the place where we resided. This principle would require us to acknowledge, either the jurisdiction of Georgia, or that of the Cherokees, whichever was the rightfully constituted authority; for both claimed jurisdiction as to the same matters, and both claims, therefore, could not be acknowledged. Supposing that the Cherokee government was of rightful authority, and oath inconsistent with the recognition of that authority would have been a violation of the injunction to regard the powers that be. We are the more particular on this point, because, by a petito principii, the requirements of scripture to which we refer, have often been urged as demanding of us that allegiance to the state of Georgia, which the oath would have recognized.  Scripture could not require us to recognize at the same time two conflicting authorities.

The extension of the jurisdiction of the state over the Cherokees we regard as unjust and oppressive; and we could not swear to uphold that injustice and oppression.

Believing that the lawful jurisdiction of the state did not extend to the territory where we resided, and having never lived under its jurisdiction, we did not suppose ourselves to be citizens of the state.  An oath to demean ourselves uprightly as citizens would be an acknowledgment under oath that we were such-a virtual declaration upon oath of what we did not believe to be true, and therefore perjury. This utterly precluded the possibility of our taking the oath.

In these circumstances and with these views, our only alternative was, either to be banished from our homes, and from the field of our interesting and important labors, or to suffer temporary imprisonment, and appeal to the justice of our country in defence of our constitutional rights, in defence of the cause of religion as involved in the privilege of publishing to all men the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, and in defence of the rights of a much injured people.

We will next state the reasons by which we were induced to adopt the latter alternative.

We had no doubt of our civil right to refuse obedience to the law in question, appealing to the Supreme Court of the United States to sustain us in that refusal.  We regarded the law as manifestly unconstitutional, and therefore no law; and we could not see to what purpose the Constitution should forbid the enactment of such and such laws, if when those laws are enacted, any individual, who suffers by them, may not rightfully appeal to the judicial tribunals against their operations.

We did not see that our character as missionaries either exonerated us from the obligations or divested us of the rights of American citizens.

Not only our rights as citizens, but our rights as missionaries were infringed. It is said, indeed, that we were not forbidden to preach the gospel in the disputed territory. True-but every one must perceive that the prohibition of the residence of missionaries within a given territory is a great RESTRAINT upon preaching the gospel there. The law did prohibit the residence of missionaries, except upon terms to which no missionary who was then laboring in the territory in question, with a single exception, could conscientiously accede. If submitted to it was to break up several important missionary stations.  It was greatly to hinder the preaching of the gospel. It was to put an almost entire stop to one important branch of missionary labor, viz, that of training up of youth under the influence of the gospel by means of mission schools. And another most important branch, in which one of us was engaged, the translating and publishing the written word of God, could not, under existing circumstances, be successfully prosecuted, except at a place within the prohibited territory.  This labor must be interrupted by removal.

And the law not only did operate, but it was designed to operate, as an interruption to missionary labors. We do not make this statement without grounds. We have good reason for believing that the expulsion of missionaries was the particular object of the law.  This opposition to missionaries was grounded in part upon the mistaken apprehension that we were endeavoring to persuade the Cherokees not to remove. But this was not all. The authorities of the state had charged it upon the Government of the United States, as a violation of the compact with Georgia, that they had caused the Cherokees to be instructed, because their progress in knowledge and in civilization had the effect to attach them to their home, and render them unwilling to part with those lands, which the United States were conditionally bound to purchase for the use of the state. The authorities of the state were therefore opposed to the instruction of the Indians within her chartered limits, and wished to expel the missionaries because they communicated that instruction. We did not consider the desire of the state to obtain the lands of the Cherokees as a sufficient reason why they should be left to perish through ignorance; and, believing that the laws of our country were on our side, we were disposed to contend for the right of continuing among them our labors for their temporal, and especially their eternal welfare.

The rights of thousands were involved with our own.  We have already said that we regard the extension of the jurisdiction of the state over the Cherokees as a most unjust and oppressive. We believed that the design of their extension was to force the Cherokees away from the soil which was their own, and which, so long as they were disposed, they had a perfect right to retain. The effect upon the Cherokees, we believed, would be ruinous. And as their rights and ours were involved in the same question, we felt that, in maintaining our own, we were maintaining theirs also. The constitutional question involved appeared to us so plain, that we could not expect any other than a decision in our favor, when our cause should come before the Supreme Court; and we could not but hope that, when that court should have sustained by its decision the rights of the Cherokees, those rights would be defended by every department of the national government, and this unhappy people be saved from the oppression under which they groaned. We fell (sic), therefore, that Christian philanthropy demanded a temporary sacrifice of our personal liberty, in order to obtain a decision of so much importance to thousands of our fellow men.

(Concluded in our next.)




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JULY 27, 1833

SUFFERINGS OF CHEROKEE LADIES.

About the first of this month, near this place, Mr. Dukes, the Sheriff of Coweta County, came to this place and took lodgings at a tavern of Wm. Tarvin. Next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn. On his way, he called at a house where there were two women. Mrs. Oosunaley and Mrs. Foster, both married women, and called for a drink of water. He alighted, and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosunaley, who being in a delicate condition. Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter. Duke, (sic) finding his attempt frustrated, took from his coat, a pocket book, and offered his injured hosts satisfaction. They attempted to destroy his pocket book and contents, but failed.  Duke (sic) held in his hand a heavy horse whip, which he used on these poor women, with all his force, until Algiers itself would sicken at the stripes he inflicted. Mrs Oosunaley presented herself to the Magistrate here for redress, and exhibited to him her wounds. But he being a proselyte of the new school, told her he was not the person to relieve her, and that no Indian testimony could be received. The honorable Sheriff has been here since but no justice for the much abused females.

_______________

EMIGRATION

We are informed by the person who has been acting as linguist for an enrolling agent, that the President has again opened emigration for those Cherokees who may wish to join their deluded brethren west of the Mississippi. After giving the Cherokees a respite of 8 or 9 months, and a failure at a treaty, the President has, after discharging the Mississippian warriors, thought proper to remove and add to our oppression by sending some pests, and nuisances to our society. It is needless for us to advise our brethren on this point.  Improve your lands, educate your children, inculcate in them religion, and morality, it will attain for you felicity unknown in the western wilds.

______________________

COMPACT BETWEEN U. S. ' GEORGIA

Thirty-two years have elapsed since this famous compact was negotiated and concluded between the United States on the one part, and the State of Georgia on the other. In this instrument the General Government made its bounden duty, to the latter, to extinguish the Indian title to all the lands within the limits of Georgia, as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms to the United States. In the execution of this compact, the Federal Government have steadily and successfully to the year 1830, with large disbursements from its treasury, extinguished for Georgia many millions of acres, all the lands of the Creek's within the limits of that State. With the Cherokees, the Government has likewise obtained fairly, about one million acres of excellent and valuable lands, now comprising the counties of Gwinnett, Hall, and Habersham, affording at this time the most valuable gold mines in the United States. The remainder of the lands of the Cherokees within the limits of this State, unextinguished, is computed at five millions of acres. The United States have entered into treaties with the Cherokees, in which they have guaranteed forever to the Cherokees all the lands not ceded. The Supreme Court have decided on these same treaties to be the supreme law of the land.  The present administration of the Government, with all the combination of schemes the wit of man can invent to enable it to accomplish an object pending between an equal sovereign have, after placing the Cherokees in duress and unexampled oppression by the State of Georgia, successively failed in purchasing and extinguishing the lands we have before stated. Hence we are enabled to state and repeat what we have before said, with the utmost confidence, that no treaty can be effected with the Cherokees for their removal west of the Mississippi. In the mean time Georgia has conveyed these lands and granted them to her citizens, or in other words, robbed the Cherokees of this large property, without any remuneration to the aboriginal owners whatever. If the Cherokees refuse to sell, the Georgians receives the exclusive benefit of these lands. But if the Cherokees would treat, then, in this case, the President is wiling to give them an indemnity for the property. The adjustment of the affair on the latter principle, is utterly impracticable. The best of these lands have been bought up on speculation from the fortunate drawers, by large and wealthy companies that have been formed in Georgia. The question now arises and it is respectfully submitted to the America people, whether it is to the interest of the Federal Government in prosecuting its policy towards the Cherokees to aggrandize the State of Georgia, or to put to rest by a definitive adjustment or compromise, by awarding an equivalent sum to the drawers and those who have purchased on speculation, and thereby enable the Cherokees to enjoy the land of their fathers, and the inheritance of their children. We believe the time is propitious, and an opportunity is now presented to the Government, to have this protracted controversy honorably adjusted without further oppressing the Cherokees, on the principles pointed out. We have conversed freely with those companies who have engrossed these lands, and have invariably admitted their incumbrance of the Cherokee title. This course, is, we think, inviting to the Government,-no purchase can be made of the Cherokees, it will be cheaper to the Government to award Georgia a sum. The Cherokees in this Nation are a small tribe, of 15,000 or 16,000 in number.  They have been at peace with the white man nearly half a century, no detriment to the Government can arise from their local situation. Our rights are dear to us, and the property wrested is large. The door is now open whereby Georgia can be satisfied, justice demands that the Cherokees' rights should be sustained.

We shall advert to this subject again.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

C. N. 21st July, 1833

Mr. Editor:- I have for the last ten years, seen the doing of Uncle Sam as he is proudly named, to the Indian tribes. At first, I thought it was a mere ruse de politique of those who contended that a people confessedly aboriginal only had an usufruct right to their national soil; finding however that honest Uncle Sam spurns contemptuously such imputations, I have looked a little into Raleigh, Hackney, and others, to see how they understood the matter, and if possible, learn the meaning of these high-sounding words, equity, equality, indefensible, and unalienable, as applied by such fellows as Madison, Jefferson, 'c. The result of my inquiries, is that they knew nothing at all about the matter, and although the Cherokees ' other Nations, have held their present residence from a time which 'the memory of man passeth not,' and that too, from long before Uncle Sam, or Uncle John Bull, either, were ever heard of, still this makes no difference all these

aboriginals are tenants, 'in soccage and not in capite' according to the decree of King James, made when he sent out a band of buccaneers to pilfer in the name of royalty.  I have not been able to find precisely what are the services they are bound to perform, because I can find no deed or contract between the parties, on which his Majesty could have predicted his charter, but I presume, from the manner in which the present lords of the Manor conduct themselves, that the natives are obliged to clear and fence lands, build comfortable houses, such as Ross's and Springplace, 'c. drive off all the varmint, and then give up these improvements to some of our Uncle's needy sons. You will perhaps think me mistaken here, and tell me to look at the dozen or fifteen treaties which have been made expressly to define these matters.  I have read every one of them together with President Washington, Monroe, Adams, yes, and Old Hickory's talk with Ridge.  But that's all nothing, not of any account, these were a mere humbug intended to gull the public and tie up the arms of the Indians. Perhaps you doubt this; it is however as true as that the Paxton boys broke the jail and  murdered some Moravian Indians, put there for safety in the old French War; or that a fellow called Col. Williamson, and others murdered about an hundred of the same Indians in the old Revolution, or that Spring-place, the oldest Missionary establishment in this nation, has been seized by a set of vagabonds, and converted into a tippling establishment; or_______ but this is enough.  Some indeed have expressed astonishment that Uncle Sam will be, as he certainly has been, guilty of littleness of holding these lands under the grant of King James, whilst he denies that, and all other monarch's title to any part of this continent, and throws whole volumes out in defence of equality of rights, unalienable rights, paramount law, treaties, 'c.

This is even true also, and the astonishment of these boobies arise from hence, they do not perceive the vast difference between meum et tuum; they do not inquire into the cuiboni of the matter. King James verily did issue his patent under the broad seal of the Empire of Britain, in which patent he granted away vast tracts of land, including the Cherokees, which he had never seen and almost doubted their entity, to be held as part, and parcel of his royal majesty's manor of E. Greenwich. On, and by virtue of this same grant his successor took on several pranky moods some years ago, such as arrogating to himself the command in certain matters; occasionally putting his lion's paw in Johnathan's (sic) pocket, 'c. but the young rowdy seized his daddy by his venerable beard, and cut it off with his jack-knife; and he uses this same beard of his old father as a flag, when he wished to rally his bows for a row at sea or land, at this present day. Lest the boy in his impertinent pet should further abuse the old man, he gave up his right to all that part of the manor of Greenwich west of the Atlantic. It is time Jonathan had driven the old man out and denied his title to it in toto, but he was then in a great rage and did not mind his P's and Q's. On reflection, he has allowed King James' title and under it claims the whole aboriginal country,and that he will have it may be inferred from the fact that he has seized some how or other all the lands of all the Nations from Maine to Florida, and out far in the West. It is all folly to jabber and quibble with him about right; he understands meum et tuum; he wants these lands and will have them.

Now this being the case, and the Atlantic being nearest, it is foolish in the Indians to plod so far over the swamps infested by troops of alligators and clouded by swarms of mosquitos, to find a pond large enough to drown themselves, for nothing else can satisfy Uncle Sam's family but the total extinction of Indians, and the sequestration of their estates, so I advise them and you too, sir, to pack up parch corn enough to last you to Apalachy (sic) bay, or the mouth of Oakmulgee, call in the first penniless vagabond, each one of you can see, surrender to him all our worldly gear, and move off to the sea, jump in head-foremost and creep down the throat of the first marine monster you can find. If you will put this in practice, I think it likely that Congress will appropriate a whole quarter section of land to rear a monument to your memory, and another to have your funeral requiem sung in the Capital; it is also probable, that Old Hickory might issue a laudatory proclamation on the subject. In fault of all these, you may be sure of plenty of whiskey 'c. on the way, and no opposition, especially, if you can persuade Dr. Butler, and Mr. Worcester, Clauder and the rest of the Missionaries, to lead you to the jumping off place.

Now Mr. Editor, I entreat that you will not deceive yourselves, by specious appearances. You may suppose some amelioration will ensue from Missionary attempts to civilize and Christianize Indians.  Do you not know that it is held as an axiom that our Indians cannot be civilized, cannot be taught science, 'c.  Have you not seen the destruction or sequestration of all the Missionary stations in Georgia and among the Choctaws, and many other places for years past. The thing is plain. These establishments are tolerated, and in some sort supported, wherever it is thought useful to keep Indians quiet, to amuse them with a prospect of rising in the moral scale; but as soon as more land is wanted, no matter where, or which tribe, or in what situation, they must go; their missionaries are imprisoned, insulted by law, cats-paws and minions; their persons abused, motives traduced, and their labors destroyed. This has been the course for half a century; it is now, and will hereafter be the course of conduct pursued to them, and to the Indians. There is but one other efficient course to save the Indians, and that is almost hopeless, but would certainly be useful not only to Indians, but to all Uncle Sam's family. It is to select out three or four dozen such fellows as the Gov. of Georgia, and those who hold his notions of justice, honor, humanity, and law, and put them in the care of some such teacher as Black Hawk, to learn lessons on these subjects, and then to restore them to their stations. Or perhaps it might not be amiss to establish a lecturer of the Winebagoes at Washington to teach the great ones how to give the quid pro quo.

P******






      


INDIANS

From the Missionary Herald.

Messrs Worcester and Butler's Reasons for their course in

relation to the proceedings of the State of Georgia.

CONCLUDED

The faith and justice of our nation were at hazard.  That faith and justice were pledged for the protection of the Cherokees and their rights; but that pledge was apparently about to be forfeited, that faith to be broken, and an act of flagrant robbery to be committed upon a defenseless people, with the sanction of our national authorities. Whether this should be done was not a question of mere political expediency but of clear moral obligation-a question of right or wrong-of keeping or violating the commands of God, of obtaining, as a nation, Divine favor, or incurring Divine vengeance. We hoped that a decision of the Supreme Court might be the occasion of arresting the hand of oppression-of averting from our beloved country the guilt of covenant breaking, and robbery, and the vengeance of heaven. We did not know but these consequences might depend upon our maintaining our ground, and appealing to the highest judicial tribunal of our country in our defence. While suffering for this object, we felt that we were suffering for righteousness' sake.  And we feared that, if we should shrink from that suffering in such circumstances, we should be partakers of the guilt in question. We wished, if the people among whom we had labored in the work of the gospel were to sink under the weight of oppression and injustice, to be found guiltless not only of participation, but even of acquiescence.

Way (sic) then it may be asked, if we were impelled  by a sense of duty to make our appeal to the Supreme Court, did we not insist to the last upon the execution of its decision?  Not, we answer, from any change in our views, but on account of changing circumstances.

The law which had prohibited our residence in the former field of our labors had been repealed. We had no longer to contend for the right of laboring among the Cherokees without restraint in the work of the gospel.

There was no longer any hope, by our perseverance, of securing the rights of the Cherokees, or preserving the faith of our country. The Supreme Court had given a decision in our favor, which recognized the rights of the Cherokees; but it still rested with the Executive Government, whether those rights should be protected, and it had become certain that the Executive would not protect them. The utmost we could expect from that source was interference to the extent of executing the mandates of the court; and as those mandates could extend only to the cases before court, the execution on them would only effect our release from confinement, without benefitting the Cherokee Nation.



The leading motives, therefore, which first induced us to make our appeal, existed no longer. In the meantime, however, other motives had incidentally arisen.  The supreme judicial tribunal of our country had given its decision in our favor, and the state which held us in unlawful ' oppressive servitude was trampling the authority of that tribunal under her feet. Did not patriotism, therefore, require us to insist upon the maintenance of the authority of the court? For a time it was our impression that it did. But we had to consider that:

3. Any advantage, to be derived from our preverance (sic), as to maintaining the authority of the Supreme Court, was  extremely doubtful. The state had placed herself in an attitude of resistance, which it appeared evident that nothing but force could overcome; that force could not be obtained without the agency of the President of the United States; and we had as much reason to believe that the President would not interfere.

4. Had it been ever so plain that our cause could and would be maintained by force of arms, and however plain it is that, in case of our perseverance, it would become the duty of the Executive to maintain at all hazards the authority of the law, it was not so clear that it was our duty to insist upon this course. It is no sacrifice of the authority of the law, for an individual to yield his lawful right, rather than that blood should be spilt in his defence. While the right of preaching the gospel without restraint, and the question of grand moral obligation respecting the rights of the Cherokees and the faith of our country were depending, we felt it to be our duty to go forward; but the aspect of the case was changed, when the former of these was no longer to be contended for, and our further perseverance could not affect the latter.

5. The political aspect of our country was in other respects such as to render it doubtful, in our apprehension, whether the public would not sustain injury by the prosecution of our appeal.

6. As far as our personal liberty was concerned, it were better to suffer unjustly, than to seek redress at the hazard of civil war.

7. We had the assurance of an unconditional release, provided we should desist from the attempt to obtain that release by force. This assurance came, not from any solicitation on our part. We made no solicitation, no overture, no compromise.  But we were often and earnestly solicited by persons in the confidence of the governor to desist from the prosecution, and assured that if we did so, we should not long remain in prison. So long ago as last August we were told by C. I. Mills, that the governor had expressed to him his intention to release us as soon as the Cherokees should form a treaty of cession, or as the state should have taken actual possession of the territory by the operation of existing laws and added 'You may tell them so.' After we had given notice of our intention to move the Supreme Court for further process, Gen. Coffee and Judge Schley, two members elect of Congress, earnestly solicited us to recall the notice, and said that, though they were not sent to us, and did not give the assurance officially yet they had conversed with the governor on the subject, and knew his views; and we might be assured that, if we should withdraw our suit, we should be discharged without any concession or condition, or even an application to the governor, before many weeks. Mr. Cuthbert, another gentleman in the confidence of the governor, and who had also solicited us to withdraw the suit, told us that he had received the most unqualified assurance from the governor, that if we did so, we should be discharged immediately after the adjournment of the Supreme Court. Mr. Forsyth had called on our counsel, Mr. Wirt, for the purpose of bringing about the same object, and had expressed his full confidence, though he said he was not empowered to give any pledge from the governor to that effect, that we should be discharged immediately on the governor's receiving information that no motion would be made before the court. We at first believed, and have since been informed, that Mr. Forsyth was authorized by the governor to give Mr. Wirt such assurance.

Since our release the question has been asked, What had the missionaries gained by suffering imprisonment, and appealing to the Supreme Court? _ This inquiry may deserve a reply.

1. Suppose we have gained nothing. Ought we therefore to repent of having made the attempt?  Are we never to make efforts and sacrifices for the accomplishment of an important object, without the certainty of success? Or when we have done it, and failed, are we therefore to wish we had not done it?  No. If we have gained nothing else, we have at least gained a very cheerful testimony of our consciences, that  we have done what we could, for the prevention of injustice, oppression and robbery, and the preservation of the nation faith.

_______________

*We ought, perhaps, here to say, that Mr. Wirt did not give us any advice on the subject preferring, as he said, to sustain to us simply the relation of legal counsel.

2. If we have not gained, we have at least not lost the privilege of laboring among the Cherokees in the work of the gospel.

3. We have gained in behalf of the Cherokees a decision of the Supreme Court, which, although it does not avail for the protection of their present rights, may nevertheless have a very important bearing on their future prosperity-a decision worth far more than the sacrifices we have made to obtain it.

We do not repent of what we have done. We greatly rejoice in it. And now that we are free, it gives us consolation to reflect that we have not obtained our freedom by any abandonment of principle, or by ceasing to bear our testimony against the injustice of the measures by which the Cherokees are deprived of their possessions. We felt it to be due to the cause of justice in announcing to the authorities of the state our determination to prosecute the case no further, to declare our unaltered conviction of the correctness of the principles on which we have acted. Having made the declaration then, we feel a freedom which we should not otherwise feel in making it now.

We know not but we shall be considered as having used language unjustifiably severe, in this communication, respecting the proceedings of the state of Georgia; but our own vindication appears to require that we speak of things as they are in our own view. The nature of the proceedings by which the defenseless Indians are deprived of their possessions appears to us very plain. We wish certainly to avoid opprobrious language, but we cannot see why, when we have felt ourselves called upon to oppose a torrent of iniquity, we should attempt to gloss over that iniquity by giving it names too smooth to express the truth. And we feel unwilling to retire from the contest into which we have been led, without giving our decided testimony against what it is impossible for us to regard in any other light than injustice, oppression, and robbery. Towards the state of Georgia or her authorities we are conscious of no vindictive feelings. It is our unceasing prayer that her transgressions and the transgressions of our countrymen be forgiven, and those judgements of heaven averted, which there is too much reason to fear.

We are yours with much esteem and affection.

S.A. Worcester,

Elizur Butler.




      


From the New York Spectator.

It is known that artists of eminence have taken portraits of Black Hawk, his son, and The Prophet. Mr. Ford, Mr. Sully, and several others, have produced, it is said, very striking likenesses of the Chief. The following anecdote is related in the Richmond Enquirer:-

'It is said, that the Indians, while they were at Old Point, conducted themselves with the greatest propriety. Old Hawk's handsome son was very fond of the company of the beautiful American Squaws. He is passionately attached to music-and, on one occasion, after listening with the most profound attention to the strains of the piano forte as its keys were touched by a young lady he suddenly jumped up, and drawing a brilliant ring from his finger, presented it with many compliments to his fair companion.  She declined it with an air of great politeness-but the Young Hawk was much mortified at the refusal, and still more at the idea of having transgressed some established rule of American etiquette.'

A favorable specimen of original eloquence is presented in the following address of Black Hawk to Col. Eustis, the officer in command at Fort Monroe, and in the subsequent colloquy between them, just before their departure for the North, on their way to their homes. It is also interesting, as it indicates the pacific feelings now entertained by the Indian Chiefs, and which we hope no further encroachment upon their rights will rouse into hostile action. That Col Eustis, by his kindness and attention, had won the personal friendship and respect of the Chieftain, is also evident from the tone and spirit of the address:-

'Brother-I have come on my part and in behalf of my companions to bid you farewell. Our Great Father* has been pleased to permit us to return to our hunting grounds. We have buried the tomahawk, and the sound of the rifle will hereafter only bring death to the deer and the buffalo.

Brother-You have treated the red man very kindly-your squaws have made them presents and you have given them plenty to eat and drink.  The memory of your friendship will remain till the Great Spirit says it is time for Black Hawk to sing his death song.

Brother-Your houses are as numerous as the leaves upon the trees, and your young warriors like the sands upon the shores of the big lake which rolls before us. The red man has but few houses and few warriors, but the red man has a heart which throbs as warmly as the heart of the white brother.

Brother- The Great Spirit has given us our hunting grounds, and the skin of the deer which we kill there is his favorite, for its color is white, and that is the emblem of peace.

This hunting dress and the feathers of the eagle are white. Accept them my brother. I have given one like this to the White Otter+. Accept it as a memorial of Black Hawk. When he is far away, this will serve to remind you of him. May the Great Spirit bless you and your children.  Farewell.'

To this Col. Eustis made the following appropriate and apparently heartfelt reply:-

'Friend and brother-It was the will of the Great Spirit and the fortune of war which placed you in my hands. If I had met you in the field of battle, it would have been my duty to my country and my white brethren to have taken your life. But the Great Spirit placed you in my hands as a captive-and the white man never attacks an unarmed foe. I have therefore treated you with all the kindness in my power, and I hope you have not suffered any inconvenience during your residence with us. And now that you are at liberty to return home and rejoin your tribe, believe me I sympathize heartily in your emotions of joy. You offer me your hand-say that it is a pledge of friendship, and give an assurance that you will give no further trouble to our white neighbors.'

Black Hawk said, 'Brother-The Great Spirit punishes those who deceive us, and my faith is now pledged.'

The Colonel proceeded-'Brother-it is well-you have seen much of our power, and will behold a great deal more before you reach your own country. Remember, then, and teach your young men that the red man's best interest is to be friendly to the whites, and to their great father, the President. He will afford them his protection if they do so.'

'I receive with pleasure this hunting dress, and shall value it much more so, because it was given to me by Black Hawk.  Accept this belt of wampum on my part as a remembrance, and bond of our friendship.- May you live in peace ever after with your children.-Farewell.'

A few words more were spoken on either side, but they were unimportant and consisted merely of friendly wishes and congratulations. Before he departed, he received from the Colonel';s lady, who was present at the interview, with several friends, a splendid bead bag, with which he appeared very much pleased, and said he would carry it safely to his squaw, who would be delighted to receive it.

On his visit to Philadelphia he witnessed the vast multitude who thronged the streets to gaze at Gen. Jackson. The Intelligencer of that city says that he and his friends leaned upon the window, and looked down upon the dense mass below with interest, but not with amazement. The crowd which had increased to a tremendous extent, gazed upon the singular array at the windows with silent curiosity; and, at length, Black Hawk, observing this, signified his desire to make a speech.

'Black Hawk,' said the old warrior, 'once thought he could conquer the whites. His heart grew bitter, and his hand strong. He unburied the tomahawk; and he led his people to fight. He fought hard. He was no coward. He spilled much blood. But the white men were mighty. They were many as the leaves of the forest; and Black Hawk and his people failed. He was sorry that the tomahawk had been raised.  He had been a prisoner. He saw the strength of the white men. They were very many. The Indians are but few. They are not cowards-they are brave-but they are few. He was sorry that they had gone to war. While the Great Spirit above, and he pointed on high kept his heart as it is now was, he would be the friend of the white man.- He would remain in peace.  He would go to his people and speak the good of the white man. He would tell them they were as the leaves of the forest-very many-very strong-and he would fight no more. Black Hawk is the white man's friend.'

___________

* i.e. the President.

+ The White Otter means General Atkinson-called so by the Indians because his hair is particularly white and silky.




      


From Poulson's Advertiser

THE INDIAN ' THE ECHO.

A Fragment from the Indian Traditions.

'Comest thou my father' said Sabawasqua as the ghost of his father came wandering along over the battle field. 'I come' said the shadow 'from the halls of Nowonett. Go my son-rest on the green banks of the Quantumyonkant beyond the lake of Shawbewem.' But I am not, my father, as I was when the new sun shone upon me on the plains of Pagyem.  I am faint with the loss of blood-I am weak, who was once strong-I am low who have heaped the dead upon the plan (sic) and rolled upon the habitation of mine enemies like the torrent from the Suncook.' 'Rest then my son' said the shadow-'rest on thy bed of blood. I will go and prepare for thee--I will make ready for thy reception.' The shadow disappeared and the Sabawasqua closed his eyes in silence.

It was now midnight and the pale moon shed her rays dimly around him, affording just light enough for Indian superstition to play upon his half opened eye and disordered brain. Again he closed his eyes; and again his breast swelled with horror.  But sleep bore down upon his eyelids and his blood ceased to flow. He was again awakened by the sound of a distant vaying (or Indian whistle) and finding his strength somewhat renewed-he raised himself from the ground-and leaning on his faithful bow, walked slowly to a large flat rock that projected out over the bed of the Cocheco. 

This was his favorite seat in the days of mid-summer. The day came slowly along-and morning was somewhat cloudy. The succeeding day was hot and the black clouds arose in the west and the thunder rolled in the distant darkness. The Indian sat like a statue-he felt he was failing-he knew he should not behold tomorrow's sun. The storm came-the forest mowed down before it. The hills tottered, the mountains trembled, and the lightnings darted across the sky. The Indian beheld the wheeling skies unmoved-he looked upon the confusion of the heavens calmly and observed the strife of the angry elements without fear.

The sky was again cleared and a hollow silence hung over the deep forest that surrounded him. But still the wild echo chanted her song and responded to the birds of the grove-to the murmuring streams and the sweet voices of nature's children.

The Indian raised his aching head and thus began:-'Come, Sampeiro, faithful dog-come to thy master. Thou art all that is now left of the many friends of Sabawasqua. The dog drew near and laid down by his master, who was then preparing to speak.  He thus began. 'This is the end-this is the glory of man-he is but a shadow-his life is like the morning dew.'

And the echo answered. 'Like the morning dew.'

Awed at a sound so unexpected, he stopt (sic) a moment!-but being a man of courage, and a stranger to fear, he went on.

'As the sun comes up out of the blue waters and climbs to the heights of the sky-so came I from childhood-so climbed I to the highest seat of human greatness. But I am passing away-I am going down.'

And the echo answered, 'going down.'

I have been great among the nations of red men.- I was the sun of my tribe. I came down from the heights Monadnock, like a broken cloud on the head of mine enemies. I led my tribe to the fight-I was strong as the mountain oak.  We met on the plain yonder as the broken clouds rush in wrath over the parting skies. I devoured mine enemies as a lion-I swept them away as the leaves of autumn. But they killed my friends-they sent them to the Shanbewen. I too must follow them-I must go soon.'

And the echo answered 'Go soon.'

Suppose this voice to be that of some departed friend talking to him, his feelings were raised to an uncommon height, and he almost forgot that his end was fast approaching.

Again he said- 'How do we pass away. We crowd along to the faying(sic) like sheep over the fallen hedge-like the blue waves of the deep. Soon our voices will be silent, soon we shall be veyump (forgotten). Who shall be left to remember us-who shall weep over the wild flowers that wave over our silence? Alas! there is none to remember-none to weep?'

And the echo answered, 'None to weep.'

'I am tired of my life and I will go to the house of my father. He will rejoice to see me come.'

And the echo answered,'Come.'

'I will come Sire' said he-and he slowly arose and dropped himself into the depths below.-The dark waters closed over the mighty Sabawasqua-and the surface was as smooth as tho none were there.- No more was seen of him for he arose not again.  He could not bear to live alone-for he was in the valley of bones-among the habitations of the dead. He is no more-now the breezes whisper around his cold seat of stone-and the wild cocheco exults over his bleaching bones.

When the storm comes down upon the plain - when the trees wave their forearms in the blast-when the mighty oaks clench their strong fingers together and bows loudly down before the tempest,- even then fancy hears his voice among the rough music of the elements--even then his form is seemingly there among the clouds and mists that wonder along the river's bank.

He was the last of his tribe; in him was seen the perfections of Indian greatness--in him was marked the true points of the Indian character.

KAMAVAGARAH.




      


The Seminole Agent, we have been informed, has returned with the chiefs of that tribe from exploring the country of the Arkansas, allotted to our red brethren as their future permanent resting place.  They are much pleased with both the climate, and character of the soil, and have ratified the provisional treaty made with Col. Gadsden last spring. By this arrangement, the Territory of Florida will be speedily freed of her red population, and a very desirable district of the country equally adapted to the cultivation of sugar, cotton, and the tropical fruits, will be opened to the enterprize of emigrants. While we bring this subject to the notice of those, who may be disposed to emigrate to the sunny South, we feel gratified that the opportunity afforded is the work of one of our fellow citizens, who we trust enjoys in his newly adapted home, all the consideration his labors entitle him to.

Charleston Courier.




      


The Sac Indians, who were delivered up by their chief, Ke-o-kuk, to the civil authorities of Jackson County, Illinois, for the murder of Masten, have been discharged, the Grand Jury not having found a bill against them. The Jacksonville Banner gives the following curious history of this affair:- N. Y. American.

'When the agent went to Ke-o-kuk to demand the murderers, under instructions from the War Department, he informed the agent that they were out of his reach, but would consult with his tribe what course to take in the premises. He called them together, and having stated to them that their great father would send an armed force into their nation to take the murderers, which could cause strife and bloodshed, which it was his desire to prevent, four young men of the tribe (they who were discharged) proffered themselves as voluntary offerings to appease the vengeance of their great father, and consented that they should be given up to the agent as the offenders. They were accordingly taken by Ke-o-kuk to the agent, who had them immediately confined in jail to await their trial. At court, Ke-o-kuk and other Indians of his tribe appeared, and the old chief was made a witness on the part of the prosecution; and, before the grand jury, he stated that these young men were not the persons who committed the murder, that they were out of his reach, having fled from his tribe; and that the supposed they would be satisfied, if any four of his young men should be delivered up to their justice, not doubting but the same principles governed his white brethren that obtained among the Indians. This testimony, of course, discharged the prisoners. The people were much excited at this termination of the business; and the grand jury, in the exercise of their powers, handed to the court a presentment, the object of which was, as we understand, to request the President to take the necessary measures to procure the murderers, with testimony sufficient to convict them, and presenting the agent for accepting the men who were discharged, and requesting him not to accept any others than the real murderers, whose names were obtained from Ke-o-kuk, and bills of indictment found against them. The idea of Ke-o-kuk, and the young men was, that the judge would sentence them to be hung immediately-they ad no other expectation. In this view of the case, they showed more devotion to their tribe, and more firmness, than could be found, under similar circumstances, among the most enlightened and civilized portion of the community. It is needless to add, that they manifested great joy at their unexpected deliverance.

Messrs Gatewood, Field, and C. S. Hempstead, attended as counsel for the prisoners.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 3, 1833

YAZOO SPECULATION.

We have been somewhat indifferent to give credence to rumors that have been current in this place, of the association of Gov. Lumpkin, with a company of speculators who have been engrossing on speculation, the Cherokee lands, drawn for in the land lottery of Georgia. But on a proper enquiry of the sources from which this charge has emanated, it is sufficient authority for us to state, that our incredulity have to give place to a correct foundation of the fact-that his Excellency has been engaged with a company for buying up Cherokee lands. It may be proper to know the manner in which his Excellency has been acting. A rival purchaser applied to him for a grant to a lot of land that was incumbered with an Indian's improvement, which he peremptorily refused to give. But so soon as one of his company bargained for the same lot, the seal and grant of the Commander of the Georgia Navy was immediately delivered. It is to be presumed that scrip money from Uncle Sam, is the ostensible object; and it is on the other hand painful to see the President of the United States using such tools as Gov. Lumpkin, to distress the Cherokees.






      


INDIANS

(Copy)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

April 17, 1832

MY FRIENDS,- Your great Father, the President of United States has recently been informed, that a change has probably taken place in the sentiments you have heretofore entertained, on the subject of a removal to the country west of the Mississippi, and that propositions from the Government having that object in view, would be favorably received by you.  Satisfied as the President is, that this measure can alone secure to you permanent prosperity and lay the solid foundations of your future improvement and civilization, and prepared as he has ever been to make you offers, which shall be not only be just but liberal, he as instructed me to address you upon this subject, and to make known to you the stipulations he is willing to grant, so far as his authority extends. I have therefore to request, that you will take the matter into your serious consideration, and communicate to me your alternate decision.

The President is willing to enter into an arrangement, for your removal west of the Mississippi upon the following general principles.

1. That a country, sufficiently extensive and fertile, shall be distinctly marked out, west of the Territory of Arkansas, for you and your brethren, where they now are.

2. That this country shall be conveyed to you by patent, under the provisions of the act of May 28, 1830, and that it shall be forever without the boundaries of any state or Territory.

3. That you shall have the powers of self-government so far as may be compatible with that general supervisory authority, which it is necessary Congress should exercise over you.

4. That you shall have the privilege of appointing an agent, who shall reside at Washington, to communicate your claims and wishes to the Government, and who shall be paid by the United States.

5. That if Congress assent to the measure, you shall be allowed a delegate to that body, and shall also, when your improvement and other circumstances will permit, and when Congress think proper, be placed in the relation of a Territory.

6. That all white persons, unless specially authorized by laws of the United States shall be excluded from your country.

7. That you shall remove to your new country, at the expense of United States, in either of the following modes you prefer.

1. By a commutation to be allowed to individuals or families.

2. By persons, to be appointed and paid by the United States.

3. By an arrangement to be made among yourselves, by which some of those, who are competent to the undertaking, may remove all our people, at a rate to be fixed.

8. That subsistence shall be provided by the United States for the term of one year, after you reach your destination.

9. That an annuity, proportioned to the value of the cession you may make, be secured to you.

10. That all the improvements upon the ceded territory, which add real value to the land, be appraised and paid for.

11. That ample provision be made for the support of schools,and teachers, and of blacksmiths 'c.; for the supply of steel and iron, and for the erection of mills, school houses, churches, council houses, and houses for a few of your principal chiefs.

12. That a rifle and equipments be given to each male adult; that a quantity of blankets be allowed to your families, together with axes, ploughs, hoes,wheels, cards ' looms.

13. That your stock be valued, and paid for by the United States.

14. That the annuities, due to you by former treaties be paid to you, west of the Mississippi.

15. That provision be made for your orphan children.

16. That protection be guaranteed to you against the hostile efforts of any other Indians.

17. It is the wish of the President, that all our people should remove, and he is therefore unwilling that any reservations of land should be made in the territory. Still he would not make this an indispensable condition, but would agree, should it be found necessary that reservations should be made for a few of your people, insinuations and under circumstances rendering such a measure proper, and within the scope of his legal authority. But, our people must distinctly understand, that those who remain will become citizens of the state in which they may reside, and that all the relations between them and the United States, founded upon their previous circumstances as Indians must cease.

These are the general terms I have been directed by the President to offer to you. They form the outline of an arrangement, which can be filled up when you are prepared to enter into a negotiation the details, and any other stipulations you may ask; will more properly be discussed and determined, when your views of the matter are known, and the ultimate mode of proceeding adopted.

If you are prepared to assume these propositions as the basis of a negotiation, you can appoint your Agents to come on to this place, clothed with authority to act, or the President will appoint commissioners to meet you in council, and conclude the affair.

I cannot but hope, that you will see, in this frank and liberal offers full evidence of the desire of the President, that the difficulties of our present situation may be removed, and your future destinies placed beyond the reach of those causes, which have occasioned such misery to the Indian race.

Shut your ears I entreat you, to bad counsel if any such should be offered to you, whatever may be told you, it is impossible you can remain where you now are and prosper, and if you persist in the efforts,the time of regret will come, but will come I am afraid after the most serious injury to yourselves.

Your Friend,

LEWIS CASS.

To the Cherokee East of the Mississippi.

________________

NO. 1

The undersigned, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, East of the Mississippi,presents, his respects to the Honorable Secretary of War, and informs him of his arrival together with the Delegation of said Nation, composed of Messrs. Richard Taylor, John F. Baldridge, and Joseph Vann. And who with himself, would be happy to pay their respects to the President of the United States, and likewise to the Honorable Secretary of War, whenever it shall be convenient to receive them.

Very Respectfully, I am, 'c. 'c.

JNO. ROSS.

'The Indian Queen Hotel,' Washington City, Jan. 8th, 1833.'

_______________

No. 2.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

January 9, 1833.

Sir:- In answer to your letter of the 8th instant, I have to observe that if you will be here tomorrow at half past 11 o'clock together, with the Cherokee delegation, I will accompany you to the President's at twelve.

Very Respectfully,

LEWIS CASS.

Mr. John Ross, Washington.

______________

No. 1.

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY,

January 28th, 1833.

The Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War,

Sir:_ Having exhibited before you the authority under which we have been delegated by the Cherokee Nation to visit the seat of Government. We will now take occasion to lay before you, for the consideration of the President, a brief view of the existing state of things in relation to our national affairs; and also to make known the feeling of the Cherokee people; in doing so, it is not deemed necessary to go into a detailed narrative of the numerous circumstances attending the facts, nor are we disposed to enter into a prolix discussion of the justice and merits of those rights for which we have so earnestly sought for the interposition of the protecting arm of the General Government. It is sufficient to state, that it has been the lot of our nation to differ in opinion with the constituted authorities of this Government in regard to that system of policy having for its object the general removal of all the Indian tribes west of the river Mississippi, ' that it has been our misfortune to find the President of the United States entertaining views adverse to ours upon the question of those rights, which our nation claims and heretofore have peaceably enjoyed from time immemorial, and which have been solemnly recognized by the Treaties now existing with the U. States. In the course of these events, the State of Georgia assumed to herself the right to extend and exercise jurisdiction over all that portion of our Territory called 'the chartered limits of Georgia'; the nature and effects of the laws adopted by her Legislature to operate upon our people, are well known. Our nation being strenuously opposed to a change of location, and the officers of the Government having withheld the enforcement of the intercourse act of Congress and the treaties, for our protection-our nation was driven to the necessity of employing Counsellors at law for alerting our legal right before the courts of the United States; and we have had the consolation amidst our difficulties to see that we have not been deceived in the opinion entertained of those rights, when the Supreme Judicial tribunal of the country decided that the laws of Georgia extending jurisdiction over our Territory are repugnant to the laws, Treaties,and Constitution of the United States, and were null and void. Yet with deep regret have we witnessed and felt the illegal proceedings of Georgia with increasing severity, at the same time the protecting arm of the Federal Government withdrawn, and the annuity stipend due to our nation by treaties withheld-and from the mere claim of the right to exercise jurisdiction, the right of surveying, disposing of and occupying our lands by force have since been asserted by Georgia, and measures are now in train for the consummation of the unjust deed. In this peculiar state of affairs, our nation in the summer of last year, received through your Department certain propositions from the President containing the basis upon which the Government was willing to negotiate a treaty for our Territory east of the Mississippi; and in reply thereto, the General Council of the Nation informed the President that the sentiments of the Cherokee people on that subject remained the same as has before been expressed, and that the basis of his propositions was objectionable and that owing to the peculiar state of things, the Nation was in duress; but, let him remove all the difficulties complained of and to afford that necessary protection which had been solemnly guaranteed in our treaties, and then, the exercise of that privilege which is so essential to freedom would place the nation in a condition to reflect, speak and act freely 'c. 'c. Some time thereafter a letter directed to 'the Cherokees East of the Mississippi,' from Mr. Robb the chief clerk of your department was received through the Agent acknowledging the receipt of this letter and who stated that you was (sic) then at that time on a tour of Lake Erie and to which place the letter had been forwarded and that no doubt that you would reply to it, but no further communication from you has since been received. Mr. Chester however, under instruction from the Department attended our General Council in October last, and urged a reconsideration of the same propositions which had before been submitted and replied to; and who, as you have been apprised, was given to understand that a delegation would be appointed to attend to the business of the Nation before the Government of the United States on all subjects relating to its interests.

Now, in the discharge of the duties entrusted to us, we ask leave to say, that notwithstanding the various perplexities which the Cherokee people have experienced under the course of policy pursued towards our nation, they are unshaken in their objections to a removal west of the river Mississippi; and on the question of our rights and the justice of our cause, their minds are equally unchangeable. However, we are fully sensible that justice and weakness cannot control the array of oppressive power; and when we anticipate the calamitous effects of such power, we do not fail to see the equal clearness that a removal under existing circumstances, beyond that 'Fa-of (sic) Rivers in the west, would but produce consequences no less fatal.

Therefore we can never consent to be the instrument of a suicidal act to our Nation's welfare and happiness.- The dilemma of this momentous problem then, must devolve upon the justice, the magnanimity and the honor of the great republic to decide the ultimate issue. At our interview the President as well as yourself took occasion to express deep solicitude on the part of the Government to adjust the difficulties which so much disturb the peace and tranquility of our Nation-here, you will please to allow us to repeat the expression of a corresponding desire on the part of our nation-and at the same time to take the liberty of suggesting for the consideration of the President, whether, it would not be practicable for the Government to satisfy the claims of Georgia through the individuals of that state who may have drawn lots of lands in our Territory, in the lotteries of that state, by granting the mother lands of the United States lying within the limits of the territories and states of the union, or in some other way. We would respectfully ask you further to state fully the views and disposition of  the President, how far and in what manner is he disposed to put a final end to the difficulties created by Georgia with our nation? And also if the annuity due to our nation will not now be directed to be paid over to us as heretofore, likewise please to inform us, what disposition has been made of the lands reserved under the treaty of 1819 for the purpose of raising a school fund for our nation, and if sold, to state the amount of the proceeds and also the application made of the same.

With considerations of respect, we have the Honor to be,

Sir, your Ob't Serv'ts

Signed Jno Ross

R. Taylor

Jno. F. Baldridge

Jos. Vann.

________________

NO. 2

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

February 2d, 1833

GENTLEMEN:- Your letter of the 28th ult. was received to-day, and has been submitted to the President. His views I shall proceed to communicate to you.

I have already said to you in conversation, and I now repeat in writing, that the President looks with great anxiety and solicitation to your situation. Without entering into any historical summary of events which have led to the existing state of things, it is enough for our present purposes to know that your position is an embarrassing one, and that a change is called for by every consideration of present convenience, and of future security. And I have no hesitation in saying that the Government is very desirous of entering into a satisfactory arrangement, by which all your difficulties will be terminated, and the prosperity of your people fixed upon a permanent basis. I am well convinced however these objects can only be attained by a cession of our possessory rights in Georgia, and by your removal to the country west of the Mississippi, nor can I foresee any cause of apprehension as you do, that such removal will be injurious either in its immediate or remote consequences. A mild climate, a fertile soil, an inviting and extensive country,a Government of your own, adequate protection against other Indians and against our own citizens, pecuniary means amply sufficient for your removal, subsistence and comfortable establishment, and for such purposes of general concern as may appear necessary. all these, within the limits of a reasonable expectation are freely offered to you, and I cannot therefore see that the subject presents itself in the melancholy light in which you view it. Immense numbers of our own citizens if similarly situated, would be happy to accept these offers. I trust you will on reflection come to the conclusion that the course now indicated, is not only the best for our people under the circumstances in which they are placed, but that under much more prosperous circumstances it would not be an unfortunate one.

The President's message to the Senate, of Feb'ry 22, 1831, has been already communicated to you. That message entered so freely into the subject of the existing relations between the Indian tribes and the States in which they reside, that any further answer did not seem necessary to your letter, declining to accept the proposition made to you last season. The whole views of the Government had been previously made known to you, and nothing would have been gained by continuing the correspondence after your positive refusal to accept as the basis the offers which had been made to you. Mr. Chester, as you correctly state, was authorized to attend your Council and to communicate the wishes of the Department. He did so but the result was fruitless.

I do not see that any practicable plan could be adopted by which the revisionary rights held under the State of Georgia could be purchased upon such terms as would satisfy the Government in entering into a stipulation to that effect, nor would it at all remove the difficulties and embarrassments of your condition. You would still be subject to the laws of Georgia, surrounded by our settlements and exposed to all those evils which have always attended the Indian race which placed in immediate contact with the white population. It is only by removing from these that you can expect to avoid the fate which has swept away so many Indian tribes.  Certainly some sacrifices may well be encountered in effecting this object, but I trust and believe they will be slight and temporary. The greatest sacrifices will be made by those of your people who are the most intelligent and have made the most comfortable provision for themselves in their present residence. To the great body of your tribe, I am convinced the change would be immediately beneficial. Our accounts from the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, are most encouraging. A report from the Commissioner now in that country states that the Cherokees will have twenty-five thousand bushels of corn to dispose of after reserving enough for their own consumption, and that their condition and prospects are truly fortunate. I presume that each of the individuals composing this delegation is among the small portion of the tribe which is comfortably established in Georgia. I may appeal to their better feelings whether a transfer of their residence essential as it is to the existence of their people,ought not to be cheerfully made, under existing circumstances. Whether the inducement now held out both of a pecuniary and of a political character, are not sufficient to justify every one of your people in entering into the arrangements which have been proposed. Certain it is, that with a year's subsistence, provided after their arrival West of the Mississippi, and with the other aid which has been promised, there is not a Cherokee of mature age, and in a state of health who could not provide comfortably for his support.

You request me to inform you what are the views and disposition of the President relating to your affairs; I do not know that I can answer you this question, more fully than by referring you to the propositions already submitted to your tribe. The President is anxious to close all the difficulties with you, to provide for your removal and establishment in the West, and to stipulate for such pecuniary considerations as may appear to be just. All this has been fully indicated to you, and I am instructed to say that I am prepared to enter into a negotiation with you, and to conduct it in a spirit of liberal justice, and with a strong desire that it may terminate successfully.

With respect to your annuities, I would observe that there are none withheld from you. The Government has engaged to pay certain annuities to the Cherokees.  Whether these shall be paid to persons representing the tribe, or the individuals composing it, as the treaties do not provide, the government is at liberty to determine. It has long been the practice in other quarters of the country,to pay the annuities to all persons who attend to receive them. Looking to the fund as a joint one to be divided in equal proportions by the Agents of the Government, who can thus see that there is a just distribution, and that individuals are protected in their rights, who could not protect themselves.  This practice has been recently extended to all the tribes, and the President sees no reason why it should be departed from. In the treaty concluded with the Creeks, in this place in March last, a stipulation was inserted at their request that their annuities should be paid in such manner as the tribe might direct. They have since directed that the annuities should be paid to the Chiefs, and they have so been paid. Such a provision,if you wish it, might be inserted in any arrangement entered into with you.

Your enquiry concerning the school fund under the treaty of 1819, will be answered by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as soon as the necessary information can be collected.

In conclusion, permit me to remark, that should you be disposed to accept as a basis the propositions which have been made to you, and to enter into an arrangement accordingly, I must request that the necessary details maybe arranged in personal interviews and not by a written correspondence. My time is so occupied that I cannot adopt the latter mode. To expedite business, I am willing to meet you any evening and to discuss the subject, and to devote every evening to it until the matter is finished.

Very respectfully,

I am Gentlemen

Your ob't serv't

LEWIS CASS.

Messrs. John Ross, R. Taylor, John F. Baldridge, Joseph Vann.

___________________

NO. 1

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office, Indian Affairs

February 14th, 1833

GENTLEMEN:- In answer to that part of your communication of the 28th ulte, addressed to the Secretary of War and by him referred to this office. I have the honor to state, that of the Cherokee land reserved by the treaties of the 25th of October 1805, and the 27th of February 1819, and the 27th of February 1819, and ceded to the United States in trust for the Cherokee nation as a School fund, there have been sold 29,823.33-100 acres, as appears from the returns made from the land office at Huntsville, and that the proceeds of sale amounted on the 31th (sic) of December last to $45,230,62(sic) according to information received from the Commissioner of the General land office; which sum is now in the Treasury of the United State, and will be vested, and the dividend or interest thereof will be appropriated, pursuant to the 4th Article of the said treaty of the 27th February 1819.

I am Gentlemen,

With high respect,

Your humble serv't

ELBERT HERRING

John Ross and others, Cherokee Delegation

BROWN' HOTEL.

_____________________

NO. 3

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY,

February 14th, 1833

Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry of War,

Sir:- yours in reply to ours of the 28th ult. communicating the views of the President has been maturely deliberated; ' in duty to our nation we feel ourselves bound to respond to the same.  We are told 'that the President looks with great anxiety and solicitation to our situation, that he knows our position is an embarrassing one, and that a change is called for by every consideration of present convenience and future security. And that the Government is desirous of entering into a satisfactory arrangement by which all our difficulties will be terminated, and the prosperity of our people fixed upon a permanent basis. Yet we are assured that you are well convinced, these objects can only be attained by a cession of our possessory rights in Georgia and by our removal to the country west of the Mississippi, that you can foresee the cause of apprehension as we do, that such removal will be injurious either in its immediate or remote consequences. A mild climate, a fertile soil, an inviting and extensive country, a government of our own, adequate protection against other tribes and against your own citizens within a reasonable expectation are freely offered to us; you cannot therefore see that the subject present itself in the melancholy light in which we view it.' You have also referred to the President's message to the Senate of February 22d 1831, to show his views on the subject of the existing relations between the Indian tribes and the states in which they reside. In viewing the principles upon which these views are predicated we have been impelled to look into those upon which the primitive and conventional rights of the Cherokee Nation have been recognized and established by the solemn acts of this Government, and it is with deep regret and great diffidence we are constrained to say that in this scheme of Indian removal we can see of more of expediency and policy to get rid of them, than to perpetuate their race upon any permanent fundamental principle. Were it possible for you to be placed or to imagine yourself for a moment to be in the peculiar situation in which we stand, with the existing treaties and laws and the subsequent acts of the Government all before your eyes, you cannot but see and feel as we do. It is impossible then for us to see that by a removal in the country west of the Mississippi all our difficulties would be terminated and the prosperity of our people fixed upon a permanent basis. Would not a removal to the country west of the Mississippi upon lands of the United States by the Indian tribes under the provisions of the act of congress denationalize their character as distinct communities? By what tenure would such tribes occupy the lands to be assigned to them? Is not the fee simple title vested in and will be retained by the United States?  What kind of a government of their own then is it designed for them to establish? And how is it possible for the United States to afford them more adequate protection against your own citizens there, than where we are? These questions have never as yet been definitely settled down upon any fundamental law of Congress, that we know of; and we cannot avoid believing that the present system of policy towards the Indians, is founded upon contingencies growing out of the interest and desires of the states; without regarding the permanent prosperity and happiness of the Indians. We intend no reflection upon the Government in thus frankly communicating our views, but we deem it essential to a perfect understanding of the subject. As to the climate, soil and extent of country to which you have alluded, and the future prospects of the Cherokees who are living there, our people are correctly informed on these points from personal observations and otherwise.--- Withal they have no wish to remove there. What then would be the consequence of a whole nation of people driven by the force of necessity to leave their native land for a distant one in a strange and an inhospitable region and there to experience the sad effects of injured disappointments; to what source could they seek indemnity for their injuries? And what tribunal will there redress their wrongs; for in vain will our nation have appealed to the protecting arm of the General Government to fulfil treaty obligations, to shield our suffering people against illegal encroachments, and in vain till our supreme judicial tribunal have declared a verdict in favor of our nation against the exercise of usurped power on the part of State authority. In the suggestion which we took the liberty to submit for the consideration of the President, that some practicable arrangement might be entered into between the United States ' Georgia to relieve our nation of its present embarrassments, we had entertained no doubt that with a corresponding desire on the part of the General Government such an arrangement could be effected, and in that event, that Georgia would not be permitted to subject our people to the obedience of her laws, in as much as the Supreme Court of the United States had already pronounced the exercise of her jurisdiction over our territory and people to be unconstitutional and void; and we are at a loss, to see the ground you have taken in arriving to the opinion that we would still be subject to the laws of Georgia. We cannot subscribe to correctness of the idea, which has so frequently been recurred to by the advocates of Indian removal, that the evils which had befallen and swept away the numerous tribes that once inhabited the old states are to be traced to the mere circumstance of their contiguity to the white population-but we humbly conceive that the true causes of their extinction are to be found in the catalogue of wrongs which have been heaped upon their ignorance and credulity, by the superior policy of the white man when dictated by avarice and cupidity.  You appeal to our better feelings in regard to the situation of our people and suggest that under existing circumstances some sacrifices may well be encountered in removing from a contract with a white population, in order to escape the fate which has swept away so many Indian tribes-should the doctrine that Indian tribes should be the doctrine that Indian tribes cannot exist contiguously to a white population prevail and they be compelled to remove west of the states and territories of this republic, what is to prevent a similar removal of them from there for the same reason?  We can only plead, let equal justice be done between the red and the white man, and so long as the faith of contracts is preserved inviolate, there will be no just cause for complaints, much less for aggressions on the right of the one or the other, and that so far as our (individually) sense of right justice ' honor will dictate to us a course to meet the wishes, the interest and the permanent prosperity and happiness of our nation; that no pecuniary sacrifices or human suffering ever so great can or will deter us from encountering them.

Contrary to treaty stipulations and the intercourse Act of 1802, there are numerous white families who have intruded upon the lands of our Nation, within the chartered limits of the several adjoining States, and the repeated complaints made of the same to the Agent, had not been  regarded, and the trespassers, instead of being removed, have greatly increased in numbers, and are daily multiplying. We are constrained to bring this grievous subject before the Department, that the evil be corrected. In addition to these there are others who threatens to overrun and dispossess our Nation of its territory, under the sanction of State authorities.- Under the assumption of the right to exercise jurisdiction, it is known that Georgia has passed Legislative Acts to survey and draw a lottery for the occupation of our lands, and which in part, have been carried into effect-and without the timely interposition of this Government, will doubtless rob us of our lands. Can this be permitted, or will the President extend the Constitutional arm of the Government to save us from this impending calamity? His determination upon this delicate and important question, we most respectfully solicit. Also, if we are to understand from your communication, that the propositions submitted through Mr Chester, and which have been rejected by the General Council of our Nation, as containing the only basis upon which the Government will relieve our Nation of the injustice of State oppression. On the subject of our annuities, you reply 'that none are withheld from us.' 'That the Government has engaged to pay certain annuities to the Cherokees. Whether these are to be paid to persons representing the tribe or the individuals composing it, as the treaties do not provide, the Government is at liberty to determine.' The view you have taken of this subject is at variance with the true intent and meaning of these treaties, as all the former practices of the Government in relation thereto, will show. The United States of America through their Commissioners Plenipotentiary entered into certain treaties with the Chiefs, Headmen, 'c. of the Cherokee Nation who were duly authorized and empowered, by said Nation; and in consideration for sundry cessions of lands, there are certain articles stipulated in these treaties to be paid to the Cherokee Nation, and the usual practice of the Government in paying those annuities, has always been through the United States Agent, to the authorities of the Cherokee Nation, and by them disposed of as the Legislative Council thereof think fit to direct for the public welfare. Upon the complaints of several discontented Chiefs of the upper Cherokee Towns, to the Government, Mr. Jefferson, the then President of the United States, on the 4th day of May, 1808 spoke to them in writing thus-'You complain that you do not receive your just proportion of the annuities we pay your Nation, that the Chiefs of the Lower Towns take far more than their share, my children, this distribution is made by the authority of the Cherokee Nation,  and according to their own rules, over which we have no control. We do our duty in delivering the annuities to the Headmen of the Nation, and we pretend to no authority over them, to no right of directing how they are to be distributed.' For the last thirteen years, the Cherokee Nation have had a treasurer, and into whose hands the annuities have been paid by the Agents of the United States, and for the faithful performance of the duties assigned to his office, the Treasurer has executed a bond with ample securities, in the penal sum of fifty thousand dollars. The annuities due for the two last years, the Agent has refused to pay them over to the Treasurer, as usual; notwithstanding the written request of the great mass of our people to do so.- And upon his failing to induce the individuals of our nation to accept of this money agreeably to the direction of the Department these annuities have since been deposited in the United States Branch Bank at Nashville to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States. Under these circumstances we felt justified in saying that our annuities are withheld from us. Since the unconstitutional proceedings of Georgia towards our nation our public expenses have greatly increased, consequently debt have been incurred for the payment of which the faith of our nation stands pledged-and we trust that the President will see in this, good reasons for directing the annuities to be paid over to us as heretofore-for we can see no possible advantage in the Government controlling the application of these annuities contrary to the interest and desire of our nation, when they constitute a debt from the United States to the Cherokee Nation. No complaints having been made to the Government by our nation against the dishonesty or misapplication of this annuity stipend by our own constituted authorities, on the contrary they have required the Agent to pay it over as usual; and without intending any reflection we feel justified in saying that the Cherokee people feel as much respect for, and have as great confidence in the justice and integrity of their own public men as they can possible entertain towards the pubic Agents of this Government in their nation.

With great respect we have the honor to be,

Sir, your ob't serv'ts

John Ross

Richard Taylor

John F. Baldridge

Joseph Vann

_______________________

NO 5.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Feb'ry 20, 183333(sic)

GENTLEMEN,- I have received your letter of the 11th inst, but having, as already explained to you, but little time to continue a correspondence, promising no useful result, I must be brief in my answer.

All the considerations, connected with your situation and prospects, have been so long and so much discussed, that it seems wholly unnecessary to review the subject. So far as regards the questions specifically stated by you, respecting the political situation you would occupy west of the Mississippi, the tenure of the lands, the kind of government 'c. you will find, in the papers heretofore communicated from this department, satisfactory explanations; and anything further that may be necessary shall be frankly stated in any personal interviews, should there be a prospect of a satisfactory adjustment of the affair.

You are fully aware of the President's views of his constitutional duty. He considers that he has no right to arrest the laws of Georgia, within the limits of that State, nor can he rake any measures to procure such a result. And possessory right, independent of jurisdiction, which you may claim, does not fall within the provision of the Intercourse Act of 1802, and its supplements, and consequently does not present a case within the authority of the President to determine.

I have nothing to add on the subject of the annuities, but that the President's views are unchanged.

I will add, that I should be very glad to meet you, and to discuss this subject, in the confident hope that arrangements may be made, which will be satisfactory to our people, and terminate all the difficulties, in which they are now involved.

Very respectfully,

I am Gentlemen

your ob't serv't

LEWIS CASS

Messrs, John Ross, R. Taylor, J. F. Baldridge, Jos. Vann.

_______________________

To the Committee and Council, in General Council Convened.

FRIENDS AND FELLOW CITIZENS:

It has been deemed advisable to convene you for the purpose of making you acquainted with the proceedings of the late delegation to the seat of the American Government in order that you may be prepared to make them known to the people of your respective Districts, as it is important that they should at all times, be correctly informed of our public affairs. From the documents herewith submitted, you will perceive that the business of the Mission was brought directly before the executive branch for deliberation and action.  It may be proper to state some of the reasons which influenced the delegation on this occasion in confining themselves exclusively to this course, when it is known that the President hitherto had disclaimed any right to interpose his authority against the illegal and highly oppressive encroachments of Georgia.

It was evident however, that the President in pursuing this course was actuated more from motives of policy to effect our removal than to sustain us in our just rights; and as the Supreme Court of the United States having decided the question of cause favorable and the President in his proclamation to the people of South Carolina, on the subjects of Nullification and Secession, having promptly declared the Supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States over State authority, there was every reason to believe that he would ultimately enforce the treaties and Intercourse Act for our protection. Under this persuasion it was thought best not to agitate the question of our affairs before Congress at that time by presenting another memorial,it being a short session, and moreover the principles of Nullification and Secession which were agitated by South Carolina, having been submitted before both houses of Congress by the President, and that the final action of the General Government upon that important controversy could not fail to affect the Georgia proceedings towards us also, as the principle upon which they are based being nothing more nor less than that of Nullification, and the only difference in the principle as maintained by South Carolina and Georgia, is that that the former has only asserted it in theory, when the latter has reduced it to practice.  A law has finally been passed extending the powers of the Federal Judiciary and vesting the President of the United States with sufficient power to suppress the practical operation of this unconstitutional and ruinous principle.- Whether this Nation will be benefitted by the decisive action of Congress on this subject or not, is a question which will depend much upon the unity of sentiment and action of the Cherokee people themselves, as well as on the wisdom and integrity of their representatives.

Should it become necessary, I will in a subsequent communication, express my views in regard to our public affairs in more general terms.

JNO. ROSS.

RED CLAY, CHEROKEE NATION,

May 13th 1833.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 10, 1833

We have commenced with this number the publication of the Correspondence of the Cherokee Delegation with the Secretary of War, on the subject of the difficulties in which the Cherokees are placed by the policy of the Federal Government, and we are compelled to defer the remainder to our following numbers. We have published these same propositions of a Treaty before; but as the present measurers of the Government being based on these propositions, it is thought best to re-publish them, in order to a full understanding of the state of the Cherokee case. We shall conclude these documents by the resolutions of the Council, in May last, and transmitted to the President of the United States.

____________________

ALLEN NEWEL, Post Master of West Brookfield, Mass. is Agent for the Cherokee Phoenix, to whom payments may be made by those whose accounts remain unpaid in that State.






      


RELIGIOUS

From the Religious Intelligencer.

THE NORTH WESTERN INDIANS.

We copy from the Christian Advocate and Journal, of New York, the following extract of a letter from Mr. PERSIS SKINNER, and assistant missionary of the American Board at Mackinaw. The letter is addressed to the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church, calling upon it for aid in prosecuting missions among the Indians at the north-west, and giving some minute and important particulars in relation to the efforts of the Church of Rome to plant itself and secure a firm foothold in the western country. We know that many doubts are entertained on this subject, and people are incredulous to the facts which are so often presented; and it is this incredulity which makes the danger greater, and the success of the Catholics more certain.  For our own part, we have every assurance that the See of Rome is looking at the future subjugation of this country to its spiritual power, as one of the brightest hopes (perhaps the brightest) that shines above its darkening horizon; and we are confirmed in our fears not only by the self-denying and rigorous efforts made by the Catholics at the West, but by the increasing aversion to true religion which is so extensively manifested in our country, and in the prevalence of a skeptical and licentious 'liberality among our citizens.'

The letter of Mr. Skinner, though designed more particularly for our Methodist brethren, we hope will have the effect to stir up members of other denominations also, to increase efforts for the Indians.

'I suppose sir, it would be only saying what you already know, were I to tell you the Catholics are vigorously penetrating the Indian country, (as we call the region north and west of Mackinaw,) rendering the darkness which now envelopes it, 'still more dark.'  Wherever they go, they carry with them so much of the imposing and mysterious ceremony, that they are but too successful in prejudicing the Indians so strongly against the 'new religion,'

as they call the Protestant, that they seem effectually to close and bar every avenue by which the missionary might hope to gain access to them. Now, I would ask, are there none in your church who are willing to sacrifice and suffer as much for the cause of truth as the Catholics are for error and superstition?'

At Parbrierosh, the nearest Indian settlement to the Mississippi, a Catholic priest has established himself, who is a European, and I doubt not, reared more delicately than most our American preachers; and yet he is content to be deprived of all refined society, and nearly all which can be termed civilized. I believe that there is not one individual in thirty miles of his station who can speak English, except his interpreter, who is half Indian.

'He has built a house, and lives as others around live; and the fruits of his toil and self-denial are, almost a whole settlement of the most noble, interesting Indians inhabiting this region, converted to the Catholic faith.'

'Only a few years since, (I believe three) they earnestly begged for Protestant teachers-were convinced of their need of instruction-encouraged to hope for it, and then disappointed, until weary of pressing their suit, they applied to the Catholics, and were successful. The result is what might have been expected-the exchange of pagan rites and superstitions for the doubly cruel yoke of popish dominion. O! what heart warmed with the love of God, would not bleed over a people thus blinded by false doctrine, hastening on to eternity, and separated by insuperable barriers from the 'way of life?' Even now, in the present life, they groan under the intolerable burden, and often say, 'The way to heaven is a hard way--so much penance to be performed, and so many Latin phrases to be learned, they sometimes almost despair.' And yet they are terrified at the idea of seeking another way; it being a prominent part of their teacher's duty to persuade them, that to change their religion would be to ensure to themselves eternal wrath.'

'Looking at their present situation, it does indeed seem that, as a people they must live and die as they are, and perish, unless someone possessing the spirit which animated a Whitefield, a Wesley, a Martin, and Elliot, and others, go to their help.'

'There is also a priest at this place, an Italian, said to belong to an opulent family in Rome, who, with the usual characteristics of Italians of rank, viz, effeminacy, refinement, and luxury; is content to board with an Indian woman, and accommodate himself to circumstances, for the sake of extending the church of Rome. He is indeed a faithful servant of his master, and manifests a zeal, and patience, and perseverance, which Christians would do well to imitate. In coming to Mississippi, he certainly must have sacrificed almost all that renders life dear; home, kindred, and friends were forsaken, and the elegant, refined society, and country, evidently dear to his heart as life itself, exchanged for a home on this lonely island, with no society but the rude, uncivilized French and Indians. He now looks back upon the city of Rome, the home of his childhood, as the Eden of this world, the counterpart of heaven; but expresses no desire to return. He seems to feel, that to aid in establishing the Roman supremacy in this country, is an object to which no other is paramount. All personal suffering in view of this,seems, in his view, unworthy to be named. Though young and effeminate, he displays a hardihood which few ministers evince in time of difficulty.'

Now, sir, I would again ask-are there none in your church who are willing to make the same sacrifices? I would be grateful for what has been done. The Methodists have done much in Canada, and are still doing much; but there is a great field to be occupied, I feel like getting at your feet, and calling upon you, as the Lord's watchmen, to cast your eyes over this land of darkness, as you stand on the walls of Zion, and then tell me 'what of the night?'

'After passing the Sault de St. Marie, (only 19 miles from Mackinaw,) your eyes will meet with no messenger of the Lord of Hosts, until you reach La Point,m on the south west side of the Lake Superior, a distance of 500 miles. There you will find brothers Hall and Boutwell, laboring alone in the wilderness.  From thence you pass on a few hundred miles farther, and you will see brother Ayre toiling alone, without any to hold up his hands, or encourage his heart. From this place you may go, (if steering directly north,) to the Pole-you may pass thousands of wandering, perishing Indians; but you will find none to direct them to the Lamb of God.'

'If you look west of Mackinaw, where, sir, will your eye rest on one whose business it is to direct the multitudes who inhabit that region to Him who is the way, and the only way to Heaven? Again I ask; 'Watchmen, what of the night?'  Can you send more help to us?  Candid, firm, self denying, devoted Methodists are what we want. The missionary who goes among the Indians, must be  a man after God's own heart, one willing and able to endure hardships, and toil, and want, and privations of every kind. Brother Hall whom I have before mentioned, says, 'As the people of his charge will not come to him, he must go to them;' and in order to do this, he has often to travel many miles on foot, in the wilderness, over swamps and rivers, and he must lodge, if necessary, in wigwams-must carry his food on his back, or eat such as the Indians give him: and this has to be done not only once or twice, but constantly, summer or winter, cold or hot, wet or dry:- The Indians must be followed from place to place in their wanderings.'




      


INDIANS

No. 6

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY,

February 26th, 1833

The Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War,

Sir:- The accompanying papers contains the proceedings of the Cherokee people who reside within that portion of our territory lying within the chartered limits of Tennessee, at their public meetings held in consequence of certain rumor in reference to the design of John Walker Jr. in coming on to this place; and as that individual has since arrived and been some time in this city, and being uninformed of the specific objects of his visit-and in order to meet the request of those of our fellow citizens who have transmitted through us their protest against any improper interference or unauthorized action of said Walker in regard to the affairs of the Nation, we have deemed it our duty to lay the same before your Department.

It has ever been the desire of the constituted authorities of our nation that harmony and good feeling should exist among the people, to secure the interest and welfare of the whole community. And with this feeling they have always endeavored to allay such excitements as are calculated to produce consequences of an unpleasant character.

With considerations of respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient servants.

Signed, JOHN ROSS

RICHARD TAYLOR

JOHN F. BALDRIDGE,

JOSEPH VANN.

_______________

NO.7

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office, Indian Affairs,

February 27th, 1833

Gentlemen,- I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of 26th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War, accompanied by certain papers in reference to JOHN WALKER, Jr.

I have the honor to be,

With high respect,

Your ob't serv't

ELBERT HERRING.

 Messrs. John Ross and others, Delegates, 'c.

Brown's Hotel.

_______________

NO. 3

BROWN'S HOTEL, WASHINGTON CITY.

March 1st, 1833.

To the Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War.

Sir,--I deem it proper to advise you that the Delegation find it to be inconvenient to themselves to call on you this morning for the purpose of waiting on the President agreeably to your suggestion.  In consequence of which, we have deemed it most proper to address the President a note asking him to state at what time it will be most convenient to himself to see us on the business appertaining to the general concerns of our Nation.

In behalf of the Cherokee Delegation.

I am Sir, Your ob't serv't

JOHN ROSS.

____________________

NO. 9.

BROWN'S HOTEL WASHINGTON CITY,

March 1st, 1833

 To His Excellency Andrew Jackson,

 President of the United States.

Sir:- In behalf of the Cherokee Delegation, I beg leave to state, that so far as we have had the honor to confer with the Secretary of War upon matters touching the general concerns of our Nation, nothing of a satisfactory character has taken place; nor, is it possible for us to see that anything permanently beneficial to the future tranquility and happiness of our nation can ever grow out of the principle upon which the propositions offered us are based. - The Delegation would therefore respectfully solicit and interview with you, previous to our departure for our homes, and also request to be informed on what day and hour will it be most convenient to yourself to see and converse with us on the momentous concerns of our Nation.

Very respectfully, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Ob't Humble Serv't

JNO ROSS.

In behalf of the Cherokee Delegation.

____________________

NO. 10.

Sir:- The President requests me to say in answer to your note of this date that he will be glad to have an interview with you for the purpose of considering the important concerns of your Nation; but that he is now so much pressed by public business that he cannot appoint an earlier time than Tuesday next at 10 o'clock for the interview. If this appointment will be agreeable to you he will expect you in that day 'c.

ANDREW J. DONELSON,

1st March, 1833

Mr. John Ross, Delegate of the Cherokee Nation

___________

NO. 11

Sir:- The appointment made by the President for an interview with the Cherokee Delegation on Tuesday, next at 10 o'clock is accepted. You will therefore please to signify the sam to him accordingly.

Very respectfully,

I am Sir, Yours 'c.

JNO. ROSS

March 2d, 1833

Andrew J. Donelson, Esq. Sec'ry Executive Department.

_______________

NO. 12

Washington City,

March 8th 1833.

The Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry of War,

Sir,- The subject of intrusion on the lands of the Cherokee Nation by the citizens of the United States as you well know, is a fruitful source of unpleasant complaints. The injuries sustained by our citizens from the unlawful practice within the chartered limits of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Alabama have been great and are daily increasing.

And not withstanding we have been so repeatedly assured by the Department that the intruders would be removed from our lands by virtue of the Intercourse Act, where the state laws did not interfere with the exercise of State authority on the part of the General Government-yet strange as it seem to be, it is nevertheless true, that these complaints have not been made to cease by any effectual order from the Department, to the Agent. However, when we reflect and see that the Agent (Col. Montgomery) has himself countenanced ' permitted his own son-in-law, John Hardwick to reside in the nation and to cultivate Cherokee land in the vicinity of the Agency, regardless of the remonstrances of our General Council, it is a circumstance not so much to be wondered at, that he should indulge other intruders who have only followed the example of his son-in-law. From recent information there are many white families who have removed into the Nation, and are now intruding on our lands within the chartered limits of Tennessee: to these facts we would respectfully call the attention of the Department and urge that a speedy and effectual order be given for their immediate removal-should you feel disposed to ascertain from other sources the truth of what we have stated in relation to the conduct of the agent and the situation of John Hardwick, we would respectfully refer you to Capt. Day and Lieut. Dancy the disbursing officers who were lately stationed at the agency. We take leave further to state that there are some individual claims for improvements abandoned on the lands ceded by the Treaties of 1817 ' 1819 which have never been valued and reported upon by the assisting agents. -We would therefore request that you will authorize and direct the Agent or some other person to have said claims collected and reported upon to the Department that the claimants may receive their just compensation for their improvements agreeably to the stipulation of the aforesaid Treaties.

We are very respectfully,

Your Ob't Serv'ts

Jno Ross,

Richard Taylor,

Jno. F. Baldridge,

Joseph Vann.

______________

NO. 18

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

Office Indian Affairs,

March 14, 1833.

Sir:- Your letter of the 8th inst. addressed to the Secretary of War on the subject of intrusion in Cherokee land by white citizens, has been referred to this office for reply.

It cannot be denied, that your complaints are well founded, and that you have sustained injuries for the rapacity and lawless conduct of our citizens. It is however in some degree an unvoidable (sic) evil incident to the present condition of your tribe, and no blame is fairly attributable to the Department on that account. It is due to the Secretary of War to say, that soon as he received notice of intruders having presented themselves on your land, he gave orders for their expulsion.  These orders will now be repeated, and a military force will forthwith be dispatched to the assailed parts of your country, for the purpose of expelling and keeping off intruders. And orders will also be given to the District Attorney of the United States to prosecute for trespass all such as may dare to return after their expulsion. You cannot consider it a misplaced assurance, ' it is made with the utmost sincerity, that the Department cherishes deep solicitude for the welfare of your Nation, and will to the extent of its power, endeavor to promote it.

With high respect.

Your Humble Serv't

ELBERT HERRING

Messrs. Jon. Ross, ' Others (sic) Cherokee Delegates.




      


Indians in Massachusetts--Scattered remnants of the aborigines still linger in various parts of the State: but chiefly in the South-eastern quarter, about Buzzard's Bay, and on the Island of Martha's Vineyard. Their united number are about 750. They are all under the guardianship of the State government, and are not allowed to alienate their lands, but by the consent of the overseers appointed by the State to look after their interests. The Society for the propagation of the gospel among the Indians, furnishes them with ministers and teachers. At Marshpee and Martha's Vineyard are settlements containing 660 souls, who own 18,000 acres of land in common. They are all except 50 or 60, of mixed blood, mostly by intermarriage with blacks. Some of them have gardens, cultivated fields, but their chief sources of income are the wood on their lands, the pipe clay of the island, and pasturing the cattle of the whites. Many of the young men are employed in the whale and other fisheries, and are skilful and industrious. They have forgotten their ancient names and nearly all the Indian language, most of the children read and write.-Taunlea Gazette.




      


Indian Names- There is no danger that the red men will be forgotten.- Eight of the States, not to mention the territories, have Indian names. They are Massachusetts, Connecticut, Ohio, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi. So have all the great bays and harbors on the coast of the Union, the Penobscot, Casco, Narraganset, Chesapeake, 'c. So have the rivers, the Kennebec, Saco, Connecticut, Merrimac, Mohawk, Susquehannah, Koanoke (sic), Potomac, most of the Southern streams, all the great waters of the West, the Northern Lakes. In a word, the whole breadth of the country is charged with the indelible memory of the brave race whose canoes and cabins, fittest emblems of their own vanishing frailty, have been swept like themselves from the face of the land.- Boston Mercantile Journal.




      


From the North American Review

Extract from Thatcher's Indian Biography

'This is a very interesting chapter in the history of man; and no one will read this work, without acknowledging that the subject has fallen into the right hands. There is much to awaken interest and sympathy in the character of this unfortunate race, who, with manners and habits essentially savage, exhibited some traits of refined and elevated feeling, and who, when brought into direct contrast with cultivated men, were, in some respects, able to put civilization to shame. For such a people, once great and powerful, to pass away from the soil possessed by them and their fathers; for those who once made others tremble, to dwindle away to weak and helpless remnants, scattered here and there upon the face of a country, changed in such a manner, as to make their destruction sure, and whose only trust is in the protection of persons, who feel most interested to oppress them, is a destiny well calculated to excite the compassion of those, whose benevolence is not limited to family or nation, but comprehends alike the Samaritan and the Jew. But to carry this feeling so far, as to express regret that a civilization has extended; to maintain, that it would have been better that the country should still be a hunting ground, instead of being divided into cities and villages; to speak as if the accidental vices of civilized life are so many and great, that barbarism would be better, is carrying this sympathy much farther than good sense and reason would be disposed to go. Wherever civilization comes in conflict with barbarism, we mean, with a race which has no active principle of government within it, it is the order of nature that a barbarism shall give way; the savage either ceases to be a savage, or retreats before the rising flood; justice and humanity do not require the civilized to conform to his habits, nor to abandon the country; for in that case, no room on earth would ever be found for cultivated man.  But justice and humanity do require, that the rights of the weaker party shall be respected, that no advantage shall be taken of superior strength to injure nor oppress them; that avenues shall be opened, by which they may enter into the privileges of civilization if they will; and that a civilization shall be recommended to them in every possible way, instead of being associated in their minds with violence and wrongs. We do not hold our fathers responsible for the extinction of the Indian race, for we see not how it could have been prevented; but we fear that there were instances, in which they violated the laws of justice and humanity in their dealings with their neighbors, and if so, the other party should not labor under perpetual reproach for the sake of vindicating their reputation. There is enough in their character for which their descendants may reasonably be proud, and if they deserve blame in this instance, let them bear it; but let the cases of oppression charged upon them be investigated, for sympathy in such cases is poorly qualified to act the judicial part; it takes too much for granted, and trusts as readily to feeling, as to evidence and examination. Mr. Thatcher has touched these cases with a delicate and discriminating hand; in a popular narrative, he could not enter into the subject very largely; we would suggest to his consideration, whether a work of permanent value as an authority is not required. The separate sketches of tribes and individuals, which he has given, might easily be woven into a philosophical history, and it would give us pleasure to see it done by one so industrious and impartial, who has the talent withal of giving it so much attraction.'

'We do not by any means admit, that the Indians met with later times, in a case already too well known to the world, and justified only by those who are blinded by local interest and party passion.  Our fathers meant to do them substantial justice, and they failed, it was owing to jealousy and suspicion; it was not because they coveted their lands and were willing to descend to base means to possess them. When such cases are represented as in all respects the same, and attempts are made to involve the pilgrims in such a condemnation, it is time to repel the charge and to show their injustice if they were guilty of anything mean, avaricious, and grasping; to show also, that if their jealousy of the Indians made them unjust to them, they stood in a relation to them in which no people can ever stand again. Much may be forgiven to their feeling of weakness; they did not presume upon their power.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 17, 1833

The Enrolling Agents of the Government for emigrating the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, have been unusually industrious in the discharge of their duties. They have visited numerous, and indeed nearly every Indian family in this section of the Nation, but their progress in obtaining signers to their miserable scroll, is of the most discouraging kind. In this district, (Coosowattee,) containing a population of about 8000 Cherokees, they have obtained the signatures of Thomas Wilson and family, of embarrassed circumstances, and Yonah Ookillah, single. A third is of a widow lady from Georgia, (white woman). Of enrolling Georgians for emigration we have no objections, if no advantages were intended to be obtained over the Cherokee people. The enrollment now applied for by these pale faces consists in a two fold object. When the Indian signs himself for removing to the West they likewise obtain his consent to say 'that the propositions of the treaty are liberal,' of which we published in our last number. This transaction is nothing more nor less than negotiating with individuals, and to create an argument for the President that the Cherokees are willing to treat, and to procrastinate the executing of his treaties with us. The Cherokees have become cautious of this deception, and are as fearful of them as the bills on the broken banks of Georgia.

When these agents will have failed, as certainly will be the case, in getting signers to subserve the objects of the Government, then those who have enrolled, we predict will be removed in the same manner that the enrolled Creeks were--on their own footing, and to absolute starvation.

________________________

The following communications of Mr. Ridge ' Co., to the Secretary of War and the editor of this paper, are reluctantly given to our readers, for the reason of having no evidence that the former is a true copy of the original. The communication to the War Department, is furnished, it is presumed, with a view as a rebutment to the statement which was made in this paper in part, predicated on this letter. Having excluded further attention to this subject under the editorial head, I proceed in my own name, and as a matter of right, to communicate briefly my thoughts, as the production from the reading of this letter. The secret motives which induced Mr. Ridge ' Co. to open a correspondence with Mr. Cass, can only be fully developed by themselves; but so far as they have been elicited to me, they are as visible as the sun's face, and wholly incompatible with his most solemn obligations to the Nation. Mr. Ridge had been solemnly sworn to sustain the policy of the Nation towards the General Government during the existence of our difficulties, and to no other could he give his support with any degree of propriety. A letter had been received by the Principal Chief from the Secretary of War, promising the removal of intruders from the assailed parts of the Nation, which was construed to embrace the limits of Georgia and Alabama, as within these were the only portion of territories assailed, according to the reading of the letter. At this view of the subject, Mr. Ridge ' Co. places themselves before the Cherokee authorities at the very moment a correspondence was existing with the Secretary of War, ' with this letter, details to him the former opinions of the President, as if they had been forgotten, and an answer to them in time for the Council is earnestly requested. An answer then in the affirmative of the letter to the Cherokee Chief, with the obvious meaning, could not be implied in Mr. Ridge's to Mr. Cass, because of such no additional benefit could arise-the Council had the letter on this point. If the reading of Mr. Cass's letter was questionable, the promised troops were then marching to the Nation, their operations would have settled the existing doubts. Again, Mr. Ridge ' Co. were attached to the constituted authorities of the Nation,the proper organ of information to the Cherokees, but it appears that it was deemed unfit as a medium of communication and consultation, it was thought most lawful perhaps to show a face, aside of the existing authorities, and the secretary would reciprocate to it, as it was by the letter changing the whole aspect of a favorable change. It is in this view of the affair that I am constrained to look upon the sudden change as the fruits of Mr. Ridge ' Co.'s interference, and to arrive at any other, would be the falsification of conscience. Very much might be said on both sides, and to make the matter short, there is an alternative which if adopted, would be highly beneficial to all parties. Let Mr. Ridge state that he has never opposed directly of indirectly the policy of the Nation, towards the United States; as for any other course, it will not be noticed, the Indians mind would turn from it with abhorrence.

ELIJAH HICKS.

______________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

Running Waters, August 3, 1833

Mr. Elijah Hicks,--You have accused me of having committed the most consummate treachery to my country that the annals of any nation affords. You say this 'upon consultation.' Until you bring to light 'respectable gentleman, who shall come forward and lift his head out,' to make the charge, I shall do no more than to furnish you a copy of the letter addressed to the War Department, as the answer thereto has been read by many in manuscript, and as it is now published in the Phoenix, should you presume it safe to the 'watch tower' upon which you stand, perhaps you ought to publish Judge M'Lean's letter, on my advice, to which you have alluded, as one of the circumstances that has had the mighty influence of weaning your 'affections' from me.

JOHN RIDGE.

________________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

HEAD OF COOSA, CH. NA.

April 5th, 1833

Hon. Lewis Cass, Secretary of War,

Sir,- During the session of our last General Council, a Delegation was appointed on the part of this Nation to visit Washington City, for the purpose of endeavoring to obtain from the Government the protection, for which in vain we have so long and ardently sought. This Delegation, after an absence of some months, have returned to their Nation, and a part of the undersigned have seen and read the communications which in the discharge of the trust reposed in them, were addressed to you, and your replies to the same. In answer to the appeal made to the Executive, for the restoration to our people of those rights which the exercise of State authority within our limits have deprived them, they were referred to a message sent by the President of the Senate in 1831, upon a special call made by that body for information, why the Act of Congress of 1802, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian Tribes, 'c. was not executed among the Cherokees; and were informed also that the opinions of the President had undergone a change. A promise however was given for the removal of such citizens of the United States as have intruded upon lands within the chartered limits of Tennessee and North Carolina, disclaiming, (according to the principles of the message alluded to,) any authority to enforce the provisions of that Act within that portion of our territory over which the States of Georgia and Alabama have extended their jurisdiction. Since the return of the Delegation, a letter has been received by Mr. Ross, dated the 24th March, and signed by 'Elbert Herring, Office of Indian Affairs.' This letter acknowledges the receipt of a letter from Mr. Ross, of the 8th March, and as well as recollected, admits that we have experienced much hardships from intrusions, promises that a military force, will shortly be ordered into the Nation from Charleston, to expel the intruders, and that the District Attorney will be instructed, in case they return, to institute suits of prosecution, under the Act of 1802, 'c. The object therefore of the communication, is to ascertain the extent of the protection to be afforded by the military authority, under the pledge given by Judge Herring in his letter to the Delegation. According to the reading of that letter it is considered by many that the views of the Executive may have undergone a change, and that the action of this force will not be confined to any particular portion of our country, but that its blessings will be felt throughout. Under this view of the subject, considering the peculiar and unhappy condition of our people it will not be a matter of surprise for you to learn, that this favorable prospect has been hailed with feelings of much joy and gratulations. Aware, sir, how much we trespass upon your time, we would most respectfully enquire whether indeed our 'Great Father' has thus kindly thought of us, and will thus kindly exercise these paternal feelings which some of the undersigned have often heard him express toward the Cherokees. If we doubt the extent of this protection, it is only by taking in connection this, with the letters from your Department to which we have already made reference. A meeting of our General Council will take place on the 13th of May to deliberate on the affairs of the Nation; and we trust that the information sought for, will not be thought unworthy of the immediate attention of the Department.

With sentiments of high regard, we have the honor to be most respectfully your ob't serv'ts.

John Ridge

W. S. Coodey

Major Ridge

William Hicks

John Fields.




      


Hawk and Lion--The exhibition in the eastern cites, of Black Hawk and General Jackson at the same time produced some consequences that were not expected by the managers. The mobs ran after Gen. Jackson, but they ran after Black Hawk also; and one was shown to be about as popular as the other-judging by the curiosity which was excited to get a sight of both. It was rather mortifying to the court editors, after their grandiloquent flourishes about the same 'enthusiasm of the people' in their reception of the President, to see the enthusiasm manifested towards a wild Indian from the woods. It was therefore determined that the Black Hawk caravan should be ordered upon a different route, so as not to interfere with the success of the menagerie of Kendall and Co., in their route through New England; and so Mister Hawk was sent home from New York by the Canal and Lakes, while the Roaring Lion and Reynold the Fox kept on 'down East.--Dayton Journal.






      


From the New York Observer.

FLAT HEAD INDIAN MISSION.

In the Christian Advocate and Journal of last week, we find the following letter from the Rev. Wilbur Fisk, giving information respecting the measures adopted by the New England Methodist Conference in relation to the contemplated Mission to the Flatheads. Our readers will rejoice to learn that before the close of the year 1834, these interesting heathens will probably hear the gospel invitation in their own language.

Middletown, June 17, 1833

Dear Brethren,- A brother in Christ as I doubt not he is, signing himself, a 'Presbyterian,' has recently written me on the subject of the Flat Head mission. He says of himself, 'that he procures a livelihood by the hand of daily labor, but desires to bear some humble part in our contemplated dispensation of mercy, to this tribe, by appropriating $5 to these brethren who will obey the injunction of our Lord,' and asks for further information on the subject of this mission. Now for the information of this brother, and all others who may be interested, I would say, that our esteemed brother, Jason Lee, was appointed by Bishop Hedding at the late session of the New England Conference, for that mission. Brother Lee is one whom all who know him judge well qualified for that enterprize. He is the man on whom my mind rested when the subject of this mission was first agitated.  I know him well, and can most cordially recommend him to all friends of the enterprize, as one worthy of their confidence-and he certainly needs their prayers. Some other person or persons will be selected to go with him. The present plan is to have the missionaries leave here in the Fall, and reach some of our most western ports in their route, so as to start next March for the mountains. With his usual health, Brother Lee will be able to keep pace with the veteran hunter, in climbing the Rocky Mountains.- Mules will probably be taken to carry over the necessaries for the mission. The principle expense will be the outfit. This will consist of the necessary clothing, the mules, the tools, the seeds for agricultural purposes, and some articles that will be valuable in the Indian country, either as presents or to procure the natives the necessaries of life. When they get to their field of labor, they must live with the natives, and rise as they can elevate the wild man with them.

As some have supposed that what was said some weeks since by me, in a short communication in the Advocate was a kind of prohibition to any other who felt a wish to participate in this work, I would here say this was not my design. The Youth's Missionary Society here stand pledged to this mission, but they do not refuse to share the work with others who wish to aid in it, and they may need such valuable sympathy and cooperation, especially if the Mission should consist of three, as has been recently talked of. May the God of missions bless the undertaking. W. FISK.




      


INDIANS

METHODIST NATIVE MISSIONARIES

Yesterday our native brethren, Peter Jones, John Sunday, John Cashbeach, and John Taunchey, arrived in town from St. Marie, Lake Superior, by way of Lake Huron, Panatanguishine, and Lake Simcoe. The three latter have been absent in the Indian country more than a year. Sunday spent eight months at Ke-wa-we-nan Bay, up Lake Superior, about 300 miles north of this. The tribes among whom he labored are depraved and savage, and he met with much opposition and discouragement at first, but keeping in view the salvation of his brethren, and the injunction of his Divine Master to 'teach all nations,' he at length, by unremitting attention and faithful perseverance, succeeded in the conversion of ten of his pagan brethren. These he formed into a class, for mutual edification and encouragement in the duties of religion. Others it is said, have given up their pagan rites and drunken habits, and are seeking for the comforts and happiness of the Christian religion.

Cashbeach has extended his labors to the straights of Michigan, and the Ot-ta-was on the east shore of Michigan. Taunchey has labored with some success at St. Marie; several have been converted during the past winter. The zeal and perseverance of these native Missionaries are highly commendable, and their labors have been crowned with the divine blessing.

Thomas Frazar, Thomas McGee, and Wm. Herkimer, take the place of Sunday and his company, while these return to their families at Grape Island and Rice Lake.--York, U.C.  Guardian.




      


From the Encyclopedia Americana

TSULAKEES, or TSALAKEES(sometimes also written (Tealagis) the proper name of the Indian tribe whom we commonly term Cherokees. Their territory originally comprised more than half of what is now the State of Tennessee, the southern part of Kentucky, the south-west corner of Virginia, a considerable portion of the two Carolinas, a large part of Georgia, and the northern part of Alabama. This tract probably contained more than 35,000,000 acres. Between the close of the Revolutionary war and the year 1820, the Cherokees sold to the United States, at different times, more than three quarters of their possessions, and now retain less than 8,000,000 acres, of which Georgia claims 5,000,000 acres as falling within that state, and Alabama nearly 1,000,000 of the residue. The remainder, if a division takes place, will go to Tennessee and North Carolina.  Their population is increasing. In eighteen years, ending in 1825, their numbers, including those who emigrated to the Arkansas, had increased more than 7,000 or sixty per-cent, which varies little from the common rate of increase among the white inhabitants of the Southern States.- The number of native Cherokees of pure and mixed blood, east of the Mississippi, was at that time 13,563, and 147 white men and 73 white women had intermarried with them, and resided among them. The number of African slaves, was 1277. The population is now (1832) 15,060, of whom over 1200 are African slaves.  Agriculture and many of the arts of civilized life have been introduced among them, and their progress in civilization has been very considerable. In 1825, they possessed 79,342 domestic animals (horses, cattle, swine, and sheep,) 762 looms, 2486 spinning wheels, 172 wagons, 2943 ploughs, ten saw-mills, thirty-one grist mills, 62 blacksmiths' shops, eight cotton gins, eighteen schools, nine turnpike roads, eighteen ferries, and twenty public roads, being a great increase above the returns of 1809. A well organized system of government has been established. The executive consists of a principal chief and assistant, with three executive counsellors, all elected by the legislative body. The legislature consists of two bodies, a national committee and a national council, the former containing sixteen members, the latter twenty-four. The members are chosen for the term of two years, by the qualified electors in their several districts. These electors include all free male citizens who have attained the age of eighteen years, except persons of African origin. The rules respecting the nature and powers of the legislature in general, are similar to those of the several states in the Union. Each of the two bodies has a negative on the other, and together they are styled the General Council of the Cherokee Nation. The chief and his assistant hold their offices for four years. The executive counsellors are chosen annually. The judiciary consists of a supreme court, and of circuit and inferior courts. The members of the supreme court hold their offices for four years. There is also a public treasury, a printing office, and a newspaper, the Cherokee Phoenix, commences in February, 1828, and edited by a Cherokee. This newspaper is printed partly in the Cherokee character, invented by Guess.*  The press is owned and directed by the Cherokee government. They have founts of types in the Cherokee character. The Gospel of Matthew and a collection of hymns, translated by Mr. Worcester, one of the missionaries, have been printed in this character.  Intermarriages have in many instances taken place between the Cherokees and the whites in the neighborhood, and many of the half breeds have large plantations, and carry on agriculture with more spirit than the full blooded Cherokees. There are very different degrees of improvement among the members of the tribe. Some families have risen to a level with the white population of the United States, while the improvement of others has just commenced. In general, those of mixed blood are in advance of the full blooded Indians. Not less than a quarter of the people are probably in a greater or less degree of mixed blood. The dress of most of the Cherokees is substantially the same as that of the whites around them. A great part of their clothing is manufactured by themselves, though not a little is of the fabrics of New England and foreign countries-calico, broadcloths, silk.- The greater part are clothed principally in cotton, and many families make their own cotton out of which the women make substantial cloth. Cultivation by the plough is almost universal, most families raise enough to supply their own wants and many have considerable quantities for sale. Suffering for want of food is said to be as rare among the Cherokees as in any other part of the civilized world. None of them depend, in any considerable degree on game for support. The Cherokees live chiefly in villages, and their dwellings are mostly comfortable log cabins, with chimneys, and generally floored.  Many of the houses in the nation are decent buildings of two stories, and some are even handsome dwellings of painted wood or brick. Polygamy is becoming r are, and women are no longer treated as servants, but are allowed their proper place. Superstition is rapidly declining, and the ancient traditions are fading from memory, so that it is difficult to collect them. Conjuring, however, is still practiced to a considerable extent. In regard to intemperance, the Cherokees would not suffer by a comparison with the white population around them.-The laws rigorously exclude intoxicating liquors from all public assemblies, and otherwise restrict their use. They have among them temperance societies on the principle of entire abstinence. The civil officers enforce the laws against the introduction of ardent spirits, and fine transgressors. In regard to education, the missionaries is a report dated Dec. 29 1830 (see (Missionary Herald for March, 1831)  state that they have the names of 200 Cherokee men and youths whom they believe to have attained an English education sufficient for the transaction of ordinary business. This number does not include females, and many men and youths who can barely read and write. An increasing anxiety among the people for the education of their children is very apparent. The missionary schools contain about 500 children, learning English. A majority of the persons between childhood and middle age can read their own language in Guess's alphabet, with greater or less facility. In regard to religion, the mass of the people have externally embraced Christianity; and there is regular preaching at several places, both by missionaries and natives. How far the schools and the preaching have been interrupted by the agitations at present prevailing, we cannot say.- During the  two last years (1831 and 1832) the Cherokees have been greatly agitated by political troubles. Their government has been hindered in its operations, their laws counteracted by the extension of the jurisdiction of Georgia, over their territory; many of their citizens have been imprisoned, and the nation has been threatened with banishment. The missionaries of the board of foreign missions have been prohibited to reside among them by the laws of Georgia. Four of them were arrested in the summer of 1831, for not removing; and two of them, Mr. Worcester and Mr. Butler, have been, for the same cause, tried and sentenced by the court of Georgia for four years to the Georgia penitentiary, where they are now confined. The Georgians have made a law authorizing the Governor to have the Cherokee lands surveyed and divided by lottery. The government of the United States are endeavoring to effect the removal of the Cherokees from their lands by treaty-the only mode in which they can legitimately deal with them, as they have already recognized their independence by several treaties; and their rights under these treaties have been lately confirmed by a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, in January, 1831. The terms offered them are an extensive and fertile territory west of the Arkansas, to be secured to them by patent, and to be for ever beyond the boundaries of any state of territory, where they are to be allowed to exercise all the powers of self-government compatible with a general supervision of Congress over them, to appoint an agent to reside at Washington, to send a delegate to Congress, and to be recognized, when Congress shall deem proper, as a  territory. The General Council of the Cherokees, however, have declined accepting the proposal.- The Cherokees of the Arkansas are those who, since the year 1804, removed, at different times, from the east of the Mississippi to a tract on the north bank of the Arkansas River, between lon. 94 degrees and 95 degrees W; population about 5,000. The greater part of this emigration took place between 1816 and 1820. There is a missionary station among them.- By a treaty concluded in May, 1828, they agreed to remove still farther west. This portion of the Cherokees has also made considerable progress in agriculture and the arts of civilized life.- For further information, see the different numbers of the Missionary Herald and the Cherokee Phoenix;  the Decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the Cherokee Case published at Philadelphia, 1831;) also  Essays on the present Crisis in the Condition of the American Indians  (Boston, 1829). For information respecting the language of the Cherokees, see Indian Languages (appendix, end of vol, vi.)

* The inventor and the invention are thus described in the Cherokee Phoenix:- Mr. Guess is, in appearance and habits, a full Cherokee, though his grandfather on his father's side was a white man. He has no knowledge of any language but the Cherokee. He was led to think on the subject of writing the Cherokee language by the conversation of some young men, who said that the whites could put a talk on paper, and send it to any distance, and it would be understood. In attempting to invent a Cherokee character, he at first could think of no way but that of giving each word a particular sign. He pursued this plan for about a year, and made several thousand characters. He then became convinced that this was not the right mode, and, after trying several other methods, at length conceived the idea of dividing the words into parts.  He now soon found that the same characters would apply in different words, so that their number would be comparatively small. After putting down and learning all the syllables that he could think of, he would listen to speeches and the conversation of strangers, and whenever a word occurred which had a part or syllable in it which was not on his list, he would bear it in mind 'til he had made a character for it. In this way he soon discovered all the syllables in the language. In forming his characters, he made some use of the English letters, as he found them in a spelling book in his possession. After commencing upon the last mentioned plan,he is said to have completed his system in about a month, having reduced al the sounds in the language to eighty-five characters.- Mr. Guess was considerably advanced in life when he made this invention.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 24, 1833

Our readers are referred below to the secret set of instructions from the War Department, to Ben. Curry, which we have been enabled to obtain through a friend for their Government in prosecuting the present system of operations for removing the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, and we request the public to receive it as a true copy. It will be perceived that the President is altogether opposed to the suggestion of the Agent, of sending a party of Cherokees to look out a country to which he proposes removing them, least by enabling them to see the country, and knowing it to be altogether unsuitable for the permanent location of the Cherokees, would only tend to defeat the intentions of the Government towards them. It is here proven by the President himself, that the West is not a good country for the Cherokees, and prefers to thrust them there in the same way that a man would leap into the dark. It is this injustice to which we are opposed, and it is painful to see the Chief Magistrate of a great people persisting in a system of measurers having for its accomplishment cruelty and oppression.

It appears that the President has now resorted, after having matured the Cherokee case to its extremity, to desperate measures, to intimidate them into a treaty. It is proposed now by those golden instruction from the White House, and previously nullifying our treaties to take the opinion of the Attorney General of the right of the Government to remove certain Chiefs of the Nation, who had received reservations in fee in some of the last treaties with the Government.  If one sentence can be found in these treaties prejudicial to these Chiefs, it is to be magnified; and the treaties to be binding under the Constitution, and attempts probably will be made to drive the Cherokee Chiefs from the lands of their fathers and from their Nation. Otherwise they are not binding, the States having superseded them by legislation. It is here to be remarked, that if the Attorney General has decided this question of the principles of his holiness, the Pope, the Supreme Court have also decided that the Cherokees are a distinct Community and a Nation; having a right to admit into their nation whom they please, and that we are fully entitled to the benefits of that decision. If the President has placed himself in a narrow place in forcing his policy of removing the Cherokees, and cannot extricate himself from it with honor, the hardships of the case cannot be expressed with the English language, when he is looking for treaty authorities to punish the Cherokee Chiefs for their virtues.

As it is not our intention to enter into a discussion fully of the merits of these instructions, but submit them to the honest reader, we are constrained to remark, in conclusion, that they cannot be reconciled to the correspondence which we have published recently--there the president has recognized Mr. Ross to be the Chief of the Cherokee Nation, whom it is now contemplated to remove.

It will likewise be seen by these instructions that those who may enroll, shall also be entitled to the benefits proportionably to their numbers, of the school fund of this Nation, and of which in the late correspondence the President has promised that it shall be applied pursuant to the treaty of 1819. We would here respectfully enquire to whom has the truth been told?

As our Indian compositor is absent, our home readers are requested to explain the instructions.

__________________

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

June 22, 1833

Sir:- In relation to the project for the removal of the Cherokees, heretofore submitted by you to the Secretary of War, I am instructed to communicate to you the views of the President on that subject.  The President is opposed to sending an exploring party of Cherokees to examine the country allotted to their tribe west of the Mississippi; as a measure involving very considerable expense, and not promising much benefit, the probability is that the generality of the Cherokees are sufficiently informed upon that subject, and their real or pretended reluctance to remove, does not rest upon their ignorance or dislike of that country.

He is also at present, opposed to the appointment of commissioners, believing it to be premature, and thinking that by precipitancy, we may defeat the whole object in view, and deprive ourselves of the power of doing what we would otherwise been able to do.

The opinion of the Attorney General will be taken touching the power of the Gen'l Government, to remove the reservees under the treaties of 1817-19. If he should be of the opinion that the Government has the power, instructions will be given for that purpose, and the reservees will be informed of the views of the Department, and advised to remove peaceably by the first of January next, after his return you shall be advised of his opinion, he being now absent.

In the meantime, you are hereby authorized to remove, at the public expense, such reservees; as wish to go west of the Mississippi,

You will proceed with the enrolling business, and Gov. Lumpkin, to whom a copy of this letter has been transmitted, has been requested to appoint two assistant enrolling agents, to receive the same compensation as was allowed last year.

Enrolling books must be prepared in the following form.  A memorandum must be inserted, purporting that the subscriber assents to a treaty with the United States, upon the terms heretofore offered by the President, to their people, and that if no treaty should be made in the course of the next fall or early in the winter, then the subscribers will cede to the United States all their right and interest in the Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi, upon the following conditions.

That they shall receive, so far as Congress shall make the necessary appropriations, the ascertained value of their improvements, on their arrival west of the Mississippi.

That they shall be removed and subsisted for one year, at the expense of the United States.

That they shall be entitled to all such stipulations as may be hereafter made in favor of those who do not now remove, excepting so far as such stipulations may depend on the cession of rights of improvements which the subscribers have been previously allowed compensation.

That they shall have their full share of the three years of annuity now remaining unpaid, and they shall be entitled to their just proportion of the school reservation under the treaties of 1817 '-19.

The object of this, as you will perceive, is to place them who will now enroll and emigrate on the same level with those who may follow them to the West; the Government being desirous to expedite their removal, and render to them all equal justice. In the progress of this business I will thank you to communicate freely with the Department, and make such further suggestions as you may suppose will conduce to the benefit of the Cherokees and the advancement of the benevolent views of the Government, in endeavoring to effect their removal. You will be pleased to communicate to your assistant enrolling agents, such directions,  in conformity to these instructions, as you may deem necessary for their information and government, in the enrolling business.

I am, sir, with great respect,

Your ob't serv't

(Signed) JOHN ROBB

Acting Secretary of War.

Maj. Benj. F. Curry, Calhoun, Tennessee.

___________________________

The following advertisement taken from the Nashville Banner, and handed us by a friend, is a specimen of the small falsehood, not uncommon with our adversaries, but intended to do our office much injury. This same P. M. we consider a dangerous incumbent of this office. He has refused to deliver to us our exchange papers several times, for the only reason that this paper was not published regularly some time ago. He was informed that the Phoenix was not discontinued, and yet in the face of this notice, he has gratuitously and officially advised editors on this point without authority and perfectly untrue.

Our nashville contemporaries and elsewhere, will please renew the exchange with us, as without them we cannot do well for our western news.

_____________

Post-Office NEW ECHOTA, GA.

June 16th, 1833

EDITORS of Newspapers that exchange with the CHEROKEE PHOENIX, will please stop sending their papers directed to it in exchange as it is discontinued.

WM. J. TARVIN.




      


$20 REWARD

RAN AWAY from the subscriber, living in Lowndes county, Alabama, on the 8th of May last, two negro men, named MARION ' PLUMMER. Marion is 23 years old, five feet six or seven inches high, dark complected.  Plummer is 18 years old, five feet six or seven inches high, spare made, complexion black.

The above reward will be given to any person  who will secure said negroes in and Jail, so that I get them, and give information to me at Lowndesborough, Ala.

The Expositor, the Cherokee Phoenix, and the Knoxville Republican, will please insert the above for one month, and forward their accounts to me at Lowndesboro, Ala. for payment.

NATHANIEL REESE.

August 24--1m.




      


From the New York American.

The following letter from the last number of the Turf Register, though addressed chiefly to Sportsmen, contains a description of the mounted Indians of the West, that is eminently graphic and picturesque:

Cantonment Jesup, Lou. July 15, 1832.

Mr. Editor- The modern turf horse is said to be deficient in the power of endurance and ability to carry weight, which were so eminently possessed by the immediate descendants of the Arabian, Barb and Turkish horses, which produced the unrivalled English stock. My object is to direct the attention of America breeders to a stock of horses possessing good wind, great powers of endurance, and hardy constitutions, with fine bony, sinewy limbs. They are indigenous to our continent; and if the experiment I recommend, of crossing them with our bred horses, succeed, will preclude the necessity of recurring to the present race of horses in England, which is doubtless degenerate. I allude to the wild or prairie horse, inhabiting the southwest region of our continent, and roaming amid the immense grassy plains of that section, and to this race, partially tamed by the savage tribes of the country. No one who has seen the Osages galloping over their boundless prairies, under their fervid sun, and maintaining this gait for hours; viewed their muscular and handsome steeds, and compared his own jaded nag with the bounding and restless animals around him, but has confessed the superiority of their horses over ours. In July, 1829, the writer accompanied a party of gentlemen on a visit to Clermore's band of Osages, on the Verdigris River, a tributary of the Arkansas. A runner having been despatched to apprize them of our intention, upon arriving within two miles of the town, we halted to await their welcome. In a moment they were in commotion, and the chiefs and principal warriors (in number about a hundred) mounted, and approaching at full speed; bearing lances, and shields painted of various colors, and otherwise adorned; their heads surmounted with helmets of feathers and red and blue cloth; their arms and legs clasped by tinkling bands: some naked, with the exception of the breach clout; others clothed in the favorite dress of the Indian, a blue frock, with red collar and cuffs; and another portion with only the painted blanket streaming from their shoulders; sounding their war cry, and advancing rapidly and tumultuously; rushing in among us to give a welcome, and then wheeling their horses on the vast surrounding plain, in mimic pursuit of each other. They presented a most joyous, novel, and splendid barbaric spectacle. Here it was that my admiration of their horses was first excited; for this was the first opportunity I had to viewing their good horses. Among them were three or four, evidently of the same family; on one of which Clermore himself rode. They were of a beautiful cream color, with black manes and tails; a dark stripe along the back and dark or black legs from the knees down; not over fifteen hands in height, but of compact. A mahogany bay, of this size and form, caught my eye, as possessing a most superior walk. One brave sported a Pawnee head dress, horse, and other spoils, taken in battle. The stallion was of a very dark and peculiar iron grey, tall and slender, but a most beautiful animal. There is now at Cantonment Gibson a wild mare, caught by the Osages when on a hunt. She is white, with a neck like a stallion; finely formed in every respect; of great length of body, and having remarkably fine limbs. Every attempt has been made to break her, but with indifferent success; she having thrown, at their imminent hazard, all her riders. She has produced a likely, but small brown bay filly, by one of the worthless Cherokee ponies about the garrison. When we consider the firm, elastic soil, excellent herbage, and fervid sun of the plains over which these horses roam-the question, what advantages in soil, climate or food, the dessert or mountain Arabian horse possesses over them, naturally presents itself. They ought to possess, in an equal degree the flinty hardiness of limbs, speed, 'c. of the Arabian. But one reason can be given for the superiority of the latter, (if they be in fact superior,) viz: that the Arabs have been more careful in perpetuating a good strain and in suffering no inferior cross. But from the fact of the Osages prizing very highly their good horses,and the reluctance with which they part from them, together with my observing a particular family of horses among the chiefs, induce the conclusion that a peculiar breed exists among them; and I submit to sportsmen, whether an experiment, with a few of their stallions and mares, is unworthy a trial. Assuredly there are in our country gentlemen of fortune, enterprize, and patriotism enough,to make the experiment; and though the immediate cross with the blood horse should not evince speed enough to make first rate turf horses, yet their stamina would, by judicious crossing, produce those fine saddle and draft horses, which a late writer (Mason) asserts the Virginia turf horse of the present day rarely produces. Should the experiment be made, (and there are so many mares and stallions of every degree of excellence and blood, in Virginia and Kentucky especially that it might be conducted without bearing too onerously upon an individual sportsmen), it should not be abandoned in despair, though the first or second cross should not equal expectation. When we recollect the perseverance, repeated trials, and number of years, devoted by a Duke of Cumberland, before he succeeded in obtaining a superior stock of horses; and the pertinacity of an Earl of Oxford, in establishing the truth of a theory, by continuing a cross (of greyhounds) to the eighth removed, ere he attained the degree of perfection anticipated, we should be incited to attempt and continue our experiments. In order, Mr. Editor, that breeders may know what facilities they would meet with, and be enabled to form some idea of the expense they would have to incur, I will state the most expeditious mode of, and best season for reaching the country of the Osages.- From January to June the Arkansas has water enough for the steamboats which ply from the mouth of White River and New Orleans to ascend to Cantonment Gibson. The post is by water, about six hundred and fifty miles from the Mississippi by land, about three hundred and fifty. Clermore's village is distant from it fifty-five miles. Forty miles from the garrison is the residence of their trader, Col. A. P. Choteau, of St. Louis; a gentleman whose predilection for the sports of the turf would induce him to exert his great influence to persuade the chiefs to part with their best horses. I cannot at this moment, refer to the Indian laws, but think they prohibit any purchase from the tribes without the sanction of their agent. The agent of the Osages is Mr. Humtramck, who resides at White Hair's Town, situated on the Osage River, a tributary of the Missouri. But, upon application, doubtless the President or Secretary of War would authorize and attempt at purchase.

A SUBSCRIBER.






      


INDIANS

From the New York American.

_______, Alabama, July ______,

You have probably seen in the public prints that the Government have been making another fruitless effort to conclude a Treaty with the Creek Indians, for the final cession of their lands in this State, (Alabama) with the benevolent object of removing them to Arkansas, beyond the sphere of State jurisdiction and the operation of those laws which already press very heavily upon them, and will undoubtedly, in the course of a very few years reduce this once powerful tribe to a state of utter misery and destitution. The manner in which the views of the General Government have been thwarted, is described below, in a letter supposed dropped on the Council Ground by one of the numerous throng of sharpers and speculators that were in attendance: the facts selected may be relied on as authentic. I know of no medium through which this information may be conveyed, preferable to the columns of your excellent paper. ALPHA.

Some suggestions as to the best and most speedy modes of acquiring property upon the Indian frontier, having especial reference to the Creek Nation, whose territory was lately (1832) ceded to the United States.

Imprimis, Organize companies or associations, as numerous as possible, to purchase lands or other property from the ignorant savages, appoint agents, or managers, and let them have stores in the Indian country. 2d. Then let the company place their joint funds in the hands of these agents, with power to make all contracts, and pay the Indians in goods at high prices, say from 80 to 100 per cent above cost. Allow these agents to give their own notes, in their own names, not in that of the Company) for part or the whole price of the property they may purchase, and have other emissaries, (inferior, because less paid than the first mentioned) at hand, to depreciate and undervalue the agent's note, as soon as convenient after they are received by the Indian vender, and to purchase them at the lowest possible price.  The lowest heard of is a note purporting to be for $100, and which was purchased of the Indian holder for 12 1/2 cent!* 3d. Take a receipt for (as the Indian believes) a small sum advanced, as part payment for his reserve, but make it include the whole consideration stipulated to be paid for it. An example of this mode of acquiring lands, is as follows:- a person was to pay an Indian $166 for a half section, (320 acres). He paid $3, and took the Indian's receipt for $160 +.

4. Another good mode is to take an Indian's bond to make over his reserve to you; let the bond be made as binding as possible on the Indian to perform his part of the contract, but be careful not to inform him of its conditions, or the ready means (through the State laws) for enforcing it. Next proceed to purchase as many Reservations of land as possible at a high average price, say $600 the half section, (a high price must be pretended to be given, in order to impress the Government or its agents with the idea that the transaction is perfectly fair) and give your note, if anything, for the consideration money.  But when the purchaser has and character to lose, let the contract be made in another's name, who is insolvent both in character and purse, and let it be a condition in the note, that if the Reservation be granted to the Indian, and the land should be worth it, the price stipulated shall be paid; but if not, that the land shall be valued.  The consequence is evident; in any case the land will be valued at a very low price by your white friends, and you will have to pay but little for it; or should you think it proper not to pay the Indian anything, either plead insolvency or say that the note has been paid; be under no fears for the result, as the Indians are incompetent with esses (sic) against the whites.

5. Still another plan is to raise claims against Indians who live within the jurisdiction as a Justice of the Peace; then lug him before him. If possible let the Justice reside in Pike or Barbour County, Ala., as the minions of the law in those counties have great and deserved reputation for their skill in these matters. It is immaterial whether the Indian is worth anything or not; obtain a 'judgment' in your favor. This can be done very easily, as in one case purporting to be for $49 75, the upright justice taxed the 'costs' at $38,++ being fourfold! then send out a Constable to levy on the property of any Indian he finds. I have before stated that Indians are incompetent witnesses, and are seldom able to 'prove property,' which requires white testimony, and therefore cannot redress their wrong, as some squeamish people fancy them, as if an Indian savage could have any rights!  But to recur to the levying system.  I will relate an instance which I witnessed the other day. A white man had a note, good or bad, against an Indian man, for some 10 or 20 dollars.  The Indian was absent, and had no property. Did the Constable return empty handed? By no means: he seized a cow belonging to an Indian woman, and drove it off and sold it.  To be sure 'twas all the property the girl possessed; but it matters not--she could not prove her property by white testimony--and therefore had to put up with her loss.

6. The next, and perhaps most successful mode is, to sell goods on credit at ten times the cost to any Indian you can, and then present your accounts to the Town Chiefs, and obtain motes or drafts for the amount; next procure an order from the Chiefs to burn the books and accounts. This they will readily give, as all Indians have a salutary horror and dread of any 'paper,' as they call it, made by white men. At the time f paying the annuities, or of disbursing money by the government among the Indians, present your account: if it is not allowed by the United States Agents you have a ready remedy by having a writ prepared, ready to enforce payment. It will not be considered amiss to make the notes or drafts for many times the amount stated to the Chiefs, as the sum for which the note is made. The Indians cannot read; and as you of course will have none other than friends, if any one present, they will keep secret.

7. Another easy way is to pretend great friendship towards the Red people, and procure what the Indian thinks is a 'power of attorney' to attend to his business with the whites; but let the supposed power be his 'deed' or 'bill of sale' for land or negroes. This has been done with signal success in many instances. N.B. The best and safest agents to employ in this business are the Indian negroes: pay them well and they will work well: besides, they have no silly notions of honesty, 'c. and their evidence is not valid in law. And,

8. Another approved plan is to bribe the Chiefs to make notes or drafts on their people, and agree to give them a part of the money when collected. Let all those who are engaged in any of the aforementioned practices keep a sharp look out, and if they discover any white person about who is disposed to put the Indian on their guard against their philanthropic intentions, send out agents (the Indian negroes make excellent ones) and warn the red people to be ware of him as he come among them to swindle them, 'c.

9. And lastly.  Above all things, inculcate strenuously upon the minds of the Indians that they must not emigrate or sell their lands to the United States, that the General Government only wishes to cheat them and they (the speculators) will take good care of them, and support them, 'c, 'c.

I had almost forgotten a very pleasant and efficient way of facilitating your views; it is this: provide a dark haired black-eyed damsel, to solace your leisure hours, and you acquire the character of an 'Indian Countryman,' and in right of your wife can claim Reserves from the State, and thus combine profit and pleasure.

Lest my friend, you may think any of the above practices at all illegal, you have a salvo for your conscience, (a foolish thing by the way) in considering that you are borne out and encouraged in them by State enactments; for, owing to the ignorance of the Indians, their incompetency as witnesses in any suit in which a white man is concerned, and their consequent inability to assert their rights, these enactments must be considered as a legislative sanction of speculations upon them.

The above suggestions point out the most direct way to acquire fortunes without labor, and without any silly qualms of conscience for, as the red man is our enemy, the sooner he is exterminated, or put out of the pale of society no matter by what means, (for the end sanctifies them,_) the better for all.

Yours truly,

John Wideawake

To Mr. Inexperience Shaper (sic).

____________________

* A fact

+ This actually occurred

++ Fact-and can be proved




      


From the Maryville Intelligencer.

THE UNITED BRETHREN.

Candy's Creek,

May 13, 1833

Dear Sir:- If you consider the following brief notice from Mr. Heckwelder's narrative, worthy the attention of your readers, they are at your disposal. Respectfully, yours,

D.S.B.

In his introduction, Mr. H. observes 'The course which the missionaries, who dwelt with Indians, had to pursue, was plainly marked out to them. They did not go among those people for the sake of earthly gain, neither to serve a party.  Their sole object was that of bringing them the good tidings that Christ had come into this world-suffered and died on the cross for the sins of mankind, and to teach them the way of salvation. Under this commission, they considered themselves as serving the God of peace who himself had promised a blessing on peace makers.'

The United Brethren commenced their missionary labors among the Indians, A.D. 1732 in Georgia; but in consequence of the war between Great Britain and Spain, A.D. 1739, they were obliged to abandon this field of labor.

On the 16th of July, A.D. 1740, their missionary Christian Henry Rauch arrived at New York. Is instructions were, 'not in any wise to interfere with the labors of other missionaries or ministers, or cause any disturbance among them; but silently to observe whether any of the heathen were, by the grace of God, prepared to receive and believe the word of life.- That if even only one was to be found desirous of hearing, to him the gospel should be preached; for God must give the heathen ears to hear the gospel, and hearts to receive it.'  The missionary, soon after his arrival, went to the Indian town, Shekomeko, and commenced his labors among the Mahigans (sic); and on the 22d day of Feb. 1742, the three first converts were baptized. The same year twenty-six more were added to their number.  More laborers were sent, and another mission commenced at Scatticok, on Kent River, in Connecticut; and a number more converted, mostly of the Wampano tribe. These settlements built themselves each a place of worship, in which they daily met for divine service. Scarcely three years had elapsed, before their white neighbors had began to trouble and even persecute them. In the beginning they had represented the Indians to the missionaries, as a race of savages, incapable of embracing Christianity, or of leading a Christian life; and that it was next to madness to think of living among them. But now, when it was manifest that a number of them had embraced Christianity, and did lead a Christian life, they would not permit them to enjoy Christian privileges. Every device was resorted to to have these missionaries banished out of the country. Some even offered liquor to any Indian who would kill them. The next step they took was to charge the missionaries with being an evil minded, designing people, and disaffected to the government.  Inconsequence of which, they were taken from one place to another to be examined, sometimes by a magistrate, and  at other times by minsters. Two of them were kept for sometime at New Midford, while the others were ordered to Poughkeepsie, and there mal-treated, until at length, being brought before the Governor of Connecticut, were declared innocent and discharged.- They were then accused of being Papists, and traitors, in alliance with the French, 'c. Therefore on the 15th of Dec. 1744, a sheriff and two justices of the peace, came to Shekomeko, and in the name of the Governor and Council of New York, forbade all meetings of the Brethren, and commanded them to appear at Poughkeepsie on the 7th of that month.

As the Brethren were conscientiously scrupulous about taking an oath, their accusers prevailed on the Governor of New York, to have them examined before him. This being done they were discharged as innocent. Yet the senior missionary, Buttner, having been ordered to Poughkeepsie, was obliged to go, though in ill health from previous abuse.  Here, after waiting and suffering with cold for several days, he was discharged.

In October of that year, the Assembly of New York passed the two following acts, viz; one by which all suspicious persons were required to take the oath of allegiance, or leave the Province; the other positively forbidding the brethren to instruct the Indians.- The brethren, now like strangers in the land, dare not meet with their Indian congregation for divine service, nor even abide with them where they were; yet had to delay their departure on account of the sickness of the senior missionary.  Gottlieh Buttner, who on the 23d of Feb. 1746 departed this life. The Indian brethren having taken the burial duties and ceremonies upon themselves since the white brethren, (their teachers,) dare not officiate, purchased linens, dressed his corpse nicely in white, and interred his remains with Christian solemnity in the burying ground at Shekomeko-watering his grave with their tears. Soon after, the remaining missionary Martin Mack, his wife and the widow of the deceased, took a final farewell of their congregation, and set out for Bethlehem-from whence the Indian congregation frequently received visits, till they were all removed. During the two last years of the brethren's laboring at this place, sixty-two persons were baptized. The departure of the missionaries, however, did not satisfy the surrounding whites.  They threatened to destroy the town, and endeavored to obtain a death warrant for the whole congregation; until at length, the poor people were obliged to flee for their lives to Bethlehem; leaving their lands, improvements, 'c. without the least prospect of recompense.

______________________

ARKANSAS CHOCTAWS.

Extract from a letter of Mr. Williams,

dated at Bethalbara, April 4, 1833

MEETINGS AND ADDITIONS TO THE CHURCH.- Since January, I have been occupied for the most part in pastoral labors. This work has greatly increased on my hands since the arrival of the new emigrants. The believers who lately settled within my bounds have felt the effects of their journey on their own hearts; and an intercourse with them has had a chilling influence on the hearts of the church members here; so that for nearly three months the religious prospects were not so flattering as for some time previous.  It was but too apparent that because iniquity abounded the love of many had waxen cold. But when the enemy came in like a flood, the Spirit of the Lord lifted a standard against him. Our poor endeavors to stir up their pure minds by way of remembrance of former mercies, have not been entirely fruitless; though, alas! some of the church members had indeed left their first love.- Meetings were appointed and held in different neighborhoods, but often thinly attended when we hoped it would be otherwise. At length a sacramental meeting was appointed, which commenced on the 29th of March and closed on the 1st inst. Three weeks previous to this meeting, however, increasing feeling was manifest under the preaching of the word, and at evening conference meetings.  The still small voice was heard, and some backsliders, and a few others manifested a special concern for their souls, and seem determined to seek the favor of God.- Still a great number of the believers showed too little interest in these things until our last meeting which I hope was the time or release to some captive souls. If there were no new cases of conversion, yet many were warmed, many harps were taken down from the willows and tuned anew.

The church session had endeavored to prepare for the meeting,was far as practicable, by examining candidates before hand. Much time was spent and some good was affected by the means, all tending to prepare the minds of the session, of the candidates, and of the congregation which was present at most of the examinations, for the ordinances of God's house. In had the  aid of two Methodist brethren and Mr. Hotchkin, in dispensing the word of life to a very large congregation. On the Sabbath, after suitable instruction on the subject, three new elders were ordained, and forty-four candidates made a public profession of their faith in Christ, and entered into covenant with this church. Nine of this number being persons not belonging to the church in the old nation, were baptized. The others had all been members of the Mayhew church, but were not received here without a careful examination. Some who applied for admission to the church were deferred; others were providentially detained from attending the meeting. Three indeed of those who had been accepted by the session, were thus detained.  About one hundred and fifteen persons sat down together at the table of our Redeemed, and his presence made it a feast of fat things to many who had been almost famished I suppose there were present at least a hundred persons who had never heard the gospel, or witnessed any such scenes before. The whole assembly could not consist of less than five hundred persons. In the evening, although but few of those not members of the church attended, fifteen were found to come over to the Lord's side, after hearing a sermon on the words of Moses, Exodus xxxi, i, 26. Twelve infant children were dedicated to the Lord by baptism on the same evening. Verily it is good to be there. Many things conspired to make the meeting and exercises deeply interesting. If ever I could have wished the sun and moon to stand still, that the day might be prolonged, it was last Sabbath; so that those multitudes who had never heard, and many more who, though they had often heard, had not embraced the gospel, might have been particularly instructed, and as it were, compelled to come in. It is believed that a number of those who retired to their homes at sunset, were almost persuaded to become Christians.  This meeting was held within one mile and a half of this station, at our new meeting house, which was built by the natives, and was solemnly dedicated to God on the Sabbath previous to the sacramental meeting.

Although I have mentioned these favorable appearances, I would not raise expectation too high. Satan is very active at this particular time. But I am not only supported, but comforted, and my confidence in God is stronger than ever. Our chief has not become very friendly, and at our meeting assured his countrymen that it was wholly in vain to oppose, or to attempt to obstruct the progress of the gospel.

It is an interesting fact that the Christian females hold weekly meetings in different neighborhoods. Miss Clough generally meets with those on the east of the river, and Mr. Williams with those on the west side. Some of their meetings are very solemn indeed. As many as twelve prayers have been offered before they would separate, besides singing, reading the scriptures, and exhortation. Indeed there are many precious people under my charge-dear to me as bearing the image of Jesus. In view of the vast and increasing responsibility resting upon me, I am led at exclaim, 'Who is sufficient for these things.'




      


From the Albany Temperance Record.

Mr. Editor,- I am very happy to cast in my mice to aid the powerful machinery which you are putting in motion, though the light rhymes which I send are but as an insect on the chariot wheels, hastening, I trust, to victory.

First gift to the Indians at Albany.

Albany was first visited by its discoverer, Capt. Hudson, on the 19 of September, 1609. The frank and generous natives, made his people everywhere welcome, and they in return, made their hearts gay with wine and aqua vitae, till some became intoxicated, and greatly astonished the others.-[Watson's Historie Tales of the Olden Times.]

They come '-They come'- the pallid race,

The red men gather from the chase,

From forest shade, and light canoe,

They throng that 'water-bird' to view,

Whose mighty wings that near the shore,

Perchance their great Manitto bore.

Frank is their welcome to the band,

The ready smile,-the open hand,

The proffer'd fruits, with gladness prest,

The purple plumb in downy vest,

The clustering grape,-the sheaf of gold,

The untaught greeting, warm and bold.

But by what gifts, what token strong

Dip Europe's sons renown'd in song.

Mark their first visit to the child

Of simple faith, and daring wild!

A cup'-a cup'- but who may tell

What deadly dregs within its swell?

The sickening eye,-the burning cheek.

The reeling form, strange speak,

And on the turf of verdant eye,

In brief and maddening trances they lie;-

Type of the woes that soon must sweep

Their blasted race away,

Down to oblivion dark and deep,

With none their hopeless wrong to weep,

Or mourn their sad decay.

Yes, when the Old World hastening prest

Her friendships on its infant west,

The boon she thought, the pledge she gave

Was poison and a drunkard's grave.

But thou, fair city, thron'd in pride,

Queen of the Hudson's silvertide,

Well hast thou by the deeds effac'd

This stain upon thine annal trac'd.

Well has thou by the zeal to aid

Temperance, since early trespass paid:

And as the kneeling form that prest

A Savior's tears lav'd feet was blest,

So hast thou shown, with victor sway,

That love which washes sin away.

Hartford, June 26th 1833. L.H.S.




      


From Poulson's Advertiser.

The Seneca and Onondaga Indians.- At the Annual council of the chiefs and headmen of the Seneca and Onondaga Nations of Indians, convened at the Council House, at Buffalo Creek, in the State of New York, on the 8th of June, A.D. 1833 all the chiefs and head men of the Seneca Reservations in the state being present-Judge Striker the Indian Agent, introduced the propositions heretofore made to them by the Secretary of War of the United States, in relation to sending a delegation to witness the survey and examine lands at Green Bay, and to accept the same lands if they should deem it expedient. And after many days' discussion and debate, and after mature deliberation, a large majority of the council passed the following resolutions:

Resolved, That we, the chiefs and head men of the Seneca and Onondaga Nations of Indians, are now possessed of lands within this state amply sufficient for ourselves and our children, and that we have no inclination whatever to remove therefrom.

Resolved, That we will not accept the propositions made to us by the Secretary of War, through our agent, to appoint a delegation to witness a survey of lands at Green Bay, nor will we in anywise (sic) interest ourselves concerning said proposition.

Signed- Corn Planter, Gov. Black Snake, James Robinson, John Pierce, White Seneca, Little Johnson, Big Kettle, Israel Jemison, Jimmy Johnson, Charles O'Beal, William Patterson, Jacob Black Snake, George Kilbuck, Long John, George Bennett, Samuel Gordon, Captain Snow, Tommy Jimmy, Doxtator, John Snow of Cataraugus; Green Blanket, John Hudson, Blue Sky, Young Chief, John Looke, Isaac Davis, Black Smith Chief, John Sky, George Kenjaktadih, Daniel Two Guns, Thompson S. Harris Jr., Mark Charles, White Chief, Captain Jonas, Captain Cole, Captain Peters, Col. Smith, Samuel George, George Button, Capt. Jones, Chief Warrior, Blue Eyes, Levi Halftown, Jack Show, George Deer, Two Guns, George Red Eye




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 31, 1833

The following statement of Col. Duke in defence of the charges which we alleged against him, of committing an outrage on a Cherokee woman, is partly confirmed by himself, but wholly denies the criminal attempt on the woman, which we stated he had made, and pronounces the Editor, in his preface to this statement, of charging him with a base and malicious falsehood. That part of his communication is inadmissable, it being written in a language unfit for the public eye, but the statement of facts, as he calls them, is contained in the part admitted. If it was true, that the women drew by the ends, some bank bills from his pocket book and envelope, without taking either of these, and from within his pocket, in open day light, and unseen; as an officer of the peace, it would have been Col. Duke's incumbent duty to have had these Indians legally arrested and punished, without so unmercifully treating them as set forth by his statement. We fear the most credulous, will doubt his version of the story, but the development of truth being the object of our labors, we are willing to give to our readers both sides of the question.

________________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

COL. DUKE'S STATEMENT

On Friday, the 5th day of July, as I was travelling about one and a half miles from the New Echota Ferry, Murray County, I called at an Indian house immediately on the side of the road.- Two Cherokee women and three of four children were setting near the door, eating apples. I tied my horse to a fence or stake near the door, on entering the house the women both arose and offered me their seats, I sat down immediately in the door and commenced eating some of the apples, which were near me in a basket. After having remained n the house some fifteen or twenty minutes, I felt in my pocket for my handkerchief, and could not find it, I then felt for my pocketbook, and on examination, found that there had been stolen from it eighteen dollars, which were in bills placed in lengthwise, and ends out of the pocketbook, and both which were in the outside pocket of a frock coat, and very large. I immediately charged the woman who had given me her seat, as she had retired immediately behind me. I showed her a piece of paper in which the money was partially enveloped, and gave her to understand she had my money, which by their actions (I suppose, they both denied). I told them I would return over the river to Esq. Tarvin's and get a warrant, which had no effect in causing them to give me the money. I then searched a basket of calico which set near the woman I suspected, and at the bottom found my handkerchief. I then struck her four or five times with a whip, which caused her to throw me the money which was rolled up closely. I then went to my horse, and a view of leaving, but was followed by the other woman, who caught my horse by the bridle and held it until I struck her twice with the whip, she then let go, and I left immediately. On Sunday thereafter, I again passed the house on my return, in company with a young man from Augusta, Geo. when I came to the house, the woman who had taken the money was absent but another Cherokee woman was there who spoke English. She asked me what I had whipped that woman for the other day. I informed her I whipped them for stealing my money, and taking hold of my horse by the bridle, to which she replied they intended returning it to you. I then reigned my horse around for the purpose of leaving, when to my surprise the woman who I had whipped, threw at me with a stick and struck me, I then alighted from my horse, and gave her ten or twelve severe cuts with the whip, the other woman entreated me to desist, and I rode off with the gentleman above mentioned.

DAVID DUKE.






      


INDIANS

SPEECH

Of the Hon. Isaac C. Bates, Representative from Massachusetts, delivered in the House of Representatives, on the bill for the removal of the Indians. May 19, 1833

Mr. Speaker: I shall take it for granted that the States which have passed laws subjecting the Indian tribes to their jurisdiction, mean what, by their legislative acts, they say they mean: and that the laws which they have passed, are to be enforced. I reject even the supposition, that these laws are made not to be executed, but in mockery-to be used, is an expedient, a contrivance-the means of driving a bargain. Upon such an attempt, come from what quarter it may-States or individuals-the House would frown indignantly. This granted, I affirm, that the bill before us does not meet the exigency of the case, nor present fairly and fully the question upon which we are to decide.

There are, at the South, several tribes of Indians-the Cherokees, Creeks, Chickasaws, and Choctaws- with whom the United States stand in this relation, viz: They are under the protection of the United States.  The boundary is defined between them and the people of the United States, which no white man is at liberty to pass without a license under the authority of the United Sates. In short, they hold the guaranty of the United States, in all the solemn forms of a treaty stipulation, by which the faith of a nation can be pledged, to protect and defend them. The States of Georgia, Mississippi, and Alabama, have passed laws, as these tribes say, directly violating their territorial and national rights. Take the law of Georgia as an exemplification of the laws of the three States. The eighth section makes it penal for a Cherokee to 'endeavor' to prevent one of his tribe from emigrating. A father, therefore, may not influence his child, nor a guardian his ward. No Sir; he thus exposes himself to four years confinement to hard labor. What will men, who are fathers, or not fathers; what will men who are free, say to this?

The fifteenth section enacts, 'that no Indian, or descendant of an Indian, within the Cherokee Nation of Indians, shall be a competent witness in any court of Georgia, in a suite in which a white man is a party, unless such white man resides within said nation.'- While Georgia makes the Indians citizens, or subjects, she does not leave them to the common law to be excluded for infamy, interest, or incompetency of any kind; but she proscribes the nation-and that without reference to the character, talent,or capacity of individuals, whether Christian or heathen, civilized or savage. They are all turned off the stand by one general sweeping interdict of law. Now, sir, whatever may be the form of the constitution of Georgia, if it sanctions this act it is a despotism. Tiberius never dictated an act in its essence more tyrannical or in its character more unjust. And to take away the only apology that any man could offer-the incapacity of the people to testify-this very law admits their capacity by admitting them to be witnesses if the party to the suit be resident within the Cherokee Nation. But this is not the worst feature of the law, if worse can be.

By the seventh section, 'all laws, ordinances, orders, and regulations of any kind whatever are declared to be null and void as if the same had never existed;' thus resolving the nation into its original elements; making as if it never had been all that combines and forms men into states, nations or tribes; dissolving all ties but those of nature. Mr. Speaker, I beg the House to realize the measure, the extent and scope of this unrivalled, outrageous act of usurped dominion. Bring it home. Let it be said to you-to the United States of America-that 'all your laws, ordinances, orders and regulations, shall be null as if they had never existed!'  Let it be said by a nation that was weak when you were strong; that it had grown up by your side; that had increased while you decreased! Let a nation say that it had lived by your permission; that had pledged itself for your protection and defence! Does it change the case to change the name? Has the Cherokee no attachment to the simple forms of government he has matured and improved; to the customs and regulations of his fathers? Does he not feel? Is he not a man?

In this condition of things, the Indians applied to the President. He told them, as he tells us in his message, 'That if they remain within the limits of the United States, they must be subject to the laws; that they will be protected in their possessions which they have improved but that it seemed to him absurd and visionary to suppose their claims can be allowed to tracts of country merely because they have seen them from the mountain or passed them in the chase.' And thus the subject is presented to Congress, both by the President and the Indians, for consideration.  The sympathies of the public having become interested- for, sir, nature is the ally of the weak against the strong-numerous memorials came in from every part of the United States, and the whole subject is referred to your committee on Indian affairs. That committee report a bill making an appropriation of five hundred thousand dollars,

to begin with for the removal of the Indians to the west of the Mississippi. The chiefs say, that is no answer to their inquiry.  They desire to know, whether they must submit to the laws of Georgia and to such laws whether she has a right to abrogate their government, and dissolve their nation? The President has told them they must, but has referred the subject to us. They tell us they cannot decide the question of removal, until they know their rights where they are, and not only the Indian chiefs, but the American people, expect us to answer. Here is money for your removal, we say. That is the only answer we deign to give them. Well, say they, if you will not tell us directly what our rights are, will you allow us to remind you of your duties? Will you defend your boundary, and protect us where we are, as you agreed to do? The President has said he will not. They urge upon the consideration of Congress the impossibility of deciding what they will do, until they know what their condition is to be where they are-- whether they must submit to such a law or not-whether they are to retain their lands, or whether Georgia, who has not even 'seen them from the mountains, nor passed them in the chase,' is to have them. Sir, they produce to you your treaty with them. Is this your signature and seal? Is this your promise? Will you keep it? If you will not, will you give us back the lands we let you have for it? The President answers No; and the Congress of the United States answers, Here is money for your removal. We dare not, in the face of the American people, directly affirm the answer of the President; and, therefore, we evade the question, and hope to hide ourselves in the folds of this bill, when the scrutiny shall be made for us. Sir, who so blind as not to see that, by implication, direct and inevitable, you affirm the decision of the President, by giving him the means to carry that decision into effect? You decide that the Indians are the citizens of Georgia, subject to her jurisdiction, and that you will not defend the boundary, nor protect them.  This you decide obliquely, at a time when the crisis in the affairs of the Indian nations, and the affairs of the your own honor, too, requires that you should speak out. You cooperate with Georgia-you give effect to her laws--you put the Indians aside, and trample your treaties with them in the dust. And it will be in vain you tell the world you did not set fire to the city, when you saw it burning, and would not put it out, though you was (sic) its hired patrol and watch.

In passing this bill, therefore, the House decide that the Indians are the citizens of Georgia, subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia; and that we cannot interfere to protect them. Now, sir, I deny it all. I affirm the contrary. I maintain that the Indians are not the citizens of Georgia, nor subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia; but that they are sovereign; that we are pledged to protect them in the enjoyment of their sovereignty; and that Georgia has no right that stands in the way of it.--Sir, the great men, who have gone before us in the business, were not so uninstructed in their duties as to be thus put in the wrong by those who have now the administration of affairs.

I shall not go with the gentleman from Tennessee, (Mr. Bell) to the other side of the Mississippi, either for the purpose of ascertaining whether the trees can be made to grow for the use of the emigrant Indians, where none ever grew before, or whether the emigrants themselves will form a convenient barrier between our own settlements and the tribes of Indians west of them; or if convenient, whether they may not have an objection of becoming a breast work to be shot at, or shot through, for our accommodation; or, in a region where there are now frequent victims to famine, whether an addition of such a promiscuous and wild population will not be likely to augment the evil. No sir; for if this bill pass, our faith is gone, our honor violated, and there is nothing left worth a wise man's thought.

I take liberty to enter my protest against the appeal that has been to party feeling in this discussion. If that is to be invoked and enlisted, the destiny of these nations is fixed. It is a spirit that has no heart, no sympathy, no relenting. Truth may pour her radiance upon its visions, and it sees not.  Distress may utter her cry, and it hears not. Often has it stained and scaffold with the blood of the innocent. Nor is the sectarian influence that has been called in aid of this measure by the notable gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Lumpkin) less to be deprecated. For, although, at this age of the world, it is not seen actually planting the stake and lighting the fire, yet it is akin to the persecutions of a former age. And it would be as much in place, in the high court of law at the other end of the capitol, to appeal to the sectarian and party feelings of the judges as a correct rule of decision, as to make the appeal to honorable gentlemen here. Sir, this is not a question upon the life or liberty of an individual, but upon the fate of nations. How then can any man, in such a case, and in such an assembly, dare to make the appeal, and hope to be forgiven! What a reflection upon the honor and integrity of this House! Sir, it is not a party question. No man can make it such, until he can quench the last spark of honor in his breast, and stop the currant of feeling in the heart, and put out the light of truth in the mind, and stifle the voice of conscience in the soul.  Sir, it is our right to decide this question, it is our duty to decide it upon principle-a right in trust for our constituents and country, and a duty imposed upon us by relations which we cannot change, and from which we cannot escape, coming down upon us from above, and springing up before us from beneath, and flowing in from all around us. Let this question, therefore, be decided upon a full and broad survey of its merits, and its merits only.

My positions are, that the Cherokees are not the tenants of Georgia, nor subject to her jurisdiction, but that they are the sole proprietors of the territory they occupy, whether as hunting ground or otherwise, and are sovereign; and that the United States are pledged to defend their boundary, and to protect them in all their rights and privileges as a nation.

I suppose it will be admitted, that the Cherokees are a distinct class of men, from the Georgians, that they were once sovereign, and that the presumption is they are sovereign still.--The onus probandi, as the profession say, is therefore upon Georgia. If she claims the right of dictating law to this nation, once sovereign, it is for her to show whence she derived it.

With this view of the subject, I propose to go back to the origin of the State of Georgia, and briefly to trace her history to the Revolution, to see what her rights then were in relation to the Indians, as admitted and established by compact. This will preclude the necessity of enquiring as to natural rights.

In 1732, Georgia was a part of South Carolina.  And in order to erect a barrier against the Indians and Spaniards in Florida, upon the frontier of South Carolina, George II, by patent, created a corporation, styled the 'Trustees for establishing the colony of Georgia in America,' to hold for his use all the land between the Atlantic and the South Sea, as it was then termed, within the degrees of latitude and the boundaries therein given. No individual was to hold more than fifty acres. The command of the militia was given to the Governor of South Carolina. In this patent, nothing is said of the Indians. In 1752, it was surrendered. Oglethrope, who was the active agent of the corporation, in 1733 arrived in Georgia with a hundred and fourteen emigrants, men, women and children, and selected the site of Savannah, as the most eligible place for a lodgement, where he erected a fort. The Upper and Lower Creeks were then twenty-five thousand strong. In order to get a title to some land, he employed a female of the half-blood the wife of a trader, to whom he made liberal presents, and gave a salary of a hundred pounds a year. She assembled fifty Indian chiefs, and prepared them to accede to Oglethrope's proposition of a treaty. They ceded, with some reservations, all the land to the head of tide water, within the limits of the patent. That treaty admits that the Indians owned the land, and were sovereign.  They were treated with as 'the headmen of the Creek Nation:' and the land, in express terms is said to be theirs. 'Although this land belongs to us,' the Creeks say, yet, in consideration the Georgians have come for the good of our wives and children, and 'to teach us what is straight' we make the cession. At Coweta, in 1739, another treaty, preceded by large presents, was made, in which the boundaries of the first cession were more particularly defined; and the trustees declare, 'that the English shall not enlarge or take any other lands except those granted by the Creek Nation.' In 1752, at Mobile, at a convention of Indian nations, Captain Steuart, the Indian agent, told them, 'that the boundaries of their hunting grounds should be accurately fixed, and no settlement permitted upon them,' assuring them 'that all treaties would be faithfully kept.'  And at a meeting at Augusta, in 1763 to which Captain Steuart's 'talk' was preliminary, a further cession of land was made by the Creeks and Cherokees in payment of the debts they had contracted. The Governors of the four Southern States were present.- As showing clearly how this subject was viewed by them in 1767, we find the Indians complaining to the Governor of Georgia of encroachments upon their lands; and they ask him 'how it could be expected of them to govern their young warriors, if he could not restrain the white people?' In 1773 they ceded another tract of land, and it was then agreed, 'that the bounds fixed by the treaty should be the mark of division between his majesty's subjects and the said Indian nations.'

The Indian boundary limited the territory of the colonists on the west.- Within this they had a right to indicate law; beyond this they had no right to do it. If they, or the king, their master, had such right, then the Indians were bound to submit. A right implies a duty. Now, who will pretend, that if the king had passed a law abrogating their customs, and making them amenable to the courts of Georgia, the Indians would not have had a right to resist? If the Cherokees were subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia, then, prior to the treaty of 1763, the Indians beyond the Rocky Mountains were, (for the charter extended to the Pacific Ocean) some of whom had never heard of the English nation or king. Who will pretend that he had a right to subject them to his laws? He might have had the power to conquer them, but he had no right to do it. This would have been a right to rob and murder.

The Indian boundary is sometimes called the 'line of ordinary jurisdiction,' implying an extraordinary jurisdiction beyond it. What was that?- by the right of discovery, settled by compact among the discovering nations, and since confirmed by treaties with most of the Indians themselves, the King of Great Britain had the sole and exclusive right of purchasing of the Indian nations their title to the land lying in that part of America, which had been assigned to him. We call it the right of pre-emption. The king never attempted or claimed anything more. I affirm, therefore, that, with this exception, the Indian boundary was the boundary of the jurisdiction of both king and colony. I affirm, further, that the Indian nations were the sole and absolute owners of the land which they had not ceded, and which lay west of the Indian boundary, subject only to this restriction upon the right of alienation. Accordingly, the king, in his proclamation of 1763, disclaims any other right to it. He says,  'it is but just and reasonable, and essential to our interest, 'c. that the tribes of Indians who live under our protection' (as they now live under the protection of the United States) 'should not be disturbed in their possessions, which, not having been purchased by us, or ceded to us, are reserved to them: we do, therefore, declare that no governor or commander shall survey or grant them, and that they are reserved to the Indians.' The king does not rest the right of the Indian nations to these lands upon concession, gift, or grant, indulgence, or expediency, but upon the broad and solid basis of the 'justice and reasonableness' of their unalienated title; a due regard for which principles will be found always to comport with a wise policy.

Before I pass from this period, as the whites commonly speak for the Indians, it is but right, when we can, to let them speak for themselves. I refer to the negotiation at Lancaster, in 1744. The Governor of Maryland claimed some of their land by possession.  Canasateego--'When you mentioned the affair of the land yesterday, you went back to old times, and told us you had had the province of Maryland above one hundred years in comparison of the length of time since our claim began-since we came out of the ground?  For we must tell you that, long before one hundred years, our ancestors came out of this ground, and their children have remained here ever since. You came out of the ground beyond the seas; but here you must allow us to be your elder brothers, and the lands to belong to us long before you knew anything of them.'

To Virginia, who claimed some of their lands by conquest, another chief answered-'Though great things are well remembered by us, we do not remember that we were ever conquered by the great king, or that we have been employed by him to conquer others. If it was so, it is beyond our memory,- We do remember we were employed by Maryland to conquer the Conostogas; and the second time we were at war with them, we carried them all off.'

The House will perceive what the views of these people were of their right to their land, and what their notions were of possession and conquest. I think it clear, therefore, that before the Revolution, the Cherokees were not the citizens of Georgia, nor subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia, nor tenants at the will of Georgia.

When the troubles with Great Britain came on, Congress immediately assumed the direction of the Indian relations, as of nations distinct from the States, and independent of them. After a short session for other purposes, in the autumn of 1774, Congress met in May, 1775, and in June a committee was appointed to make an appeal to the Indian nations. They were addressed thus, by order of Congress:

'Brothers and friends: this is a family quarrel between us and Old England, Indians are not concerned in it.'

In the same month, the Indian tribes were arranged into three departments; and commissioners were appointed to treat with them 'in behalf of the United States, to preserve peace with them, and prevent their taking part in the commotions of the times.'

In January, 1776, rules for Indian intercourse were established, interdicting all 'trade with them without a license.'

In 1777, another 'talk' was addressed to them, reaffirming that they ought to take no part in the war between the United States and Great Britain, and stating also, that although the 'Cherokees had been prevailed upon to strike us, they had seen their error, had repented, and we had forgiven them, and renewed our ancient covenant chain with them.'

In 1778, a treaty with the Delaware Nation was concluded at Fort Pitt. The parties to it were 'The United States of North America and the Delaware Nation.' It stipulated: That there shall be peace; and the troops of the United States may pass 'through the country of the Delaware Nation,' upon paying the full value of the supplies they may have. It further provides, that, 'whereas the enemies of the United States have endeavored, by every artifice, to possess the Indians with an opinion that it is our design to extirpate them, and take possession of their country-to obviate such false suggestions, the United States guaranty to said nation of Delawares, and their heirs, all their territorial rights, in the fullest and most ample manner, as bounded by former treaties;' and they further provide for a confederacy of tribes, of which the Delaware Nation was to be the head, and to have a representative in Congress.

Here is recognition enough of the rights of Indians.  And, to put an end to the false suggestion, which none but an enemy could make, assistance is given, by treaty, binding upon the whole country, that their territorial rights shall be defended, in the fullest and most ample manner, as antecedently defined.

(To be continued.)




      


From the Maryville Intelligencer

THE UNITED BRETHREN.

The Christian congregation from Shekomeko, having arrived at Bethlehem, built cottages in the vicinity of the Brethren's settlements, where their morning and evening prayers were regulated, and the service performed in the Mohigan language. This settlement was called Friedenshutten (tents of peace). But as the emigration continued, it was doubted whether an Indian town would support itself so near Bethlehem, and therefore the Brethren purchased land beyond the Blue Mountains, on which the Christians settled, and built a regular town and chapel, and called it Gnadenshutten. This settlement, having the gospel daily preached, was the means of exciting the attention of the Delawares, many of whom were converted and added to the church.

In 1717, the Brethren by invitation visited the Delawares at their village, near twenty miles from Bethlehem.- Many of these were converted,- favored with a teacher and school, till 1751, when they joined the congregation at Gnadenshutten. Here a new church was erected, the first being too small, as the congregation now consisted of 500 souls. Schools for the children of both sexes were put under proper regulations. The missionary teachers, mechanics, 'C. had their buildings about half a mile distant from the town. These, on the 24th of Nov. 1755 were burnt by the hostile Indians, (fighting for the French) and eleven persons killed, viz. seven men, three women and one child.  Only two men, one woman and a boy escaped. The Christian Indians were from home on a hunting expedition. When they returned, they were removed from Gnadenshutten to Bethlehem; and on the first of Jan. 1756 the town was burnt by the hostile Indians.

In 1757, the Christian Indians commenced building a new town, two miles from Bethlehem, and called it Nain. In 1762, they had all the necessary buildings for themselves and their missionary completed; and also a chapel, which was consecrated on the 18th of October. This congregation increased so rapidly that it was soon found necessary to begin another establishment. The Brethren, therefore, purchased 1400 acres of land, beyond the Blue Mountain, and a new settlement was begun with thirty baptized Indians of the Delaware tribe, and the place called Wechquetank.

In the fall of 1793, reports of hostile Indians about the lakes, greatly exasperated the whites about Bethlehem; soldiers were raised for the defence of the country. Some of these soldiers when drinking murdered four of the inoffensive Indians of Wechquetank, viz. a man, his wife, and child, and a female friend.  Soon after an armed mob threatened to kill ever Indian there and at Nain. The missionary finding that entreaties had no effect on this enraged mob, found it necessary for the congregation to break up and retire to Nazareth for safety; which they did on the 11th October, leaving their harvest and many of their cattle behind.

The Christian Indians at Nain, though but little more than a mile from Bethlehem, durst not go there, and were obliged to keep a watch, both by day and night in their nation; and also to place guards at the chapel doors during service, from apprehension of being surprised and murdered while assembled for Divine worship. Every morning their joys were renewed at seeing each other again, after the fears of the night. On the 19th of October, Pienatus, a harmless Indian, and the son of aged and venerable parents, was seized and taken to Philadelphia and imprisoned.

As the Christian Indians could not rest in peace or safety, either in their own town, or in Bethlehem, the Governor ordered them to Philadelphia for protection. Here they arrived on the 11th of November, having on the 8th attended a farewell sermon in the church at Bethlehem, preached by the Bishop, Peter Beohler, from Ps.5:8

The soldiers would not admit them into barracks, though the Governor had ordered it. They were, therefore, kept in the street from 10 o'clock, A.M. until 3 p.m.  In the meantime a great mob assembled round them, deriding, reviling and charging them with all the outrages committed by the enemy; and at the same time threatening to kill them on the spot.  To all which they were silent, relying on the Providence of God, to whom alone they afterwards ascribed their preservation. They were for a time secured from the mob in the common jail, and afterwards sent to Providence Island, where the missionaries held with them daily meetings.

About this time, fifty-seven white men from Paxton, sat (sic) out to attack and destroy a small town of peaceable and inoffensive Indians, in Conestoga, near Lancaster, where they had resided more than a century; and whose ancestors were those who welcomed Wm. Penn, on his first arrival in this country, presenting him venison, 'c. These Indians were not all at home, but the mob murdered those who were at home-men, women and children. The rest learning what had befallen their friends and relations, fled to Lancaster for protection, and were there placed in the jail for safety.  The mob, however, soon arrived-broke open the door; and most cruelly murdered every one, and threw their bodies into the yard, with a dreadful shout as if they had gained a great victory, threatening with the same fate, all the Christian Indians on Providence Island.  Sir Heckewelder here introduces an extract of a letter from a respectable gentleman, relative to the above murder. 'There are,' says he, 'few if any murders to be compared with the cruel murder committed on the Conestoga Indians, in the jail at Lancaster in 1763 by the Paxton boys, (as they were then called). From fifteen to twenty Indians, report stated, were placed there for protection. A regiment of Highlanders were, at the time quartered at the barracks in the town, and yet these murderers were permitted to break open the doors of the city jail and commit the horrid deed. The first notice I had of this affair, was, that while at my father's store, near the court house, I saw a number of people running down street towards the jail which enticed me and other lads to follow them. At about sixty or eighty yards from the jail, we met from twenty-five to thirty men, well mounted on horses, and with rifles, tomahawks, and scalping knives for murder.

I ran into the prison yard, and there, O what a horrid sight presented itself to my view!! Near the back door of the prison, lay an old Indian and his squaw, particularly well known and esteemed by the people of the town, on account of his plain and friendly conduct. His name was Will Sock, near him and his squaw, lay two children of about the age of three years, whose heads were split with the tomahawk, and their scalps all taken off. Towards the middle of the jail yard, along the west side of the wall lay a stout Indian, whom I particularly noticed to have been shot in the breast, his legs were chopped with the tomahawk, his hands cut off, and finally a rifle ball discharged in his mouth, so that his head was blown to atoms, and the brains were splashed against, and yet hanging to the wall, for three or four feet around. In this manner lay the whole of them, men, women,and children; shot, scalped, and hacked to pieces.'

Though the Governor forbid such outrages, and offered $200 to any one who should bring the two ring leaders of the party to justice, yet it soon became evident that even in Philadelphia, many were in secret connection with these ring leaders, who paid so little regard to the Governor's orders, that they not only publicly walked the street, but even presented themselves in front of the Governor's house, deridingly bidding him defiance.




      


From the New York American.

The New Testament, translated into the Chippewa language, by Dr. Edwin James of the United States Army, has just been published at Albany, by Packard ' Van Benthuysen. We have seen a copy of it. It is well printed, presenting the Chippewa words in our ordinary type; its uses therefore is confined to missionaries, or Indians conversant with our alphabet. As however the instruction of the Indians must in every event be oral, so very few of them being able to read, this forms no objection to this mode of printing. Moreover it was the only practicable one, as there is no Chippewa alphabet. The language however is common to the Six Nations, and is, it is said, understood by the Southwestern Indians. If so, this Testament may be read to the greater part of the Indian tribes of our borders.

Dr. James has, we understand, devoted more than ten years to this work,-which the highest motives alone, it is obvious, could have prompted him to undertake; for neither profit nor literary fame can be anticipated from such an enterprize. He has in the course of his official duties, been much among, and seen much of the Indians. He is looked upon by one of their Chiefs, at least, will appear from the annexed copy of a letter addressed to him by Thegud, a Chief of the band of Chippewas living at Tukquimenon, on the south shore of Lake Superior.

BOWWETING, May 12, 1833.

My Brother- Now I cause this letter to be written to you. I wish to tell you my thoughts. I was very sorry when I heard that you had gone away. I wish I had watched to have seen you. But I am yet alive. It pleases our Great Father in Heaven that I should still live here on earth. And also of you I yet hear the sound of your living. I think great thanks that we are both yet alive. Perhaps we may not expect to see each other again on this earth. Do thou take heed also to this our religion. I do not say this as distrusting you. I only am to be pitied, I was too long lost; and even now I am very much afraid of those things that destroyed us. But as much as I can now do, that I may talk carefully to our Great Father in Heaven, this is what I say to you now.

And I tell you now how I have lived. I lost one of my children. Afterwards I thought I could never be comforted, I had so loved my child. But I thank Him that is above that he thought good to leave me my other children. I am very much pleased at what the whites have done here at Bowweting. Truly they have had compassion on us. I am not now such as I used to be before I prayed. I do not now wish for those things I used to wish for. Now those that are here at Bowweting are to me as my own brothers. I tell you also that teachers are more and more abundant at Bowweting, but there are still many wicked men rejecting prayer [religion]. This is all I say to you. I request that you also will send to me your thinking. I salute all your family.

THEGUD.-




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, SEPTEMBER 7,(sic) 1833

The instruction of the President to his enrolling agents, which appeared in our 28th number, we have been induced to review, and remark upon certain passages that were not fully comprehended by us.  The system of measures under which these agents are acting, has for its great object the negotiation of a treaty with individuals, and on this principle, the Government, as a great mountain in labor to remove an atom in its center, by turning on its base, is now making a hopeless and snail pace progress in making treaties with individuals. It appears that the President has given himself to the 1st of January to make a treaty with the Cherokees. But should this contemplation fail, then, in that case, those who have enrolled will cede all their interest in the soil, to the United States. But it appears this cession is only nominal, and the consideration to be given them, depends upon contingencies: by a treaty with those remaining. If no treaty is made to give effect to this cession, then in this case, the emigrants will receive pay for the valuation of their improvements, so fast as Congress makes the appropriations. This is the meaning of the secret letter from the White House, and the President might as well undertake to empty the Pacific Ocean into the Atlantic, as to remove the Cherokees by enrollments, and when he has appointed Georgians who are robbing us of our dearest rights. We repeat again, what we have often said, that no treaty can be made with the body politic of the Cherokees.






      


INDIANS

SPEECH

Of the Hon. Isaac C. Bates, Representative from Massachusetts, delivered in the House of Representatives, on the bill for the removal of the Indians, May 19, 1833.

CONTINUED

Now, Sir, let it be recollected, that, during this period, all the states, by their agents, acting, under their authority ' with their sanction and approbation, adopted these measures.  They may, therefore, be considered a fair and decisive indication of what was then thought to be our Indian relations. In no respect were the Indians treated as citizens or subjects, but as sovereign tribes or nations, with the power of making peace or war at pleasure, much less as tenants at the will of the States-one, many, or all of them.

When the Articles of Confederation were adopted, in 177_, or finally by all the States, in 1781, 'the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the trade and managing all the affairs of the Indians, not members of any of the States' was given to the United States. In connection with the clause in a provision, 'that the legislative right of any State within its own limits be not infringed or violated.' The argument is, that the Cherokees were the citizens of Georgia, and subject to her jurisdiction. From this article it is clear there were Indians with whom the United States had trade to regulate, and affairs to manage, who were not members of any State.  If not the Cherokees, who were they?  The land from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, within the limits of the United States, was within the geographical boundary of some one of the States. According to the position of Georgia, therefore, there were no such tribes.  Reliance is placed upon the proviso, as controlling the express grant; and if no effect could be given to the proviso, consistent with grant, there might be something to the suggestion. But while the 'power of entering into treaties and alliances' is given in the same section there is a proviso, 'that the legislative power of the States shall not be restrained from imposing duties and prohibiting the exportation and importation of goods.' These articles were permanent; and it was not to be foreseen what these tribes night become. With the same view the proviso, in relation to them might have been adopted. Or it might have been (the term Indians  being used, and not Indian nations) in order to restrain Congress from interfering with such of them as were dispersed among the inhabitants of the States. Or, again, it might have been to restrain Congress from controlling the laws of the States in relation to the people of these Indian nations, when within the acknowledged limits and jurisdiction of the States. Or, mainly, it might have been out of abundant caution, without any distinctly contemplated object. Effect enough can be given to sustain the proviso, without annulling the power granted.  And this grant plainly proves that there were Indian nations or tribes, who were not members of any of the States; and if so the Cherokees do not belong to Georgia. What Congress understood by the article is clear, for, immediately after the confederation of 1781, it passed a resolve approving of the appointment of the commissioners by General Greene, to negotiate a treaty with the Cherokee Indians; and the whole course of its legislation, down to the adoption of the Constitution in 1788, shows the same thing.

In 1783, the Secretary of War was directed to notify the Indian nations, 'that the United States were disposed to enter into friendly treaties with the different tribes.' This was in May, after the peace. In September, Congress issued a proclamation, prohibiting settlements 'on lands inhabited and claimed by Indians, without the limits and jurisdiction of any particular State;' and prohibiting the purchase of such lands, without an express 'authority from the United States in Congress assembled.' What lands were these, without the limits, and without the jurisdiction, too, of any State? In October, Congress resolved that a convention should be holden of the different tribes, for the purpose of receiving them 'into the favor and protection of the United States,' and of establishing 'boundary lines of property to divide the settlements of the citizens from the Indian villages and hunting grounds.' In 1784, another resolve was passed, to expedite the holding of treaties; and in 1785, particularly with the Cherokees and Indians to the southward of them.  This is the resolve under which the treaties of Hopewell were held.- The commissioners were appointed for the purpose of making peace; they went under the protection of an armed force; they went with presents. IT was a peace we sought, not the Indian nations. After the treaties of Hopewell were concluded with the different tribes, the Indian departments were recognized, and another resolve was passed in 1786, regulating Indian intercourse. No citizen was to reside among or trade with the Indians, without a license. And in 1786, upon application of Georgia herself, the Creeks were informed, that if they persisted in refusing to treat with the United States, an armed force would be called out to protect the frontiers.

I do not find a remonstrance, or an objection even, by any of the States, to the powers assumed and exercised by Congress in relation to the Indian nations, except as to the Treaty of Hopewell with the Cherokees; and that Congress enforced, notwithstanding, by a proclamation in September, 1788 deeming a treaty binding upon the United States, and upon Georgia as one of the United States.

In this condition of things, the Constitution was adopted; and instead of the clause in the Articles of Confederation, with the limitation and the proviso, a general, unlimited, unqualified power is given to Congress, 'to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes,' and as fully and unconditionally as with 'foreign nations,' or 'among the several States.'

This article in the Constitution established my position, that the Indians were not members of the States, nor subject to their jurisdiction; but were sovereign nations, with whom the United States had a commerce to regulate. If, as affirmed, they were members of the State of Georgia--citizens or subjects- then the grant of power was to regulate commerce among the several States and the members thereof; which is power never claimed nor admitted. Congress deals only with States; the states with their citizens or subjects. Congress, therefore, has the power, in express terms, to proscribe all the forms of intercourse between the United states and the Indian tribes, or to interdict it altogether, as the exigency may require, in the same sense, and to the same extent, as it has with foreign nations.

In 1790, the first Indian intercourse law, under the Constitution, was passed, forbidding all trade between the citizens of the United States and the Indians, except by persons duly licensed. The fifth section provides, that if any citizen of the United States go into any town belonging to a nation of Indians, and there commit a crime, he shall be punished as if said crime had been committed within the jurisdiction of a State.  Is not this decisive, that the Cherokees are not citizens of Georgia? nor within the jurisdiction of Georgia.

The act of 1796 defines the boundary of the Indian tribes, and makes it penal for any citizen of the United States to pass it without a license.

Another act was passed in 1799, substantially of the same import.

These acts were temporary, and the provisions of them were embodied in the act of 1802, which was made permanent. It is now in full force, and has been, ever since its enactment.- The only provisions, in either this or the antecedent acts, objected to, were a part of the fifth section of the act of 1796, relating to the forfeiture of lands, and the sixth section, punishing with death the murderer of an Indian. These provisions were, among other things, the foundation of a remonstrance to Congress by Georgia. The objectionable feature of the fifth section was omitted, and the sixth section was retained, in the act of 1802. This act has been in force, and has been enforced by all the States, as a wise and constitutional law. Well, Sir, this reaffirms the Indian boundary as then established and defined by the Indian treaties. It provides that no person shall pass it not even the Governor of Georgia, much less his bailiffs, without authority from the United States. It forbids all settlements by the whites on the Indian lands, and invests the army with power to arrest and bring offenders to punishment.  It made void all grants by Indian nations, or individuals, unless sanctioned by Congress; and it commissions the President to see it faithfully executed. It will be perceived at a glance, that if the Indians were the citizens of Georgia, or subject to her jurisdiction, the whole range of this act is unconstitutional. Congress can make no such internal regulations among the inhabitants of a State as it contemplates.

The act of Georgia itself, 'to extend her laws over the territory in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians,' is the most decisive proof that they were not within her jurisdiction before.  The general laws of the State were without limitation. Of their own force, as soon as passed, they pervaded and covered the whole extent and circumference of her jurisdiction. And yet a special act is now necessary to give them effect among the Cherokees! Why this?   Because they were not within her jurisdiction before. They were honest laws, and knew that their commission and power ceased at the Indian boundary, beyond which they had no right to go, and beyond which no citizen of Georgia could go to execute them. If Congress has power, under the Constitution, to regulate commerce with foreign nations, to say by whom, and under what restrictions, it may be carried on; to interdict it altogether, even; it has the right as to the Indian tribes.- And having done it, Georgia is bound by it, unless she be above law, and so not subject to law.

She is bound also by treaties which the United States have made with the Cherokees.  The POWER to make treaties is in these words:

'The President shall have power by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided two thirds of the Senate concur.'

The effect of treaties is declared in these words:

'All treaties, made, or which shall be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.'

It has been intimated, to get rid of the effect of our Indian treaties, that they are not treaties. What then is a treaty? Hamilton says, 'Treaties are contracts with nations, which have the force of law, but derive it from the obligations of good faith'- 'Agreements between a sovereign and sovereign.'- another name for a bargain, but a bargain between those who are sovereign.

The treaties between the United States and the Cherokees were negotiated as treaties, and treaties between nations competent to make treaties. They were ratified as treaties. There were called treaties, not only by us, but by the French, Spanish, and English, before our time. They were admitted to be treaties by Georgia. But whether treaties or not, it is of no importance, because indisputably they are what was meant and intended by the term as used in the Constitution; they are the thing that was to have the power and force given to it in the Constitution; to control State laws and State Constitutions. How, then, can we say to the Indian nations, that what we called treaties, and ratified as treaties, were not in fact treaties?

I will call the attention of the House to the Treaty of Hopewell, in 1785.- This was a treaty in force when the Constitution was adopted. It was a treaty then 'made' and 'all treaties made, or which should be made,': 'c., were to be the supreme law of the land. These are the words of the Constitution.  Georgia, by adopting the Constitution, agreed at least, to this treaty. Nor is there the slightest foundation for the suggestion that she did not intend to affirm this treaty.- Let it be recollected that this treaty was not only uniformly called a treaty, known as such, but of all other treaties, 'this was most likely to be distinctly in view; 1st, Because it was a subject of her remonstrance in 1786; 2d, because the boundary to which it related has been a matter of perpetual dispute between her and the United States; and a 3d. Because, when she adopted the Constitution, the proclamation of Congress was then before the people, requiring submission to this very treaty, and calling upon the army to enforce it against the citizens of Georgia. Of all subjects, therefore, which Georgia had openly and fully in view, this was the most prominent, made so by the important contemporaneous events which affected that State individually. But, independent of all this, it is enough that it was then deemed a treaty, and, as such, was made the supreme law of the land. Now, what is it?

1. It is negotiated by plenipotentiaries on both sides.

2. The United States give peace to the Cherokees, and receive them into favor and protection.

3. A mutual restoration of prisoners, 'c., is agreed upon.

4. The boundary between the Cherokees and the citizens of the United States (within 'the United States of America'- the technical corporate name of the confederation, excluding the idea that the hunting grounds lay in Georgia) is stated in these terms, 'the boundary allotted, 'c. is and shall be the following,' going on to state it.- Now, Sir, what form of words can add anything to the strength of the covenant or guaranty involved in the phrase 'is and shall be,' and that without limitation as to time? The guaranty in the Treaty of Holston is nothing more than this. It binds the United States, and Georgia with them, and will bind forever, unless the Cherokees choose to remit the obligation.

5. The citizens of the United States who had settled, or should attempt to settle, westward of the boundary established by that treaty, are outlawed, and left to the Indians to punish as they please.  What, then, becomes of the right claimed by Georgia to take possession of this whole country, and annex to it the continuous counties of that State?

6. Congress 'shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their affairs in such a manner as they shall think proper.' This article, which has been the subject of some criticism elsewhere, is in the very words of the power given to Congress upon this particular subject, in the Articles of Confederation, with this difference, that, instead of saying 'regulating trade and managing affairs with the Indians,' it makes a wrong collocation of the words, and says, 'regulating trade with the Indians and managing all their affairs,' the intent obviously being to make the Indians agree that Congress should have the power to regulate the trade of the United States, and manage the affairs of the States individually, or collectively, or both, with them. Congress had no power to go further. The treaties at Hopewell with the Choctaws ' Chickasaws are expressed in the same terms. They were probably written by Governor Blount, who attests them, and hence the similarity.

The object for which this power is given to the United States is set fourth in the same article, viz: 'For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries and oppressions on the part of the citizens.' By what authority then does Georgia, in the face of this treaty, abrogate all their laws, usages, and customs, subject them to her laws, and throw their country open to the inroads, injuries and oppressions of her own citizens?  And what becomes of the guaranty of boundary, and of the protection the United States promised them?

7. Retaliation is not to be practiced on either side, 'except for a manifest violation of this treaty; and then it shall be preceded by a demand of justice; and, if refused, by a declaration of hostilities.'  This, sir, looks very much like sovereignty.

I have said that this treaty was affirmed, by the adoption of the Constitution, as a 'treaty made,' and is still in force. To remove all doubt upon this subject, I have only to remark that, by the Treaty of Philadelphia, in 1795, at Tellico in 1799, and again in 1804, and at the Cherokee agency in 1817, by General Jackson, this Treaty of Hopewell is recognized as a treaty in force and perpetuated. But this is not all. In August, 1790, after the Constitution was adopted, Washington addressed the following note to the Senate.

'I shall conceive myself bound to execute the powers entrusted to my by the Constitution, to carry into effect the faithful execution the Treaty of Hopewell, unless it shall be thought proper to attempt to arrange a new boundary with the Cherokees, embracing the settlements and compensating the Cherokees for the cessions they shall make on the occasion.' The white people had encroached upon the Cherokees contrary to the Treaty of Hopewell, and the question was whether to expel them by force, or purchase the land they occupied, and so by agreement changing the boundary ____d by the Treaty of Hopewell. He goes on- 'Is it the judgement of the Senate that overtures shall be made to the Cherokees to arrange a new boundary so as to embrace the settlements made by the white people since the Treaty of Hopewell.' The Senate answer- 'That they do advise and consent that the President cause the treaty of Hopewell to be carried into effect according to its terms; or enter into arrangements for a further cession of territory from the Cherokees, at his discretion.'

Hence the House see that this treaty was not only confirmed by the Constitution, but during the first Congress under the Constitution it was recognized as a treaty in force; and without any change, except as to the boundary, which has varied with the subsequent cessions of territory, it still remains a treaty in force. It had no limitation as to time; and if it be not now in force, let the advocates of this bill tell us when, where, and how it was abrogated.

The Treaty of Holston with the Cherokee Nation, of 1791, was accordingly negotiated, by which a further cession of land was obtained, and thereby the necessity of removing the intruders obviated.  A new boundary was established, or course, 'and in order to preclude forever all disputes relative to said boundary, the same shall be ascertained, says the treaty, and marked plainly.' And by the seventh article, 'The United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.' Here they (sic) guaranty in the Treaty of Hopewell is reiterated in a more distinct and solemn form; for it will be found that Washington, when he asked the advice of the Senate, to which I have alluded, and in prospect of this identical Treaty of Holston, put this question, 'Shall the United States stipulate solemnity to the guaranty the new boundary which may be arranged?'  And the Senate answer, 'That in case a new boundary, other than that in the Treaty of Hopewell be made, the Senate do advise and consent solemnly to guaranty the same.'  Sir, treaties cannot be annulled at pleasure. There may not be good faith enough in the parties to keep them, but their obligations live. What answer can you give the Cherokee Nation when now called upon to redeem this pledge? to make good your guaranty of this boundary, and to prevent the partition of their nation, and the annexation of its parts to Georgia? The President has told us, 'they must submit.'  This bill tell us so, and tells the world so. Submit, or remove, is the language. This Treaty of Holston, the ninth article, further stipulated, 'that no citizens of the United States should go into the Cherokee country without a passport,' the barriers of which are all prostrate, and any man may now go at pleasure into it, or over it, unless this government interpose.

Another treaty was concluded at Philadelphia in 1794, and another at Tellico in 1798, by which the Cherokees cede more land, and by which the United States, 'in consideration of the cession made, say to the Cherokee Nation, that they will continue the guaranty of the remainder of their country forever, as made and contained in former treaties'- Hopewell; Holston, ' Philadelphia. This is found in the sixth article of the Treaty of Tellico.- In the face of these admissions on our part, who will venture to say that the Cherokees are the citizens, the tenants at will, of Georgia? or subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia? Who does not see that they were sovereign? the sole, the admitted proprietors of the 'country we guarantied to them forever'--we, the United States of America!

The same stipulations as to boundary, settlement, trade, and generally as to intercourse, are contained in these treaties, as are comprised in the law of 1802, and show conclusively, not only that the Cherokees are not subject to the jurisdiction of Georgia, but they interpose the most insurmountable obstacles to an assumption of it by Georgia. And I feel justified in affirming that, unless the laws of the United States, and treaties under which we hold millions of acres of land-laws and treaties never questioned until it became necessary to deny their authority to sustain this claim-are a dead letter, the sovereignty of the Cherokees is recognized, and the protection of them guarantied.

(To be continued.)




      


NO. 1.

(COPY)

HEAD OF COOSA,

CHEROKEE NATION,

May, 22d, 1833

 Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry of War,

Sir in pursuance of a resolution of the General Council which terminated its session on the 20th inst. at Red Clay, I hasten to transmit you herewith for the information of the President certain resolutions adopted by the Council as an expression of its sentiments on the public affairs of this Nation. In laying them before the President, you will please to permit me through you, to assure him that the peace and happiness of the Cherokee people requires repose, by removing the perplexing difficulties which have so long disturbed their welfare.  And that whilst a course of irritating excitement is kept up, the distress of the nation may be increased, but yet, it is evident that the object desired to be attained can never be realized by the observance of it. Should the reason able expectation of the Council be favorably regarded by the President and all further proceedings suspended, he may, rest assured, that no effort, on my part shall be wanting in co-operating with the proper authorities of this nation for the adoption of measures with the view to a final termination of all difficulties; to ensure a calm deliberation upon this important subject, it is indispensably necessary that harmony and tranquility should prevail among the people. You will therefore please to communicate to me the determination of the President on the subject, as soon as convenient.

I have the Honor to be, Sir,

Your Ob't H'ble Serv't

(Signed) JOHN ROSS.

____________

NO. 2

(copy)

Resolutions of the General Council, concerning the present state of National Affairs, transmitted to the Secretary of War for the information of the President of the United States, May 20th 1833

Whereas the several communications embracing the correspondence between the late Delegation to Washington and the Honorable Secretary of War in reference to the public affairs of this Nation having been read in General Council and the Principal Chief having fully stated, in the presence of said delegation, the several conversations had with the President and Secretary on this subject; the following resolutions be and are hereby adopted as an expression of the sentiments of the Council in relation thereto.

Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council Convened, That the portion maintained by the delegation in support of the rights of this Nation be and is hereby approved.

Resolved, That the Council view with regret the evasive and unsatisfactory manner in which the Hon. Secretary has replied to the several subjects introduced before him by the Delegation. The question of our national rights having been so clearly recognized and established by every department of the General Government, and as defined by various subsisting treaties, laws enacted in the spirit of those treaties, and decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States; the Cherokees cannot but feel with deep regret and sensibility the evil consequences arising from the oppressions by state authorities and the entire suspension of fulfillment on the part of the Government of those solemn pledges so repeatedly made for their protection.



Resolved, That under existing circumstances the nation is in a state of duress, and that until removed it cannot properly exercise that freedom of deliberation and action so desirable and necessary for the final termination of present difficulties, and being convinced that the country west of the Mississippi to which the Government has invited the removal of the Cherokees, as a nation, under the present unsettled policy of the Government in relation to the Indian tribes; and should they be compelled by the force of circumstances contrary to every principle of justice and humanity to leave the 'land of their Fathers' the Council can determine no other alternative promising relief than a removal beyond the limits of the United States; but having confidence yet in the good faith of the Government of the United States and no desire to remove west of the Mississippi nor to leave the limits of the United States and being solicitous to have a speedy termination of present difficulties.

Resolved, That the basis and terms of the late proposition is offered by the Government being objectionable and aware of the limited powers of the President, it is inexpedient for the nation at present, to determine, as a final resort, that course necessary to be pursued, until some further act of the ensuing Congress in relation to this important matter.

Be it further Resolved, That if the President will cause all further illegal proceedings on the part of Georgia and Alabama to cease within the limits of this nation, and will suspend further proceedings through the Agents of the Government, the proper authorities of this nation with a view to the final termination of all difficulties will adopt such measures as will bring before the General Government at the next session of Congress this subject upon such fair and honorable principles, as, in their opinion, justice and magnanimity will not fail to sanction.

Be it further Resolved, That the Principal Chief be and he is hereby requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing resolutions to the Honorable Secretary of War for the information of the President of the United States.

RICH'D TAYLOR, Pres't N. Com.

his

Concurred-GOING X SNAKE

mark

Speaker of Council.

Approved- JOHN ROSS

Principal Chief.

Wm. ROGERS, Clerk N. Com.

A. M'COY, Clerk Council.

In General Council, Red Clay Cherokee Nation, May 20th  1833

________________

NO. 3

(COPY)

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

June 20th 1833

Sir,- I am instructed to inform you, that your letter of the 22nd ult. has been received and submitted to the President.

The President considers it useless to continue any farther correspondence on the subject of the Cherokee difficulties.  Neither in the propositions, you have transmitted nor in the spirit in which they are dictated, does he see any hope of a change in the councils and conduct of those, who have obtained an ascendancy over the unhappy Cherokee people. The terms already offered are extremely liberal. And it is believed they are satisfactory to the citizens of the United States, and would be so to the Cherokees, were they permitted to exercise their own judgment in the matter. No essential alterations will be made in them, and if the event is unfortunate for your people, the fault must rest with those, who have acquired their confidence and now mislead them

Very respectfully, I am, Sir, Your Ob't Serv't

JOHN ROBB.

Acting Secretary of War.

Mr. John Ross

Head of Coosa, Cherokee Nation.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, SEPTEMBER 21. 1833

The unavoidable absence of the Editor prevented us from issuing our paper last week. The first side of the paper was put to press last week accounts for the difference in the date of that side and under this head.

________________

Will some friend of the enrolling agents inform us, the cause of suspending their operations, since they have given the Cherokees their secret letter, and the number of Georgians they have enrolled since we noticed them.

____________________

The Resolutions of the Council which we had promised to our readers will be found below, together with the letter of the Principal Chief to the Secretary of War, and his answer severally thereto.- It will be perceived by these resolutions adopted by the representatives of the Cherokee people that they maintain the same position in regard to their rights as they have always done, and have decidedly and earnestly called upon the Executive of the Union to remove from the Nation, the power of the States which places them in duress, in order to restore them to liberty,to enabled (sic) them to deliberate freely on the momentous concerns of their Nation.- But the answer of the President by the Acting Secretary of War to the Chief considers it useless to continue a correspondence on the Cherokee case, as no hope now remains of a change in the councils of those who have mislead the unhappy Cherokees It may be fairly asked here by whom have the Cherokees been made unhappy? The Cherokees flourished under the administrations of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, and so soon as the salutary policy of these great ceased to exist, and the treaties of the Government with the Cherokees, were given over by the President to the new powers of the surrounding states, then in the language of Mr. Robb was commenced the unhappiness of the Cherokee people. It is not our intention knowingly to deceive our readers, but it is our immoveable impression that this seeming censure of the Secretary on the leaders of the Cherokee people is gratuitous, and not the true sentiments of the President, but equivocating on his acquiescence to the resolutions. The President addressed his liberal propositions to the Cherokees last year, and have been known to them since, but they have twice in the General Council convened been rejected. Again, In the first paragraph of the secret instruction to his enrolling Agents, the President say, the reluctance of the generality of the Cherokees to remove west does not rest upon their ignorance or dislike of that country?  No intimation is here given, that the opposition of the Cherokees to the measures of the President is controlled  by those who have obtained an ascendancy over the Cherokees. Therefore we conclude the sentiments of the Acting Secretary is not of that character to put to rest forever the action of the Government in this case, prejudicial to the rights of the Cherokees.

Again: Secretary Cass in his communication to the Cherokees Chief (Ross) of March 14th says that 'the complaints of the Cherokees are well grounded and that the Department cherished deep solicitude for the welfare of the Nation, and that it would endeavor to promote it.' Now it would appear from these passages that the Government at that time possessed full and correct information of the true feelings of the Cherokees, which were not created by the ascendancy of their leaders, and we cannot discover upon what authority the Secretary should, after having the resolutions of the National Council before him cast the reflection on those chiefs whom the choice of the Cherokees have placed them to preside over their affairs.

The Secretary then speaks of the 'liberal terms of the propositions, and are satisfactory to the American people, and would be so to the Cherokees were they to exercise their own judgment.'  Upon the admission of the people of the U. S. to the benefits of these proposition to the Cherokees were they accepted, we shall render no objections. But before the government could consistently hold up to the Cherokees its liberality in regard to the new treaty, is it not the incumbent and paramount duty of the President, first to prove it by carrying into effect ' in good faith his 17 treaties with us! We sincerely hope that the fragments of these prostrated treaties may sincerely be considered, their obligations renewed, the Cherokees permitted to exercise their own free will, before these honest chiefs are blamed for calling on the President of the U. S. for the fulfillment of his bond with us.






      


INDIANS

SPEECH

Of the Hon. Isaac C. Bates, Representative from Massachusetts, delivered in the House of Representatives on the bill for the removal of the Indians, May 19, 1833

CONCLUDED

At this stage in the progress of my remarks, allow me to advert to the origin of the claim on the part of Georgia, with a view to a consideration of the settlement of it in 1802.

I have already remarked, that, at the commencement of the Revolution, the Indian boundary in the different States was the boundary of their ordinary jurisdiction, and included the lands which had been purchased of the Indians, as the aboriginal proprietors of them.  In the progress of the war, a question arose as to the wild lands west of the boundary, and east of the Mississippi.  Some of the States, having no particular title to these lands, being severed from them by other interjacent States, had, nevertheless, a deep interest in this question. An extract from the Journal of Congress, in 1783 will show how this matter was viewed by one side, at least at that time. It is by way of recital, 'Whereas the territory (of the United States) comprehends a large extent of country lying without the lines, limits, or acknowledged boundaries of any of the United States, over which, or any part of which, no State can, or ought to exercise any sovereign, legislative, or jurisdictional faculty, the same having been acquired under the confederation, and by the joint and united efforts of all: and whereas several of the States acceded to the confederation under the idea that a country unsettled at the commencement of this war, claimed by the British crown, it wrested from the common enemy, by the blood and treasure of the thirteen States, should be considered as a common property,' therefore, Resolved, 'c.  Nothing was done by Congress upon this proposition. The other States, however, ceded their right to these lands, under certain limitations and reservations not material to be stated, to become a common fund for the benefit of the United States.* Georgia held on, and claimed as her own the immense and valuable tract of land lying between the Atlantic and the Mississippi, a part of which now constitutes the States of Alabama and Mississippi. This was gained by the War of the Revolution, the expense of which was apportioned among the States according to 'the white, black, and mulatto population,' excluding Indians: and during the confederation, according to the 'value of the land in each State granted or surveyed for any person,' excluding the wild lands.- While Virginia paid eight hundred thousand dollars, and Massachusetts eight hundred and twenty thousand, Georgia paid sixty thousand only.

Immediately, after the preliminaries of peace, Georgia undertook to fortify her claim, and passed an act declaring that the boundary of Georgia 'does, and did, and of a right ought to extend to the Mississippi,' resting the right to such an extent of boundary upon her charter, and the Articles of Confederation. The charter had been given up long before, and therefore no claim cloud be  sustained under that; and it is clear the confederation settled nothing in relation to the title to these lands.  Georgia, in her constitution of 1793, after setting forth her boundary as in the act of 1783, declares that 'all the territory without the present temporary line, and within the limits aforesaid (that is, between the Indian boundary and the Mississippi,) is now, and of right, the property of the free citizens of this State.' By this same article authority is given to sell to the United States the land lying west of the Chattahooche, and to procure an extinguishment of Indian claims to the land east of that river.  The boundary of the ordinary jurisdiction of Georgia- 'the temporary line'- is here recognized in her constitution and the Cherokee country as lying without that boundary, as also the right of the Cherokees thereto. The purpose of Georgia was to establish in herself the right of pre-emption, as adverse to the right claimed by the United States.

After twenty years dispute upon this subject, in 1802, commissioners mutually appointed by the United States of the one part, and Georgia of the other, settled this much agitated and long disputed subject. Georgia ceded to the United States the land west of the Chattahooche, now Alabama and Mississippi, the United States paying her one million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and taking it subject to certain other claims, and among them the Yazoo claim, for which we have paid about five millions. The United States ceded to Georgia the land lying east of said river, or the line of cession, whatever it was, and west of the Indian boundary, or the boundary of her ordinary jurisdiction, and engaged to extinguish the Indian title to it 'as early as the same could be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms.' The words of cession were, 'the United States cede to the State of Georgia whatever claim right or title they may have to the jurisdiction or soil of any lands' describing them. It is an assignment, or release of the right which the United States had to the jurisdiction and the soil. Now, sir, what was that? Not a right to dictate laws to the Cherokees! not a right to cancel their laws and customs; not a right to invade, cut up, and distribute their country at pleasure. No, sir; the United States never claimed, nor had, nor exercised that right.  All our obligations to the Cherokees by treaties, laws, and long established intercourse, were incompatible with it. Not the federative obligation we were under to protect the Cherokees. That was, in no sense, a jurisdictional right, but an obligation, growing out of treaty stipulations-a trust, personal and confidential, to be exercised by the United States, and not assignable or removable, but by the consent of the Cherokees. Nor was it intended to be 'ceded;' for it has been recognized in ten successive treaties, since the cession, still existing in the United States. It was a trust, for assuming which the United States received an equivalent-for which they were paid. It conferred no favor, but imposed an obligation- one, therefore, that Georgia would not have been willing to receive if the United States could have transferred it.  What was it, then? Simply and solely the right of pre-emption. This was all the 'claim, right, or title,' the United States had to the 'soil'. And the right to protect that right of pre-emption-to defend it, if need be, in any way in which it might be assailed-was all the claim, right or title the United States could, or did assign, or attempt to assign,to Georgia.  But this whole country was then subject to the Indian title, possessed by the Indian nations, under the government of the Indian laws, such as they were, and fully and absolutely, with the limitations I have named, and those not at all affecting their sovereignty. In this condition of things the United States stipulated with Georgia to extinguish the Indian title. When?  When it could be done peaceably-by treaty, not force-by cession, not usurpation-with the free consent, not against the will of the Cherokees. Here was no stipulation on the part of the United States, express or implied, to adopt any expedient to hasten the extinguishment of their title,which would not be open, fair, and honorable; not even when it could be done 'peaceably,' unless on 'reasonable terms'- for a fair equivalent-not at all events and hazards: -not an obligation absolute but conditional. And if the Cherokees refuse to sell and to leave their country, the United States are under no obligation to Georgia, other than to keep up a standing offer of reasonable terms to the Cherokees. This certainly is the case, if we subject the compact to any rule of right reason, by which contracts with individuals are governed. The land was not hers before. The compact is an inadmission (sic) of it. It is not to become hers until the event happens that is to make it hers; and that is the extinguishment of the Indian title. Conformably to this view both parties acted, for the twenty-six years next succeeding the compact. If Georgia be now right, the Intercourse Law of 1802, which was in force when her compact was made, was a direct invasion of her sovereignty. Did she ask for its repeal? No, sir. Her courts enforced it, and have done so ever since. The treaties then existing were also upon her present assumption and invasion of her sovereignty, interdicting the governor from passing a line within her own jurisdiction from entering or leaving the city of Savannah, for example.  Did she require that they should be modified or annulled? Not only no stipulation was made on this subject, when it was under examination by the commissioners, but no request even. And until very lately, she has acquiesced in them, and in ten other successive treaties of the same character made since, taking the fruits of them without an intimation to the Indian nations that they were void, or that they were parting with their land for nothing. Now, sir, I say this question- this long disputed, and, if your please, vexed question-is settled; is not open to re-examination by Georgia. If there be force in law, or force in treaties, or force in contract, this question is settled, and Georgia is bound and estopped on this subject.

But, admitting the right of pre-emption to these lands to be in Georgia, without restriction or limitation, by virtue of the compact of 1802, and that she may extinguish the Indian title, let us see how she may do it under the compact, by which she claims the right to do it. This is supposing her not bound by the laws or treaties of the United States, but by the act she affirms and under which she claims.

One article of that compact was, that the ordinance of 1787, 'in all its parts, should extend to the territory contained in the act of cession,' except in one particular, not material here to be considered. One part of that ordinance of 1787 was, that 'the utmost good faith should always be observed towards the Indians, their lands and property should never be taken from them without their consent; and in their  property, rights, and liberty, they never should be invaded or disturbed, unless in just and lawful wars, authorized by Congress, but laws founded in justice and humanity should from time to time be made for preventing wrongs being done to them, and for preserving peace and friendship with them.' Another part of the compact was, that, whenever any new States, that might be formed out of the territory so ceded, should be admitted into the Union, 'it should be on equal footing with the original States, in all respects whatever.'

This article in the ordinance of 1787 in relation to the Indians, is declaratory of the rule of justice and policy to which all the States are subject, and by which they are to be governed; as the new States are to come into the Union 'on equal terms with the old States in all respects whatever,' entitled to the same privileges, and subject to the same duties. When, therefore, the old States, require of the new 'to make laws to prevent wrongs being done to the Indians,-that good faith shall always be observed, that their property, rights and liberty shall not be invaded,' it is an admission that they are under the same obligations. Indeed, these are such principles of natural justice as bind all men, whether declared or not. They, at least, are not unconstitutional principles. Now, sir, can anything be more clear than that Georgia here admits that the Indians have land-have property-have rights-have liberty? that, in the enjoyment of them, they are never to be invaded nor disturbed? or, if at all, only in just and lawful wars, authorized by Congress? This is what Georgia concedes to, and affirms of the Indians west of the line of cession-a line that runs through the Cherokee Nation. This is what she imposes upon the new States as a fundamental law of their being, subject to which they come into the Union.  If true of the natives of Alabama and Mississippi, is it not true also of the natives belonging to the same nation on the east as well as on the west side of the line of cession? of Georgia as well as of Alabama and Mississippi? Does this compact make a distinction among the people of the same tribe? or between the lands they have seen from the mountains or passed in the chase, and those they have cultivate?  The Cherokees have not only this land, property, and liberty, and these rights here spoken of, but, in these they are never to be invaded nor disturbed by any State; never, except in a war declared by Congress. How then can Georgia extinguish the Indian title, take possession of the Indian lands without their consent, unless she violates her own compact,as well as the laws and treaties of the United States? But has she not disturbed the Cherokee's Nation,and invaded their property, rights and liberty? If by an act to make 'all the laws, ordinances, orders and regulations of a nation,' as if they had never been; if to subject the people of it to alien laws, and, at the same time, to exclude in any suit the evidence of the laws, usages and customs upon which their property, rights, and liberty all rest as upon their basis, and without which there can be no property, or distinction of property, or rights, or liberty,-by not disturbing and invading their property, rights and liberty, will you tell me, sir, what is? If this is not something more than making laws, founded in justice and humanity, to prevent wrongs being done to them, what would be?

Mr. Speaker, there is not an act of Georgia, since Oglethorpe first planted his foot upon the site of Savannah, when duly considered; there is, not a resolve, ordinance or law of Congress; there is not a treaty of the United States with the Indian tribes, that does not tend to establish the fact, that the Indians are the proprietors of the lands and hunting grounds they claim, subject only to the restriction upon their right of alienation. You might have put the question to every man in this nation, or child on the frontier, and he would have told you so, until the legislation of the States, aided by interest, instructed him otherwise. What then becomes of the tenancy at will-of sufferance as asserted by Georgia? Not one act, law or treaty that does not establish the fact that the Cherokees are sovereign. Sir, when were they otherwise? In what field were they conquered? Produce the proof. But were there something in the shape of evidence, it would be controlled by a single, undisputed, admitted fact-here is the nation, until his invasion of it, still sovereign. There is no tradition that has not been lost in its descent, that it was ever otherwise than sovereign. The pyramids of Egypt, upon their own broad and solid foundations are no better proof of themselves, than the Cherokee Nation is of its sovereignty. Sir, the emblems** of it were sparkling in the sun, when the white men, who now inhabit Georgia, and all who ever did, were in the loins of their European ancestry; and the bird that bore these emblems aloft in the upper skies-the region that clouds never darkened-was not more the king of birds, than the Cherokees were the lords of the country in which they dwelt, acknowledging no supremacy but that of the Great Spirit, and awed by no power but his-absolute, erect,and indomitable, as any creatures upon the earth the Deity ever formed.

But it is said the Constitution forbids the 'erection of a new State within the jurisdiction of another State,' and therefore the Cherokee government cannot be tolerated. Before I examined the subject, I was embarrassed by this consideration. But it will be found that this article was drawn with great caution and forecast, and for the very purpose of saving these little sovereignties of the aboriginal inhabitants. In the first place, as has been clearly shown in this debate, they are not a 'State' within the meaning of the Constitution.  In the next place, they are not a 'new State.' They were sovereignties when the Constitution was adopted. Therefore the existence and toleration of them was then as such a violation of the Constitution as it is now.  According to the Georgia doctrine, the government of the United States was then bound to do what it is now doing; that is, to put an end to the Cherokee Nation. In the third place, if a 'new State', it is not a State formed 'within the jurisdiction' of Georgia. The Constitution does not say, in the often repeated phrase, 'within the chartered limits' of 'geographical limits,' of Georgia. No such thing. The Indian boundary is the limit of the jurisdiction of Georgia. No such thing. The Indian boundary is the limit of the jurisdiction of Georgia,- The other lines indicate the extent of country to which she claims the right of pre-emption, and by every new purchase, of adding to her territory, and thus extending the limits of her jurisdiction.

These equivocal terms were rejected, and the word 'jurisdiction' was substituted by the framers of the Constitution, extending to the Indian boundary only, and being so considered by Georgia herself, down to the time of this dispute. Now, I take it upon myself to say, that, after the adoption of the Constitution, there was no pretence for affirming that the Cherokees were within the jurisdiction or Georgia.

What the views of the framers of that instrument were in relation of these remnants of once mighty nations, I cannot say. Probably they looked forward to the time when they would melt away or mingle with the current of white population, or pass off in some other form. Certain I am it was not their intention that 'in their property, rights or liberty they should ever be invaded or disturbed.'  This our ancestors said in 1787, and placed it on record, and Georgia said the same in 1802. The Cherokee Nation is not therefore a new State, formed within the 'jurisdiction of Georgia.'

I do not remark upon the improvement made in the Cherokee form of government; for any man of sense must see that that can make no difference.- The more perfect the system, the better; and the less the trouble from it.

It has been said also, that the United States have not extinguished the Indian title to the lands in question, as agreed at the cession. I have already remarked upon the conditions of the obligations then entered into; and it is a full answer to this complaint to say, that the United States have extinguished the title until the Indians have refused to cede another acre, and that they have been always ready and willing, and are now ready to do it, if the Indians will consent to it.

Then again, it is said that the indisposition to sell is the result of the civilization of the Cherokees, and that that has been brought about by the agency of the government. The answer to this is, that the United States were under obligations to do what they have done, prior to the compact of 1802; and this was known to Georgia, and she took the stipulation, subject to this obligation, which she distinctly recognized in her own compact.

Again, it has been argued against some of the treaties guarantying this country to the Cherokees, that the 'just claims of the State of Georgia were prejudiced' there by, contrary to the Constitution. This is begging the question; for Georgia has no 'just claim' to the Cherokee country, and therefore none is prejudiced. Georgia, has no right, constitutional or any other, that is incompatible with the engagements you have made to the Indian nations, or that is invaded by any law you have passed 'to prevent wrongs being done to them, or to preserve peace and friendship with them.'

Sir, you cannot take a step in the argument towards the result contended for by the friends of this bill, without blotting out a treaty, or tearing a seal from your bond. I give to the bill the connection which it has in fact, whatever may be said to the contrary, with the laws of the States to which it is subsidiary, and with the decision of the President, that the Indians must submit or remove. Now, sir, I say you are bound to protect them where they are, if they claim it at you hands; that you violate no right of the States in doing it, and will violate the rights of the Indian nations by not doing it; that when the United States, in consideration of the cession of land made by the Cherokees to this government, guarantied to them the 'remainder of their country forever,' you meant something by it. Sir, it is in vain to talk upon the question; impossible patiently to discuss it. If you have honor, it is pledged; if you have truth, it is pledged; if you have faith, it is pledged;- a nation's faith, and truth, and honor! and to whom pledged?  To the weak, the defenseless, the dependent. Fidem Anglorum in Foedcre eligimus, they say to you. Selecting your faith and no other,-you would not have it otherwise,-we reposed our trust and confidence in you, and you alone. And, for what pledged? Wherever you open our eyes, you see it, and wherever you plant your foot upon the earth, you stand upon it. And by whom pledged? By a nation in its youth, a republic, boastful of its liberty may it never be unmindful of its honor. Sir your decision upon this subject is not to be rolled up in the scroll of your journal, and forgotten. The transaction of this day, with the events it will give rise to, will stand out upon the canvass in all future delineations of this quarter of the globe, putting your deeds of glory in the shade. You will see it everywhere- on the page of history, in the essay of the moralist, in the tract of the jurist. You will see it in the vision of the poet; you will feel it in the sting of the satirist; you will encounter it in the indignant frowns of the friends of liberty and the rights of man, wherever despotism has not subdued to its dominion the very look. You will meet it upon the stage; you will read it in the novel and the eyes of your children's children, throughout all generations, will gush with tears as they run over the story, unless the oblivion of another age of darkness should come over the world, and blot out the record and the memory of it. And, sir, you will meet it at the bar above. The Cherokees, if they are men, cannot submit to such laws and such degradation. They must go.  Urged by such persuasions, they must consent to go. If you will not interfere in their behalf, the result is inevitable-the object will be accomplished. When the Cherokee takes his last look on the cabin he has reared-of the field he has cultivated-of the ground that covers the ashes of his fathers for unknown generations, and of his family and friends, and leaves all to the desecrated by the greedy and obtrusive borderer- Sir, I will not venture upon the description of this scene of a nation's exit and exile. I will only say-I would not encounter the secret, silent prayer that should be breathed from the heart of one of these sufferers, armed with the energy that faith and hope would give it, if there be a God that avenges the wrongs of the injured, for all the land the sun has looked upon. These children of nature will go to the stake, and bid you strike without the motion of a muscle; but if they can bear this; if they have reduced whatever there is of earth about them, in such a subjection to the spirit within, as to bear this, we are the men to go into the wilderness and leave them here as our betters.

Mr. Speaker, there are many collateral arguments, bearing upon the main point of this discussion, that I intended to have  urged, and many directly in my way, that I have passed over, and most of them I have but touched. But full of interest as this question is, I dare not venture longer upon the patience of the House. At this age of the world, and in view of what the original possessors of this continent have been, and what we were,and of what they have become,and we are; anything but the deep and lasting infamy-so say nothing of the appalling guilt-of a breach of faith with the Indian tribes. If the great men who have gone before us were so improvident as to involve the United States in contradictory and incompatible obligations, a breach of faith with all the world besides, rather than these our confiding neighbors. If we must be made to blush, let it be before our equals. Let there be at least dignity in our humiliation, and-something besides unmixed selfishness, and domineering cowardice, in the act that produces it.

* New York ceded in 1781, Virginia, in 1784, Massachuasetts, in 1785, Connecticut, in 1786, South Carolina, in 1787, North Carolina, in 1789, Georgia, in 1802.

** The feathers of the Eagle




      


From the Independent Citizen

FROM ARKANSAS

We have been favored with the perusal of a letter from the Arkansas territory, (Cherokee country) bearing date June 25, which states that a great mount of rain had fallen there during the latter part of May. The writer says that it commenced about the middle of May, and continued to rain for two weeks, almost without intermission-raising the Arkansas River to such a height as has never been seen by the oldest settlers in that section of country The writer states that, so destructive has been this flood, nearly all the people who lived upon the river have been ruined.  Several buildings, on each side of the river, are said to have been swept away; and on the bottoms, near several of the creeks, every house has been washed away, Cantonment Gibson was almost overflowed; and all the fork of the Canadian was inundated. At the latter place, a large amount of stock, of almost every kind, was washed away; and it is said, that so powerful was the force of the water, the course of the river at Fort Smith was changed entirely-making its way through the farm of Mr. Alexander, and carrying before it almost his whole property.- Mr. John Rogers is said to have lost 1700 bushels of salt; and his works are destroyed.  Mr. Webber is said to have lost in stock 'c. at least $3,000, besides a small black boy, who was drowned.

We would have noticed this letter last week, but were not sufficiently at leisure.




      


Randolph- The Philadelphia Enquirer relates the following anecdote:- During the session of Congress of 1825, John Randolph, then in Congress, boarded at Dobson's No. 2, near the capitol, Washington. Among other members then residing there, were Mr. Barbour of Va. Messrs. Macon, Hall, Branch, and Speight of North Carolina; Mr. Cobb, of Georgia; Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky, 'c. On one occasion, the conversation at dinner turned upon the Indians of Georgia, application had just been made to the General Government from the State for their removal beyond its limits.-- Mr. Cobb became animated in the argument, even to exasperation, and declared 'that Mr. Monroe and Congress might have the Indians sent away or not, as they pleased, or dispose of them in any other way they thought proper: but that by G_d they should not remain in Georgia!'

Mr. Randolph, who had hitherto taken little share in the conversation, then remarked, with that coolness and point for which he was so remarkable, that 'if there was a superintending Providence above, he trusted his thunders would not be idle, while they were driving those poor creatures from the homes and graves of their forefathers.'




      


Extract from the North American Review.

WILLIAM PENN.

One of the greatest triumphs of this extraordinary man was his influence with the Indians; and since our relations with this unfortunate race are likely to produce excitement for years to come, his example cannot be too often cited. The only charm by which he acquired so much influence over them, was by treating them with uniform justice; and perhaps it would be well for states and individuals, who complain of them as bad neighbors, to try the same novel experiment, and see whether it may not be attended with similar success. In his letter to the Free Society of traders, Penn gives an account of this unfortunate race, as descriptive as that which Tacitus gives of the Germans.  After speaking of their habits and manners, he says 'do not abuse them, but let them have justice and you win them.' He purchased from them the land to which he held a title from the King of England, and strictly enjoined it as a duty of inhabitants and surveyors, not to take possession of any land which they claimed, till he had first, at his own cost, satisfied them for the same.- The modern practice of assuming jurisdiction over them was then unknown; and had it been otherwise, his conscience might have been too unaccommodating to allow him to take advantage of that ingenious discovery: it is gratifying to reflect that he has lost nothing by his course, but on the contrary stands considerably higher than he otherwise would in the estimation of the world. The Indians always regarded him with respect and affection, and he kept up a frequent intercourse with them in order to confirm their good will. Thus palisades and block-houses, the usual defence of frontier settlements, were rendered unnecessary; so far from having any disposition to molest them, the Indians sometimes carried their kindness to excess.  Thus we are told that Mr. Carver, the first settler at Byberry, was in distress for food. As none was to be had nearer than Newcastle, he prepared to go thither, and sent his children meantime to beg the hospitality of the Indians, which they not only granted, but took all the boys trousers, tied up the legs, and sent them back to the parents filled with corn. It is not till a comparatively late period, that the aborigines have disappeared. Tedyuscung, a Delaware chief, was a frequent visitor in Philadelphia so late as 1760.  Governor Dickenson speaks of negotiating a treaty at Albany, on which occasion this chief undertook to address the assembly; his wife, who was present, spoke to them in the most gently and silvery tones imaginable, in the Indian tongue, with her eyes fixed steadfastly on the ground; every one was enchanted with the sweetness of her voice and manner. On inquiring of Tedyuscung, who spoke English fluently, what his wife had said, he answered, 'Ho! she is but a poor weak woman! She told me it was unworthy the dignity of a great king like me, to present myself drunk before the great council of the nation.' The last chief of the Delawares near Philadelphia was Isaac Still, a man of sense and character, who had been much employed by the whites as an agent and interpreter among the Indians. He dwelt with his people in wigwams on Logan's place for a time, but as soon as he could, collected the remains of his tribe, to lead them to the Wabash, 'far away' as he said, 'from war and rum.' A person who witnessed their march, with Still, a fine looking man, ornamented with feathers, at their head, described it as an imposing scene; thus, in 1775, the last vestige of the Leni Lenape disappeared from the region. This writer however tells us that one, called Old Indian Hannah, was living in the present century on the Brandywine, and retained a high and haughty spirit to the last.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, SEPTEMBER 28, 1833

ERRATA

Several material errors escaped our notice, in consequence of running over our proof sheets rather hastily, contained in the third resolve of the General Council. We therefore republish the whole section.

In our editorial, last paragraph 14th line for sincerely read seriously.

__________

Resolved, That under existing circumstances the nation is in a state of duress, and that until removed it cannot properly exercise that freedom of deliberation and action so desirable and necessary for the final termination of present difficulties, and being convinced that the country west of the Mississippi to which the Government has invited the removal of the nation, is such, as cannot better the future prospects and welfare of the Cherokees, as a nation, under the present unsettled policy of the Government in relation to the Indian tribes; and should they be compelled by the force of circumstances contrary to every principle of justice and humanity to leave the 'land of their Fathers' the Council can determine no other alternative promising relief than a removal beyond the limits of the United States; but having confidence yet in the good faith of the Government of the United States and no desire to remove west of the Mississippi nor to leave the limits of the United States and being solicitous to have a speedy termination of present difficulties.






      


INDIANS

From the Mobile Commercial Register.

We are indebted to the agent of the Marshall of this district, for the following letter of instructions from the Secretary of War, and the opinion of the Attorney General of the United States on the questions growing out of the conduct of intruders upon the Creek Indians' lands in this State. We hasten to lay them before our readers.

DEPARTMENT OF WAR,

August 26th, 1833

Sir:- I have received from Mr. Austill, reports of his proceedings in carrying into effect the instructions of this department, for removing intruders from the tract of country ceded to the United States by the Creek Indians, March 24th, 1832. I regret to perceive the difficulties he has had to contend with, in the execution of his duty. It is surprising that actual claims should be set up to take possession of the land, and that the indulgence which the government has granted to settlers, should be considered as conferring upon them positive rights.

That the Indians have been seriously injured, there can be doubt, and as little that it is the duty of the United States, faithfully to carry into effect the treaty which has been formed. I cannot but hope that every citizen of Alabama will appreciate the obligations which have been incurred, and will refrain from any act tending to violate the treaty.

It is evident from the report of Mr. Austill, that the indulgence which has been granted to actual settlers, has been very injurious to the Indians.

Individuals are favored by some of the Creeks, and are obnoxious to others, and it appears that the Chiefs have made great objections to any arrangement allowing settlers to remain upon the land. Under these circumstances, the president directs that so far as persons now in the ceded Territory, have conducted in conformity with the views taken in my letter to Messrs McCoy, Clay, and Mardis, enclosed to you December 10th, 1832, and have been permitted by the Deputy Marshall to remain until this time, that they are allowed to continue unmolested, still refraining from injuring the Indians, until their crops are gathered, and after that period you will require them without delay to move beyond the ceded territory. It is utterly inexpedient with the experience which has been had on this subject and the evils are threatened, longer to continue the indulgence heretofore granted. All other white persons living on those lands, and not coming within the above description, will be removed without distinction and without delay.

In consequence of the suggestion of Mr. Austill, I have asked and obtained the opinion of the Attorney General on this subject generally; and I transmit a copy of it, that you may give it general publicity, in order that all persons interested may see how unfounded is any claim to hold possession of this land, or legally to resist the instructions of the Government for the removal of the intruders. You are authorized to publish this opinion, together with such portion of your instructions as you may think necessary, in such newspapers in Alabama, as you may think best calculated to give general information.

While the Government have a solemn duty to perform towards the Indians, which they cannot and will not neglect,they are still anxious that it should be performed with as little injury to our citizens as possible. You will take care therefore that the subject is fully explained and understood, and will use as much forbearance as is consistent with the execution of your duty, before a resort is had to actual force, ' when force is applied, it will be limited to the actual removal of intruders from the ceded territory.

You will transmit without delay to the district Attorney of the Southern District of Alabama, the names of all persons who hereafter intrude upon or who now live upon the ceded land, and refuse to remove agreeably to your requisition, together with the names of the witnesses who can prove the necessary facts; and the District Attorney has been instructed to commence an immediate prosecuting against all such persons. This measure is considered so important to the accomplishment of the object, that you will not neglect it under any circumstances, or in any case.

Mr. Austill has directed that instructions may be given to prevent the sale of whiskey upon the Creek lands, stating that the practice prevails to a great extent to the ruin of the Indians.  However useful such a measure might be, it is not considered competent for the Executive to direct it. The only power vested in the President is to remove the intruders from the public lands. The state of Alabama has jurisdiction over that district of country, and her Legislature can only provide a remedy for this evil, and how courts of justice enforce it.

I have also transmitted to Mr. Austill a copy of this letter.

Instructions have been given to add another company to the force now employed in this duty.

Very respectfully, I am Sir,

Your obedient servant.

LEWIS CASS.

Robert L. Crawford, Esq.

Marshall of the S. Dist. of Ala.

_________

(COPY)

ATTORNEY'S GENERAL'S

Office, August 22.

Sir:- In answer to the enquiry continued in  your letter of August 19, I have the honor to state, that in my opinion the President may lawfully direct the Marshal of the District and employ such military force as he may judge necessary and proper to remove intruders from the lands in Alabama, ceded by the Creek Indians to the United States by treaty of the 28th March 1832,

The treaty with the Creek Indians provides that a survey shall be made of the land ceded to the United States, and after the survey is completed, certain rights of selection are preserved to ninety of the principal chiefs ' heads of families. The survey is not yet completed, and consequently no selections have been made, the fifth article of that treaty provides 'That all intruders upon the country thereby ceded shall be removed therefrom, in the same manner as intruders may be removed by law from other public lands, until the country is surveyed and the selections made.'

The white men who have entered upon this land are unquestionably intruders, within the meaning of this law. The lands belong to the United States and to chiefs of the Creek Nation could not give any permission to any white men to settle on them, without the consent of the United States. But the chiefs, it appears, have given to them no such permission, and desire their removal; and the only excuse alleged for these intrusions is the license of individual Indians to white men to settle on the land of the United States, must be utterly nugatory and void. And the men who have entered and taken possession under pretense of such permissions, are intruders on the lands of the United Sates.

The question is, can the United States use the military force to remove them? The language of the act of March 3, 1807, is too plain to be mistaken. It gives the President, by express words, the power 'to employ such military force as he may judge necessary and proper,' to remove persons who may intrude upon any lands ceded or secured to the United States, by any treaty made with a foreign nation, and by a cession from any state to the United States.

The reasoning for confining the act of Congress to cessions of this description, is sufficiently obvious. All of the large and unsettled tracts of country which belong to the United States, were acquired either by treaty with foreign nations or by cession from one of the states. And it was only on lands of that description, that any evil could arise from intrusions and settlements, of sufficient importance to the public, to make it advisable to use the summary and forcible remedy authorized by the act of Congress. The lands on which these intrusions have been made, are certainly embraced both by the words and spirit and the object of the law. For it was ceded to the United States by the State of Georgia, and is a portion of the unsettled country which the act of 1807 was designed to protect.

The words of the law being plain, and clearly embracing in its provisions the lands in question, what legal objection can there be in its prompt and faithful execution?  Had not Congress the power to pass such a law?

It is true that these lands lie in the state of Alabama, and that state has extended its laws, and the jurisdiction of its tribunals over the whole territory included by its limits. But that circumstance cannot render this act of Congress unconstitutional and uncooperative in that State. For the act of Congress produces no conflict of jurisdiction or of sovereignty with the state of Alabama. It proposes to defend the possessions of the United States against wrong doers who without any pretence of title, and in open violation of the rights of the United States, intrude upon the public property,and appropriate it to their own use. And if there is any conflict, it is only with persons of this description and not with the state of Alabama, or the proper authority of that state.

The power of Congress to pass this law, has, I believe, long been regarded as a settled point, and the government have acted upon it accordingly.

I have now before me two opinions given in the year 1821 by one of my predecessors in this office- one of the opinions being in relation to the public lands in the state of Illinois, and the other in Mississippi; and in both of these cases the right of the United States to execute the law, is treated as undoubted. And in this very case, the treaty with the Creek Indians pledges the United States to act upon this law in the removal of intruders, and the Senate by ratifying the treaty have shown that in the judgment of that body, there was no constitutional objection to the exercise of the power.  Indeed it can hardly be supposed by any one, that the United States have not the same right that an individual possesses to defend their lawful possessions by force against a trespasser.- Must they surrender up the public property whenever lawless violence attempts to seize upon it. Some of the forts and arsenals, and lighthouses, are, I understand, upon lands which have been purchased from individuals, without any cession of jurisdiction from the state in which they lie. It cannot be imagined that the United States are bound to stand idle and see their possessions wrested from them-and then be put to their action of ejectment to regain possession of their forts, arsenals, and lighthouses, or bound to resort a replevin to recover the public arms and accoutrements, or an action of trover to obtain compensation in damages for their loss. Such a proposition would strike every one as utterly untenable, Yet it would be quite as unreasonable to require them to suffer without resistance, the most valuable bodies of vacant land, which they hold in different states, to be overrun and seized on by lawless intruders, and put the United States to the necessity of ejectment or other legal proceedings against each separate individual in order to regain the possession. The public domain would be of no value; or worse than of no value; if such a doctrine could be maintained. It is clear that a private individual may defend the possession of his property against a wrongdoer who attempts to drive him of it, and may lawfully use any force necessary for that purpose.

There can be reason why a government holding property should be denied the same right.  And the act of March 3, 1807, does no more than provide the means necessary to defend the possession of the public property and authorizes the President to use them.

The fact that these intruders are now on the land and have been for some time, cannot alter the question. The United States have never abandoned their possession- and the intruders have never acquired a lawful possession against them-they were mere trespasses from the beginning, and continue so to the present time, and have no better right now, than they had at the moment when they first entered. The lawful possession is still in the United States, and may in my opinion be defended against such trespassers, according to the directions of the act of 1807, by the removal of the intruders by military force.

The papers are herewith returned-

I am sir, 'c.

(Signed) R. B. TANEY

To the Hon. The Secretary of War.

````




      


From the Flag of the Union.

The following is a copy of a letter addressed by Governor Gayle to the Secretary of War, in relation to the killing of H. Owen, a United States' soldier. It being a matter of public moment, we solicited a copy of the letter for publication.

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT

Tuscaloose, 29th Aug. 1833

Sir:- An attempt by the Deputy Marshal of the southern district of Alabama to remove an individual by the name of Owens, from premises, alleged to belong to an Indian, has resulted in the death of the supposed trespasser. A detachment of the United States' soldiers on the requisition of the Deputy Marshal, was placed under his direction, and the deceased was shot b y one of these soldiers. The frequent incursions of this officer with an armed force, among our inhabitants, residing in the country acquired from the Creeks, with the purpose of settling disputes between them and the Indians, have produced very general dissatisfaction, which, since the killing of Owens, has risen to an excitement, that if not quieted, will lead to excess equally unpleasant to the General Government, and to the authorities of this State.

It is not my purpose to show that the conduct of the Marshal was improper, or that an offence has been committed against our laws, but to request that the Government refer the complaints of the Indians, to a tribunal less objectionable than that of the Marshal with an armed soldiery.

At the last session of the General Assembly of this state, the whole of the Creek country within the limits of the state, was laid off into counties, which were organized so as to give full and complete effect and operation to our laws. It was understood that no objection would be raised by the government to its settlement by the white people, provided they abstained from intruding upon the reservation secured to the Indians by the treaty of the 24th of March 1832. The fifth article of that treaty, by obvious construction, permits settlements upon any of the lands ceded, except reservations 'after the country is surveyed, ' the selections made.'  The Indians therefore cannot resort to those settlements as a ground of just complaint; and it would not be difficult to show that intruders even upon the selections, cannot legally be removed by the Marshal.

I lay it down as a correct position, that where the government has disposed of its lands, all disputes and controversies relating to their title, or to the right to their possession, are referable only to the judicial tribunals of the country. I do not deem it necessary, however, to discuss this point at present, relying as I do upon the disposition of the President, to cause the treaty to be carried into effect by such means only, as are clearly authorized by the Constitution and laws. Encouraged by the treaty, by the laws of this state, and by the express permission of the government, to settle upon and occupy those lands, a population has moved upon them, equally respectable with that of other sections of the state and to which, in point of numbers, the Indians bear but a small proportion. In their present situation, they cannot be regarded as a distinct tribe, for as such, they have disappeared, ' been lost in the large community now in possession of their ancient birth right.  They are permitted by the treaty to sell their reservations, with the approbation of the President, and it is quite notorious, that many of them have sold and otherwise disposed of them.  They have entered into contracts with their white neighbors, as well in relation to other matters, as their lands; and upon inquiry, it will be found, that in many instances, their dissatisfaction and complaints arise out of these contracts. I these cases, it will not be pretended, that any authority can be conferred on the Marshal to interfere. They form the proper object of judicial investigation, and courts are competent, and at all times opened to decide them. By the laws of this State, whenever an individual is entitled to the possession of lands, he can, by a summary proceeding before a Justice of the Peace, expel an intruder or trespasser within a few days. I transmit to you herewith our statute upon this subject.  It has for many years been in force and has fully accomplished the purposes for which it was intended.

Whatever may be the opinion of the President, as to the powers of the government to eject intruders by force, without the forms of law, I am persuaded, that under existing circumstances, he will concur in the opinion, that this law will be equally effectual,and that the Marshal at the head of a band of armed soldiers, in the bosom of a peaceable, orderly, and quite community,cannot, and ought not to be permitted to settle questions, that are in their character strictly and properly legal.

With distinguished consideration, I have the honor to be your ob't ser'vt.

JOHN GAYLE.

Hon. Lewis Cass, Sec'ry War.

_________________

INDIAN AFFAIRS.- In relation to the unfortunate death of Colonel Hardeman Owen, who was killed lately by a party of United States' soldiers, at his residence in the Creek Nation, the Flag of the Union of Thursday last, says: 'We are authorized to say, that the Governor of Alabama has requested the Marshal to abstain from any further interference between the citizens of the new counties and the Indians. He has received letters of complaint from individuals of high respectability, and has addressed a communication to the War Department, requesting that the troops may be withdrawn.  The Governor does not recognize any authority in the Marshal, or the troops of the United States, to settle disputes between our white and Indian population, and has come to the determination to prevent by all proper means, a mode of proceeding so repugnant to the constitution ' laws of the state. The utmost confidence is entertained that the President has no disposition to incommode our citizens, and that the troops will be withdrawn at the request of the Governor.' - Journal of Commerce.




      


New Echota, 1st March, 1833

Dear Sir:-* *                * *

The following is a copy of a letter from Mr. Wirt to Mr. Seargent, dated at Baltimore, December 22, 1832.-

Southern Recorder.



 My Dear Sir,- I have just had a visit from Mr. Forsyth of Georgia, on the subject of the Missionaries, the purpose of which I am at liberty to communicate to you for the purpose of consultation. It seems that there is a desire to separate the Georgia question from that of South Carolina, that the President may have only one on his hands to settle at a time.*    * *   *

Mr. Forsyth says that he saw Governor Lumpkin about three weeks ago-that he said he considered the penal laws of Georgia, prohibiting white persons from living among the Cherokees, without the consent of Georgia, or without having taken the oath of allegiance of Georgia, as virtually repealed by the recent laws of that State, for laying off that territory into counties, and incorporating it practically with the state; and that he was very desirous to get rid of the missionaries by a pardon ,an unconditional pardon- and Mr. Forsyth thinks he would have done so before now, had it not been for the notice he received of our intention to move the subject farther before the Supreme Court: that if he were, under this notice, to pardon them, it would seem to be extorted by his fears of the effect of this notice, and would destroy his standing in Georgia, where submission to the Supreme Court would destroy any man-that if Mr. Forsyth were at liberty to write to the Governor, and tell him that the motion was not to be made, that he, Mr. F. had no doubt, he would discharge the missionaries at once; and the object of his visit was to ascertain from me, whether, under these circumstances, I felt at liberty to say that the motion would not be made. He went on to say farther, that if the motion was made and proceedings followed under the authority of the Supreme Court, or even if the motion was made, he believed the men would have to serve out their time. I told him that I was acting merely as one of their counsel in the case-that the notice had been given, and that the motion would be accordingly made, unless we should be differently instructed by our clients, or by the Board of Missions-that I had no authority to change the direction which the case had taken; that I would, however write you on the subject, and consult you as to the propriety of our interference on the matter, though I could not myself perceive that we could properly interfere-that the authority of the Supreme Court was in question, which I thought, ought to be vindicated--but that nevertheless, I would willingly obey any instructions from our clients to forbear the motion.

Mr. Forsyth disclaimed any authority from Governor Lumpkin or any one else, to seek his interview, or enter into any arrangements.  He acted from public motives,- from a desire to remove any cause or imaginary cause of sympathy between Georgia and South Carolina. He thought the cases were not at all alike; yet that there were many persons in Georgia, and out of Georgia, who thought it a common cause, and were strongly disposed, for this reason, to support South Carolina, in her nullifying course; that a great majority of the people of Georgia were anti-nullifiers; and that if her own (Georgia's) question were settled there would be a removal of all possible cause of her uniting in the South Carolina policy. He said he supposed I knew the course the President would hold with regard to Georgia, he thought he did; though he had no direct assurance to that effect, but only inferred it from his past course-that if the Supreme Court were to move again in the case, the President, he took it for granted, would not interfere; he hoped he would not, for if he did, Georgia would join South Carolina which he hoped would never be the case. But he did not see what we could do- the Supreme Court could not issue a habeas corpus- if they awarded a mandamus, the State Judge would not obey it-or if he did, would come and say very politely, that he had no intention to treat the Supreme Court with contempt or disrespect-that he was only obeying a statute of his own State, when it was his duty to obey-that, disclaiming all contempt, the Supreme Court could not punish him, but must discharge him; and the remaining two years of the missionaries must expire while this process was going on; that I must see we could not get along without the support of the President; and I knew as well as he, whether we had any reason to count on his support.

He wished me, finally, to inform him, as soon as I could, whether this motion was to be pressed or not. He had no objection to my writing to you, or to the Missionary Board, all that had passed between us, and to mention his name.

He said that the missionaries themselves, considering all the moral influence of public opinion was attained by the decision of the Supreme Court, had been disposed to accept a conditional pardon last Spring-but were prevented by the Board at Boston, who advised them that to accept a pardon, would be to admit their guilt, which he seemed to consider totally unfounded [In regard to what is stated in this last paragraph, Mr Forsyth was mistaken. S.A. W.]

I asked him what assurance he had that the missionaries would be discharged, even if the motion were withdrawn. He said that he could only give his opinion that it would certainly be so- that I must know how anxious Gov. Lumpkin would naturally be to get rid of them, 'c. 'c.

Is it worthwhile to communicate this letter to the Board of Missions at Boston? If so, you are welcome to send it on.

Meantime let me know what you think of the matter.  It seems to me that it is a case for our clients and the Board of Missions. Mr. Forsyth says that the pardon if granted, will be unconditional, and will be sent, not to the missionaries, but to the keeper of the Penitentiary, who will have instructions to discharge them. This he said in reply to a suggestion from me, that I did not believe they would accept a pardon in any shape.

Please acknowledge the receipt of this, and let me have your opinion.

Yours Respectfully,

WM. WIRT.




      


From the Maryville Intelligencer

THE UNITED BRETHREN

Soon after the arrival of the Christian Indians at Shoenbrun, the rules of the congregation, as agreed to, and approved by the national assistants, were read and accepted by the whole congregation.  [It will be remembered that in the United Brethren's settlements among the heathen, congregation and church are distinct. One embracing all who desire instruction, ' their children, the other only true believers.] They were as follows.

1. We will know of no other God, nor worship any other but Him, who has created us, and redeemed us with his most precious blood.

2. We will rest from all labor on Sundays, and attend the usual meetings on that day for divine service.

3. We will honor father and mother, and support them in age and in distress.

4. No one shall be permitted to dwell with us without the consent of our teachers.

5. No thieves, murderers, drunkards, adulterers, and whoremongers, shall be suffered among us.

6. No one that attendeth dances, sacrifices, or heathenish festivals, can live among us.

7. We will renounce all juggles, lies, and deceits of Satan.

8. No one using witchcraft in hunting, shall be suffered among us.

9. We will be obedient to our teachers, and to the helpers, (national assistants) who are appointed to see that good order be kept both in, and out of town.

10. We will not be idle and lazy, nor tell lies of one another, nor strike each other. We will live peaceable together.

11. Whosoever does any harm to another's cattle, goods or effects, 'c., shall pay the damage.

12. A man shall have only one wife,-love her, and provide for her, ' the children. Likewise a woman shall have but one husband,and be obedient unto him; she shall also take care of the children and be cleanly in all things.

13 We will not permit any rum or spiritus liquor to be brought into our towns. If strangers or trades happen to bring any, the helpers are to take it into their possession, and take care not to deliver it to them till they set off again.

14. None of the inhabitants shall run in debt to traders, nor receive goods on commission for traders, without the consent of the helpers.

15 No one is to go on a journey or long hunt, without informing the ministry or stewards of it.

16 Young people are not to marry without the consent of their parents, and taking their advice.

17. If the helpers apply to the inhabitants for assistance, in doing work for the benefit of the place, such as building meeting or school houses, clearing or fencing lands 'c., they are to be obedient.

18. All necessary contributions for the public, ought cheerfully to be attended to.

19. No man inclining to go to war,-which is the shedding of blood, can remain among us.

20. Whosoever purchases goods or articles of warriors, knowing at the time that such have been stolen, or plundered, must leave us. We look upon this as giving encouragement to murder and theft.

According to custom these rules were, at the commencement of every year, read in public meeting; and no new member, or applicant, could be permitted to live in the congregation without making a solemn promise that he or she would strictly conform to them. When any one residing in the congregation gave offence, it was the duty of the helpers, to admonish such person in a friendly manner; but where such admonition proved ineffectual, then to concert together for the purpose publicly putting him, her, or them out of the society, and dismissing such altogether from the place. Next to these rules, other necessary and proper regulations were made and adopted; for instance, respecting the daily meetings,- the duty of church wardens,- schools,- attending to visitors, and the attention to be paid to the poor, sick, or distressed; and with regard to the contributions to be made from time to time for the benefit of the congregation at large, as also individuals in the same, unable to support themselves, or furnish the necessary attire for the deceased, so that the corpse of the poorest person in that community was dressed as decently as the wealthy.

That part of the congregation of the Mohigan tribe, who had spent the winter at Beaver Creek, now came on, and settled ten miles below Shoenbrun, where they built a town and called it Gradenhutten.

The Christian Indians who left Friedenshutten in 1770 and formed a settlement on Big Beaver, were now, in 1773 obliged to leave their beautiful village, and join their brethren at Shoenbrun.

The work of God, now prospered, and numbers were added to the church and congregation, so that the Christian Indians at Shoenbrun, and Gradenhutten, somewhat smaller. Both were built of hewn timber, with shingle roofs, and a cupola and bell. The town being regularly laid out, the streets wide, and kept clean, and the cattle kept out by means of fences, gave the whole a neat appearance. The Gradenhutten congregation having no resident minister, sent several Indian brethren to Bethlehem for their beloved former teacher Schmeik and his wife, for whom they had built a convenient house.  These arrived on the 18th August, 1773.

The year 1774, was a year of trial to the Indian congregations, on account of a war which broke out between the Senecas and Shawnees, and the Virginians; in which it become well known that the whites were the aggressors. The whole country on the Ohio River, had already drawn the attention of the neighboring provinces, who generally forming themselves into parties, would rove through the country n search of land, and some, careless of watching over their conduct, or destitute of both honor and humanity, would join a rabble, who maintained that to kill an Indian, was the same as killing a bear of buffalo,and would fire on Indians that came across them by the way. Nay, more, some white men would decoy such Indians as lived across the river, to come over for the purpose of joining them in hilarity, and would then fall on and murder them. Some of the murdered were of the family of Logan.- The Indians at length determined to take revenge on the long knives (Virginians) 'for, said they, they are a barbarous people.' Some were for killing every white man they could see till they obtained revenge.  They kept on the look out for traders to kill them; but these had generally fled the country. Some however had been taken under the protection of some friendly Shawnees Indians, who afterwards conducted them safely to Pittsburgh.  These good people, however, Oh! shameful to relate! were, on their return, waylaid by some of those white vagabonds,- fired upon, and one man shot in the breast, though fortunately, with his wound bleeding, he reached Shoenbrun.

This war soon terminated, and as an expression of gratitude for returning peace, the Christian Indians set apart the 6th day of Nov. as a day of thanksgiving and prayer.

In 1775, the congregations increased so that the chapel at Shoenbrun, though large, was too small. In this year two native assistants departed this life; the one John, a Delaware, and the other Joshua, a Mohigan, and one of the first baptized on 1742.

In April 1776, a third mission settlement was begun, with eight families, under their faithful leader, David Leiesberger, and the writer of this narrative (Mr. Heckewelder) as his assistant. They laid off a town, thirty miles from Shoenbrun, and called it Lichtenau. The Christian Indians had increased so that their number in 1775, was 414 persons.  And at Lichtenau new members were soon added. Nothing deterred those who believed they had an inward call, from joining the congregation.  The schools at the three settlements were kept up regularly, and a new school book, prepared by Mr. Ziesberger, had been introduced. D. S. B.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, OCTOBER 5, 1833

We are informed from an authentic source, that a Special Agent under authority from the President of the United States, clothed with full powers, for entering into a treaty with the Cherokees, has arrived at the Cherokee Agency, awaiting the session of the General Council, which convenes at Red Clay on the 2d Monday of this month. We expressed our opinion sometime since, of the difficult position in which the President had placed himself in regard to the Cherokee case, and had adopted a system of operations to enroll the Cherokees, by appointing three agents for that purpose,and finding the progress of this measure, upon the whole, unprofitable, we may safely presume, gave rise to the appointment of the fourth. The disposition of the Cherokees with regard to a new treaty, has been unalterable fixed, from which they will not move, while justice has been loudly complaining of the flagrant violations of the seventeen existing treaties. The Cherokees have been placed by circumstances in a novel and peculiar situation. They have purchased fairly the protection of their rights from the General Government, whose interposition at this crisis, has been refused. The great principles involved, and the value of the property, has compelled the Cherokees, however humiliating it may be, to entreat the Government to re-instate them to their original rights. But in the meantime oppression and agents have increased to enable the Government to force a treaty, while the former is pleading for relief, the latter has likewise made at its object to beg and tease for a treaty. This is the disgusting fruits of the humane policy, and we hope the Commissioner may have full authority to remove the great encroachment on the Cherokees, to the honor of the Government.






      


INDIANS.

TENNESSEE LEGISLATURE.

'It has been recently communicated to me, that a respectable portion of our citizens residing in the counties bordering on the Cherokee Nation, are desirous that the laws of the State should be extended over the Indians within our limits; and in compliance with their wishes, I have thought it to be my duty to present the subject for your consideration.'

'As the act of Congress of eighteen hundred and two, only extends to the `regulating of trade and intercourse with the Indians,' it is thought questionable whether any authority exists to punish crimes committed within that portion of our State to which the Indian title has not been extinguished; nor is it believed that there is authority to enforce civil contracts. If this view of the subject be correct, it seems to me that the power of the State to pass laws for the punishment of crimes committed within its limits, or to coerce the payment of debts, cannot be well doubted. In acting upon this subject, I am persuaded you will pursue that course which will best comport with the rights and interests of the parties concerned.'

From the National Banner.

The Select committee to which was referred so much of the Governor's Message as relates to the extension of the laws of the State of Tennessee, to her southern limits, Report:

That in deliberating on the subject submitted to their consideration, grave and important as it is, they have chiefly directed their investigations, to the influence which the measure they propose will have upon both the tranquility of the State and the just supremacy of her laws, and the comfort and happiness of that portion of the Indians whose condition it is designed to affect.

The former it is conceded should not be acquired at the expense of justice; nor should blessings however enduring be harshly forced upon a people, who have not the capacity and intelligence to appreciate them. Beneficence and humanity lose half their charms, when the recipient of unwilling favors, does not comprehend the value of the intended kindness.

The peculiar features which characterize the relations, existing between the Federal Government and the neighboring Indians-the power and the greatness of one, contrasted with the weakness of the other, ought likewise to admonish us that magnanimity and forbearance, should mingle freely with every act of the Legislature that concerns their rights and privileges.

The law of force never has, nor never should govern except in extreme cases, emanating from their follies and their pernicious delusions, leading as they frequently do, to insufferable outrages.  The committee trust indeed, that they would be among the last to propose, and the first to resist any acts of violence or unnecessary legislation on the part of the State of Tennessee, and with becoming submission to the opinions of others, who may think differently, they do not conceive any of the principles here conceded will be violated by the policy they venture to advocate.

In proposing as they do by the bill herewith reported, to extend the authority of our laws over the whole of the acknowledged limits of the State, and thereby subjecting to their jurisdiction, the scattered mixed and degraded population, who inhabit the remnant of the Indian lands, they seek to remove an evil, that has only been thus long perpetuated, by a few designing chiefs, regardless of its unhappy effects upon the miserable people over whom they rule, and as is confidently believed, contrary to the wishes of the largest portion of those who understand their true condition.  Motives of state aggrandizement, will not they trust, under any difference of opinion, be urged as a reason for the policy recommended. The territory in question is not of value sufficient to excite the cupidity of the most avaricious government. There may be extent of country sufficient to constitute one county and make perhaps the one half of another; but it is mostly broken, mountainous and sterile, and without any of the mineral advantages that have of late given so much importance to lands lying a little farther east.- Considerations of the most exalted character, (they repeat it) predicted upon undeniable facts (some of them within the observation of individual members of the committee) present indisputable arguments in favor of speedy civil reform in the condition of this people.- Deprived of the blessing of law and government, and yet oppressed by their most extensive outward forms, they are held in abject and servile control, by a few cunning and artful men, who arbitrarily assume to themselves, every civil and spiritual station, and in pretended exercise of religion and justice, make a solemn mockery of both- perverting both to the most selfish of human purposes.

In such a state of things, as may readily be conceived, whilst the weak are endeavoring to escape from or to overthrow the strong, internal divisions, misrule and distraction spring up. The dominant party unwilling to yield to, or to part from the wretches, who minister to their wealth, their lust and ambition, enact the most sanguinary laws against resistance or migration. If the naked, half starved savage (such is the condition of this unhappy population) enrolls himself for removal beyond the Mississippi, where a contended and flourishing half of his nation already reside, and where in a healthy, genial and fertile soil, there is abundant room for the whole tribe, he is cruelly punished with stripes.  Should he consent to cede any portion of the territory in question, his life is the forfeit. Thus it is by superadding 'pains and penalties' to the natural attachments which bind even the wandering savage to his native, uncultivated wilds, the artful 'chief' of an ignorant band, maintains his usurpations of general government and against the best interests of the deluded Indian; and hence, the strange spectacle now too long endured, of a small community dwelling within our jurisdiction and within view of our court houses, where anarchy, crime, and violence pass unnoticed and unpunished.

The committee would respectfully submit in behalf of their citizens, whose lots have been cast on the borders of this anomalous empire, if the mischiefs to which they are daily subjected present no argument in favor of the measures now recommended? Have they no claims upon the protection and interference of the legislature? Whilst sympathizing for acts of pretended violence, perpetrated on the 'Indian' shall it be forgotten that the 'white man' too has some rights; and if he has, shall he be any longer postponed, in order to gratify the insatiate avarice and ambition of a few lawless 'chiefs' tyrannizing over an ignorant horde? How long is it to be endured, that this sanctuary of vice and crime shall remain open, a safe refuge for the old offender whose multiplied enormities have nearly betrayed him to the vengeance of the law, or as a school whither the young beginner in depravity may repair to learn the most successful lessons of moral turpitude.

It is time that the evils here adverted to should be arrested, and the protecting influence of government felt, where its shadow only has existed before. It is too late, the committee verily believe, for any false notions of humanity now to interpose and arrest the just exercise of legislative authority upon this subject.  All the states bordering on the Cherokee tribe, have extended their laws, and taken jurisdiction with their several chartered limits. This policy, though debatable in its incipient stages, has now become the settled usage of the country-and in any action upon the subject we are only left to inquire-what shall Tennessee do, in view of the circumstances surrounding her, to preserve her own internal tranquility?

To forebear longer, the committee believe, would be to invite every species of aggression within our acknowledged limits, and to proclaim to all the lovers of disorder and misrule, that an asylum was provided for them within the jurisdictional limits of one of the sovereign states of the Union. This, the committee believe, would be as unwise as it would be unjust, and finally tend to the overthrow of the Cherokee tribe itself. National honor and the progressive improvement of society demand indeed liberal and generous provisions of law, and that the statute book should go more, for the requirement of obedience in the 'white man' than the exaction of 'dues' or 'duties' from the 'red man.'

In further elucidation of this subject, the committee state the fact to be, that not less than three of this tribe have been by special acts of the legislature, admitted to all the privileges of citizenship in the state of Tennessee; one of whom is, at this time acting, as post master under the authority of the general government, and all of whom are now residing within the limits of the country, over which our laws are proposed to be extended- a negative pregnant at least that they reside within the jurisdictional limits of the state of Tennessee.

Of our constitutional right to take jurisdiction of crimes and contracts, as recommended in the Message of the Governor, the Committee entertain no doubts, it were useless, if they possessed the ability to elaborate a question of power which has already distinguished the pens of some of our most eminent statesmen. As the best and most conclusive argument at their command, and one which it is believed speaks the sentiments and opinions of the present able and popular administration; the committee have concluded to accompany this report, with a discussion which appeared in a Northern Journal, in the winter if 18, then and ever since attributed to a Gentleman, whose talents and integrity have gained the confidence of the nation and his Government.  This paper with other documents and 'A bill' are respectfully submitted to the wisdom and consideration of the House.




      


From the American Daily Advertiser

BLACK HAWK'S RECEPTION.

There is, perhaps, no subject so melancholy interesting, or more touchingly sublime, than the meeting of long absent friends.  There are a thousand receptions crowding upon the mind at the moment the scenes of other days, when all was calm and sunshine- the anxious hopes and fears for each other's welfare- and, finally, the pleasing delight of meeting once more together.

We have witnessed many such meetings-we have seen the parent ' child after a long separation, greet each other on their meeting-and we have seen the faithful and affectionate spouse receive the partner in her bosom, and welcome him home, in smiles and tears, in joy and anguish.- But, we have never yet witnessed any meeting of friends more fraught with melancholy intellect than that of Black Hawk and the Sacs and Foxes.

On his arrival at Rock Island, the ex-chief had his tent pitched on the bank of the Mississippi near the agency,-and on the next morning Ke-o-kuk ' the other chiefs, with a large party of their young men arrived, for the purpose of receiving him. They encamped immediately in front of Black Hawk's tent, on the opposite bank of the river. Preparations were soon made on both sides for the meeting. A number of canoes were lashed together to convey the braves and the warriors to the other shore, a flag was hoisted, and the sound of the muffled drum was heard, which was a signal of their departure. Ke-o-kuk and the chiefs, moved slowly, in front,- and on reaching the shore, formed their young men into a kind of hallow square.  Ke-o-kuk then made a short address to his people. He said:

'The Great Spirit had been kind to them-He had listened to their petitions-He had granted their requests-and they ought all to be thankful.-They had petitioned their Great Father to release Black Hawk and the other prisoners, and he has now sent them home to enjoy their liberty.  The Great Spirit has changed the heart of the old chief-gave him a good one, and sent him back to his friends.  Let the past be buried deep in the earth. Whilst his heart was wrong he had done many very bad things, but, he hoped, now, after having travelled through many of the big towns, where he had been before him, he could see the folly of his past conduct, and would know how to govern himself in future.'

Ke-o-kuk then advanced, with folded arms, sedately to the tent of Black Hawk, shook hands and took seats in the tent; after which, the line moved slowly forward, ' each took the Hawk by the hand.  Not a word was spoken until all had presented themselves.- Ke-o-kuk then broke silence, and each commenced congratulating the other.

There were many among them who had lost friends and relations during the late war, and when they called to mind that this old warrior had led them on to the battle field, on which they had perished, it harrowed up their souls, and created within them feelings of painful remembrance. The tear of sorrow was seen to steal down their cheeks, and the throbbing of the heart plainly evinced the painful feelings of the mind. Here were those who had affectionate relations and kind friends-who had heard related the painful story of their death-and before them sat the chief who had led them onward to the glory scene. For their departed friends the tear of sorrow gushed from their eye-lids, the palpitating heart throbbed with melancholy sympathy; but not a word of censure, or a whisper of reproach was cast upon the old chief. For he too, had cause to lament, both the loss of friends and the loss of power.

Time was when he stood high in the councils of the nation-where he could call around him his braves and warriors, (among whom he was chief,) and, at his nod, led them onward 'to the tented field and battle gore.' But now, how different his situation! How changed his circumstances! Thrown from the lofty summit of his greatness, without rank and without power! Placed under obligations to those chiefs (whom he could never recognize as equals) even for his liberty!-and then, the reflection that so many of his brave warriors who had fought by his side had fell (sic) in battle,- and whose bones now lie bleached on the rugged earth without a mound, and with nought but the canopy of Heaven for a covering, must, and did, produce within him feelings of the deepest mortification and humiliation.

TESTOR.

Rock Island, August  1833.




      


From the Flint's Indian Wars of the West

INDIAN ANTIQUITIES

Among the second class of Indian antiquities may be classed the idols, vases, and culinary utensils, of which such numbers are found in the western country, as that they are no longer regarded as curiosities. The beautiful three headed idol, the most remarkable specimen of Indian pottery and molding that has yet been found, was taken from a mound in Tennessee. It consists of three heads proportions of considerable accuracy, representing countenances of different expressions and ages.  The whole workmanship is surprising, when viewed in reference to the common notion of Indian art.- We possessed a beautiful and perfect specimen of Indian pottery in the shape of a drinking gourd. The aperture represented the mouth of a squaw, which the thirst drinker would naturally kiss with a degree of eager appetite. In digging a ditch round a garden below Saint Charles, in the forks between the Mississippi and Missouri, we came upon great quantities of fragments of this ware. Much of it in fine preservation has been dug from the chalk banks below the mouth of the Ohio. It is found in fact everywhere between the Pittsburgh, Lake Superior, and New Mexico. The material is clay, with a considerable intermixture of sand, sometimes flinty, sometimes calcareous, but generally of a snowy whiteness. They were all molded by the hand without any aid from the potter's wheel. The shapes of natural objects were happily imitated, and they were hardened by the heat of the sun. Sculptured and inscribed rocks are among the most common of Indian antiquities. On the side of a mountain in Tennessee, are the marks of the footsteps of men and horses in the limestone, in great numbers and as though they were the tracks of an army.  Some of the tracks show, as if the party had slipped in miry clay. All have the appearance of being an actual impress in soft clay, which afterwards hardened to stone, retaining a perfect impression. Characters of grert (sic) freshness of coloring are marked upon many of the high bluffs that impend the western rivers. Inscriptions of this sort are found in Missouri, on the Illinois, and various other places. A remarkable track of human foot was found in a solid block of limestone, on the bank of the Mississippi, at St. Louis. The most ancient traditions of the west do not touch the origin of these mounds or characters. 'The recent excavation of the Louisville and Portland Canal, afforded an impressive display of ancient remains. In the alluvial stratum immediately above the compact bed of slate limestone, and from nineteen to upwards of twenty feet below the surface, brick hearths were brought to view, with the coals of the last social domestic fires still visible.  The bricks, as we have heard them described, were hard and regular, differing from those of the present make, in being proportion to their width and thickness. Along with the organic remains of animals, similar to those found at Big Bone Lick, were skeletons of men in great numbers. Among others, was that of a man standing erect in the earth, one arm raised to an angle of forty-five degrees with the shoulder, and holding in the hand a semi-globular, or rather elliptical stone, striated with gay colors, beautifully polished, and of the size of half an orange.'




      


The Cherokee Lands.- The Cherokee Phoenix says, that large land companies have bought of many individuals the lots of land which they drew in the Georgia lottery; and that it would now be much cheaper for the United States to redeem all these possessions given by lottery, so that Georgia citizens can no longer claim them, then to purchase the whole territory of the Cherokees.  The title of Georgia to sell these lands might indeed be thus extinguished, but this would not exclude her from extending her government over the Indians. Would the Cherokees consent to become citizens, and abandon their independent government, and would Georgia entitle them to all the privileges of citizenship, this might be the best way of giving Georgia an indemnification and settling all existing difficulties Georgia having divided the lands to her inhabitants can claim no more that the U. S. shall extinguish for them the Indian title; and the United States might purchase and restore the whole to the Cherokees probably for three or four millions of dollars.--Philadelphiaian




      


From the Cherokee Intelligencer

THE CHEROKEES.

The friends of Georgia must look to the removal of the Cherokees with increasing interest; nothing, connected with this subject can be more desirable to them, than that they should leave our limits for a place more suited to their mode of life. The enrolling agents, Major Curry and Colonel Hardin, are actively engaged; the former, however, has for sometime been rendered unfit for the arduous duties of his office by indisposition, this circumstance has consequently thrown an undue weight of toil on the latter.

Some facts that we published a short time since, relating to the Cherokee reservees, seem to have excited considerable interest amongst that class. Upon further research, it is discovered that about two thousand individuals of that part of this tribe, now in Georgia, have heretofore enrolled for the West, while Governor M'Minn was agent, and under the stipulations of the Treaty of 1817; they received upwards of nine thousand dollars for their improvements besides guns, blankets, kettles, traps, 'c., and yet they incumber some of the best lands in this section of the state, and yet the drawers of these lands are forbid their enjoyment. Although we see in this act of Georgia the utmost forbearance and indulgence towards this numerous class of Cherokees, yet do these same individuals join the enemies of Georgia and are found in their reproach, jeers and charges; we hope Georgia will no longer do injustice to her white citizens for the gratification of her red enemies.

The incumbents to which we have reference begin to discover much uneasiness about their situations; they, suppose, very reasonably, that Georgia will authorize the issuing grants for the lands they occupy, in which event their stay here will be short.

It will be the duty of every member of the ensuing legislature to be well informed upon this very interesting topic; we wish no injustice done to a solitary individual of the Cherokee tribe by an over anxiety to put the drawer in possession of his property, on the other hand we believe that grants should issue for all tracts of the description we have been contemplating. There is another class of persons connected to this tribe, we mean white men having Indian families, that will require to be more particularly noticed by the Legislature. It has been adjudged that 'if a person is an Indian for one he must be an Indian for all purposes' if so, a white man is a party, hence he is incompetent to hold an office, to serve on jurors, to vote at elections, to pay taxes or to be called upon to perform any duty or exercise any privilege, common to the citizens of Georgia. If, however, they are not to be considered as Indians, then should grants be issued for the lands upon which they have intruded; hitherto, we believe they have only been considered as Indians for the purpose of holding land.

The enrolling goes on prosperously, the enrollment of a large number of persons and families amongst whom are some important individuals, in the northern and eastern parts of the circuit, is much beyond what was expected.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, OCTOBER 19, 1833

We omitted to notice in due time the reception of the 'Encyclopedia Americana' in twelve volumes, published in Philadelphia, by Carey, Lea ' Carey, and Edited by Francis Lieber.  From the hasty glance we have had of this extensive work, and by us some articles copied, the Editor has furnished to the American readers certainly, one of the most useful Dictionaries of the Arts, Sciences, History, Politics, 'c., which could only be devised by a person competent to the task, and of a highly cultivated author.

This work was presented to the Cherokee Nation by Mr. James H. Handy of Scotland. We shall endeavor to make numerous extracts from this work for the miscellaneous part of our paper, such as in our opinion, will be interesting to our readers, and will be credited to that work.

_______________

We may safely congratulate our readers on the favorable termination to the Nation, of our struggles for sovereignty, with the State of Alabama, in consequence of that state having extended its jurisdiction over that part of the Cherokee territory lying within its limits. It is, we believe, generally known that the Cherokee Government within these limits had been superseded by that of Alabama, and the vacant lands settled upon by the whites. At a Circuit Court of September term, for the county of St. Clair, his Honor Judge Adair, presiding, came up for trial, a Cherokee Indian, indicted for the murder of an Indian in the Cherokee territory, in Alabama. The Counsel for the Nation filed a plea to the jurisdiction of Alabama, as repugnant to the treaties, 'c., of the United States. Judge Adair remarked, that he was sworn to support the Constitution and Treaties of the United States, and would be strictly governed by them. In an elaborate opinion, as we are informed, Judge Adair has declared the laws of Alabama over the Cherokees, null and void, and repugnant to the treaties and laws of the United States. We shall publish the opinion so soon as we can obtain a copy.

________________

Our readers will find in another part of our paper, the movements of the Tennessee Legislature, towards the extension of its jurisdiction over the Cherokee Nation, assumed to be within the limits of that State. To the views of Gov. Carroll, in submitting the subject before the Legislature, we shall make no serious objections. His Excellency, we are glad, find the authority of the State questionable, to punish crimes committed within the Nation. If none exist now, and the act of Congress of 1802, regulating trade 'c. with the Indian tribes is virtually in force and fully implied by his Excellency, and the position of the Cherokees remain unchanged, we are sure that he has fixed such principles in this case as ought to debar him forever of sanctioning a law, to force the jurisdiction of the State over the Cherokees; for by this act, no white person can enter the Cherokee territory without a passport from the agent.

The report of the Select Committee favorable to the jurisdiction of the State, we are sorry to find is based upon the most insulting misrepresentations and considerations to justify a measure, in our opinion, intended solely for the cooperation of the intricate measures of the President, to force a treaty on the Cherokees, that have ever emanated from an enlightened Legislature, not excepting the letter of Mr. Robb, acting Secretary of War, to the Principal Chief.

The Legislature at its last session failed to pass an act for the extension of its laws over the Cherokees, but chose, as we presume, and the words of a Lawyer, 'to hold and see Georgia skinning the flanks of the Cherokees.' Now that Georgia has finished, Tennessee draws the sharp dagger of usurpation to civilize the starved and naked savages which the lynx sighted legislators have lately discovered in the Cherokee Nation, and like the finishing stroke of the painters brush, will strip the remaining life of the side of the other. The report is written in a style of language soft; it is the brazen serpent charity; but it is the fiery flying serpent slander. The principal motives impelling the committee to introduce civil reforms among the Cherokees are the existence of nakedness, starvation, and the sanguinary punishments inflicted on persons removing west of the Mississippi. Of these allegations, of the desperate circumstances of the Cherokees, we can only say, they are perfectly untrue.- They are extremely ungenerous, uttered as they are towards an unoffending people. It is only a pretext and a hobby, by which to effect the passage of its jurisdiction over the Cherokees. We cannot see as the Committee do, the justification of the state in her course, on the broad ground of the customs of the other states.  France conquered Algiers on the ground of the latter abetting the pirates of the seas, and becoming a nuisance to her neighbors. Would France then be justified to turn robber? We presume every member of the select committee would condemn France in such a capacity. Georgia has legislated over the Cherokees, and in the face of the world robbed them of their immense territory. If the great State of Tennessee, then could hold France culpable for becoming a robber, there appears to be the most wilful inconsistency in the committee to take shelter in the cruelties of other states towards our race. But we fear they caught the electric of Major Jack Downing, 'We don't care for the Injins.'

__________________

We copy into this paper an article from the Cherokee Intelligencer, on the subject, as the Editor states, of some 2,000 Cherokees who it would seem, have been discovered to have enrolled 16 or 18 years ago, and the editor, Mr. Cobb, having established his paper in the Cherokee Nation, with the title of `Cherokee' for the benefit of No. 1, by advertisements, 'c. for the Yazoo Speculators, (in our acceptation, robbers) have been gotten up ostensibly for a curse to the Cherokees-holds up his great integrity to law makers in Georgia, and that grants should be made to issue for those lots occupied by said Indians, on the ground of the relinquishment of their rights by enrollment. We had concluded that of Mr. Cobb's legal talents to furnish such an article, not sufficiently civilized for our readers, would have risen from it with hands as unclean, as if he had stooped to the puddle to wash his face. It is not true as it is stated in the Intelligencer, that 2,000 had enrolled in 1817. Admitting the statement to be correct, for the benefit of Georgia, what would that State gain by it? We challenge the writer to prove that five families of emigrants are living in Georgia, by such living testimony as will establish the fact. He cannot prove four families of that class who actually subscribed their names for emigration.  Again, admit the assertions to be true, for argument sake, and that every individual were living in Georgia; the treaty of 1819 1st article, by a large cession of territory to the Government, satisfied all the demands of Government on the Nation, for the emigrants and all that might hereafter go. After this treaty, the right of the Cherokees to admit whom they please, has never been questioned. The emigrants were under no penalty for remaining at their homes. Now Georgia is a party to this treaty, although she holds them nugatory, and anxious for more, no rational man will hesitate to admit, that Georgia has already received these very lands now claimed for the drawers, about sixteen years ago. We advise the editor to retract and tell the truth, evil communications will corrupt good manners. If however, truth is not mighty with him, and justice by a shadow, we must expect the Frog Town Surveyor to issue grants to those lots in question, in the same way of Joseph Vann's.

If the rights of persons to things has become an object of research with Mr. Cobb, it would be well for him to learn whether Gen. Coffee can be considered a legal member elect to the Congress of the United States. This gentleman was resident of the Cherokee Country so announced by the public journals of Georgia. The laws of the United States pronounce as outlawry against all white persons entering on the Cherokee lands without permission from the agent.  He was elected, we presume, on the merits of his master General ship, in chaining Cherokee boys for digging their own gold; and lodging them in jails. The Cherokees can have no right to send a representative to Congress, under the laws of the United States. Therefore, the fortunate drawers of Bogan's lottery would do well to pull the mote out of their own eyes.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

LUMPKIN COUNTY, GEO. Oct. 3, 1833

Mr. Hicks:- Sir, I think it my duty to publish a few lines in your paper, as a matter of justice to myself and fellow citizens. I have been informed that a gentleman, a Mr. Wm. Read, who has been a citizen of this Nation, but had relinquished his claim by emigration in 1831, and under the pretention of an emigrating officer, has visited Hightower recently, for the purpose of enrolling some two or three negro families; and one in particular, whose name is Fed, who has a white woman for his wife, and seven children, and it appears that they are about to come under the name of Cherokees, in order to be enrolled, and for the express purpose of having some of my improvements valued. I now forworn all persons engaged in the immediate employ of the United States, against valuing the place which he now lives on, for I claim the same as my right and property, or any other place that is known to be mine.

E. B. McLAUGHLIN.

_______________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX

Mr. Hicks:- Sir, I have been a subscriber to your paper, though not in my own name, and it was with a feeling of regret and sorrow that I read several weeks since a notice in one of our papers, that the Cherokee Phoenix had stopped.  When I first subscribed to the Phoenix, my residence was at H_______. I am now located in F_______, about ten miles distance, but I did not leave-without first giving particular directions to have my paper forwarded regularly. I received but two numbers after my removal, and I began to fear that through carelessness, or something worse, or perhaps to save themselves trouble, they had sent the paper back to its original source. This I resolved should never be done with m consent, while a Cherokee remained on his own 'chartered limits.' or the justly complaining notes of the Phoenix were to be heard in our land-but they are acquitted in this matter. The publication of the paper, it appears, has been suspended for a few weeks, and is now resumed. When Mr. B____ was in our part of the country, I subscribed for two years; I now enclose the money for another two years. I wish it hereafter to be directed to Mrs. E. G____, F____.

'When I think of the wrongs of the Cherokees, I am grieved-but when I think of Him whose throne is the habitation of judgment and justice, though clouds and darkness surround him, and read that the effectual fervent prayer of the righteous man availeth much-and then revert to the character and conduct of your friends, the faithful and intrepid missionaries, I do not give up all for lost.

Moses prostrate before his Maker, the Red Sea before him-the mountains on each side, and the Egyptians behind, received no other answer than -'go forward'-and you know the result. It is a vivid picture of your circumstances, and God grant that your triumph, if not as miraculous, may be as complete as was that of his favored people.

With my best wishes for the success of your interesting paper, and a hope that its patronage may be equal to its merits.

Yours respectful.

P. S. Please to consider me a subscriber for life, and when my remittances cease I shall have 'gone to my final home.'






      


MESSAGE

OF THE PRINCIPAL CHIEF.

To the Committee ' Council.

In General Council Convened.

Friends ' Fellow Citizens- As representatives of the people, you have again assembled at the great Council fire, for the purpose of deliberating upon the important concerns of the nation; and to adopt such measures as the interest and welfare of your constituents shall, in your judgments, seem to require.

The resolutions adopted at your late call session, have been transmitted through the War Department, for the information of the President; and I now lay before you a copy of my letter to the Hon. Secretary of War, accompanying the same; also the letter of Mr. Robb, acting Secretary of War, in reply thereto, from which you will discover the manner, in which the frank expression of our solicitude for a speedy and final termination of existing difficulties, has been received and treated by the Executive branch of the General Government, there can be no doubt, however, from the very extraordinary language communicated thro' the acting Secretary, that the President has been grossly deceived, by means of some designing persons, possessing his confidence, or how could it be possible for him to assert with so much apparent earnestness, that we had misrepresented the sentiments of the Cherokee people, and were now misleading them, when it must be clear to the mind of every intelligent man, that, we can have no motive nor disposition to do either.

Our course has ever been a straight forward one, it is marked with candor and frankness. In the discussion of the question of our common cause, it became our duty to contend for, and sustain the rights of the nation, upon legal grounds, consequently the people became enlightened on the subject, from the developments made of those rights, and being true to their own interest they necessarily came to the determination to oppose that policy, which, in their opinion, is calculated to destroy their political rights, and bring ruin upon their peace and happiness. The question being now determined, by the highest judicial tribunal of the United States, in favor of our nation, and the very lucid opinion of that venerable court having been published before the world, it is not necessary that I should at this late day attempt by argument to show the correctness of that righteous decision. But, in as much as the President of the United States has thought proper not to enforce the treaties in conformity with that decision, nor to remove the duress of which the nation so justly complains, nor to suspend the oppressive proceedings of his own agents towards us; it has become my bounden duty to recommend you to take such steps as shall appear most proper to bring the whole subject before the approaching session of Congress, for a final action. The memorials which have been presented before that branch of the Government, on the part of this nation, together with the numerous petitions presented by citizens from various parts of the United States, in our behalf, have never been answered; and they are subject to be called up for action on a proper occasion, and from the peculiar situation of affairs at this time, that occasion seems to have arrived, which imperiously demands the final action of Congress on the subject without further delay.

By treaty, the United States, for important considerations, were induced to receive the Cherokee Nation under their protection, and in return, the Nation acknowledged itself to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whatsoever. It cannot be pretended, I trust, that the President by his own will, and without the consent of this nation, can ever absolve the United States from the sacred obligation of extending this protection, nor to transfer that protection to the sovereignty of individual states, as states by mutual concession in the adoption of the Constitution of the United States, having imparted to the Federal Government that power, they can never recall it, without the mutual consent of the proper parties. If, however, contrary to every principle of justice and humanity, the United States should, in the end, come to the determination, not to be bound by their treaties, and shall refuse to us the protecting arm of the General Government, and our citizens be compelled by the force of circumstances to abandon the land of 'their Fathers,' then, in the language of your resolution, I may with great sincerity, repeat, that we can 'determine no other alternative promising relief, than a removal beyond the limits of the United States.'  However, I confidently hope that this alternative may never present itself, as I cannot for a moment, permit myself to entertain so unfavorable opinion as to loose all confidence in the justice and good faith of the United States. It is nevertheless true, that our nation within the last four years, have experienced the sad effects of a temporizing and oppressive course of policy from that Government of which we have been taught to honor, as a faithful guardian; the event of the final result, is a circumstance which we should be prepared to meet in such a manner as the peace and permanent welfare of the nation demands.

It is a self evident truth, that no community can successfully surmount an opposing difficulty and attain the object of desire, unless the members thereof can and do exercise a controlling influence of common interest, so as to ensure harmony and perseverance among themselves by unity of sentiment and action, and the force of this truth, is equally applicable to nations; hence it is clear that we cannot be too strongly impressed with the necessity of pursuing that course which is best calculated to meet this views, interest, and welfare of the people. On all important questions, when a difference of opinion arise in regard to their rights and interest, the sentiments of the majority should prevail, and whatever measure is adopted by that majority for the public good, should be the duty of the minority to yield,and unite in the support of the measure, this is the rule of order, sanctioned by patriotism and virtue; whilst a contrary course would lead to faction, confusion and injury.

The resolutions of your last session to which I have referred, were unanimously adopted, and they have been communicated to the people through the medium of a special circular. So far as I have had the means of being informed, they fully accord with the sentiments of the people. Immediately after replying to my letter which accompanied those resolutions, the President took occasion to instruct, certain agents to open books for enrollment, and to traverse the country with interpreters for the purpose of urging individuals to register their names in favor of a treaty, on the  basis of the proposition offered, and which have been repeatedly rejected by the nation; and in the event that the nation should not enter into a treaty in the course of the Fall or the early part of the Winter, then they who may have registered their names, should emigrate to the country west of the Mississippi. It is a fact to be regretted, that there were a few individuals to be found by those Agents, who were so lost to their own true interests as to register their names on this occasion, and also, to exert an influence over others to betray their country's cause, and involve their own families into countless difficulties. It is also a fact worthy of notice, that such persons are generally found to be of those who constitute the denizens of the nation and in some instances, of those having no just claim to citizenship.

It affords me gratification to inform you, that in a recent decision by the Circuit Court of Alabama, in the county of St. Clair, and in a case of murder committed by a native Cherokee, upon another within the territorial limits of this nation; the law of that State extending jurisdiction within our limits, has been pronounced to be unconstitutional and void, ' for want of proper jurisdiction, the prisoner was discharged.

On the other hand, when I look into the leading cause which has produced the effusion of so much blood between our citizens in the course of the current year, I cannot refrain from the painful reflection, that it is to be traced to the intoxication and sale of intoxicating liquors in our country, by intruders, and that too, in violation of the laws of the United States, as well as of those of our own. But it has been our misfortune to experience the force of oppression and usurpation, and the consequent suspension in part of the execution of our laws, and also to witness the non-enforcement of the laws of the United States, prohibiting the sale of ardent spirits in the Indian country. It is the more to be regretted, when we see the laxity of duty on the part of those federal officers, whose incumbent duty it is to execute the laws on this subject, especially as the power of Congress to legislate on the subject of Indian trade, is made exclusive, and is so clearly defined by the Constitution of the United States. And, although, under existing circumstances it may not be within the immediate control of your legislative authority, to remedy the evil, yet I have thought it expedient and highly important to bring the subject before your serious consideration. I flatter myself that such good may be done by the force of example and persuasion, to check the growing evil; as it cannot be denied that it is by example and habit the conduct of men are in a great degree influenced. And when a moral force is exerted through the influence of that faithful monitor which the Great Being has implanted in the breast of man, it never fails to produce the happiest effect; whereas a contrary practice will beget the evil habit of indulging that appetite and propensity in everything wished for, and at length the energies of the mind will become resistless, as it were, in a state of supineness and stupidity; and the unfortunate victim is then exposed to drunkenness, gambling, cheating, stealing, lying, treachery, and many other arts of abomination. Intemperance in the use of ardent spirits must be admitted by all, to be one of the greatest evils that has ever visited our people, its ruinous effects are too visible to escape the observation of every reflecting mind, and from the peculiar situation of our affairs, it is the most deadly poison that can be introduced amongst us, to destroy the happiness of society, if encouraged, it will not fail to bring ruin upon the nation. I would therefore call upon you as representatives of the people, to resist the monster, with that stern and inflexible determination becoming the character of men, when actuated by the impulse of self-preservation, to overthrow a dangerous enemy by setting the example, and refraining from the use of intoxicating liquors, and exerting a proper influence by persuading others to do the same. I cannot doubt that the example would soon be followed and cherished by every patriot, for the good of his fellow citizens; by those means the property, the character, and lives of many may be saved, and the welfare of the nation promoted.

JOHN ROSS

Red Clay, C. N. Oct. 15, 1833.

________________

REPORT

The undersigned Committee on the state of the Nation, to whom was referred for consideration, the Message of the Principal Chief to the General Council beg leave to report, That to promote the object and desire of the Cherokee Nation the usual method has been to appoint a Delegation, entrusted with power to exercise all the diligence and wisdom in their ability to memorialize Congress, on the subjects of grievances by which our country is afflicted. To this Department of the General Government, and to the Executive, nothing of argument and the facts of grinding usurpation, which has been inflicted upon our people, have been omitted, to be addressed, in the strongest manner of which the wisdom of our Delegations could command. For more than four years past, emphatic declarations of denial, to protect our Nation, have been made to us by the President.  During this long period, our people, as individuals and as a Nation, have experienced innumerable trials. Our Brothers, the adjoining states, hitherto restrained by the force of treaty obligations, and the fostering care of the General Government, have overleaped their bounds, and have indirectly encouraged their citizens to assail our lives and bodies, and directly, in their legislative character, one of the states has gambled off by lottery, our lands, upon which we are depending for the support of our families. While Georgia has nullified laws, the Sate of Alabama has them, and legalized intrusion in its chartered limits. Superadded to this, undeserved injury in time of profound peace, our destiny has been to notice the gross violations of the dearest rights ever bestowed upon man, the rights of civil liberty. Not satisfied it would seem, in the great latitude the states directly interested in the acquisition of our lands, have taken to inflict upon us the sharp instruments of usurpation, they have poisoned them with the slanderous venom of vituperation.

Even now, the newspapers are filled with this sort of inhuman forerunner of state avidity from a quarter which we least expected from a select Committee of the Legislature of the State of Tennessee.  In the language of that Committee it is now not a debatable mater to assail Indian rights. To abstain from the expression of charges against our chiefs, which are to(sic) foul to be repeated by your Committee, would have comforted better, with the frankness of these would be very honest gentlemen politicians.

Your committee regret to perceive that the difficulties, which have grown up like the grass in the season of spring, in consequence of the withdrawal of the protection guarantied to us by treaty, are rapidly increasing, and the Cherokee Nation is besieged and assailed by the unholy combinations of interest and cupidity of the states immediately interested.  The treaties, laws, and the decision of the Supreme Court do not appear to have that moral influence with the President, or the American people which we desire. It is also evident that unless this influence is lighted up in the Executive and Legislative Departments of the United States' Government and properly respected by the officers filling those Departments, our own Government will gradually expire by the violent and usurping hands of the neighboring states. Here, the following views of the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, approving them as we do, may with propriety be embodied with the report to wit: 'Inasmuch as the President of the United States has thought proper not to enforce the treaties in conformity with that decision, (the Supreme Court) nor to remove the duress of which we so justly complain-nor to suspend the oppressive proceedings of his own agents towards us, it has become my bounden duty to recommend you to take such steps as shall appear most proper to bring the whole subject before the approaching Session of Congress for a final action. The memorials which have been presented before that branch of the Government, on the part of this Nation, together with the numerous petitions by citizens from various parts of the United States in our behalf have never been answered, and they are subject to be called up for action on a proper occasion, and from the peculiar situation of affairs at this time, that occasion seems to have arrived which imperiously demands the final action of Congress on the subject without farther delay. By treaty the United States for important considerations were induced to receive the Cherokee Nation under their protection, and in return, the Nation acknowledged itself to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whatever. It cannot be pretended, I trust, that the President by his own will, and without the consent of this Nation, can ever absolve the United States from the same obligation of extending this protection, nor to transfer that protection to the sovereignty of individual states. As the states by mutual concession in the adoption of the Constitution of the United States having imparted to the federal Government that power, they can never, (lawfully) recall it without the mutual consent of the proper parties. If however, contrary to every principle of justice and humanity, the United States should in the end come to the determination, not to be bound by their treaties, and shall refuse to us the protecting arm of the General Government-and our citizens be compelled by the force of circumstances to abandon the land of 'their Fathers' then in the language of your resolution, I may with great sincerity repeat that we can 'determine no other alternative promising relief than a removal beyond the limits of the United States.'   However I contently hope that this alternative may never present itself, as I cannot for a moment permit myself to entertain so unfavorably opinion as to lose all confidence in the justice and good faith of the United States. It is nevertheless true, that our nation within the last few years have experienced the sad effects of a temporizing and oppressive policy from that Government of which we have been taught to honor, as our faithful guardian- the event of the final result is (a circumstance) which we should be prepared to meet in such a manner as the peace and permanent welfare of the Nation demands. It is a self-evident truth that no community can successfully surmount an opposing difficulty and obtain the object of desire, unless the members thereof can and do exercise a controlling influence of common interest so as to ensure harmony and perseverance among themselves by unity of sentiment and action-and the force, of this truth is equally applicable to nations-hence it is clear that he cannot be too strongly impressed with the necessity of pursuing that course which is best calculated to meet the views interest and welfare of the people. On all important questions where a difference of opinion arises in regard to their rights and interest the sentiments of the majority should prevail- and whatever measure is adopted by that majority for the public good, should be the duty of the minority to yield and unite in the support of the measure-this is the rule of order sanctioned by patriotism and virtue, whilst a contrary course would lead to faction, confusion, and injury.

The Cherokee Nation has existed a long time, beyond the reach of the memory of living men. Upon its character no foul blot which can spread the blush of shame upon our cheeks, can attach itself. It is the last of the aboriginal nations, that now contends for its liberties, and it may now with great propriety be viewed by all the friends of justice and humanity as the Poland of America. It has been the lot of our Nation to depend for existence on the magnanimity and justice of the United States. We are too feeble in physical power to depend upon anything else. For more than four years, we have appealed to Congress as the Representatives of the United States to fulfil its obligations and faith. During this period we have nearly been robbed of all our property.  The Nation has passed the fiery furnace kindled expressly to burn out the attachment of our people to the land of their forefathers, and their affections to it are yet unsubdued. It is the lot of humanity to perish from the face of the earth.- We are all liable to die, and the places that know us, may know us no more in the world! The future historian may mark out where our hearts bled for our people and country, from the civil policy of the United States, but he shall never write on the page of truth, that to that policy we ever yielded the mode of approbation. They have too long tried us, if it be true that the United State have placed us on the rack of probation, and your Committee believe that if it is the intention of the United States to render justice to us in our present location, they can accomplish the duty which their sacred honor is pledged to perform during the next Session of Congress. If not, and the General Government never designs to carry the treaties with our Nation into effect, your Committee is of the opinion that frankness in the expression of that determination is due to us, their Representatives in General Congress assembled, which will convene the ensuing winter at Washington. Your committee are then of the opinion that the only method to obtain 'the final action' of Congress upon the grievous situation of the Nation is to appoint a delegation in whose wisdom and integrity we can confide to carry the subject of our difficulties for the consideration of that branch of the General Government, and if possible to draw from it a favorable resolution for the relief of our afflicted Nation.

JOHN RIDGE, Chairman

RICHARD FIELDS,

JOHN TIMSON,

DAVID VANN.

Red Clay 23d Oct. 1833.




      


INDIANS

From the National Intelligencer

CHEROKEE CHARACTER AND CONTROVERSY WITH ITS BEARINGS.

Georgia, Sept. 10, 1833

Messrs. GALES ' SEATON: You will allow me, I hope, to present, through your columns, a sketch of the Cherokee character, with a few hints upon the Cherokee Question, and its incidental bearing upon questions, rising and marching with a bold front, upon the fundamental principles of our common country. I select your paper as it is less tinctured with the bitter spirit of party rivalry, then either the Globe or the Telegraph. This position may possibly produce more reflection to matters of high import, such as the true interest of the country, as this peculiar crisis, demands, than if it appeared under the supposed dictation of the administration, or the mere love of opposition to all its measures.

The Cherokee Questions must be speedily settled by a treaty, or the Cherokees, as a tribe, will not only be abolished, but individually ruined. The settlements of the whites among them, with their grog shops, and their attendant oppressions, in the accumulation of property, will, if allowed to continue, sap and destroy the policy of the Government, and defeat the hopes of the Christian, from the rapid improvement of the Cherokees in attempting their redemption from the savage life, to religious and political liberty. If this be not affected, and an attempt be made to expel the whites from the country, the disaffection of the South towards the Union, but more particularly towards the North, will eventually result in a Revolution-any attempts at which, no human foresight, nothing less than the over ruling Spirit of Providence can count the dreadful consequences.

Circumstances forcibly present themselves to the American Statesman to pluck out the firebrand to silence local discords, to hush sectional jealousies, as all such feelings have but one tendency, to weaken attachment to the Union.

Georgia has now possession of the Indian territory, leaving the Indians no political rights, and but little more than the shadow of claim to their circumscribed homes. The Rubicon has been passed, how to withdraw the sufferers under such harsh measures from the field, with the least injury, is now the only question of either the Philanthropist or Statesman. As an American Citizen, alike adverse to the laws of Georgia and the course of the Federal Government, I am, from a full view of all the surrounding and embarrassing incidents, very urgent for such a treaty with the Cherokees, as will redound to the honor of the Government, and permanently give the Indians a home, with such political rights as their intellectual advancement and civilization will justify. I am well informed as regards the circumstances of the Cherokees. They were making speedy and salutary advances towards civilization, previous to the strong measure taken by Georgia. And I must here state, that no history of its contests for political power informs us of any instance in which the strong have treated the weak with less cruelty and more show of mercy than have hitherto been experienced by the invaded Indians. The Cherokees, relying hitherto upon their form of government, which was only social and municipal, have now become divided on the question of a treaty. Now all hope for the reassertion of their rights, or a recognition of them by the United States, are in a considerable abandoned.  John Ridge, and others, well informed and highly improved as well in the science of civil governments in the proper measures for the preservation of their brothers and countrymen as a nation are become the open advocates for a treaty. In this party, though greatly in the minority, we can rank a majority of the talented men of the nation, such as would be an ornament to our Government in proving the value of education among our savages friends.

John Ross, the principal chief, is opposed to a treaty, and has the great body of the Indians with him, and is, in my opinion, influenced by the same high spirit of patriotism to preserve his nation, that characterizes the talented Ridge, and his enlightened associates. Hard necessity has, however, divided these patriots, whose great ambition is, in my opinion, to be the first builders of a religious and enlightened government from a savage tribe, which our pilgrim fathers as recusants first established on the American soil. And this pure ambition of both parties must, before long, unite in the policy of a treaty with the United States, as the only alternative to relieve them from their present embarrassed situation.

The Cherokees have generally assumed the white man's dress. Agriculture is almost as common with them as the whites, although much less extensive.  None scarcely look to the hunter's life for support; looms and wheels, and cornfields, belong to almost every family.  As great a proportion of Cherokees now read their language as we find in many of the states, save where general education has been systematized by law. A great spirit for learning and for knowledge is now prevailing with them.  Boudinot is now engaged in the translation of the Bible into their native language. His native intellect, added to his erudition, well fits him for so honorable and praiseworthy efforts for his countrymen. Ridge and Boudinot are full-bloods of about 30 years of age.  These two men are well informed, sagacious, and every way qualified to lead onwards the intellectual advancement of their people. You will meet with few men in any country of their age, better suited for the accomplishment of the bold task they have determined on. There are many others of high promise among them. The last fifteen or twenty years have wrought almost miraculous improvement among the Cherokees. The most credulous would scarcely believe that such a change could be produced without an actual acquaintance with the facts.

I gave you this account of the Cherokees, that the Government may discover their fitness for political rights, and be induced to place them by a treaty on that elevated ground which will make them our allies forever.

The Sabbath is generally observed by them; churches and Sunday schools were spreading over the Nation. The accomplishment of their daughters has commenced. This is the best evidence of the receding darkness amidst the savage life. I have met with a few Cherokee ladies highly polished in the useful and elegant arts. The spirit of emulation among families invited by the rapid burst of knowledge that is breaking through the thick clouds of savage ignorance, seems to be stirring up the Indian to a spirit of imitation for the white man's customs. They seem to have a great talent for music. I am told they learn it with more facility than the whites. The violin is the most common; some few pianos are to be seen in the nation. It is with much difficulty that their former dances and ball plays can be attended with success. The best part of the females have abandoned their rude festivals, and nothing but the change of their Government, which places all power with the people, induces any part of the intellectual young men to attend the ball plays. But, somewhat like our candidates for popular favor, the aspiring office hunters mingle in all associations. Yet public sentiment is daily receding from these rude, though innocent plays. They have a great desire for large stocks of horses, 'c. the hunter range being nearly exhausted these have been very much reduced.

This hasty sketch of the Cherokee character is due to them, and it is due to the America public. They must and will treat. It is now their interest, as well as the interest of the Government, that they should leave their present homes.  Yet the ruling spirit of both parties will never consent to treat, unless their political rights are guarantied and fixed by the settled policy of the Government. No presents, no bribes, no appeals to their avarice, can induce either side from their present purpose of becoming an enlightened nation. If the Government would agree to a provision allowing them hereafter to be represented in Congress as a Territory, with the prospect of becoming, whenever Congress shall deem them fit, a member of the Union, this would, at once , calm the rugged waves that have so long threatened their nation with ruin. It would give point and action to the whole energies of the nation, and strengthen the ambition of the high attributes of the heart and head. In a struggle from barbarism to civil liberty, the tendency of these prospects would be very flattering.- The policy of the United State, placing all the Indian tribes in clustered settlements west of the Mississippi, certainly requires that the Government should mark, in characters not to be misunderstood, its guardian solicitude for their final prosperity.  The impress of our friendship should be decidedly laid in their hearts, by the policy of the Government; if its desire be to make and keep them our friends in peace, and our allies in war.  The evident tendency of this policy will give the future historian fresh matter to exult in the happy results upon mankind, spring up as the glorious production of American justice, based on and interwoven with American liberty.

The renown of our country, when its policy can escape the fangs and fetters of that jealous spirit of party and ambition incident to the popular elective franchise, is brightening with the hopes of the world for political emancipation.

None but recreants to its redeeming glory would throw a speck over the lustre of its redeeming and cheering qualities.

The friends of the Cherokees, to be consistent in their love for their welfare, must cease to urge the establishment of the Cherokee's rights of separate government. The peculiar crisis of Georgia and South Carolina furnishes striking examples that communities are so often led astray by their passions, as uncivilized Indians; and while thus mad and enraged are as much influenced by the local parties of their States, as the mere love of public justice. And it becomes the friends of the Union to remove, as far as practicable, all cause of dissension and commotion.

Many of the Cherokees already see that the peculiar attitude of the South towards the Union will prevent the Government from any interference with their case. They are well enough informed that the slave question, now agitating in Georgia and South Carolina, has excited a deeper and more sullen hostility than even the sectional tariff could do against the North; and hence it is manifest to many of the Cherokees, that the Government is restrained by the fear of internal commotion and dissension, from aiding them in the reassertion of their rights.  And they admit, as statesmen, regarding the peace and welfare of the country, that the policy, or rather course of the Government, is one that circumstances now press it not to recede from.  They also see that an attempt to expel the whites would make them the first victims of the revolution.- These considerations are gradually weaning the native love of the Indians from their present homes. They begin to inquire about the country promised them, and it requires but little more to incline the balance in favor of a removal of the nation. It is by no means uncommon in Georgia and South Carolina, to hear of a Southern and Northern, and sometimes of a Western confederacy.

These things are ominous of political storms, and the seeds of disunion have been sown in South Carolina and Georgia. When the bloody harvest will be reaped, no human foresight can reveal. The slave and Indian questions are the only themes of deep interest-the citizens of these states seem to act as if Yankees had hold of their negroes, and were dragging them off by violence. This is merging the proud chivalry of the South into a sordid appeal to avarice, the least honorable passion of the heart. This view of the real state of public sentiment is important to be understood by the pure constitutional patriots of the land.- Let the Government remove all causes of annoyance; and if shame and self reproach will not bring the people of the South back to their duty, the rod will have to be used among these petted children. But let it be the last dreadful remedy for such political heresies; mutual forbearance, and brotherly concessions, are the most to be preferred by every true patriot. Without the exercise and prevalence of such generous sentiments throughout the land, the Union will soon be a bloody arena; but with these patriotic views and feelings, American liberty, the political torch for the world;s freedom, will still blaze with a light that will increase in lustre with time, from the hallowed ramparts of our federal Union.

KNOX.

[The writer of the above communicates his name to us, but we do not know him. We give his article for what it is worth. He adds in a private note to us; 'I am a citizen of Tennessee, Knoxville.  I have been over and through this country, and the Indian territory, and state nothing but facts. I write this ill digested article at the request of the treaty party in the Nation. They cannot longer stand the injustice of the whites-they wish their true character better understood.']




      


From the Missionary Herald.

CHARACTER ' MODE OF LIFE OF THE OJIBWAS

On our arrival in this country, we found ourselves surrounded by a nation of barbarians who knew nothing of the Christian religion, or of civilization.- They live in the rudest state of savage life.  They subsist principally on the natural productions of the country which they inhabit, such as fish, wild meat, wild rice, and maple sugar. Many of the numerous lakes with which the country abounds afford considerable quantities of fish. The deer which is the principal dependence of a considerable portion of Indians for a part of the year, is found chiefly in the southern part of the Ojibwa country and on the borders of the Mississippi. Wild rice is found mostly in the interior; little grown near the shores of the lake.- Most of the bands cultivate some small garden during the summer, which is done entirely with the hoe. The hoe and the axe are the only farming tools they possess. The ground they select for cultivating is usually some sandy or alluvial spot which they can dig most easily, and which often repays but poorly for their labor. Some of the bands between this place and Red River, are said to raise considerable quantities of corn. Most of them put but little dependence upon this article for subsistence.

They are an extremely improvident people, seldom providing for future need. Consequently they often suffer extremely from want. Instances of starvation are of no infrequent occurrence in some parts of the country. They have no idea of the value of property, scarcely one possesses anything more than the scanty dress which covers him, and a few rude cooking and hunting utensils.  Nor have they ambition to possess anything more. Their highest aim is simply the means of feasting and barely clothes enough to cover themselves. Their food is of the coarsest kind. Their clothes are chiefly obtained of their traders in exchange for furs. They consist of coarse woolen blankets and other coarse cloths, which are wrought into garments in the rudest manner possible.  They are extremely indolent, especially the men and seldom engage in any kind of labor except when driven to it by necessity. The business of the men is chiefly hunting and fishing. Almost all other kinds of labor are performed by the women, such as cultivating their gardens, building lodges, making sugar, cutting and collecting fuel, which is all carried on the back, and all other kinds of drudgery. To personal cleanliness they are perfect strangers, and from experience at least, they have no idea of its comforts. Filth is the very element in which they must live and breathe.

They build no permanent houses, but live in small temporary lodges, which are simply a covering of bark tied to poles set in the ground. A hole is left in the center at the top for the smoke to pass out. These lodges are small and dirty. When they remove from one place to another they usually carry the covering of these lodges with them; and they not infrequently perform long journeys, taking along with them their lodges and other effects. The business of carrying the lodges belongs to the women.  You may frequently see them with a roll of that and other movables on the back, considerably exceeding in size a large barrel. When they arrive at the place where they wish to encamp, a house is erected in a very short time.

*        * *         * *     * *          *

Each band has its own chiefs and is independent of every other. Their government seems to partake more of republicanism than monarchy. It is properly neither. The head man acts more like an adviser than as a king. If he is a man of energy and independence, he often acquires considerable influence. But if he is not, or if for any reason he is unpopular wit his band, they do not much regard him.- A man who can acquire a name for bravery is sure to gain an influence; but a coward they look upon with contempt. The most powerful chiefs attain to rank and power, by some act of bravery in war. In any matter which shall effect the whole band, the chief will never act or give his opinion, till a council has been held with his men.- When they have been consulted, the chief replies for the whole, and you may understand that the whole are bound by his reply as much as if each one had spoken for himself.  Their orators, when they speak for the whole, always use the singular number, as if only one was concerned.  When any one band wants another to joint them in a war expedition against their enemies, the war pipe is sent.  This is the invitation. If it is accepted, the party is pledged to join in the expedition. The different bands seldom or never make war on each other. They are less savage and ferocious than many of our tribes which have been found on our frontiers. They have seldom been known to commit outrageous act of barbarity except when provoked to it. They seek revenge for murder by shedding blood.

The number of Ojibwas is unknown. Their manners and condition are much less affected by intercourse with white people, than those of any other frontier tribes.  The country which they inhabit above the Sault Ste. Marie, is an unbroken wilderness, which has never been traversed by the foot of civilized man, except to obtain the Indian's furs or to explore its rivers and lakes. Much of this extensive tract of country is poor and barren. Some parts of it possess a rich and fertile soil.  At present it offers but few inducements to settlers. It will be long before the tide of population, which is so rapidly rolling towards the west, will reach these northern regions. This circumstance is favorable to Christian effort in this country.

The trade with the Ojibwas who reside in the country claimed by the United States above the Sault Ste. Marie, is chiefly under the American Fur Company; that of those who reside within the British territories is carried on chiefly by the Hudson's Bay Company. The United States government exercise a control over the Ojibwa country claimed by them, so far as it relates to the residence of white people on it. No trader or any other person has a right to reside in the country, or to have intercourse with the Indians, without permission from a government agent. The restrictions of government in respect to the trade have a very salutary effect upon the character and condition of the Indians. The laws prohibit the introduction of distilled spirits into the Indian country.  Very little is now brought in, and the principal part of that is smuggled in. If there be no restrictions placed upon this article, no doubt large quantities would annually enter the country in consequence of which the Indians would suffer greatly.

The trade on the south and west side of Lake Superior, so far as it is under the American Fur Company, is conducted by four principal traders who have in their employ numerous clerks. There is no doubt that the trade carried on with these Indians is an advantage to them. Indeed they could not exist without it, in their present mode of life, and the scanty resources which the country at present affords. It is a precarious business to those who engage in it, and is attended with many perplexities and difficulties.

The Indian trade has been the occasion of introducing a large number of Canadian Frenchmen into the country. They are but a little removed, in point of intellectual or moral culture, or in their habits of life, from the Indians themselves.  Almost all of them are nominally Roman Catholics, but are extremely ignorant on religious subjects, as well as every other. Their habits of life and their tastes present no obstacles to their mixing with the Indians, and they seldom remain long in the country without cohabiting with a native.  The habit has become so common, that at present, a considerable share of the Indian population in some part of the country is of mixed blood. It should not be inferred from this language, that there are not many foreigners in the country united to natives in lawful marriage.- There is not more than one or two traders, or clerks, or common men so far as our knowledge extends, who has not a family of mixed blood, if he has any. The character and condition of the mixed population, with some exceptions, are such as to call for Christian benevolence and missionary effort no less than those of the Indian. With the exception of the trader's families, and a few others, this portion of the population are enjoying few more advantages for moral and intellectual culture, or for improvement of any kind, than the Indians.- Some of them live in habits like the Indians, and pursue the same wandering savage life. Those who live in habits more resembling those of civilized life, are too poor in many instances, to send their children out of the country for education, or even to support them in it, without assistance, even were schools provided.  The greater part of the mixed population who are elevated in name above the lowest heathen, call themselves Catholics.  But most of them do not know the difference between the Catholic and Protestant religions, and would make no objection to a school taught by Protestants. Some of them would gladly avail themselves of the advantage of such a school, if there were no other. If we could gain their confidence enough to secure their children to be taught, many would undoubtedly be induced to listen to the gospel.




      


From the Federal Union

Extract from Gov. Lumpkin's Message

The drawing of the Lotteries, which were in progress at the last session of the Legislature, was completed about the first of May last; and the act of the Legislature, providing for the organization of ten new counties out of the Territory thus disposed of, has been carried into effect-and we have now, a settled freehold population on every part of our Territory competent to the administration of our laws, so far as to secure most of the blessings of our system to those, whose enterprise has led them to become settlers in that interesting section of our State, hitherto the abode of a people wholly unqualified to enjoy the blessings of wise self government.  The accomplishment of this great and desirable object to our State, has been attended at every step with the most unrelenting and obstinate opposition. The unfortunate remnant of the Cherokees has, for years past, been made the dupes and instruments of selfish and ambitious politicians, whose restless spirits have urged them to acts of mischief degrading to humanity itself. In the early part of the present year, another earnest and liberal effort was made by the President of the United States to effect a treaty with the Cherokees, having for its object their entire removal beyond the Mississippi-which object, it is believed, was defeated alone, by a few of the interested half-breeds, who are evidently under the influence of political men, who stand opposed to the interest of the Indians, as well as that of the State. The failure to effect a treaty has not, however, prevented a continuance of our efforts to effect the object of removing the Indians, at as early a day as practicable. Another opportunity of enrollment for emigration has been extended to such as may be disposed to remove; and I am gratified to learn, that many of the intelligent and influential among them, have availed themselves of the liberal terms proposed. Therefore, the day cannot be distant, when the State will be entirely relieved from the perplexities occasioned by this portion of its population. It will, however, become the duty of the Legislature, at its present session, to revise and amend our laws providing for the government and protection of the Indians. Experience has already exposed many defects and ambiguities in the existing laws on this subject, which should be speedily remedied. In our anxiety to provide for the welfare and protect the right of this unfortunate race, we have, in some instances, given advantages to the native population over our white citizens; which advantages, when exercised under the influence of selfish counsels, become oppressive to our white population, who are certainly not less entitled to the protection of our laws, than the native race-however just may be their claims on the sympathies of an enlightened government.

Under our existing laws, the reservations of land secured to the natives during their pleasure, are in many instances unreasonably large, and ought to be curtailed by judicious legislation. I would also call the attention of the Legislature to another description of native claims, which involves considerations of the greatest importance to the interest and honor of the State. A class of individuals, chiefly of the white and mixed blood, and who claim the right of natives within the limits of Georgia, are persons, who, under the treaties of 1817 and 1819, took valuable fee-simple reservations of the best lands then ceded, under an expressed, written determination to become citizens of the United States-and consequently, abandoning all the claim of rights or privileges, as a part or portion of the Cherokee Nation.  Nevertheless, these persons have since sold and disposed of their reserved lands, thus taken for large considerations of money for their individual benefit; and have gone into the country still occupied by the remnant of the Cherokees, and have again made selections and settlements on the most valuable lands, or that portion of their people, who have not participated in an equal degree with themselves, in the benefits of the treaties referred to. Moreover, these very individuals, by their superior intelligence, and advantages of education, have had the address to regain an influence over the Cherokees-whom they had once abandoned to their fate-so far as to rule, govern, and influence them in all matters relating to their most important interest; and have been, for years past, and continue to be, the prime and efficient cause of preventing the Cherokees from yielding to the liberal and beneficent plans of the Federal Government, for removing them to the west of the Mississippi. The insolence, ' mischievous influence of these individuals should no longer receive the indulgence or countenance of extraordinary privileges from the General or State Government; but should be treated by both governments as intruders of the most assuming character. The lands, now in the occupancy of these persons under our existing laws, ought to be granted to the drawers; who are the rightful owners, and who have been restrained from the occupancy by the laws of the State now in force. These persons have already done their own people, the State of Georgia, and our common country, great and serious injury. They have been the dupes and instruments at home and abroad, of desperate, political agitators, whose factious spirits are unbridled by the restraints of virtuous patriotism.

___________________

The President is now engaged in an attempt to enroll individuals of the Cherokee Nation to remove West, and urge a treaty with the chiefs. The Phoenix says, he 'might as well undertake to empty the Pacific Ocean into the Atlantic, as to remove the Cherokees by enrollment, and when he has appointed Georgians who are robbing us of our rights. We repeat again, that 'no treaty can be made with the body politic of the Cherokees.' Still there is but little ground for hope that the Cherokees are not destined to destruction by the power of this Government, exerted in direct opposition to solemn treaty, and in face of a solemn decision of the highest judiciary power. The people are too much engaged in their own money getting concerns, in banks and making Presidents to attend to, and express publicly their views of wrong ' injustice committed against so small a community.- This is only one of the abuses of the Executive department, and any resolution of Congress, had they the independence to act; would be voted by a Republican President, who completely nullifies the decisions of both the Judicial and Legislative branches when not according precisely with his own views. A. Maj. Downing truly says, Gen Jackson is the Government.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, NOVEMBER 23, 1833

The national council convened at Red Clay, on the 14th Oct., and after the meeting of the two houses, and a full attendance of the members from all the Districts of the Nation, the Principal Chief delivered his speech to the General Council, which will be found on our first page.  Among the various acts of this Council and of general interest to the Cherokees, is the appointment of a delegation, to proceed to the Congress of the United States, pursuant to the Report of the Select Committee which follows the speech of the Chief. The council then proceeded to the consideration of various matters which came before them, and after the appointment of the following delegates, Messrs. John Ross, Richard Taylor, Daniel McCoy, Hare Conrad, and John Timson; the Council adjourned on the 1st Nov. to meet again on the second Monday of Oct. 1834. It is unnecessary for us to remark on the general policy of the Cherokees in regard to their grievances, and claims on the United States, as the documents which we publish, will show more clearly the disposition of the Cherokees at large, to which we invite the attention of the reader.

_______________

We publish a letter of Mr. John Rogers an influential chief among the Arkansas Cherokees to Mr. John Walker Jr. of this Nation. We admit this communication from Arkansas more especially for its suggestions to the injurious effects to our Nation in consequence of our people enrolling for emigration to that country. In the introduction of this correspondence into our paper, no motives of a conciliatory character to the measures of government are to be imputed to us. The writer of this letter appears to have seized upon an early opportunity, after the commencement of the present enrolling operations, as a philanthropist, to tell his brethren of this nation to beware of the measures of the Government. The great and laudable object which the writer has in view, is the harmony of the Cherokees. To whatever course the Cherokees may be driven by the arbitrary measures of the Government, let the Cherokees be united and 'let not one of you enroll.'

The enrollment of individuals is certainly to be deplored. By this process they disfranchise themselves by their own acts of their birthrights and liberties in the Cherokee country. Patriotism, the most conspicuous and inherent principle of every people on earth, is at once plunged into the hands of the enrolling agents, to be led down the rolling streams of the West, in a condition of perfect thraldom, to that country, where a distinguished Chief tells them not to come.  Persons who enroll themselves under the present measures, divests (sic) themselves of all political rights that they may have had in this nation; sold to the oppressor; and their destiny in the future, will be that of intruders on the lands of other Indians.

__________________

The New Hampshire Centinel, we are sorry to perceive, finds but little ground of hope for the relief of the Cherokees, by the administration of a Republican President of the United States. The reasons assigned are, the opposition to treaties-the decision of the Supreme Court-the avocations of the American people, in banking and president making, are engagements unfavorable to the expression of the public sense on the wrongs committed on the small Cherokee community.  The causes set forth as the prevention to the restoration of the liberties of the Cherokees, are obvious to all; but we think an independent journal should not relinquish, for these reasons, to the powers of usurpation, the most important cause that has occurred since the formation of the Federal Government. Suppose New York was to wrest from Connecticut its jurisdiction, and the landed property of its citizens, guaranteed as it is by the Constitution of the United States, to the latter State, would the people of the U. S. say that they were too busy in other matters to have the citizens of Connecticut redressed? It seems to us, to such palpable usurpation, the sons of George Washington would rush to the rescue. The relations of the U. S. and the Cherokees bears some analogy. The latter have placed themselves under the protection of the former, and its integrity has been guaranteed. The great question then comes up to be tested, promised protection, and before the world, will tacitly consent to our political annihilation. Our cause is a righteous one, the great principles at stake and the great property involved, impels us to go forward, and press upon Congress for a final action of the cause. If we mistake not, Congress has confirmed the integrity of our treaties, in a proviso to the Indian Bill, and the enforcing act settled the principles of State nullification, so that a simple resolve of Congress, we are sure, would move the President to sustain our rights.  A veto by the President in this case, seems to us out of the question. Upon Congress, then, the Cherokees confidently rely for protection, and if the enlightened representatives of the American people, should turn away from the eternal principles of right and rectitude, and fail to sustain our rights, then we can say, in the conscious rectitude of our acts, and the last tried patriots of the aboriginal race, that the faith of the republic has set behind a black cloud, to rise no more for us.

_______________

FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

Grand Saline, C. N. West Mississippi,

Sept. 29th 1833.

DEAR SIR:- I have had the pleasure of lately seeing a letter from you, to your old friend John Shepperd, it always affords me pleasure to hear from my friends, but I feel much mortified to hear of the course they are pursuing. I wrote some months ago to my friend Mr. Hicks, freely advising him of my opinion as relates to their present embarrassed situation in that country, and fully told to him how it was yet in their power to arrest the impending horrid fate, that was then, and is yet, hovering over them. But this was not for them to enroll themselves as emigrants to this country under the present provisions of the General Government, which is only to get them here, feed them one year and let them go; but my voice was to collect the people together, get them united, and make a permanent treaty with the United States, and thereby secure to themselves the country I described to them, which would afford them a comfortable asylum, from tyranny and oppression.

I wish you my friend, on the receipt of this, to call on Mr. Hicks, and ask him if he ever got my letter, if he did, you will see my sentiments on the subject of your affairs, in that part of the country, and I wish you also, to see as many of my old friends as is in your power, and advise them never to enroll under the present arrangements; there is no man feels more for his people that I do, nor feels more anxious to see them settled west of the Mississippi, to their satisfaction; but I feel distressed when I think of their coming off and throwing themselves entirely on the mercy of the Government, to provide land for them or not as they please. You all have an idea of their lenity, and therefore my advice is for not one of you ever to move, till you are provided for, by a permanent treaty; your coming a few at a time makes your situation worse, it weakens your nation, and therefore lessens your opportunity of making an advantageous treaty, which you can do, if you would all unite ' stick together.  I never have had any correspondence with you on this subject, but have seen a number of your letters to my friends in this country with which I am pleased, my views with regard to the emigration of our people are unbiased, clear of speculation, and only tend to the wish of their future welfare and prosperity; there is I fear two (sic) much speculation in view of some, for the good of all, but you are rest assured, that there is nothing on earth could afford me as much satisfaction as to see our two nations or more united, and living as we once did, before we knew what oppression was, which I hope, with a steady and diligent perseverance of your leading men, will yet be the case, but let union be their polar star, for the old proverb tells us, a house divided within itself will never stand.

We have just had a Council with six or seven tribes of Indians, and have united in the strongest bonds of friendship.

I will write to you more fully after our National Council, which comes on the 1st Monday in Oct. next.

Your friend,

JOHN ROGERS, jr.




      


NOTICE

STOLEN from the subscriber, on Monday the 11th inst, TWO HORSES, of the following description, (to wit:) one GREY horse, somewhat flea bitten, about fifteen and a half hands high, eight years old, right eye entirely out, branded T. trots and paces, but drags his hind feet when he trots or paces. The other, a BRIGHT CHESNUT (sic) SORREL, the same age, as the GREY, fifteen hands high, with a small blaze in his face, very small feet, heavy made, no brand recollected.

Any person apprehending the thief, and securing the horses, shall be liberally rewarded.

LEWIS BLACKBURN.

On the Federal Road, at Hightower, Nov. 14th 1833




      


INDIANS

From the N. Y. Advertiser.

State Sovereignty- We adverted recently to the difficulties in Alabama. growing out of the diverse action of the National Executive, in the two States of Alabama and Georgia. A case occurred, a few weeks since, which places this subject in a very strong light.  A Cherokee Indian, named Scott Man-killer, was arraigned before Judge Adair, of the Circuit Court of St. Clair County, in the state of Alabama, for the murder of his brother, Buck Mankiller.  A plea was filed, in his behalf, to the jurisdiction of the Court-stating in substance, that the said Scott Mankiller was a native of the Cherokee Nation of Indians-that the offence charged was committed in that nation-that he was amenable to the laws thereof, and not subject to the jurisdiction of the tribunal before which he was then arraigned.  The solicitor for the state put in a special replication to the effect that the offence was committed within the constitutional limits of the state of Alabama, and in that part of the so called Cherokee Nation, which had been attached to, and made part of, the county of St. Clair.

The principle point of the defence was, that the state of Alabama had no right to extend its jurisdiction over the Indian nations within its chartered limits; and the treaties of the United States with the Cherokees,and the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of the Missionaries, were adverted to, as sustaining that position. After long argument the judge sustained the plea to the jurisdiction of the Court, and discharged the defendant!

Thus we see that there is one law for Alabama, and another for Georgia. Of two Cherokees, indicted for similar crimes, one (Tassels) is hung- and the other (Mankiller) is discharged.- Over that portion of the Cherokee country, included within the territorial limits of Georgia, the laws of the Cherokees are nullified, and those of Georgia are supreme;- over the other portion of it, lying in Alabama, the laws of the natives are respected and those of the state inoperative.

That the decision of Judge Adair was correct, no rational doubt can be entertained-but if it was so, and shall be maintained to be so, by General Jackson, then can he do no less then to hang the Judges and Sheriff of Georgia, who spurned the mandate of the Supreme Court, and hurried Tassels to his grave.

__________________

Troubles in Alabama- It appears that the excitement in Alabama was, in reality, assumed a very serious aspect, and is likely to afford us another practical illustration of the beautiful theory of nullification. Governor Gayle, in a letter to the Secretary of War, has declared that the Treaty with the Creeks, of March 1832, 'is not law, can impose no obligation on the people of Alabama, and will be declared null and void by the legally constituted authorities.'

This treaty ceded to the United States, under certain conditions, all the Creek territory in Alabama.- The same territory had been previously ceded to the Government of Georgia, in her act of session of April the 24th 1802, seventeen years before the admission of Alabama into the Union as an independent state. The late treaty with the Creeks was ratified by the Senate of the United States as a measure of peculiar interest to Alabama, the operation of which would relieve her, in a very few years, of all the Indian population, and it was so considered and received by the people of Alabama and their representatives in Congress. This, therefore, is a still more flagrant case of opposition to the rights and authority of the general government than that of Georgia. An admission of the right asserted by the State in this instance, would put an end at once to all ownership or property of the government in the public lands throughout the Union.-Balto. Gazette.

__________________

THE ALABAMA DISPUTE.

The Globe states that, 'while the Indians insist upon the execution of the treaty, in good faith, and demand the removal of all intruders, in conformity with the law especially referred to in the treaty, the President has no alternative but to carry its stipulations into effect, or to acknowledge that the Government he administers is not competent to make treaties, in as much as he has no power to execute them.'  And it further says, that Governor Gayle 'must know that the present Chief Magistrate is not a man who will be deterred from the performance of a public trust by any parade and mustering of a military array, to prevent the due observance and complete execution of his duty.' American Daily Advertiser.

______________

From Alabama we have received, says the National Intelligencer, the following letter, under date of October 16, which gives a painful view of the state of affairs and of feeling in that agitated State.:-Ibid.

ALABAMA, Oct. 16th, 1833

We have arrived at a solemn crisis in our State at the present moment.- You are aware that the whole of the Creek Nation was some time since laid off into counties, and the Judges of our Circuit Courts ordered to hold courts in them accordingly. The case alluded to above is this: At the present term of said Court, held for Russel County, an indictment was found against some certain soldiers of Fort Mitchell for the murder of Col. Hardeman Owens, who was shot some time ago by the command of the Deputy Marshal, Mr. Austill, the Solicitor of the Circuit issued subpoenas for the file of men and for Major McIntosh, who is in command at the Fort, to appear at the Court to answer to the charge.  The Major refused to pay any regard to the mandate of the Court, and swore that he would not suffer any of the men to be arrested. The Court issued an attachment for the Major and men; the Sheriff was ordered by the Major not to touch him; he returned to the Court next day, and made oath that he could not take him, the Major; for fear of death. Upon this, the Court sent an express to our Governor for military power sufficient to arrest the Major, and to bring him and men before the Court.  The Governor will undoubtedly do it, as he, as well as the whole country here, are in a state of excitement against the General Government, and are determined to support the civil authorities even to the last ditch.- Union or no Union.'

_____________________

From the N. H. Sentinel.

The excited State of political parties in Georgia has brought out a letter from Mr. Wirt, one of the Counsel for the Georgia Missionaries, to Mr. Sergeant, his colleague, dated at Baltimore, Dec. 23, 1832.  It appears that Mr. Forsyth the Senator from Georgia, the President's friend and South Carolina Anti Nullifier, made a special visit to Mr. W. to devise ways and means to 'separate the Georgia question (as Mr. Wirt says)from that of South Carolina, that the President may have only one on his hands to settle at a time!' Mr. F. although disclaiming any authority from the Governor of Georgia, professes to know his most ardent wishes to get rid of the difficulty, by a rational plea for discharging them, and he has no doubt, that if the Missionaries, through their Counsel, stop farther proceedings in the Supreme Court, they will be forthwith set at liberty. Then the Georgians can rail against Nullification. It would also relieve the President, as there 'were many persons in Georgia, and out of Georgia, who thought if (the two cases) a common cause.'- There would then be no pretence for joining South Carolina, if this affair could be adjusted-otherwise Georgia and South Carolina might go together! So, in the end, the proceedings were stopped, the Missionaries released. the President relieved- and the honor of the parties, we suppose, received an additional polish- from a patent powder, however, composed in unequal parts of State pride, mortification, tyranny, humility, hypocrisy, expediency, 'c, 'c with a 1-1000th part of political honesty and integrity.

_____________________________

The following paragraph from the Hartford Times relates the termination of an affair which took place in Massachusetts a few months since. A little handful of Indians, the remnant of the powerful tribes which once inhabited that country, encouraged by the declamations about the rights of the Cherokees which they heard all around them, and instigated, it appears by their missionary, made an attempt to shake off the yoke of the whites and to vindicate to themselves the rights of an independent community. The officers of the law however very strangely interfered, the proceeding was summarily decided to be a breach of the peace, and the persons concerned were actually held worthy of punishment. We wonder that no more clamor has been made about this affair.  It is certainly as fine a topic for declamation about the natural and original rights of the ancient natives as the case of the Georgia Indians. The only difference is that their numbers are fewer, but this does not change the principle- We beg pardon-there is yet another difference-there is nothing to be gained in a political point of view by making a noise about the rights of the Massachusetts Indians, and therefore, the fountains of sympathy are left unscaled, and the tears which should have flowed for their fate remain unshed in the eyes of the journalists, essayists, and orators of the opposition.- The sole record of the attempt of this little bands of patriots to revive their ancient laws and customs is to be found in such paragraphs as the following- N. Y. Evening Post, 16th inst.

_________________

The Rev. Mr. Apes, the Missionary among the Mashpee Indians, in Massachusetts, has been sentenced to thirty days imprisonment, and ordered to recognize with one surety to keep the peace, for his attempts to establish the independence of the poor Indians. It is probable that the Georgia Missionaries will get up a great excitement against this tyrannical and oppressive act of the government of Massachusetts. They at least ought to do this to be consistent.-Hartford Times






      


INDIANS

From the Baltimore American

THE ALABAMA CONTROVERSY.

Ten columns of the Washington Globe of Saturday are filled with a correspondence between the Secretary of War, and Governor Gayle of Alabama, in relation to the embarrassing and painful state of affairs in the Creek country of that state. Our limits will not permit us to republish it entire, its importance demands that the material parts should be laid before our readers. Contemporary with this publication, we have received a proclamation of Governor Gayle, preparatory to an apprehended conflict with the forces of the General Government. He calls upon the 'civil officers' of the counties of the Creek Nation to be 'attentive to the people, upon whom any crimes may be committed, or upon whom or whose property there may exist well founded apprehensions that crimes are intended to be committed, by issuing all such warrants and other process as may be necessary to bring offenders to justice, particularly such as are guilty of murder, false imprisonment, house burning, robbery, forcible entries, and all such like heinous offenses,'- meaning by this description, the measures of the United States' Marshal to enforce the removal of trespassers. He further exhorts the people to aid the magistrates in the execution of all legal process, when duly called upon, and enjoins a 'ready obedience to any precept or process that may issue out of the Courts of the United States or of the State.'

The proclamation bears date on the 7th of October.

The documents in the Globe consists of a letter to Governor Gayle from the Secretary of War, dated Sept. 5; a reply from the Governor dated at Tuscaloosa, on the 2d of October, and a concluding letter from the Secretary of War, dated 22d instant, enclosing letters of Messrs. Gallatin, Crawford, and Calhoun, in similar cases, and a proclamation of Mr. Madison. We propose giving the substance of them, avoiding those repetitions which were unavoidable in an argument carried on by letter, where there is so much discrepancy in opinion, and so many disputed questions of fact. Before stating the points of difference, we ought to promise, by quoting the following articles, which is part of the treaty of 1832, by which the lands in question were ceded to the United States:-

Article 5th- 'All intruders upon the country hereby ceded shall be removed therefrom in the same manner as intruders may be removed by law from other public land until the country is surveyed, and the selections made; this article shall not operate upon that part of it not included in selections.- But intruders shall, in the manner before described, be removed from the selections, for the term of five years from the ratification of this treaty, or until the same are conveyed to white persons.

While the treaty was pending, the Creek Chiefs were anxious that the provisions of the Intercourse Act of 1802 should be extended to them;so that the whole jurisdiction should be assumed by the United States. This was refused. The State of Alabama has extended her jurisdiction over the lands, and divided them into nine counties under the names of Benton, Talledega, Randolph, Coosa, Tallapoosa, Chambers, Russell, Macon, and Barbour. These counties are duly organized. They contain a large number of inhabitants variously estimated from 20-30,000, who are in fact intruders upon the public lands, within the express meaning of the article of the treaty just quoted. The mode of removal is also prescribed by an Act of Congress, passed March 3d, 1807, entitled 'An act to prevent settlements being made on lands, ceded to the U. States, until authorized by law.'  This act provides for the interposition of the Marshal and the employment of military force, under the orders of the President, and furnishes the authority by virtue of which the proceedings in Alabama, in relation to this subject, have taken place.

The constitutionality of the act of 1807 is not controverted by the Governor. He merely disputes the correctness of the construction by the Government.

The above are, we believe, points upon which both parties are agreed.- We proceed to state, as summarily as we can, the grounds of difference.

The Secretary of War affirms that the law and the treaty impose an imperative duty upon the President to remove all trespassers.  He adds, as inducements to an active performance of his duty, that

'Since the ratification of this treaty, repeated representations have been made to this Department by the public Agents, by respectable individuals and by the Indians, that gross and wanton outrages have been committed upon the latter, by persons who have intruded upon the ceded lands.  It has been stated that the houses of the Indians have been forcibly taken possession of, and sometimes burnt, and the owners driven into the woods, that their fields and improvements have been wrested from them and occupied by white persons, that aggravated injuries have been committed upon the persons of the Indians, and that their horses; cattle, hogs, and other property have been forcibly taken from them. The appeals of the Chiefs to the Government to carry the treaty into effect, and to afford their people protection, have been repeated and forcible. They represent that their crops have been taken from them, and they look forward to a state of starvation, unless some decisive step is adopted in their favor.  And in addition to this, the Deputy Marshal reports that there are four hundred persons selling whiskey to the Indians upon the ceded lands.'

He further more says--

'There is not the slightest wish, unnecessarily to injure or oppress the settlers upon these lands. I am well aware of the hardships and inconveniences to which frontier settlers are exposed, and every reasonable allowance should be made for their position. When there are no other obligations intervening, settlements have extended over the public lands without inconvenience to the country; and without interference of the Government. But in this case the rights of others are concerned, and the executive is called upon to fulfil the obligations of a solemn treaty.'

Governor Gayle's reply to this is, that the Secretary's information is erroneous and unjust, and that although instances may be found 'not to any considerable extent,' of such as are mentioned, 'nine tenths of them have not interfered with the Indians and in the upper counties which are most populous, not a whisper of disaffection has been uttered.' He draws a fearful picture of the distress which will be caused by the execution of the orders of the Government, including a destruction of property to an incalculable amount, and an infliction upon the State of other 'great and irreparable injuries not less calamitous than those which would mark the invasion of a public enemy.'

The parties being at issue on these points of facts the Governor proceeds to contest in the first place the construction of the laws of 1807, adopted by the Secretary; and next the validity of the treaty, as incompatible with the sovereignty of Alabama. We abstract his leading views on both topics.

He argues that it was not the intention of Congress in passing the act of 1807, to restrain persons from settling the public lands who had no object in view beyond their cultivation. That the act was designed to meet a particular case-that of the claimants under the Yazoo contract, who took possession under color of title, with the view of putting the United States to the cost of suits at law, in the case of every individual claimant-and was not meant to embrace the case of settlers, without title, who cultivate the soil with the bona fide intention of purchasing. He quotes in corroboration a series of acts running through thirty years of the General Government, in which the fact of these outstanding and hostile claims is recited, and in which special exemptions and privileges and pre-emption rights are given, to actual settlers, engage in the cultivation of the soil.- He proceeds to insist that these acts 'show beyond dispute, that during this time it was the settled policy of the Government to encourage our citizens to settle and occupy the public lands, that the class of our population has always been esteemed highly meritorious, and that the exclusive right to purchase at private sale, has been extended to them in consideration of, and as a reward for the services they have rendered by these settlements in testing the value and productiveness of the soil; and in affording facilities to purchasers to examine it.'

He adds that 'these acts have been passed with the exception of that of 1800, subsequently to 1807, and if it be a crime to cultivate the public land, the Government has suborned our citizens to its perpetration, by offering them large rewards and conferring on them valuable privileges.'

His inference is that the Federal authorities have no right to apply the act of 1807 or use armed force, except against trespassers who claim to hold by adverse title to the United States, and not against ordinary settlers on the public lands.

Of the treaty itself, he affirms that by authorizing the application of the act of 1807 to the Creek case, it 'trenches upon the admitted jurisdiction of a State, and violates the constitutional rights of a citizen, and is not law-can impose no obligation upon the people-and will be declared null and void by the legally constituted authorities.'

His argument, though of some length in the original, is compressible within a few words.  The Indians within the State, are citizens of the State and subject to its jurisdiction; their property is, therefore, the property of the citizens; they have an indefeasible right to their improvements; and the treaty in another article sanctions it, by confirming their possessory title and when the locations are made, conferring it into a fee simple. The United States, then, have no interest, present or contingent, in these improvements, and have no more right to interfere than in any other case of private property.- The State tribunals are the only lawful authority, and the treaty which empowers the United States troops to interfere is an infringement upon State sovereignty, suspending the ordinary operation of its laws upon the person and property of the citizen. In another view of the subject, he contends that the enforcement of the orders of the Secretary of War will subvert the entire jurisdiction of the State over nine counties, by expelling under the general designation of 'all white persons,' all the civil officers, judges, and authorities of the State, who under the federal construction, must be 'trespassers.'

The unconditional part of the treaty, the Governor finds in that article by which the United States undertake to remove, by force, all intruders upon occupation of the Indians, 'until the country is surveyed and the selections made,'and also to remove them in the same manner 'from these selections, for the term of five years from the ratification of the treaty,' 'c.

In conclusion, the Governor calls upon the Secretary to abandon 'this project, so fatal in its tendency to civil liberty and so directly subversive of the acknowledged rights and sovereignty of the State of Alabama.'

We have thus thrown together the arguments of Governor Gayle. They are answered at length by Secretary Cass, in his letter of the 22nd ult. the leading points of which we present omitting the details and specific references to former acts of Congress.

He defends his construction to the act of 1807 by denying both the correctness of the Governor's quotations of precedents, and reasons of them as alleged for the present argument.

He cites the same laws, cited by Governor Gayle, to show that they extended not only to all persons claiming under color of title, but to 'settlements of all descriptions which would tend to obstruct the policy of the government in its disposal of the public domain.'  It is further urged that the questions of claim was introduced in indulgence to persons already in possession at the time of the passage of the act, but that to subsequent intruders, it was applicable and had been applied without distinction. Several acts of Congress are cited to show that this distinction had been frequently observed for the same purposes. He collects the provisions of the act of 1807 to show that the Governor quoted it inaccurately.

'I imagine there is a misapprehension upon this subject, which a more critical examination of the acts will remove. Its object was doubtless to prevent all unauthorized settlements upon the public land, whether made without or under color of title. If the former, the intruder was liable to be removed, and was subjected to a pecuniary penalty and to imprisonment. If the latter, in addition to eviction, to a penalty and to imprisonment, he forfeited all claim to the land, and his right passed to the United States. And the provisions of the Act are varied, so as to meet these different cases.'

Reciting these provisions, he adds:-

'In each of these cases, the provisions of the law apply; ' if they do not extend to all intrusions, with whatever motive, upon the lands of the United States, words have lost their meaning, and the Government, during successive administrations, have misunderstood their own duties, and the legal consequences which follow the act of intrusion.'

To the argument of the Governor, that acts had been repeatedly passed, in favor of settlers, showing the policy of the Government to encourage those engaged in the actual cultivation of the land, the Secretary replies, that they were temporary acts of favor, all of which have expired by their own limitations; that there is still a general law in force, providing penalties; and that these temporary legislative restrictions that have completed their own object are no longer in force, cannot terminate the general law,nor narrow its construction.

In further proof of the fact that the construction which would limit the act of March 3d, 1807, to the removal of intruders from the public lands, who claim the possession they occupy, is disproved by the practice of the Government in the administration of the law, he furnished the letters of Messrs. Gallatin, Crawford, and Calhoun, and the proclamation of Mr. Madison, of which direct the removal of intruders without distinction.

The Secretary takes but brief notice of the unconstitutionality of the treaty as alleged by the Governor, in the supposed case that the Indians have a possessory title, and will have a fee simple in their improvements where the locations are made; and that consequently the United States cannot of right consider them as public lands.- He waives all discussion of the rights of the Federal Government, after the locations are made. He contents himself with saying-

'That the land is the property of the United States, at any rate, till the locations are made, seems not to be denied by you, and if it is, the operation of the Act of March 3d, 1807 upon it, cannot be disputed, upon the principles I have endeavored to maintain.'

The objection that the treaty violates the 'jurisdictive rights' of the State of Alabama because it will expel among other trespassers, the whole civil organization of courts and civil police, is met frankly by the Secretary with an acknowledgement that it will undoubtedly produce great inconvenience-while he affirms that neither the inconvenience, nor the arguments derived from it, can be permitted 'to outweigh the positive requisitions of a solemn covenant, under which the United States acquired, and by virtue of which they hold the district in question; and which formed one of the principal inducements operating upon the Indians to make the cession .'

The right of the State to an exclusive jurisdiction over the district is admitted without qualification. It is admitted, also that the officers and courts, 'c., mentioned, may be necessary in order to exercise that jurisdiction.- But the points in question are-can the State, by extending her jurisdiction over the lands, thus justify any of its citizens in taking forcible possessio of them, in the United States?- Does the power to provide these officers and tribunals include the grant of a right to take property not belonging to them, to qualify them to act?- Do persons cease to be intruders against positive law, by being appointed to any of these duties?

The following are the Secretary's views of the separate rights of the parties:-

'The ownership of the land, and the authority to legislate over it, for the ordinary purposes of life embrace powers entirely distinct in themselves, and which in this case must be exercised by different tribunals. The United States constitute a great landholder possessing under the Constitution the right to 'make all needful rules and regulations concerning their territory and other property.' They have made a regulation, by which intruders upon their lands shall be removed, under the orders of the President, by a military force. In doing this, they do no more than an ordinary individual, who repels the forcible intruder, who comes to take possession of his house ' land! Such an individual, by the act of expulsion, exercises an authority acknowledged to be in him. But he exercises no act of jurisdiction. He performs none of these function of supreme authority, included in the very term itself, and essential to the very prerogative of dictating what the law shall be.  In like manner, the United States, while removing the settlers beyond the boundary of their possessions, assume no other control over him, and leave him to the ordinary operation of the State laws.

'It is no doubt convenient to have all the lands in the several States settled and cultivated. But this convenience must yield to those unalienable and imprescriptible rights of property, everywhere acknowledged among civilized nations, and no where held more sacred than in our own country;-rights which lie at the foundation of civil society, and which cannot be violated, without inflicting incurable wounds upon our institutions. I suppose it will be contended, that the General Government is less secure in its rights than an individual, and therefore by presenting the claims of the latter, I am but stating the case of the former.'

The conclusion of the Secretary is announced firmly-that the course taken by the authorities of the United States has been imposed upon them by 'the Constitution, by a treaty, and the laws,' and that 'it will not be departed from until the obligations created by these are faithfully fulfilled.' This course is thus designated:

'The troops of the United States are upon the land of the United States.- They are instructed to do this with as much moderation as possible.- Time has been given by the Marshal till the 15th of January next, for the peaceable inhabitants to remove. Even with a proper jealousy of the employment of a military force, which in other countries and in all ages has been so destructive to free institutions, I cannot see any danger to the republic, either from its action in this particular case, or from the precedents, which such a case may establish.'

___________________




      


From the New York Journal of Commerce.

 Trouble in Alabama.- The accounts from Alabama are of the gloomy character.  Coupled with the statement which we copy from the Washington Globe, they give reason to apprehend unpleasant results.  If the letter from Alabama is to be relied on, Governor Gayle will attempt to arrest by force the United States' troops who killed Col. Hardemen Owens, a citizen of Alabama, together with the commanding officer at Fort Mitchell, Major McIntosh. In this case blood will probably be shed; the Major having positive (sic) declared that he will not be arrested, or permit any of his men to be.- This unhappy state of things is a natural consequence of the temporizing course pursued by the General Government towards Georgia, when the latter trampled on the treaties with the Cherokee Indians, which the Government at Washington was bound to sustain and enforce. Georgia found the advantage of bullying, and Alabama is disposed to try the same weapon. How it will succeed, time must determine. One thing is certain, viz: that the General Government, in defending the Indians from intrusion, according to the treaty, is fulfilling a solemn duty, and ought to be supported by every good citizen. And even if no such treaty existed, it would be fully authorized to remove the intruders, on the ground that the lands intruded upon belong to the United States, having been ceded to the General Government by the treaty above referred to. If because public lands lie within the limits of a state, they are therefore put out of the control of the General Government, and if that Government has no right even to protect its own territory, we may as well give up all such public lands at once, to the states in which they are situated.  But this we shall not do. Neither shall we permit these lands to be wrested out of our hands by violence. If the governor of Alabama persists in the course he has adopted, we hope that Congress, which is about to convene, will extend the provisions of the Act of last session for the collection of the revenue, with such modifications as may be necessary, to and for the protection of the public lands. If the General Government is to be kicked about at pleasure by every state in the Union, we might as well have no Government. It can neither be respected at home nor abroad.




      


Indians- Col. Reynolds, together with a number of the Chiefs of the Chickasaw Nation, is now at this place. In a few days they intend crossing the river on their way to the West, in search of a suitable home for those Indians who wish to emigrate from their present country.

About one thousand Choctaws are now encamped in the vicinity of Memphis, under the superintendence of Major Armstrong.--They will cross the river in the steamer Archimedes. These Indians have determined to abandon the home of their fathers, and to adopt the country which has been selected by their brethren, who emigrated to the West about eighteen months since.- Mem. Times ' Adv.




      


From the Southern Recorder.

GEORGIA LEGISLATURE

Tuesday, Nov. 21.

The house then went into Committee of the whole on the bill to define the possessions of the Indians. [Preventing frauds in taking their reservations and confining them to the improvements they had at the time of survey, with so much woodland only as may be necessary for fencing, building, fuel, 'c.] The yeas and nays being called for on the passage.

Mr. Young of Oglethorpe requested some explanations.

Mr. Harris of Walton, explained at some length, the objects and tendencies of the bill.

Mr. Young approved of the rest of the bill, but was opposed to that part of it which proposed to circumscribe their possessions so closely. He said it was unjust and ruinous to the Indians.- When it was first determined upon to lottery off and occupy these lands, those who advocated that measure deemed the provision of the existing lottery act in favor of the Indians, as but just to them, and as strictly defining and limiting our right of encroachment. But now it seems they are to be enclosed by their fences, as these originally stood at the time of the survey of the country. Should these small enclosures prove too small to subsist a growing family, they must then remove or starve. All this feature of the bill, Mr. Y. said was utterly abhorrent to his feelings. True, in great humanity you do propose to let them cross their little bush fences to get a few rails or a little fire wood, whenever the tender mercies of the State's agent shall designate. But what awaits this prodigal waste of your bounty? Why allow them fuel to warm the body when the support of life is thus cut off.  The honorable member from Walton, urges as the only reason that strong legislation is required to expel them from the country. Sir, said Mr. Y. if this be the object, let us pursue it boldly and somewhat nobly.  Let us abandon this petit larceny policy and close their doors upon them once, or drive them before the bayonet to the Rocky Mountains. To me such a course would be infinitely more manly.  To that portion of the bill which directs the granting of the lots in the possession of the Indians who have taken reserves in former treaties, and having sold them, are now intruders upon the portion which fell to their countrymen. I do not object. Having taken by reserve their individual share of the lands, they cannot now complain, that they are not permitted to possess themselves of another and a double portion; and that the provision of the bill may not be lost by its association with one utterly objectionable and unjust. I move to recommit the bill. This motion was lost.

After some discussion on points of order the yeas and nays were called on the passage of the bill, and were yeas 85, nays 61.  The house then adjourned.

Monday, Nov. 25.

The House then took up the special order of the day, being the reconsidered bill to limit and define the possession of the Indians, and went into committee of the whole.

Mr. Harris of Walton, offered a substitute, which was read, and Mr. Harris moved that the committee agree to it. After some objections by Mr. Rogers to some features of the substitute, it was agreed to. The bill being reported to the chair, was taken up by sections, and a discussion ensued on the policy and details of the bill, then occupied the House till near the time of the adjournment. Messrs. Harris of Walton, Meriwether, Alford, Rogers, Cooper, and Starke, presented their views on various features of the bill. On the final question it was passed, and after rejecting a divorce bill of Passmore and Wife, the House adjourned.

[The object of the Indian bill is to limit the right of Indian possession, and allows as we understood it, to each Indian family, the whole tract improved land and that only as the surveyors lines may have thrown on other tracts. But grants are nevertheless issue to the drawers of the tracts reserved to the Indians.  The bill also provides against double reserves to the same Indians, against frauds by white people under Indian rights, and divests white men who have taken Indian wives, and become members of their nation, of all rights as citizens of Georgia.

________

A most interesting debate took place in the Senate on yesterday, on the bill to extend the State jurisdiction over the Indian territory within the limits of the State. The passage of the bill was opposed with great ability by Mr. Jornagin of Knox; and its passage was advocated with equal ability and zeal by Mr. Yerger, the senator from Davidson. As the able speeches of these gentlemen would shed much light on this vexed question, if made public, we will take great pleasure in laying them before our readers if we can procure copies for National Banner.

________________



 The Indian Territory.- The bill extending the jurisdiction of this State over the Indian territory, within our boundaries, has been finally passed into a law and ordered to be engrossed.-Ib.

____________

INDIAN BILL

A bill to extend the laws and jurisdiction of this State to its southern limits; was taken up: Mr. Yerger spoke in favor of the bill and Mr. Netherland in opposition to it.- Mr. Netherland proposed an amendment which was rejected. Mr. Cannon proposed an amendment, whereupon Mr. Frey moved the previous question, which prevailed, and the bill passed a third and last reading,  Ayes 12; Nays, 8.



 Ayes, Messrs Adams, Andrews, Chase, Coe, Foute, Frey, McMeans, Rayburn, Smith, Sims, Vernon and Yerger.-Ib.




      


Books in the Choctaw Language.- A new edition of the Choctaw Hymn book, consisting of 3,500 copies, has recently been printed.  The hymns have all been revised by Messrs.- Wright and Williams, and many new hymns added, enlarging the collection to 123; which, with some supplementary matter, fill 162 pages.  The former edition, printed in 1830, consisting of the same number of copies, has all been put into circulation among the people.

Mr. Bying has been employed most of the time during the last year or two, while the Choctaws have been in an unsettled state occasioned by their removal,in preparing books to aid in acquiring a knowledge of the Choctaw language. He has the materials for a Grammar of that language nearly collected and arranged. He has also in progress, a Choctaw Dictionary, containing more than 10,000 Choctaw words, arranged, with definitions in English; also an English Vocabulary, embracing 15,000 English words, selected from Webster's Dictionary, with Choctaw definitions.  He hopes to complete these works during the ensuing winter and spring. They may be expected to contribute much towards fixing a standard of orthography in that language, and to aid future missionaries in acquiring a knowledge of it, and also to aid those Choctaws who may desire to become acquainted with the English.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, DECEMBER 7, 1833

The Legislature of Georgia, it appears by the Governor's Message, and by their Legislative proceedings, are now on the eve of passing a law to curtail the tenures of the Cherokees, or in other words to confine them upon one lot. If Georgia can possess herself of the vacant territories of the Cherokees, as she has already done, there could be stopping place in their subsequent acts to deprive the Cherokees even of their personal rights. But we can fully solve the motives of this cruel and illiberal legislation. Great efforts are making by the President and his enrolling agents to enroll the Cherokees for emigration; and to give effect to this system of acquiring the Cherokee Nation, the present additional expedient to oppress the Cherokees has been adopted. Tennessee, likewise, has succeeded in passing its jurisdiction over the part of the Nation within its limits, cooperating with the State of Georgia to give effect to the same measure, as is fully proved in our opinion, by the reference which the Governor of Georgia has made in his message, and the report of the Select Committee of Tennessee, on the same question. A great crisis has arrived in the affairs of the Cherokees, and it is to counteract some anticipated measures that the simultaneous cooperation of the two Sates have taken place. The President is prepared to see the whole objects of the Government towards the Cherokees defeated as appears from the instruction to his agents, which we published sometime ago if the firmness of the Cherokees should be sufficient to withstand the policy of the Government. To weaken this position of the Cherokees then is to be ascribed the coalition of these two States, or one more mighty weapon in the hands of the President, in plain English, with which to break up the Cherokees from the lands of their fathers, and the beloved homes of their families.

___________________

No Commissioner attended the Council, according to the notice in this paper, of a Commissioner having arrived, and having for his object a treaty with the Cherokees. We made this announcement on the authority of several respectable persons who had interviews with this officer. We have promised to speak the truth when we give our readers intelligence of our affairs, and to rectify the error into which we have been led, we have it now in our power to state that it was Lieutenant Harris, of the United States Army, who visited the Council, and sent out by the President to the Nation as a Disbursing Agent to some emigrants for the Western Cherokees.

_______________

GRAND PHENOMENON OF THE SKIES.

On the morning of the 18th of last month, about 3 o'clock at the home of the writer of this article, according to our simple ideas, the whole heavens were discovered emitting the most beautiful streams of fire, commonly called by the Cherokees-flying stars. The atmosphere was unnaturally still and heavy, the circulation of the air was not the least perceptible. The rapidity with which they moved was truly astonishing. The multitude of sizes, and lengths of these burning meteors, presented a scenery so brilliantly sublime, the most acute imagination would fail to describe. We had a full view of this etherial frolic. The distance of their origin was but short; apparently a thousand feet above our towering trees here. Their descent was a deviation from the common principles of gravitation. Those that made their exit immediately over us, took a horizontal and western direction, but those at a distance were not generally of that course but no difference in the obliquity of their movements. About the rising of the morning star, these beautiful streams of meteors increased to such rapidity, the world was literally striped with fire, and the words of the Grecian Philosopher (Thales) darted to our minds, 'nothing more beautiful than the world, because it was made by God.' Some of the largest that passed near us were about the size and length of a cottonwood (?) tree, larger at the lower end and running to a point. They passed us with a rumbling noise, and all terminated 50 to 100 feet above the earth, and left in its track a column of smoke or dim light, which gradually expanded and crooked, and after a few minutes of duration they disappeared. They continued their hasty flights until the rising sun obscured their appearance.  Two causes of this profusion of lights we leave to some astronomers solution.




      


To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir:_ During the late session of the General Council, it became a matter of serious inquiry with the intelligent and philanthropic, what shall be done to check the rapid progress of intemperance amongst the Cherokee people? All eyes turned towards the national legislature, but it was in vain, from it no relief could come, crippled as it is by the tyrannical hands of Georgia, Alabama, it could only look at its shackles, and say the evil is seen, but it cannot be reached. In this dilemma, it was thought advisable to call a meeting of the people in order if possible to devise some plan, by which the Cherokees might be reac__ed from this curse and scourge of their race. A meeting was accordingly held, and numerously attended. When, after several interesting discourses had been delivered, almost all present, came to the resolution, to unite themselves in a body, to be known as the Cherokee National Temperance Society; and for this purpose enrolled their names. After appointing a Committee to prepare a Constitution, it was agreed that a second meeting should take place on the 20th Oct. At the appointed time the people assembled; and having chosen a president pro tem, called upon their committee for the Constitution. Whereupon the following was presented, read and unanimously adopted.

Article 1st- This society shall be known by the name of the Cherokee National Temperance Society.

2nd. The officers shall be a president, eight vice presidents, one to be selected from each district in the nation, recording and corresponding secretaries, and a treasurer, who shall be chosen annually.

3rd. It shall be the duty of the vice presidents not only to preside in the absence of the president, but to organize in their respective districts, societies which shall be auxiliary to this; and to report their proceedings annually to this society.

4th. No member shall offer any of said liquors to any person, or urge them to drink of them.

6th. No member shall sell any intoxicating liquor or in any way encourage the sale of it.

7th. No member shall be expelled but by the concurrence of two thirds of the members present at the meeting.

8th. This society shall meet annually on the 3d Monday in Oct., at the place when the General Council shall convene.

9th. When it shall be necessary to amend this Constitution, the proposed amendment shall be offered in writing, which, if approved by two thirds of the members, shall become a part of it.

Upon motion of Maj. George M. Waters, the society enter into an election for its officers. Whereupon Mr. John Ross was elected President.- Mr. James Daniel of Hickory Log District, George Lowery of Chattooga, John Timson of Aquohee, Walter S. Adair, of Coosawatee, Richard Taylor, of Chickamonggee, Thomas Foreman of Amohee, Soft shell turtle, of Etoah, and Chuwalooea of Tahquohee, were elected vice presidents

Mr. Richard Fields was elected recording and William Rogers corresponding Secretary, Daniel McCoy, treasurer.

Mr. Hicks- Sir it was made (by a resolution) the duty of Mr. Richard Fields to prepare for publication on the Phoenix, a sketch of the proceedings, that we had, in the formation of the National Temperance Society. At the close of the Council the Journal and Constitution, were placed in my hands. Presuming that Mr. Fields, owing to this mistake, will not attempt his task, I have made this sketch, believing it to be important that the public should be made acquainted (by any means) with this highly meritorious proceeding on the part of the Cherokees; that it may be known, that the Cherokees, notwithstanding, they are conspired against and abandoned by the whole world, have still resolution enough to do all they can to save themselves from destruction.

Very respectfully,

Yours, 'c.

WILLIAM ROGERS.




      


From the Republican and Banner

JACK DOWNING'S LETTER

 To my old Friend Mr. Dwight, of the New York Daily Advertiser.

WASHINGTON, Nov. 2:- The Congressmen are just beginnin (sic) to arrive, and I suppose in a short time we shall have them here as thick as huckleberries; and the Gineral(sic) is brushin(sic) round now, and says the message must be finished and printed off hand,and we are all as busy as bees in gettin(sic) dovetailed together; and after next week, the Gineral (sic) says, there can't be anymore alterations. It is the first Message I ever had hand in-and tho' I say it, I guess you say it is about as complete a thing as ever was sent express any where. I have been to work on it ever since we was at the Rip Raps; and tho' it has been sometimes all pulled to bits, to git (sic) in some notions we didn't think on, yet it will look pretty slick, I tell you, when it's done; and we will lay on paint enuf (sic) to kiver (sic) up all the cracks and seams.

We shall give a pretty good lick at the bank, and won't leave as much on't standing as would make a good sized oven.  It is curious now to see how easy it is to build up or nook all in bits anything on paper. Now just see about the bank. There it stands in Chesnut Street, with its hundred cord of specie, and its cart load of books and its branches here and there all busy, and full of clarks (sic) and directors; and folks in Europe and all about creation nealin(si) with it; and the brokers in Wall Street all busy about it; and Biddle's bills goin about and most folks thinkin they are better than the hard dollars; and the old men and women holdin stock, suposin(sic) it will go up again so high as they paid for it-and I and the General, and Amos Kimble, and Van Buren, talkin over it-and one line in the Message nocks it all into kindlin wood;  For you see, when the Government says a thing must be jest so, there is no help for it. We can't stand to chat about trifles. The Gineral has smashed three pipes the last time we talked about it.  Biddle and the bank must be smashed, says he, Major, and so smash they go, Congress or no Congress.

The next think was the Ingins (sic).- Here the Gineral is at home; and I don't like an Ingin, and never can.- The Cherokees give us a good deal of trouble in Georgia last year, but the Gineral took sides with Georgia because he has a good many friends there, and Mr. Van Buren had two for that state was the only one that nominated him Vice President a spell ago. And if he had got in there, and Mr. Crawford President, who was allin (sic) all over with some plagy apoplexy- I and the Gineral would never been heavn(sic) on arterwards(sic). But no matter, the Gineral says he didn't make that treaty with the Cherokees-and it was made so long ago he has anymost(sic) forgot it; and treaties ough'nt to last forever.- But this treaty with the Creeks in Alabama he did make; and he knows all about it; and he means to stand by it, and turn all the squatters off the land in Alabama, jest as they wanted him to do in Georgia, but he wouldn't.- There is trouble enuf about it, I tell you, and you don't no(sic) nothin about it in York. But the Gineral is tickled to death about it, and as soon as he saw the Proclamation of the Governor of Alabama, you never see a crittur(sic) so spruced up as the Gineral was. Major, says he, by the eternal we shall have another Nullification this Congress arter(sic) all. You need'nt(sic) say much about it, says he, in the Message-we'll keep that for a Proclamation. Well, said I Gineral, you are a master hand at gittin into trouble. But, said he, Major, ain't I a master one at gittin out of one?

We've got an old trunk up chamber, full of troubles, old laws, and treaties, and contracts and state claims, and whenever we want any powder, all we've got to do is to open that, and snook (sic) among old papers, and we get up a row in no time. The Gineral likes this a leetle (sic) better than I do, for the most of the labor fall on me-and the ony (sic) way I can git rid of it, is to make our folks down stairs do it, if I see it give ony of'em aa boost with his party-for I don't care nothin about anything here but the Gineral; and if I can git him threw (sic) this Congress, its pretty much all I care about, and he too: for arter (sic) that I'm going with him to the Hermitage, for I expect by that time there won't be much more left on us than our beards and shoe strings.

Your friend.

J. Downing.






      


INDIANS

LAW FOR THE OPPRESSION OF THE CHEROKEES.

An act more effectually to provide for the government and protection of the Cherokee Indians, residing within the limits of Georgia, and to prescribe the bounds of their occupant claims; and also to authorize grants to issue for lots drawn in the late Land and Gold Lotteries in certain cases, and to provide for the appointment of an Agent to carry certain parts thereof into execution.

Section 1st. Be it enacted, 'c. That in all cases where a white man is the head of an Indian family, such family shall retain the rights of such property claimed under the rights of such Indian family, the white man obtaining no right but that of the Indian use and occupation.

Sec. 2d. And be it further enacted, That every white man, who may have an Indian family,and who may be desirous of retaining his privileges, which he may possess as the head of an Indian family, may at any time before the last day of March next, notify the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which he may reside, in writing, his intention to retain his privileges as the head of such family, which notification shall be recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose and no other, and upon the doing of which he shall be entitled to all the privileges which are granted to such white men in the preceding section of this act.

Sec. 3d. And be it further enacted, That if any Indian or descendant of an Indian or white man, the head of an Indian family, claiming the privileges of an Indian shall employ, any white or person of color other than the descendant of an Indian, as tenant, cropper, or assistant in agriculture, or as miller or millwright, they shall for such offence, upon the same being established by the testimony of two respectable witnesses, forfeit all right and title that they may have to any reservation or occupancy within the limits of the State, and that upon the certificate of the Agent to be hereafter appointed, grants may issue for the same as if such improvement had never been occupied by such Indian, descendant of an Indian, or white man having an Indian family.

Sec. 4th. And be it further enacted, 'c. That when any Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white man having the privileges of an Indian, shall have two or more wives, any of whom shall reside on and apart from the usual abode of such Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white man, having the privileges of an Indian, they shall be held and considered the sole proprietor of such farm, together with the slaves, (if any) usually employed in cultivating the same, and if she or they shall enroll for emigration, shall have exclusive and absolute control thereof.

Sec. 5th. And be it further enacted, That if any Indian or others enjoying the privileges of an Indian, shall enroll for emigration and shall afterwards refuse to emigrate at the time stipulated, And provided, that such neglect shall not be occasioned by providence or other unavoidable cause, provided the agent of the United States shall be in readiness to remove them to Arkansas, he, she, or they, shall for such neglect or refusal, forfeit all rights to any future occupancy within the limits of this State.

Sec. 6th And be it further enacted, That no Indian or others having the privilege of an Indian, shall under (any) pretence whatever, set up any claim, or demand against any member of any of the same tribe, after such member shall have enrolled his or her name for emigration, so as to detain such emigrant from removing at the time stipulated, and when the claim shall be preferred any property which may be n possession of the individual emigrating, the agent as aforesaid, shall be competent to decide on the merits of the claim. Provided that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the claimant from prosecuting his claim hereafter, and in the country to which such Indian or person, having the privilege of an Indian, shall emigrate.

Sec. 7th. And be it further enacted, That no contract either verbal or written alleged to have been made, by a white man and an Indian shall be binding, except the same can be established by the testimony of two respectable witnesses.

Sec. 8th. And be it further enacted, That no Indian or descendant of an Indian, or others having the privilege of an Indian, shall be allowed more than one hundred and sixty acres of land, which shall consist of the lot enclosing his dwelling house, or if in a district where the lots contain but forty acres, he or they shall be allowed the lot including his or her house, and as many others as he may have improvements on, not exceeding three, shall, and in both cases they shall be allowed such improved land as may be in any lot adjoining thereunto, which he or they may have actually inclosed and improved, previous to the 25th of December, 1830, and all the residue of such lots as are not entirely allowed as above, may be occupied by the drawer, or his or her legal representatives.

Sec. 9th And be it further enacted, That if any Indian or Indians, or any person claiming to be an Indian, or descendants thereof, or any Indian countryman, their aiders, abettors or assistants, who shall obstruct or resist by force or threats, the peaceable possession of the drawer thereof, or any person claiming under him, her or them, of any tract or lot of land not herein allowed to such Indian, such offender shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor for which she or they may be indicted, upon conviction shall be punished at the discretion of the court.

Sec. 10th. And be it further enacted. That when any lot drawn in the late land and gold lottery, shall be partly within an improvement of an Indian occupant, it shall be the duty of the agent as aforesaid, upon the drawer of such lot which has been valued and paid for by the United States, and partly within an improvement of an Indian occupant, or his or her legal representatives, producing to the said agent a certificate signed by his Excellency the Governor, showing that such lot was so drawn by him or her, immediately to place the drawer or his or her representative in possession of so much thereof, as may lie within the limits of such valued improvement, and forthwith to remove any intruder thereon, which might be calculated to prevent the peaceable possession of the same.

Sec. 11th. And be it further enacted, That his excellency the Governor, is hereby authorized to cause grants to issue for all lots which have been drawn in the land and gold lotteries, when they may be within or touch upon the improvements of any Indian or descendant of Indian or others, having the privileges of an Indian, or who under any of the treaties concluded be- (sic) the United States and the Cherokee tribe of Indians, have been allowed a reservation in fee simple, whether the said reserve shall have been located in this State or elsewhere, and also for all such lots as may have been drawn as aforesaid, and which may be within or touch upon the improvement of any descendant of an Indian, who was allowed a reservation in fee simple, as aforesaid. Provided, such descendant of an Indian shall not have been 21 years of age at the time his or her parents perfected such reservation, also for all lots which be within or touch upon the improvements of an Indian, or others having the privileges of an Indian, that in any treaty as aforesaid shall have been allowed a reservation for life, and who has been removed therefrom and settle within the limits of Georgia, and for all lots which may lie within or touch upon any improvement of an Indian or white man having the privileges of an Indian, who shall have heretofore enrolled for emigration, and shall have received in consequence of such enrollment any money or other valuable consideration, and also for all lots drawn as aforesaid, and which may lie within or touch upon, the improvements of any Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white men having the privileges of an Indian, and who in any of the land lotteries authorized by this State, shall have drawn thereon any lot or lots, and also for all lots which may be within or touch upon the improvements of any Indian or descendant of an Indian, or white man having the privileges of an Indian, which has been sold, leased, or rented contrary to the existing laws of said State.

Sec. 12th And be it further enacted, That his excellency the Governor, is hereby authorized to appoint some fit person as agent, whose duty it shall be to see that the provision of this act be duly and effectually carried into operation, and to examine and report to his excellency the Governor, such lots having Indian improvements thereon and subject to be granted by the act, who shall receive $1,000 per annum, as a full compensation for his services, and who shall take the following oath, viz: I, A B do solemnly swear that I will perform the duties of Indian agent in the Cherokee territory, according to the provision of this act, regulating the Cherokee Indians in the possessions of their persons and property, without failure or partiality, to the best of my abilities, so help me God: and he shall give bond and sufficient security in the sum of $2,000, for the faithful performances of the duties required of him by this act, and shall be subject to prosecution in the Superior Court of any county, when he shall violate or neglect to perform the duties required of him as agent aforesaid, upon conviction, removed from office, and fined at the discretion of the court.

Sec. 13. And be it further enacted, That if any person shall by threats or menaces, or otherwise, deter or prevent any Indian or Indians from enrolling for emigration, he or they shall be held and deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, upon conviction, fined not less than one hundred dollars, nor more than five, or imprisoned in the penitentiary, at the discretion of the court.




      


From the Knoxville Republican.

LAW OF TENNESSEE.

An act to extend the Laws and Jurisdiction of this

State to her Southern limits.

Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, That the laws and jurisdiction of the State of Tennessee be and herein are extended to the southern limits of the State over that tract of country now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, and that the Courts of this State shall have cognizance of all crimes and misdemeanors committed, and all contracts made, and of all persons residing within the limits of the said territory, and shall determine the same in such manner and upon such terms as the laws and usages of said state now do, or may hereafter prescribe: and, for the greater convenience of the citizens and people residing in that tract of country, the county of Marion, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the point where the line dividing the States of Alabama and Tennessee, commences on the bank of the Tennessee River, running thence along said line to the dividing line between Georgia and Tennessee, to the extreme height of the Raccoon Mountain; thence along the extreme height of said mountain to the Tennessee River opposite the mouth of Suck Creek; the county of Hamilton, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the extreme height of the Raccoon Mountain, at the point where the Marion County line terminates; running thence along the line dividing the States of Georgia and Tennessee, until it crosses the White Oak Mountain, continuing thence five miles to a point on said line and there terminating: thence running so as to strike the White Oak Mountain two miles above Robinson's Gap, through which the Wolf River Creek runs, thence to the extreme height of said mountain, thence along the eastern height of said mountain, to the Blythe's Ferry Road at the place now occupied by William Evans, thence along said road, towards the Tennessee River within two miles of William Blythe's; thence such a course to the Tennessee River as will leave William Blythe's plantation on the north side of said line, and strike the Tennessee River opposite the Rhea County line on the north bank of said river. The county of Rhea, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the point where the county of Hamilton terminates on the bank of the Tennessee River, as provided in this act, running thence along said line to the house now occupied by Wilson Evans; thence a direct line to a point on the Hiwassee River, opposite to the first large ridge above the mouth of Price's Creek.

The county of M'Minn, in addition to its present limits, shall commence at the point on the south bank of Hiwassee River, where the Rhea County line terminates; thence along said line, until it strikes the Hamilton County line at Wilson Evans; thence along said line to the White Oak Mountain: thence along the extreme height of said mountain, until it strikes the five mile point of Hamilton County line, on the dividing line between the States of Georgia and Tennessee; thence along said line until it strikes a point opposite to the line dividing Monroe and M'Minn counties; thence a direct line to the division line between the said counties of Monroe and M'Minn; and that all the balance of said territory shall be attached to and included in the county of Monroe, in addition to its present limits. And it is hereby made the duty of the surveyor General of the Hiwassee District to run and mark the county lines as designated by this act Provided, however, nothing in this act contained, shall be construed to authorize or allow any tax to be levied upon any native Cherokee residing within the limits of said tract of country at the passage of this act, or to work on roads or to perform malitia duty therein: and Provided further, that the native Cherokees, residing within the limits of said tract of country shall be secured and protected in the free and unmolested enjoyment of their improvements and all personal property, according to the customs and usages of said Cherokee Indians; and to enforce their rights touching the same, in and before the Courts of the State of Tennessee or the inferior tribunals of said State, as the matters in controversy may rightfully give jurisdiction: and provided also, nothing in this act contained shall be construed to interfere with or invalidate the marriage customs of the said Cherokee Indians.

Provided nevertheless, such of the native Cherokees who may heretofore have had the rights of citizenship extended to them or who may hereafter have the rights of citizenship extended to them by any law of laws of the State of Tennessee, shall be subject to all the duties, and liable to all the public dues, that other citizens of the State of Tennessee are subject or liable to, as is or may be provided by the laws of the said State of Tennessee.

Provided always nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize the courts of this State to take jurisdiction of any criminal offence committed within the territory aforesaid by any Cherokee Indian residing therein, except for murder, rape and larceny.- And the usages and customs of said Cherokee Indians in all other respects are hereby allowed them, with the territory over which by this act, the jurisdiction of this state is extended, until such time as it may be deemed necessary and proper further to abridge or abrogate them, saving always from the benefits and privileges of this exception, such of the native Cherokee Indians as have had or may have the rights of citizenship extended to them by any law of the State of Tennessee.

Provided nothing in this act contained shall be construed to authorize any white man to settle within the limits of the lands in this State now within the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, and over which it is the object of this act to extend the laws and provided that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to invalidate any law or treaty of the United States, made in pursuance of the constitution thereof.

Provided also, that nothing in this act contained shall be construed to authorize any entry or appropriation or occupancy of any of the lands contained within the limits of the country now in possession of the Cherokees, or to extend our laws for the entry of vacant and unappropriated lands over any part of said country.

Passed Nov. 8th, 1833

F. W. Huling, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

D. Buford, Speaker of the Senate




      


Extract from the Report of the Secretary of War.

With the exception, therefore of the Miamies in the State of Indiana, of a band of the Wyandots at Upper Sandusky, in Ohio, and of scattered portions of the Ottawas and Chippewas in the peninsula of Michigan, north of Grand River and of Saganaw Bay, probably not exceeding altogether five thousand individuals, the whole country north of Ohio, and east of the Mississippi, including the States of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, and the territory of Michigan as far as the Fox and Ouisconsin Rivers, has been cleared of embarrassments of Indian relations; and the Indians themselves have either already emigrated, or have stipulated to do so within limited periods, and upon such terms as will ensure them adequate subsistence, and the means of establishing themselves comfortably in their new residence, unless indeed, the aid and efforts of the Government are rendered useless by their habitual indolence and improvidence. The Cherokees occupying portions of land in Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, and Tennessee, and probably not exceeding eleven thousand persons, are the only Indians south of the Ohio, and east of the Mississippi, with whom an arrangement has not been made, either for emigration or for a change of political relations. It is to be regretted that the same causes which have heretofore prevented an adjustment of the difficulties of that tribe, and their removal west, yet continue to defeat the efforts of the Government. These abuses no doubt principally to be traced to the ascendance of particular individuals, and their desire to retain political influence and power.  It is expected that about five hundred of these Indians will remove west this season, and the residue of the Cherokees, then remaining east of the Mississippi, will be, agreeable to previous computations, about ten thousand five hundred.

The commissioners west of the Mississippi are engaged in the execution of the duties connected with our Indian relations in that quarter. They have succeeded in arranging satisfactorily the disputed question of boundaries between the Creek and Cherokees, which has for some time, occasioned much embarrassment. They have also formed treaties with the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Senecas and Shawnees, the Quapaws and the Seminoles, of Florida, by which all matters connected with these tribes have been satisfactorily adjusted. Their labors will be now directed to the other subjects indicated in their instructions, and which are important to a permanent arrangement of the various questions arising out of a new state of things which will be created in that region. Among these one of the most interesting is a practical plan for regulating the intercourse of the various tribes, indigenous and emigrant, one with another, and with the United States, and for the establishment of some general principles by which their own internal government can be safely administered by themselves, and a general superintending authority exercised by the United States, so far as may be necessary to restrain hostilities among them, and incursions into our borders. Until such a system is adopted, it is evident that the condition of those Indians cannot be secure, nor will the obligations imposed upon the Government be fulfilled.  The task requires an intimate knowledge of the local circumstances of the tribes of that region and of the country they inhabit, and a practical acquaintance with Indian habits, feelings, and modes of life. I trust the commissioners will be able to report a plan which will fulfil the expectation of those who have observed with a solicitude the course of this matter, and which will eventually secure the prosperity of the Indians. As it is probable, however, that this cannot be effected within the time limited for the duties of the commissioners, I would respectfully suggest the propriety of their term of service being prolonged until the close of the next year.

____________________




      


Meetings among the Osages



From the Creeks we went to the Osages. We visited and held meetings in all their villages except two. We also held meetings at Union. At Hopefield we had a promiscuous congregation of males and females, old and young. At the other villages we had separate meetings. One congregation was composed exclusively of men, another of women and girls, and a third of boys. In general there was much more willingness to attend meeting, and much better attention to preaching than last year. There is a considerably extensive conviction on the minds of the Osages that their old superstitions and religious ceremonies are useless, foolish and wicked. This conviction, added to the interested attentions given by many to preaching, satisfied us that, if they could be steadily assailed by divine truth, there is as much encouragement to labor for them as for any other people.

The different reception given to us this year from that of last year, the access granted us to different classes, and the greater interest manifested in the truths of the gospel, are all the effects of divine truth. It is true we found no one convinced fully of sin, no one anxiously inquiring after the way of salvation, but we did find several that expressed a conviction that their system of idolatry and superstition was sinful, that it provoked God, and was the cause of their poverty and misery, that they never would be happy and prosperous till they embraced the true religion. This was very clearly expressed by some of the most intelligent and influential men among them. I will give you a few instances. Wau-soh-shy, the principle chief of one of the villages, is an instance.  He was absent at the time of our arrival at his village, but we put up at his lodge. About an hour after our arrival, he came home. As soon as he got his supper, he told us that he was very glad to see us, and that he wished to have a great deal of talk with us about our religion. He immediately began, and in a most interesting manner. He held up six quills in his hand. One of these he placed alone. The other five he held up together. 'These five,' said he, 'are the Osage gods, the sun, the moon, the earth, thunder or the air, and the bird. Now you say these are no gods, but all of them the creatures of your God. I believe it. The Osages have worshipped these gods a long time, and they have never made us happy, they have never done us good. We have always been poor and miserable. I believe it is foolish and wicked to worship these things. I now cast away these gods.' And he flung away his five quills. He then held up the one quill and said, 'This is one God.  This is your God. Now tell me who is he.' The perfections of God, as manifested in creation and providence, and as revealed in his word, were stated with particular minuteness, especially those attributes developed in the redemption of sinners by Jesus Christ. 'All this,' said he, 'I understand, and it is all interesting. I believe it, but who is your God?'  Another brother went over the same ground in another view, if possible, to make it more plain and more interesting. He also dwelt fully on the unity of God and the great sin of idolatry. He explained the meaning of the various names of God. When he closed, the same question, with greater earnestness was the reply of the chief, 'Who is he? Has anyone seen him?' He was answered, 'No man hath seen God. He is a Spirit, invisible to mortal eyes. His existence and his perfections are manifested by their effects, and more clearly revealed in his word. That it was unreasonable to require a sight of him before we would believe. That we all believed many things that were not obvious to our senses, that their effects fully satisfied us of their existence, and that they possessed the qualities indicated by the effects, which we beheld.' To all this, his answer was as before, 'Who is he? Has anyone seen him?' To this it was answered, 'Yes. He became flesh and dwelt among us.' A history was then given of God manifest in the flesh.  'Now,' said he, 'I am satisfied. God has been seen. When anyone asks me if the true God has ever been seen, I will tell him, yes.'

_______________________




      


Our relation with the various Indian tribes have been undisturbed since the termination of the difficulties growing out of the hostile aggressions of the Sacs and Fox Indians. Several treaties have been formed for the relinquishment of territory to the United States, and for the migration of the occupants to the region assigned for their residence west of the Mississippi. Should these treaties be ratified by the Senate, provision will have been made for the removal of almost all the tribes now remaining east of that river, and for the termination of man difficult and embarrassing questions arising out of their anomalous political condition. It is to be hoped that those portions of two of the southern tribes, which, in that event, will present the only remaining difficulties, will realize the necessity of emigration, and will speedily resort to it.  My original convictions upon this subject have been confirmed by the course of events for several years, and experience in every day adding to their strength. That those tribes cannot exist, surrounded by our settlements, and in continual contact with our citizens, is certain. They have neither the intelligence, the industry, moral habits, nor the desire of improvement which are essential to any favorable change in their condition. Established in the midst of another and a superior race, and without appreciating the causes of their inferiority, or seeking to control them, they must necessarily yield to the force of circumstances, and ere long disappear.  Such has been their fate heretofore, and if it is to be averted, and it is, it can only be done by a general removal beyond their boundary, and by the reorganization of their political system upon principles adapted to the new relations in which they will be places. The experiment which has been recently made, has so far proved successful.  The emigrants generally are represented to be prosperous and contented, the country suitable to their wants and habits, and the essential articles of subsistence easily procured. When the report of the commissioners, now engaged in investigating the condition and prospects of these Indians, and in devising a plan for their intercourse and government, is received, I trust ample means of information will be in possession of the government for adjusting all the unsettled questions connected with this interesting subjects.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JANUARY 25, 1834

The act of the Legislature of Georgia, which was published to day, in addition to those heretofore passed, for the expulsion of the Cherokees from their lands, carries upon its own face, the evidence of another avaricious edict to overflow the cup of its iniquity. The pernicious operations of these several acts, we have often commented and pointed out, but the latter, without exception, subverts the dearest property of the Indian-his personal right-it is a clincher. The former acts over this subject compelled the white men connected with the Indians, to swear allegiance to the State, and become white men. This act requires them to assume the Indian rights, by means of registering their names in a clerk's book. Of the Indian improvements, those on lots other than where his house stands, are to be granted to the drawer, to enable them, we presume, to dog the Indian from his improvement. The lot embracing the residences of the Indians is yet reserved. The employment of white men or black men, as tenants, millwrights, 'c. are prohibited under the penalty of forfeiture of lots. The authority which would pass such laws over a people unrepresented, must undoubtedly aim at the expulsion of the party on whom it is to operate, founded as it is on the most glaring principles of injustice. But such acts over our suffering race, have become so common, and in full keeping with the character of the State, it is useless for us to remark further on this subject. A free representative assembly that can reconcile the passage of such law to honor and conscience, deserves more than the long curse of Laurence Sterne. The appalling night of injustice has descended, and while we are thus maltreated on this stage of political corruption; let the scene be finished at once-prohibit the Indian from speaking to the white man.- Let Governor Lumpkin order the Cherokees into his fame (alias) lottery wheel, draw for them, and those that may be found unfit, let his Excellency, wipe the sharp dagger across their necks, and his justice will not be less tarnished.

____________________

The extract from the report of the Secretary of War to the President, which will be found in this paper, on Indian Affairs, and especially in relation to the Cherokees of this Nation, avows principles identically with those which we have claimed, and the observance of which we have so often called on the Government. Mr. Cass clearly states in this report, that a change of relations has not been effected by the Government, with the Cherokees, for their removal west of the Mississippi. What are those relations which the Secretary here acknowledges as unchanged? It must be those which have been established by numerous treaties, in which the United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation the integrity of their territory; and by other special acts of Congress the intrusion of white persons are positively prohibited. When the Cherokees heretofore had respectfully and earnestly called on this administration for the fulfillment in good faith those treaties, the doctrine has been set up, as the ground of refusal, that State jurisdiction had change them. Now, the passage to which we have referred, in our opinion, recognized in the amplest manner, without the least qualifications the existence of relations between the Cherokees and the United States, and the only inference is, are those of the treaties. So much then has been conceded by the administration of its doctrines as to correspond to the decisions of the Supreme Court. After this admission, we cannot imagine the ground on which the Secretary can predicate a refusal to execute his treaties with us, save that which no republic should be accused- the often trodden ground of faithlessness.

__________________________

PRAYERS OF THE GEORGIANS.

The settlement of the Cherokee country by this people, have been frequently stated by us, as in opposition to the decision of competent tribunals both of State and Federal Governments. Consequently our labors have been confined to the relation of minor occurrences in the progress of these people over our country; as nothing could be added from our pen in discussing the question of rights, to the decision of the Supreme Court.  Since the entry of the Georgians on our lands, a village has sprung up at the gold mines, named by them, Auraria, composed chiefly of miners, for taking the gold of the Cherokees. During the occurrence of the phenomena of meteors, the day of retribution and judgement of God were seen by these intruders descending upon them; and simultaneously, repentance and prayer were offered to the God of justice, for the remission of their sins, in the following manner: We pray unto thee O God to forgive us our sins; we have knowingly sinned against thee in depriving the Indians of their just rights; we know this is Indian land, and knew we were sinning greatly in thy sight, in the treatment of these people. As the fire from Heaven brightened, the praying sinners became louder in every part of the village until day-light; but finding themselves still in the land of the living, the object of taking gold became a paramount duty. A deeper rooted evil and guilt in these people at the same time, has never been displayed then on this occasion. The decisions of just men has been disregarded; but the manifestations of God's displeasure can crush the wicked, and command justice; we fervently hope He will uphold our righteous cause in his own good time.






      


Tockshish Cherokee Nation, Mississippi.

The Rev. T. C. Stewart, Superintendent of the Missionary stations in the Chickasaw Nation, in a letter to the editor, dated Nov. 21st, 1833 draws the following comparative sketch of the past and the present.  May the future be better than he anticipates.

'I sincerely wish I could give you some good news from this far country. The time has been, when I could have told you of the great things God was doing for these unfortunate people--when his cause seemed to prosper and gain ground- when the sinners were pressing into the Kingdom-and when our hearts were encouraged with the general aspect of things. But a sad reverse has succeeded, and now everything appears to be taking a retrograde course. Our schools have declined, and most of them gone down; our church has declined; and religion is fast declining. Intemperance abounds. The intoxicating article is abundant. Men are to be seen, (and men too calling themselves Christians) going from settlement to settlement with wagon loads of the liquid poison which they barter for the scanty pittance the red man has to support his family. But measures are in progress to arrest this evil.'

Mr. Stuart is a native of this State, and has been thirteen years laboring in that nation as a Missionary of the Cross; and though all the success which he anticipated has not followed his exertions; yet he has been instrumental in sowing much precious seed, and in reaping too a harvest of souls for his Redeemer. We should not be surprised if in his next communication, instead of the gloomy aspect in which everything now present itself to his own mind he should break fourth 'in songs of deliverance.' Within a few years some of our distant Missions seemed to be on the very verge of extinction, and similar complaints were poured out in relation to their conditions and their prospects-when in an unexpected moment, and sometimes in an unexpected way, God has manifested himself ready and able to deliver.- And his spirit has been poured out in such measures as to cause the gloom of the past to be forgotten in the abundance of his miracles. So may it be in the field which is sown in tears by the brother from whom the preceding sketch was received.

His friends and correspondents will be pleased to learn that a Post Office is established in his vicinity called Pontclock.-Charleston Observer.




      


INDIANS.

From the Knoxville Republican.

INDIAN OPPRESSION BILL.

In this week's paper, we have inserted according to promise, the Bill 'to extend the laws and jurisdiction of this State to her Southern Limits;' which bill, as we informed our readers in our last, passed both houses of the Legislature, and is now one of the laws of this land; provided the State government be permitted to hold for naught the treaties of the United States.- We refer the reader to the first page, for the abominable law of which we speak, and request him to read it attentively.

The first part of the Act, which extend the laws of Tennessee, 'over that tract of country now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians,' provides 'that the Courts of this State should have cognizance of all crimes and misdemeanors committed, and all contracts made, and of all persons residing within the limits of the said territory, and shall hear and determine the same, in such manner and upon terms as the laws and usages of said State now do, or may hereafter prescribe.' Next follows the division of the territory, which is parcelled out to the counties of Marion, Hamilton, Rhea, M'Minn and Monroe, lying contiguous to that tract of country. Then comes a string of provisos, seven or eight in number, which create a confusion almost as great as that caused by the confounding of languages, at the building of the tower of Babel.

The first proviso is to prevent any construction of the act which would require the native Cherokees, residing in that tract of country at the passage of the act, to pay tax, to work on the roads, or to perform militia duty.

The second proviso, secures and protects them in the free and unmolested enjoyments of their improvements and personal property,according to their own customs and usages, and authorizes them to enforce their rights touching the same, in the Courts of Tennessee.

The third proviso is to prevent any interference with their marriage customs.

The fourth proviso subjects such of the Cherokees as have heretofore, or may hereafter have, the rights of citizenship extended to them, to all the duties and public dues, of other citizens.

The fifth proviso prohibits the Courts of Tennessee from exercising jurisdiction of any criminal offence, except murder, rape, and larceny, committed by the native Cherokees, in that territory.  'And' saith the proviso,'the usages and customs of said Cherokee Indians in all other respects are hereby allowed them within the territory over which by this act, the jurisdiction of this state is extended,until such time as it may be deemed necessary and proper further to abridge or abrogate them: saving always from the BENEFITS and privileges of this exception, such of the native Cherokee Indians as have had or may have the rights of citizenship extended to them by any law of the State of Tennessee.'

The sixth clause provides against the whites settling in the Cherokee country, and nothing in the act 'shall be construed to invalidate any law or treaty of the United States, made in pursuance of the Constitution thereof.'

The last clause provides that nothing in the act is to be construed to authorize any entry, appropriation or occupancy of any of the lands 'now in possession of the Cherokees, or to extend our laws for the entry of vacant and unappropriated lands over any part of said country.'

That this act is unconstitutional, we feel well satisfied, and as our Legislature have incorporated, among its provisions, its own death warrant by providing that anything contained in the act, 'shall not be construed to invalidate any law or treaty of the United States, made in pursuance of the Constitution thereof,' we hope our Courts will not hesitate to pronounce it so.- When this provision was offered as an amendment to the bill, in the House of Representatives, the friends of the bill were divided-some voting for, and others against, the amendment. How man acting in the capacity of Legislators, could reconcile it to their consciences to vote for the other provisions of the bill, and against this amendment, was to us a mystery. Did it not show conclusively, that they were supporting a bill which they believed to be in violation of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States?  But, let that pass.

If this law be permitted to take effect, it will deprive the Cherokees of some of the most important rights and privileges, which a nation can enjoy;-it will, in that event, deprive them of a right which has been given by the God of nature,and guaranteed to them by the treaties existing between them and the government of the United States-the right to govern themselves. It may be said that the treaties are silent upon that subject, and therefore the United States have not guaranteed to them the rights of self government. But to this we answer-they were in the enjoyment of that right before they ceded to the Whites, any of their lands, rights or privileges, and as no treaty can be found, in which they relinquish that important right, undoubtedly they must still retain it. A nation cannot be deprived of such a right by mere implication.  The United States have guaranteed to the Cherokees the occupancy of their lands, so long as they may choose, of their own free will, to live upon them, and the government is pledged to protect them from the invasion of the Whites, and in the enjoyment of their property:- and can it be supposed, for a moment, that, in securing to them the enjoyment of these privileges, the government did not guarantee to them the more important right, to continue in the enjoyment of their own laws, customs and usages? Then, we repeat, this right is guaranteed to them, and no State can wrest it from them, but in violation of the supreme law of the land.

Some justify this measure, upon the ground that the treaties mad with the Indians, are unconstitutional. If it is true that the treaties are unconstitutional, then let them be rescinded if it must be so-the Cherokees, we are sure could not be the losers at that game, if it were fairly played. In that event, the Indians would be restored to the possession of the lands which they ceded by the treaties and the consideration which the Whites paid for them, would have to be returned. But in the name of high Heaven, let not men who have pretensions to morality insist that the treaties are unconstitutional, and seize upon that, as a pretext for robbing the defenseless Indians of the remainder of their lands and privileges!  The objection cannot come with a good grace from the Whites. They cannot allege that they were overreached by diplomatists-but on the other hand, it is true that they, by intelligence, ingenuity and physical force, had the advantage of the Indians, when these treaties were made; and if anything was done in violation of the Constitution of the United States, it was their own fault-not that of the Indians. And it is a maxim in law that a party shall not take advantage of his own wrong.

But what provision let us ask, has been made for the Indians to maintain their rights in our Courts? Have they an equal chance with the Whites, at this game of hazard and address, when they are not allowed their oath against a white man? Can they maintain their rights with their hands thus tied, against the black villainy of those who may and will go among them either separately or in small companies, and rob them of their property and abuse their persons in defiance of all laws? Away with such mockery!- it is a disgrace to the nation. But that is not all,-this mockery of justice is not brought to their own doors-they must be dragged from their own country and from their own people, to the country of strangers, ' these strangers not their friends-to claim their rights in a language they do not understand.

And are these the tender mercies that are to be meted out to the defenseless Cherokees, who fought for us in the late war, by the now powerful nation which once groaned under the yoke of Britain, and is bloated, almost to bursting, with pride, because they succeeded in throwing off the fetters that bound them? Art they, who suffered so much from oppression themselves to become callous to the sufferings of others? 'Forbid it heaven!'- let not the world witness the perpetration of crimes so diabolical, by the chivalrous sons of Tennessee!

Were the Cherokees equally powerful with the Whites, as a nation, that fact would be some palliation of the course of oppression which is commenced in this act of our Legislature.- But they are weak and we are strong-and it is this circumstance that adds the blackest disgrace to our blackest crime. And shall it be recorded in history that this hell-born scheme of oppression was persisted in by a people professing to do justice unto all men and all nations, and a people, too, professing reverence for the true and living God?




      


From the New Observer

ALABAMA AND THE EXECUTIVE OF THE UNITED STATES

Mr. Lewis of Alabama, offered the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Committee on Indian Affairs be instructed to inquire whether the provision of the treaty of March, 1832, with the Creek tribe of Indians in the State of Alabama, be inconsistent with the sovereign right of jurisdiction of said State within its limits; and whether the execution of said treaty has so far conflicted or is likely to conflict with the operation of the laws of said State over the country ceded by such treaty; and if so, to inquire whether some act of legislation, consistent with the right of said Indians, may not be necessary to prevent such conflict, and that said committee have leave to report by bill or otherwise.

Having presented the resolution, Mr. Lewis after stating the nature of the dispute between the State and the Government, said that when he left home all was quiet, and universal congratulations were exchanged on the prospect that the orders of the President to proceed to a forcible removal of the settlers on Indian lands, would be deferred; but, since his arrival, he had received letters, stating that a large military force had been concentrated at Fort Mitchell, and orders were out for them to act on the 15th of January inst.- Under these circumstances, he had written to the Secretary of War, inquiring into the truth, and had been told, in answer that the time would not be extended, and the order had not been revoked.  Under these circumstances, he could no longer abstain from invoking the interposition of Congress, to devise some measure which would prevent the necessity of resort to force, and obviate the otherwise impending collision of the two Governments.

In the course of his remarks, Mr. L. was very severe on the Executive, whom he charged with inconsistency in his conduct towards Georgia and Alabama, in cases precisely similar to each other; and of remissness in his duties, in not having apprised Congress in his message of the difficulty.

Mr. Stewart, not conceiving that there was any present necessity of going into the discussion of the subject, moved to lay the resolution on the table, but withdrew his motion at the request of

Mr. Lewis, who urged the necessity of speedy action by the House.

Mr Jones of Georgia, then took the floor, in support of the resolution, and was followed by Mr. M'Kinley, who expressed his surprise that Congress should on the 6th of January be called to provide for an emergency which was to happen on the 15th. Mr. M'Kinley moved to lay the resolution the table until tomorrow.

Mr. Mardis demanded the yeas and nays on postponement: They were ordered by the House, and being taken stood as follows: yeas 110 and nays 107. So the resolution was postponed until to-morrow,

The U. S. military force ordered to Fort Mitchell, for the removal of the Creek settlers, consists of fourteen companies.  The Washington correspondent of the Journal of Commerce says: 'The number of settlers is 30,000, and they are in the full exercise of all the rights and privileges of citizens of Alabama, and are quite as respectable as any portion of the citizens of that State.  The laws of that State have been extended over these lands and their inhabitants, for some time and the interference of the Government with them regarded as a departure from the practice of the Government as settled in the case of the Cherokees within the  jurisdiction of Georgia. At all events, right or wrong, the settlers will resist, and will be supported by the whole power of the State; at least so says Mr. Dixon. H. Lewis,who made a flaming speech on the subject today; so says Mr. Seaborn Jones, a hot Nullifier from Georgia and so say all the Nullifiers. Mr.Jones stated that the jurisdiction of the Courts of Alabama would soon be brought into collusion with that of the U. S. Courts The persons concerned in the murder of Owen, had been indicted, and would be condemned by the State Courts; and they would be executed as Tassels was in Georgia, without regard to the mandates of the Federal Courts.'




      


TREATY OF 1819

ART. The Cherokee Nation cedes to the United States all of their lands lying north and east of the following line, viz: Beginning on the Tennessee River, at the point where the Cherokee boundary with Madison County, in the Alabama territory, joins the same; thence, along the main channel of said river, to the mouth of the Hiwassee; thence, along its main channel, to the first hill which closes in on said river, about two miles above Hiwassee Old Town; thence, along the ridge which divides the waters of the Highwassee, and Little Tellico, to the Tennessee River, at Tallassee; thence along the main channel, to the junction of the Cowee and Nanteyalee; thence along the ride in the fork of said river, to the top of the Blue Ridge; thence, along the Blue Ridge, to the Unicoy Turnpike Road; thence by a straight line, in the nearest main source of the Chestatee; thence along its main channel, to the Chatahouchee, and thence to the Creek Boundary; it being understood that all the islands in the Chestatee, and parts of the Tennessee and Highwassee, with the exception of Jolly's Island in the Tennessee, near the mouth of the Highwassee, which constitute a portion of the present boundary, belong to the Cherokee Nation; and it is also understood that the reservations contained in the second article of the Treaty of Telico, signed the twenty-fifth October, eighteen hundred and five, and a tract equal to twelve miles square, to be located by a commencing at the point formed by the intersection of the boundary line of Madison County, already mentioned, and the north bank of Tennessee River; thence along the said line, and up the said river twelve miles, and ceded to the United States, in trust for the Cherokee Nation as a school fund; to be sold by the United States, and the proceeds vested as is hereafter provided in the fourth article of this treaty; and, also, that the rights vested in the Unicoy Turnpike Company, by the Cherokee Nation, according to certified copies of the instruments securing the rights, and herewith annexed, are not to be affected by this treaty; and it is further understood and agreed by the said parties, that the lands hereby ceded by the Cherokee Nation, are in full satisfaction of all claims which the United States have on them, on account of the cession to a part of their nation who have or may hereafter emigrate to the Arkansas; and this treaty is a final adjustment of that of the eighth of July, eighteen hundred and seventeen.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, FEBRUARY 8, 1834

A murder of a very wicked character and atrocity, falls to our lot to record, as the effects of the humane policy of the Government. In the early part of last week, on the Hightower, 30 miles south of this, a large collection of Cherokees, for the purpose of a dance, took place. A Cherokee Indian, speaking good English, by the name of John Fields, of a bold disposition, attended. Fields, it appears, received the appointment of enrolling agent, from the numerous United States agents, traversing this country, with the bounty of $10 per head, for every Cherokee that he might enroll for emigration. It appears that some two or three women had enrolled, and at that time, some altercation ensued, between another family and these emigrants, when an Indian by the name of Bread Baker, became enraged at these emigrants. Fields having the Georgia laws and the Government to protect him, arrested Baker, for the purpose of enrolling him. A considerable fight ensued; Fields proving the strongest, brought Baker to the ground, drew a heavy pocket knife, with a plunge near the naval cut a gash into his hollow, which brought out his entrails; another near the arm pit, which cut into the hallow. Baker was literally elsewhere, cut to pieces, of which he died the most agonizing ' sanguinary death. Fields is at home, protected by the Georgia laws, for the wilful murder of a Cherokee opposed to emigration. They were both intoxicated.

____________________

The Message of the President, and the Report of the Secretary, on their relations with the Indian tribes, both of new and old, we had omitted in our last to remark more generally of their character and bearings, to the extent that we deemed it may be interesting to our readers, for the want of time and space. The policy of concentrating the Indians west of the Mississippi, having for its object new relations, have been in operation for some time past.  Whatever of justice and principle, has been observed by the Government, in the prosecution of this plan towards the aborigines, to effect this object, every observer of the progress of the Government in it, must, it seems to us, discover the great moral principle-justice, and truth palpably, violated. The paeado(sic)-prophet of Arabia gave to the inhabitants of that country, the choice of his religion, or the point of his sword. If you will believe in my creed you shall be happy, if not, I will cut you off from the earth. The measures of Government which have been brought to aid in the accomplishment of its policy, in a physical point of view, exercised as it is in this enlightened age, gives to it much more atrocity than the case transacted in the days of barbarism and fanaticism. The unprovoked aggression of one sovereign against another is considered by Christendom as wrong and unjustifiable. But the language of the Government to sustain its policy towards our race, which otherwise is reprobated by enlightened mankind, comes to us with this language: We are a superior race of beings, you are a small people, if you do not believe in our policy, we must consider it in that case perfectly right to rob you of your property. This is the brightest picture which we can draw of the nature and effects of the policy of the Government.- The assault of Mahomet on the inhabitants of the east, was on the right of conscience, that of the Federal Government, on the political, and not less dear rights of the Cherokees. The usurper in the former, is doubtless culpable, but in the latter, it is in a course of perpetration and sanctioned by the Government. In this anomalous condition of politics it is with pain that we still discover in the President, his exalted opinion of this new, but destructive policy. He describes the Indians in the West as in a prosperous condition, whose removal and settlement have been made since the year 1828. The inference to be drawn from the message is, 'that the two southern tribes are considered to be an ignorant and indolent people, but drive them west of the Mississippi, and they become prosperous.' - Where is the Indian statistics to prove to us this unprecedented change of condition, their transition from heathenism to the unqualified annunciation of their prosperity?  Where are their hundreds of newspapers circulating, thousands of Indiana books, printing presses in operation?  Where are their numerous brick houses, court houses, mills and smith shops, with the implements of the mechanic, sending forth its sound of industry almost to enchantment? In the absence of evidence to prove to us the facts of their sudden march of improvement, we have reasons to receive with caution the correctness of the President's description, according to the letter of his message.

The objects for which we have commenced these remarks, is to defend ourselves from the imputation which the President has thought proper to cast upon us, as one of the southern tribes, whose condition he has represented to be of a degraded condition.- That we have no desire to improve, nor seek to control our inferiority in order to our improvement.  We have been not a little astonished to see this argument promulgated at this time. to justify the prosecution of his policy towards us. The commencement of this new era was accompanied with the notification that the government would not sanction the substantive government which the Cherokees had formed within their own territory. The establishment of this government, was the President's ground of objections to sustain the Cherokees according to his treaties with us. The improvement of the Cherokees was here frustrated by himself, who has now drawn the dismal picture of our degradation. It is true, we have not measured the depth and surface of the seas, nor the distance from the earth to the sun, nor counted the number of valleys in the moon, but our progress in literature and the arts, are sufficient, to enable us to improve, if our territory is restored to us. Therefore it is incidental upon us, without intending offensive expressions against the Executive, to remark against the unjust imputation which has been given us of our condition, and that it is incorrect, and was uncalled for, and we hope inadvertently made. But pay us our annuities, $25,000, now travelling with the depositor and withheld from our nation, it will improve us more than all the country west of the Mississippi.

The Secretary likewise, accuses the Chiefs of being instrumental in defeating the objects of the Government, to change the relations existing with the Cherokees. This doctrine has been so often repeated from that source, and the general disposition of the Cherokees being so well known, that the charge upon our chiefs, we hope will soon expire with its own weakness.

_____________

STATISTICKS (SIC) OF THE CHEROKEE NATION -April 15th 1825

Population 15,1__, Wagons 72, Looms 752, Spinning wheels 2,485, Plows 921, Horses 7,653, Cattle 17,531, Hogs 47,782, Sheep 2,556, Goats 420, Schools, 12, Smith shops 62, Turnpike gates, 6, Ferries, 18, Stores 9, Saw, Grist Mills and Cotton Gins, 10.

_______________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

Mr. Editor, Sir:- The affairs of the Cherokees have arrived to a very important crisis. Long have we struggled for victory, our efforts have not been in vain; we are not yet cast into the whirlpool of despair. No! All the inhumane and foolish legislation of Georgia cannot unnerve us. We are not such knaves and fools as they wish, nor as their childish laws suppose! We yet love the land of our fathers, and will not give it up without another struggle.  It is true, some of our own people, together with the surrounding States, and the present administration, have leveled their artillery at us, and have made several charges upon us. But what signifies all that! As a nation, we are yet invulnerable, and it will require something more terrible than we have yet witnessed, to move us from our posts.  I am no prophet, but from the signs of the times, I will yet regret her folly, and relax her last full hold. She has gone as far as she dare go. She will not be allowed to complete the robbery in deed.  Her will is good, but she has got to the end of her rope, she dare not make another step without our consent.

With regard to their improvements the Cherokees need not be alarmed. Why? Because

1st. The late laws of Georgia are so exceedingly cruel and unconstitutional that it will be impossible to enforce them. There is not an honest court in Georgia, nor in the United States, that would not trample them under foot with the greatest abhorrence.

2nd. If the robber should even get possession, it will only be momentary, for if the Cherokees should be under the painful necessity of turning their faces to the 'far west,' they will most assuredly be restored to the occupancy of their improvements. But

3d. There is a strong probability that our difficulties will be settled by a compromise, and if they should, there is no doubt but our tormentors will have to back out! Now, let the scale turn which ever way it may, our Georgia friends will be stopped in their mad career, and many of them will wish a thousand times they had never left their granny's old fields. There is too much diabolical rascality in the Georgia policy, for it not to meet with an over throw.

Emigration is now vehemently urged upon us, b all sorts of agents, as the only alternative, and to help out the matter, Georgia has passed a gag law on the subject, and to make sure work she has again reminded us of her big house in Milledgeville! The Georgians must have great confidence in their penitentiary, much more I fear than they have in their Maker! But before they can prevent us from talking with our neighbors and friends for their good, they will have to send another military force into the nation to tie sticks in our mouths, or doctors to cut out our tongues.

But as to this emigration business, it is the poorest alternative of which we could avail ourselves. The policy of the 'Gineral' towards us has greatly increased the value of our improvements, so much so, that the use of them for one year, in many instances, is worth more than the assessing agents would allow us! And if we go to the West, we shall have to give double and tribble (sic) for improvements there, as good as those we abandon here. But to make up this great loss, and as a further inducement to enroll, some have been offered the privilege of renting their improvements for one year after their enrollment. Yes, Mr. Watie enrolled under this spacious promise, but no sooner did he make his mark, than measures were taken to hurry the drawer into his house, and now, if even Mr. Watie gets anything for the rent of his place, he will have to beg it our of the 'Gineral!'

OCONESTOTA.






      


INDIANS

OPINION

On the boundary between the Cherokees and Creeks in Georgia, by  William Wirt, Esq.

The Cherokee and Creek Indians were coterminous tribes in the South and a part of their respective territories lay within the chartered limits of Georgia. Some doubt having been thrown over one of their common boundaries, by the fact of their having both made cessions to the United States, including a slip of the same lands, agreed, in the year 1821, to mark this line, which was accordingly done.  The line thus marked is a right line from the Ten Islands on the river Coosa, eastward to the Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochy, the Cherokees owning the land to the north to that line, and the Creeks to the south. This line has been recognized by the United States as the boundary between these two tribes; and the recognition is contained in the treaty between the United States and the Creek Nation in 1826. The line is called for in the second article of that treaty, and the cession is bounded by it for thirty miles: but the Creeks being disposed to cede all their lands, within the chartered limits of Georgia, a supplement is added to the treaty for this purpose, by which this additional cessio is bounded for forty-five miles by the line thus marked between the Creeks and the Cherokees in 1821.- The cession by the Creeks is for avowed purpose of ceding all the lands which they possessed in the State of Georgia; thus it is admitted by the Creeks and by the United States that the Creeks owned no lands in Georgia to the north of this line, and that, consequently, that line is the true boundary between the Creeks and the Cherokees.

The State of Georgia, however, in whose benefit this cession inures, denies that this is the boundary, and she has of her own authority, run another line which she calls true boundary, and which lies sixty miles to the south of the line established by the Creeks and the Cherokees.  By this process she takes from the Cherokees a territory sixty miles in breadth on the Chattahoochy, and stretching from the river to the Coosa, with different degrees of width.

As the Cherokees refused to submit to this amendment on their territory, the subject came before the President of the United States, who has caused a third line to be run, different from both the former, and not corresponding with any treaty which has heretofore been made, but which he has declared officially shall be the line between the lands ceded by the Creeks to the United States and the Cherokees, in 1826.- The line thus established by the President's orders, leaves the Chattahoochy at the shallow ford, about thirty miles to the north of the Buzzard Roost, the point agreed upon by the Cherokees and Creeks, as one of the termini of their line, and runs between this line and that which is claimed by Georgia. Thus the President's line takes thirty miles of their territory from the Cherokees at that point, if the line between them and Creeks in 1821 was a line authorized by law.

QUESTIONS

1. Had these coterminous tribes of Indians a right to mark the boundary between themselves, by their own consent, and is not the boundary so marked the true boundary between them?

2. If it required the sanction of the United States to make that boundary valid, was not this sanction sufficiently given by the treaty of 1826?

3. Has the President of the United States any constitutional and legal power to run and establish the line which he has declared to be the line between the Creeks and the Cherokees?

ANSWERS.

1. The right of coterminous tribes to settle their own disputed boundaries, b their own consent, was admitted by the executive of the United States, at a time when the highest office of this nation was filled by one of the most eminent lawyers and statesmen that our country has ever known-I mean Mr. Jefferson. In the treaty of 1806 between the United States and the Cherokee Nation of Indians, I find the following article:

'Art. 3. it is, agreed, on the part of the United States that the Government thereof,

will use its influence ' best endeavors to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation of Indians to agree to the following boundary between that nation and the Cherokees, to the southward of the Tennessee River viz: beginning at the mouth of Caney Creek near the lower part of the Muscle Shoals, and to run up the said Creek to its head, and in a direct line from thence to the Flat Stone or Rock, the old corner boundary.'

'But it is understood by the contracting parties, that the United States do not engage to have the aforesaid line or boundary established, but only to endeavor to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation to consent to such a line as the boundary between the two nations.'

It is needless to dilate on this article.  It is perfectly clear that Mr. Jefferson considered the Indians as the only competent authority to settle their own disputed boundaries, that it was to be done by their consent alone, and that the United States had no right to interfere in the matter, except in the character of mediators.

Who, indeed, can be so well qualified to settle such a question as the parties themselves? It depends on facts and traditions of which they are the best and the peculiar repositories, and the love of interest natural to all men, civilized or savage, will make them vigilant and astute to take advantage of every circumstance that operates in their favor; so that when a boundary is once fixed by them by consent, it may well be considered as near the truth as human sagacity sharpened by interest can approach.

With regard to their right to do this: the possessory right of the lands is in them exclusively, and it is a perpetual right of possession, in them and their heirs forever. It would be singular if they had not the right to settle the boundary of their respective possession, amicably, between themselves. If they cannot do it, who can?  The United States, we have seen, disclaimed the power in 1806; and under the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States the several States have no right to interfere with them.

It is objected that this settlement of boundaries may involve a cession of lands by the one to the other, and that they have no right to make any cession except to the United States. Among the multitude of answers to which this objection is exposed, I will merely suggest the following without dilating on them: promising that, even if the objection were valid in other respects before the boundary could be questioned, it must be shown, judicially,  not that it may but that it does involve a cession. 1. No enlightened tribunal would ever consider an amicable and bone fide settlement of their boundaries, among the Indian tribes, for the sake of peace among themselves, as a cession of their lands within the meaning of the principle to which the objection alludes.

2. The settlement of their boundary having been prior to the cession, by either, of any of the lands affected by that boundary, and it being perfectly uncertain which of the tribes would make the first cession, it must be a matter of indifference to the holder of the ultimate domain where the boundary would run.

3. The State of Georgia claims the possession of these lands under a cession by the Creek Nation. She can take only what was ceded; and the cession stopped at this boundary for which it called expressly; and upon which it ran for forty-five miles. 

No more land was paid for under this cession than what is comprised in this boundary.

4. Suppose the settlement of this boundary to be subject to the objection that because the Creeks and Cherokees held only the right of dependency, they cannot make a cession except under the authority  of the United States. This brings us to consider the next question.

II. I cannot imagine any more high and solemn sanction to this boundary than that which is given to it by the treaty of 1826,

made by the President and ratified by the Senate of the United States. It is very clear that Mr. Jefferson would have considered such a boundary as firmly established, when made by the tribes, themselves, under the mediation of the President; but here is a solemn treaty made by the President and Senate of the United States accepting a cession from the Creeks based on this, and acknowledging that it comprised all the lands which the Creeks possessed in Georgia.

III. On this question I can only say that I am not informed of anything in the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States which confers the power which has been exercised. It is certainly not among the specific powers enumerated in the Constitution. The treaty of 1826 directs that the line which it designates shall be run under the superintendence of commissioners to be appointed by the Cherokees. The 20th section of the Intercourse Act of 1802 authorizes the President to run and mark the boundary lines, which have been established by treaty. But it is said that the line run and marked in this case does not follow the designation of any treaty; certainly not of that of 1826.  The act done seems to me to be without authority- and, therefore, void.

WM. WIRT.

Baltimore, June 24, 1830.

___________

BALTIMORE,June 25th, 1830.

Since the above opinion was written my attention has been called to the treaty of the 15th November 1827 between the Creeks and the United States. It appears by the supplementary article to the treaty of 1826, that the impression of the parties was that a line setting out from the Chattahoochy fifty miles below the Buzzard Roost, and so run as to strike the line marked by the Creeks and Cherokees forty-five miles west of the Buzzard Roost, thence along the line so marked to the Buzzard Roost, and thence down the Chattahoochy to the place of beginning would embrace all the land of the Creeks in Georgia, west of the Chattahoochy, which it was declared to be the intention of the Creeks to cede by that supplementary article. It was uncertain whether the line between Alabama and Georgia did not cross that marked boundary at a distance short of forty-five miles from the Buzzard Roost-in which case the first line designated by the supplementary article would have run into Alabama which was not the intention of the parties. That first line, therefore, was directed to stop at the point at which the line of Alabama might cross the marked boundary, if it should cross it within the forty-five miles. It was afterwards ascertained, however, that point of intersection lay still farther west, and that it would require and extension of the lines designated by the treaty of 1826 comprehend all the lands of the Creeks in Georgia west of Chattahoochy. These facts are recited in the preamble to the treaty of 1827; and then it is added in the preamble that 'the President of the United States having urged the Creek Nation farther to extend the limits as defined in the treaty aforesaid (that of 1826) and the chiefs and head men of the Creek Nation being desirous of complying with the wish of the President of the United States, THEREFORE they, the chiefs and head men aforesaid, agree to cede, and they do hereby cede to the U. States all the remaining land now owned or claimed by the Creek Nation, not heretofore ceded, and which on actual survey may be found to lie within the chartered limits of the State of Georgia.'

I do not perceive that there is anything in this treaty to change the foregoing opinion. It does not propose to affect the boundary marked between the Creeks and the Cherokees. It proposes only such an extension of the lines defined by the treaty of 1826 as to enhance the Creek lands. But that treaty defines no line; to the north of the line marked by the Creeks and the Cherokees all the new lines defined by it lie below the marked line, and the north boundary coincides with it. I consider the treaty of 1827, construed as it should be, altogether, rather as a re-affirmance of the marked boundary. It is true it cedes all the Creek lands in Georgia; but that cession is, in express terms, to be effected by an extension of the lines defined in the treaty of 1826- and the only lines defined in that treaty, are the line from the Chattahoochy to the marked boundary, then along the marked boundary to the Buzzard Roost, and down the Chattahoochy to the beginning and these are in my opinion the lines which the President is authorized to run under the 20th section of the Intercourse Law of 1802.

WM. WIRT.




      


Correspondence of the N. Y. D. Advertiser.

Extract of a letter, dated

Washington, Dec. 31, 1833

I send to you a copy of a letter from General Jackson, to Wm. Graham, then acting Secretary of War, for two purposes:- 1st To prove to the world that Gen. Jackson has not been as obstinate as his enemies contend he has been; and this letter will show conclusively he has on one question, to wit, the rights of the Indians, changed his opinion. 2d. To show the profundity of Dr. Jackson's legal researches, and to sustain the Cambridge University in conferring on this distinguished jurist the degree of Doctor of Laws.

It may be necessary to advert to the occasion that caused the Doctor to write the letter. Mr. Crawford, while acting as Secretary of War, wrote to Gen. Jackson on the 27th of January, 1816, that if the Marshal of the district or territory should request his assistance to remove intruders, that he should 'cause to be removed, by military force, all persons who should be found upon the public lands within his command, and destroy their habitations and improvements.'

Mr. Crawford, in this order, says 'Intrusion upon the lands of the friendly Indian tribes is not only a violation of the laws,but a direct opposition to the policy of the Government, towards its savage neighbors.' Under this order from the War Department to Gen. Jackson to remove intruders; he issued an order to Captain Houstin, to take the cattle of the settlers, and deliver them over to the Marshal to be sold. Capt. Houstin seized upon fifty one head of cattle, and a horse beast, under this order, and delivered them over to the Marshal, who put them up at vendue, and sold them for $350-62-1-2. The Marshal doubted the propriety of the course pursued, and he wrote to the Secretary of War, stating that a considerable number of other cattle would be delivered to him under Gen. Jackson's order, and he wished to know whether he should receive them. The Secretary of War wrote to the Marshall on the 6th of June, 1817, and informed him that 'the order to General Jackson to remove intruders on Indian lands, did not extend to a confiscation of their movable property.'

A copy of the letter was sent to Gen. Jackson, which called forth the following very important letter:

_______________

HEADQUARTERS, Division of the South

Nashville, 22d July, 1817.

Sir:- On my return from Hiwassee to this place, I had the honor to receive your note of the 6th of June, enclosing a copy of a letter of the same date to the Marshal for the District of West Tennessee.  From the various treaties and acts of Congress regulating intercourse with the Indians, I clearly understand, that the United States have stipulated to prevent intrusions by its citizens, or trespasses by driving their stock on their lands. Experience has proven, that it is useless to remove themselves or stock therefrom, without prosecution, for the infraction of the law. The experiment made last fall, showed the inutility of the bare destruction of improvements, and removal of stocks. The intruders returned within a few days after the soldiers had retired, drove back their stock, and recommenced their plan of robbery.- From the tenor of the treaties and acts of Congress, I have always believed that, where cattle were found trespassing on Indian lands, and this trespass by the owner driving his stock thereon, the cattle were liable, and ought to be seized, (damage feasan,) delivered to the civil authority, and made answerable for the damage. It is the only way to put an end to the villainies practiced within the Indian boundaries. Under these impressions, I ordered Captain Houstin to seize and deliver all intruders over to the civil authority, and their stocks into the hands of the Marshal, and if he refused to receive them, to note it before evidence, and let them go. The Marshal, in one instance, received, and being perishable property, sold them at public sale. This, on legal principles, I have no doubt, can be justified; but with his duty I have nothing to do. My orders are still to take all persons and stocks found trespassing on the Indian territory, and deliver them over to the civil authority for prosecution. If the military is not aided by the civil authority, in executing the laws and treaties, it will be useless to harass the former in pursuit of trespassers and their stocks. All the troops on the military peace establishment, (without horsemen) could not carry into effect the treaties with the Cherokees and prevent intrusions.- The late procedure has had more beneficial effects than all other measures that had been previously adopted, and I am convinced none else will have the desired effect. On this subject I shall expect your full instructions and until receive them, shall continue to pursue the mode previously adopted.

I am, Sir,very respectfully , 'c.

ANDREW JACKSON,

Major General,

Comd'g Div. of the South.

Geo. Graham, Esq.

Department of War

Whoever is curious enough to examine the correspondence further, will find this and other letters in the Senate documents of the 2d session, 19th Congress.

___________________

__________




      


Mr. Clay and Mr. Mardis, of the Alabama delegation in Congress, in letters published to correct an error in relation to other points, both intimate their belief, that the sales of the Creek lands, which, we presume, are now going on, and which have elicited such unbounded abuse of the President, will redound more to the advantage of the settlers than otherwise. These pioneers of the forest should have the preference, and having a knowledge of the tracts which they wish to purchase, have the advantage of the mere speculator.  Besides, the early sale of these lands will enable those, who do not purchase the tracts on which they now reside, to make other provisions for the year's crop. Some dissatisfaction has been expressed and the short period which these sales have been advertised; but it would seem from Messrs. Clay's and Mardis' letters, that the sales have been directed early in the year with one of the objects above expressed, and that they believe speculators will be defeated in their design of running to a high price the improvements of the poor settler.  The treaty, too, forbids the longer delay of this matter. The President had already delayed it one year, at the request of the delegation, and many of the inhabitants of the ceded territory. But the short time of advertising will not prevent speculations to a great extent, if this had anything to do with it. The Montgomery Advertiser states, that Montgomery is full of speculators, and in noticing Seaborn Jones' remarks on Lewis' motion, asserts, a great proportion of them are his strikers. That speculation, and that too of the bassist kind, has had much to do in fomenting the difficulties which have grown out of this subject few will be disposed to doubt; and we understand one family in this State has control of nearly two thirds of the valuable tracts in the whole Creek territory. The wisdom of the President's precautions to prevent the ignorant Indian from being cheated out of his all, will be more manifest than is at present.

We perceive that the Globe assigns another reason for the early sale of these lands.- A great portion of the Creeks are in great distress and wish to remove as soon as they can sell their located reservations. But it will require 1,500,000 dollars to effect that removal, and support them one year, furnishing what the treaty requires.- From the sales of these lands, this sum was expected to be raised, and the lands are so pledged on the treaty.

'The Creek census shows 22,254 Indians. These Creeks are considerable further from the country to which they are to be removed than the Choctaws, and it is estimated by General Gibson, Commissary General of Subsistence, who superintends this business, that their removal will cost $18 each. The whole sum for removal will be $100,752.

These Indians are entitled to one year's subsistence after they arrive west of the Mississippi. The ratio is estimated at 7 3-4 cents.

The year's subsistence will therefore cost $629,792.

The incidental expenses of removal and subsistence, including the compensation of officers, interpreters, and other persons, incidental transportation, erection of necessary buildings, $50,000.

These Indians are entitled to a rifle, molds, wipers, and ammunition, to each warrior, and a blanket for each family.  The cost of these several articles is $119,841.

These and some other items of expense will make the whole nearly, $1,500,000, as the amount of expenditure which the Creek Treaty requires to be made.' Augusta Courier.




      


From the Vermont Chronicle.

WESTERN CHOCTAWS.

Under date of August 13th, 1833, Mrs. Wright, near Fort Towson, on Red River, makes the following statements respecting

Distressing sickness prevailing among the Choctaws.



The sickness commenced very early in the season. Mr. Wright's whole time has been occupied with the sick. Since the first week in June he has attended on 322 individual cases, some of which were very severe. Many he sees every day, during the violence of the symptoms, and many who are convalescent, for want of suitable food, suffer from relapse. In some families every individual is sick; and indeed almost every individual on Red River is more or less sick. Mr. Hotchkin, with his wife and child, were obliged to remove to our house to be taken care of. Miss Clough, who came to make us a visit is also sick. We were not prepared for this, and are obliged to purchase medicines at the exorbitant prices of this country, Mr. Wright's health is still very poor. It is only by the greatest care that he is able to endure the constant fatigue that he is compelled to undergo.

Our communion season, the first of July, was deferred on account of sickness. Fifty had united with the church at this station, and a number more had been examined of the members of the church in the old nation, and some new ones. Two schools had been commenced on Red River, and two others were to have been opened on Little River, but the sickness has prevented all efforts. Indeed, unless you could see for yourself, you could form no idea of the state of suffering. Except on Red River, among children, there have, as yet been but few deaths, in proportion to the number of the sick. West of the Kiemiebi, it is said, that forty adults have died this season. No cases of spasiaodie cholera occurred, but several severe cases of cholera morbus.- Sickness is commencing on Mountain Fork and on other streams.

The sickness continued till October. Mr. Williams, stationed at Bethabara, on the Mountain Fork of Little River, a northern tributary of Red River, states that all the members of his family had been sick; and that the Choctaws around him were suffering severely.- Many had died, and numbers in his neighborhood, when he wrote, were at the point of death.  The wretchedness of the people, without suitable food, or medicine, or nursing, was heart rending, and altogether beyond description.

Mr. Wilson and Mr. Washburn, from Dwight, made a tour among that portion of the western Choctaws settled on the Arkansas River, of which the former, giving an account under date of October 2, remarks-

We found the Indians in a wretched state, suffering greatly from poverty ' sickness. We did not visit a house, wigwam, or camp, where we did not find more or less sickness, and in many instances the whole family were prostrated by disease. Great numbers of them have died. The astonishing rise of the Arkansas River, which occurred more than a month ago, has swept away their crops of corn and nearly all the little improvements which they had made; their springs failed, leaving them to drink pond or river water, which doubtless, tends greatly to increase the amount of mortality of their sickness. For these reasons the people seem to be very much dissatisfied with their situation and determined to remove to some other part of the country, though they know not where to go to improve their condition. I found ample opportunity in visiting the sick to give away all the medicine I had with me, though many seemed to fear the white man's medicine more than death. They have more faith in conjuring. There has been and still is much sickness through this whole district of country.  For some time past there has not been less than twelve or fifteen sick at a time in the family at Dwight, including pupils in the school. Some have been severely ill but the Lord has spared them.

_________________

From the Presbyterian.

DWIGHT MISSION.

Extract of a letter from Rev. Henry R. Wilson, Jr. a missionary, to his parents, dated Dwight Mission, West Cherokee Nation, October 30, 1833.-

Much Beloved Parents- My communications have generally been long, but at present, I am compelled to be brief. A few days after my last letter, I set out with Br. Washburn to attend a missionary convention at Harmony Station, among the Osages, on the borders of Missouri, more than two hundred miles from Dwight. An express had been sent to me the night before to visit Br. Newton, whose station is from this about a day's ride. He and several members of his family were very ill. Taking this station on our route, we arrived there on the first day. The next morning we left the family much better. After riding all day in the rain, and crossing the Illinois, Neasho, and Verdigris rivers, we arrived late on Saturday evening at Brother Fleming's in the Creek Nation. Found him well, and spent the Sabbath with him preaching to two congregations of Creek Indians. On Monday morning we resumed our journey with the company of Br. Fleming, and in the evening reached the Union Station, among the Osages, where we spent the night.  Here we were joined by Br. Vail.- On the next morning we all set out to cross the vast prairie, which lies between this and Harmony. After travelling all day over the most enchanting grounds, we came in the evening to Hopefield, a little colony of Osages, under the care of Br. Riqua. This devoted missionary has lately lost his wife. He has sent his two little helpless children to the family at Union, and is here laboring alone among these poor degraded beings.

The next morning we pursued our journey, and having travelled forty-five miles, we came to a little creek skirted with timber, which furnished us a spacious hotel, where we put up for the night. After hobbling our horses, we turned them out to pick grass, and then turned our attention towards making provision for ourselves. We had carried with us a wallet containing some bread and meat, and a little bag of ground coffee. After striking fire, we cut down a tree, (having carried an axe with us), and very soon had a comfortable fire. Filling our tin boiler from the creek, we had a cup of very good coffee; and sitting down by the fire we partook of a very delicious supper, every one having an excellent appetite. After supper we enjoyed a precious season in social prayer, being able to read and sing by the light of a hickory fire. Then rolling ourselves in our blankets, we lay down to sleep under the broad canopy of heaven.- Rose next morning, had our breakfast over, our horses caught, and were ready to start at day break. In the evening reached Boudinot, where Br. Dodge is stationed, having travelled seventy miles without seeing a house or any kind of habitation.  Here we found Br. Montgomery and family, who had left Union some days before we arrived there. Spent a pleasant evening in prayer. The next morning we proceeded with the recruit of Br. Montgomery and family, and Br. Dodge, his wife, and two children, in two little wagons. After travelling forty miles, we came to a piece of timber on a small stream of water, where we encamped for the night. After supper we had a prayer meeting; yes, a prayer meeting, after night, in the open woods, and in the midst of the Indian hunting grounds. And oh! how sweet to hear those woods and hills re-echo the praises of Jehovah; and to hear amidst the howling of wolves, and the cries of other wild beasts, the voice of prayer, as it ascended to the God of Israel, and the God of missions. The next evening we arrived safely at Harmony, and found the mission family generally well, anxiously looking for us, and ready to give us cordial welcome. Notwithstanding the fatigue of our journey, the family were called together, and the evening spent i prayer and exhortation. The next day (Sabbath) was a refreshing season. I was called onto preach in the morning and to address the children of the schools in the afternoon; and Br. Washburn preached in the evening.

After having been, for a long season, deprived of such privileges, I was ready to exclaim, 'O how sweet to the soul is communion with saints.' On Monday the convention was opened. A considerable part of the time was spent in religious exercises, and the remainder in the transaction of business. Many subjects of deep interest and of great importance to the cause of missions came before us for consideration, such as the best manner of conducting missionary operations, removing evils which may exist, and disposing of assistant missionaries lately sent on. Many of these things, which the board cannot do, at so great a distance we are obliged to do. The Sabbath, which was the last day of our stay at Harmony, was truly a delightful one.  We partook of the Lord's supper.  I had the blessed privilege of administering the emblem of Christ's precious blood, not only to my brethren in the ministry, and to the lay brethren and sisters at the station, but also to some young Delaware and Osage converts; children who have been taken from the depths of pollution, and brought into the school. Here they have been instructed for some years and lately have given evidence of a saving change. This is but the first fruits of missionary labor in this barren part of the Lord's vineyard. On Monday morning we set out on our journey homeward. As snow had fallen to the depth of several inches, it made the travelling much colder, especially lying out on the frozen ground at night. But the Lord prospered us, and on Saturday evening we reached Br. Fleming's and spent the Sabbath with him. On Monday evening at 9 o'clock we arrived here, having travelled sixty miles that day, without food for ourselves or horses.  During the two days I have been here, I have bee kept busy riding to see several sick persons in the neighborhood.  I am just starting again for the Choctaw Nation, in order, if practicable, to have an interview with them, and form the preliminaries for commencing a mission among them. Perhaps I may be back in eight or ten days.  Write to me, as usual, at this place.  My health is as good at present as it ever was.  As thy day is, so shall thy strength be. Please remember me to all my Christian friends.- Tell them to hold up my hands in prayer by prayer, as those of Moses were stayed. I must stop. Farewell.

Your affectionate and dutiful son.

HENRY G. WILSON, Jr.




      


From the New Hampshire Sentinel

We believe we did not give 'the decision of the Supreme Court' as one of the reasons for 'the little ground of hope for the relief of the Cherokees.' That decision was favorable-but everything else appears to us, even now, to be against hope. The 'sons of George Washington' have become degenerate-they looked on with apathy to see solemn treaties violated by 'the government', concentrated in an individual, in the Cherokee case, and we fear they will look on with equal apathy to see the rights of a portion of our own people trodden under foot. Congress, it is true, have passed a law which

should protect the Cherokees,-but it will not be enforced. The President thinks only of their 'political annihilation'- and with the majority he can no more think wrong, than act wrong:-and he thinks and cares no more about permitting Georgia to strip the Cherokees of their land, in the face of treaties, than he does of taking from the bank their right to the public deposits, or oppressing to the utmost of his power, all who do not pay homage to him and his irresponsible cabinet. The Cherokees cannot 'rely for protection' we fear, upon the present Congress. It is an unfortunate period in our political history: we have no time to attend to 'the eternal principles of right and rectitude.' The faith of the Republic is 'emphatically behind a black cloud.' 'Moral courage (says the late Secretary) is as scarce at Washington, as liberality at Warsaw.' -and we confess we see but little to choose between Nicholas in his unfeeling treatment of the Poles, and Jackson in his unfeeling treatment of the Cherokees. The Poles, it is true, are yoked up and sent to Siberia, while the Cherokees are only induced to go West, by stripping them of their rights and their property. It will, we trust, be the work of a future administration, by practicing on the 'principles of right and rectitude,' to impair the errors-the wrongs-as far as they can-of the present.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, FEBRUARY 22, 1834

The Communications over the signature of Oconestota on the proceedings of the Georgians against the Cherokees, and the matter of facts set forth in them, we take pleasure in communication to our readers, as from the pen of a gentleman strictly devoted to truth and justice.

_____________________

GREAT AGENT

A gentleman (Col. Springer) under appointment of the Governor of Georgia, arrived at this place a few days since, to carry the provisions of the late law which we published, into effect, or to drive Indians from their improvements in certain cases, and white men from Indian lots.  He has given notice to several white men resident here on Indian lots, to leave by the 1st of March. This order embraces our foreman, and we presume, intended to muzzle the liberty of our press, but as he is employed by the Nation his continuance we hope, cannot be construed to the forfeiture of lots by individuals.

His honor of the palace presents the most stupendous appearance of the race of human beings that we have seen in the southern climate. His weight is 350 pounds. Can the small voice of justice come from this great man? Poh!

_____________________

The remarks of the New Hampshire Sentinel we have copied into our paper, expressive of his sense of prostration of the American faith by the political sons of George Washington. We have been for several years past, dragging heavily our claims before the Government for protection, as I under the feet of the proud Georgians, as this course was the only alternative, and the lesser evil, it was pursued with the anticipations of our success. A Government that has no time to attend to justice, and struggling as it is to live without laws is certainly a miserable authority to redress the wrongs of the oppressed. But the Indian maxim, 'retreat not before the enemy is seen,' has enabled us to fight the political battle, and we have gained a signal and intellectual victory. If we are to be robbed after this, physical power and corruption will have to accomplish it. We are in the path of duty.

________________

We have been permitted to make the following extract of a letter from one of the delegation from this Nation, to a gentleman of this place.

'Washington City, Jan 15, 1834.

'We arrived at this place on the evening of the 8th inst. worn almost out with fatigue and loss of rest. Having travelled night and day, the roads as bad as they can be, we travelled from Knoxville to Charlottesville in Virginia, eight days and nights, and slept but eight hours in the time, and that was at the Boatyard in Tennessee. We have had one upsetting in the stage on the way, fortunately none were hurt much, the horses, after the stage upset ran off with the forewheels of the stage, we had of course, to walk to the next stand, two miles, half leg deep in mud. We have indeed been both fortunate and unfortunate, broke down four stages, and upset once, still we persevered and got along without any material accident of a serious nature.

On yesterday we went and paid a visit to the President, Secretary, 'c. The Secretary appeared, quite friendly, so was the President, we had no conversation with the President touching the affairs of the Nation, we merely called in to see him, he was very busily engaged with Mr. Woodbury and Taney. Mr Herring and us had some conversation, touching the privilege granted to emigrants to sell their possessory title to citizens of the United States, thereby introducing intruders into the country; he stated he did not know of any such privilege being granted by the department. Consequently Major Curry and the Agent must have given and allowed the privilege within themselves, to encourage emigration, for the Department denies knowing anything of any order being granted.'

_______________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

SIGNS OF THE TIMES

Mr. Editor:-The Indian Bill, passed at the last session of the Georgia Legislature, deserves some notice, not because of its great importance, but in order that the public may understand its various designs, and the extent of the robbery which it is intended to commit upon the innocent, helpless, and much injured Cherokees. For, altho' the public generally, cannot help seeing that the ultimate design of the bill, is the expulsion of the Cherokees from the lands of their fathers, yet it is impossible for those not particularly acquainted with the local situations of the people in this country, to understand some of its most obnoxious features. Indeed, sir, had it not been for the law makers, and law suggesters (sic), who went to Milledgeville, from the Nation, the Legislature would never have thought of some sections of the Act. So soon as it was ascertained that the Union party, as they most inappropriately stile themselves, had a majority in the Legislature, away went the land speculators to dictate laws for their own aggrandizement, at the expense of the liberties and property of the citizens of this Nation. So various and numerous were the interests to be served, that it was very difficult matter for the Union gentlemen to please themselves! This was the cause of the things being on hand so long, and undergoing so many revolutions.

The first thing that arrests our attention on looking at the 'critter' is the great disproportion betwixt its forehead and its other parts! It somewhat resembles the image, Nebuchadnazzer saw in visions of the night.  The head was of previous gold, but the feet of iron and mud! But the Georgians and the 'Gineral' too, will continue to call things by the wrong name, in spite of all the spelling books and dictionaries Webster can make!

The next thing that diverts me is, the many sorts of folks spoken of in the bill-'White men, white men claiming the privileges of an Indian, Indian, descendant of an Indian, persons of color and negro, 'c., 'c. And the various relations, these different classes of persons sustain to the State, and to each other is not less diverting! No wonder the Legislature labored long and hard in bringing forth the indescribable monster.

The two first sections of the act are devoted to white men married to Cherokee women, who have been the objects of the cruel envy and hatred of the Georgians, ever since they failed in getting more land from the Cherokees, 'peaceably and on reasonable terms.' One would suppose it was time to let these honest and industrious men alone! What new sin have they been guilty of, that their civil and personal rights should again be outraged? Why, they thought it best not to vote for these very consequential gentlemen, who cry 'union, union' and at the same time live in the daily practice of a nullification, which pays no respect to any laws human or divine.  These two sections, it seems then, were designed for vengeance.

Next comes the case of fee simple and life estate reserves. The Georgians use to think that white men and the missionaries prevented the Cherokees from gratifying their insatiable appetites for gold and land, but having gotten out of that notion, they are now jealous of our rulers, some of whom belong to the class of reservees. They no doubt, imagine that if the reservees can be gotten out of the way, or they can get them and their descendants involved, they can manage the balance to their own liking. It is true that some of our people thought they could live among the Georgians, and accordingly remained on their improvements which fell within the ceded parts of the Nation. But it was not long till their land was surveyed and gambled for! Many of them were literally robbed of their improvements, and others were lawed(sic) and tormented in various ways, until finally they all fled to their own country and people for refuge. But these lustful persons are not yet satisfied, and I fear never will while there is a red man on the face of the earth.

But the legislature, in the most of their wrath and covetousness, pretend to make some provision for a part of the Cherokees.  But why do they rob in part, those whose rights they pretend to acknowledge? Why take away all their improvements made previous to 1830 and also those not on adjoining lots? Now under the provisions of a former legislature, hundreds of acres of land were improved on the lots reserved, which by the present law is taken away. This is a cunning and easy way to get large and desirable farms! And so it seems we have been at the labor and expense of building mills and fine houses, and clearing thousands of acres, of our best land, just for the accommodation of a set of robbers, under the command of St. Lumpkin and Andrew the 1st! Now if the United States will submit to all this, farewell, farewell to American liberty!

OCONESTOTA






      


INDIANS

From the Palladium

I have inserted in this number of the Palladium, the Message of John Ross, the principal Chief, of the Cherokee Indians, to the General Council of that tribe, convened at Red Clay, the 5th of 10th mo. last.  And immediately following it, I have inserted the paragraph of President, Andrew Jackson's Message, relating to the Indian tribes, showing his strong desire to force them from their rightful homes and birthplace. In this extract we see that Jackson says, in relation to this diabolical scheme, that 'It is to be hoped that those portions of two of the southern tribes, which in that event will present the only remaining difficulties, will realize the necessity of emigration, and will speedily resort to it.' Here he says as much, as that it is to hoped that they will be forced into the 'necessity' of removing; for they, (the Cherokees in particular) are determined not to remove unless forced  into the 'necessity' of doing so, and this, Andrew Jackson well knows. And see how insultingly he speaks of them where he says, 'they have NEITHER THE INTELLIGENCE, the INDUSTRY, THE MORAL HABITS, NOR THE DESIRE OF IMPROVEMENT, WHICH ARE ESSENTIAL TO ANY FAVORABLE CHANGE IN THEIR CONDITION!!'

Hear him again: 'ESTABLISHED IN THE MIDST OF ANOTHER AND A SUPERIOR RACE and WITHOUT APPRECIATING THE CAUSES OF THEIR INFERIORITY OR SEEKING TO CONTROL THEM THEY MUST  NECESSARILY YIELD TO THE FORCE OF CIRCUMSTANCES AND ERE LONG DISAPPEAR'!! Such unholy 'tyranny I scarcely ever saw before.' 

'Superior Race' !!!!! I suppose Andrew Jackson thinks he is of that 'SUPERIOR Race' of beings, while it is well known by men of learning, possessed of unprejudiced minds, that there is no race of men, in the known world that are superior to the North American Indians, both in agility of body, and the intellectual powers of mind.  And had they been born and circumstanced as favorably for their mental and scientific improvement, and surrounded with the other necessary and favorable circumstances, as we have been, it is believed that they would have been at this time the brightest and most enlightened people on the globe. I suppose Andrew Jackson thinks that the people away here towards the east, will believe what he says about this 'interesting subject;' but he need not deceive himself in this way; for he may rest assured that every line he writes against our red brethren, that comes before the world, raises the virtuous indignation of thousands of our most rational  citizens, who are opposed to, ROBBERY, TYRANNY and SLAVERY. And according to the best information that I am able to obtain, Andrew jackson is robbing this oppressed people of their lands and their liberties, and by his agents tyrannizing over them contrary to law, and numerous treaties, which the Indians only ask for the fulfillment of, and thus he is forcing them into the wilderness, and into a state to them, no better than slavery; where they will no doubt be accounted intruders upon the lands of other tribes of Indians, with whom they may ere long be involved in conflicting and bloody wars. And more than this, I have never heard that A. Jackson ever claimed any title to one inch of ground west of the Mississippi, let alone being the owner of it, without which he has no more right to give to the Indians who are on the east side of this river, the land that lie at the west of it, than I have to take his beds from under him and give it to an Indians.- But so it is, a tyrant in power is disregardless (SIC) of right, except where it suits his own unhallowed purpose, and covetous cravings. And amidst the indignant feeling that voluntarily arise in my breast when reflecting on these things I am utterly astonished to think that a nation like this, boasting of its wisdom, virtue, justice, philanthropy, and freedom, to place at its head, and to hold the reigns of government, a man who possesses no more wisdom or philanthropy than Andrew Jackson does; a man who has been a military tyrant and withal a slave holder, and a man who is guided so much by and under the influence of passion as what he is, and who is in no  wise qualified to preside over the affairs of the nation.- And at this time there are thousand who used to 'hurrah for Jackson,' who are now sick enough of his administration.




      


From the New York Evening Star

BLACK HAWK

Life of Ma-ka-lai-me-she-kai-klak or Black Hawk.- Pp155- This long promised narrative, dictated from the mouth of the warrior himself, and authenticated by the affidavit of Antoine Leclair, U. S. interpreter for the Sacs and Foxes, has just issued from the press at Cincinnati.  We have seldom read any work of deeper interest, or more absorbing incidents of romantic bravery and thoughts and sentiments, that might do honor to man of whiter skin than the chivalrous subject of these memoirs. He utters his opinions without fear of favor, and paints the story of his wrongs and sufferings, and heroic achievements in the simple and unaffected language of truth, which, tho' lacking doubtless the spirit of the original, must make a lasting, and we hope a salutary impression upon the minds of our countrymen. It is the first well authenticated manifesto probably that ever emanated from so high a source, in behalf of those miserable remnants of a gallant race, whom the time of population, and the rapacity of the white man, are rapidly exterminating from the soil of which they were the rightful owners. Black Hawk has inscribed his work to General Atkinson. The original dedication is a curious specimen of the language. He commences then with his pedigree, which, like that of others of royal lineage, is lost in the obscure legends of antediluvian tradition-till we come down to his great grandfather, Na-na-ma-kee, or thunder, then ruling with consulate ability the warlike tribe of Sacs, who at that time occupied the present city of Montreal. This chief through the device of a supernatural dream, in which he pretended that his destiny, like the 'line of Banquo' was foretold to him by a white spirit, persuaded his father to abdicate in his favor, when the 'great medicine bag,' or sacred emblem of imperial authority was accordingly transferred to him, and he became the head and founder of the nation who spread over the mountains and lakes of the northwest, where they have long flourished.  To give them a more exalted conception of his power, he professed, like Jupiter, to hold the bolts of heaven at his command, and on the occasion of a tremendous thunder storm, which set fire to some towering pine trees, he lighted a torch from the burning flame, and said that should be the holy symbol of their tribe,(as in the modern Gebber fire worshipers of Persia) that must never be extinguished. Hence his name of Thunder. And we may remark, on passant, that this tradition, which smacks of oriental, origin, seems to give plausibility to the Mitchillian theory of the Asiatic origin of all our Indian population, as much so as their Kamschatka dog, and Chinese physiognomy, so striking in the Esquimaux, that one of them who met a Chinese sailor at this post, some years since called him his brother. Black Hawk is now 67 years old, born at Rock River.  When he was yet a youth of fifteen he boasts of having scalped more of his enemies almost than the redoubtable Falstaff encountered, and this precocious courage it was, he says, and which all their squaws foster and nourish, that raised him so rapidly in the estimation of his people. With seven braves, as he called them, using Napoleon's phraseology, he contended while yet a boy, with 100 Osage warriors. He seems to think that warlike deeds are the highest motive of human ambition-despises civilian pursuits, and professes to have had no other ambition but this single passion, and the elevated and chivalrous sentiments it inspire, of generosity to vanquished-revenge for the injured-succor to the helpless, and the most scrupulous honor in all his transactions.

These virtues being, as he most properly argues, compatible only with a lofty sense of courage. He invites scrutiny into the whole course of his life, denies that he ever scalped a female or child, or did other actions that would tarnish his reputation, which, he several times repeats, is dearer to him than life. His assertions do sometimes seem to savor a little of gasconading, but the romantic celebrity he has long since attained, leaves us no room to suppose that there can be anything of the Munchausen or Major Longbow in his sentiments. We mistake the true character of the Indians.  They are governed by strong natural impulses; by their unsophisticated passions and feelings in all their native force; by the social relations of life rather than by any arbitrary and artificial regulations, which grow out of the conventional agreements of civilized society, and which, under the infinite variety of combinations they assume, often completely metamorphose the character. They are gregarious and indeed seem to love to congregate together.  By Black Hawk's representations, they are not by any means a wandering race of Bedouin Arabs they worship their homes and their altars. Nothing, next to the battle axe, seemed so dear to him and his nation, as the grave of their forefathers, and the cherished hope of reposing in the same tomb with them. They pray to the Great Spirit, mourn over their dead in solitude and fasting, and nothing can be more touching than the frequent recurrence he makes to the dreaded separation to which he saw they were doomed from the hills where the ashes of their friends and relatives were moldering. Here there posterity for more than a century had lived in the midst of abundance, and in the most uninterrupted happiness; in winter pursuing the chase of the deer upon their hunting grounds; in spring, returning with their venison and rich peltries to the villages; while their squaws and old people were preparing the fields for corn and vegetables; and when autumn came, feasting on its fruits, recounting over their exploits, and mingling to the rude music of the drum and its vocal accompaniments, the athlete sports of the war dance and race. Until, by the nefarious treaty which, without their knowledge or authority, was made in 1804, they found themselves suddenly disfranchised of their beautiful bottom lands, extending for hundreds of miles up the Mississippi. The greedy devouring squatters came and wormed themselves into their very villages; took possession of their fields and wigwams; maltreated their squaws, and claimed the soil as their own purchased property! Well may we exclaim with Black Hawk, if this history be true, at their atrocious and inhuman procedures. Soon disputes and conflicts arose; the pale faces with their long knives and war chiefs came to enforce these cruel aggressions, and then the fatal edict of banishment to the barren prairies west of the Mississippi, was announced. Black Hawk swore he would die on the graves of his fathers. The coward, Ke-o-kuk, as he calls him, and who he says could not boast of a single scalp, assented with his party to this degrading submission. Black Hawk fled to The Prophet, and towards the British territory, to obtain their promised assistance from the Winnebagoes, but he was deceived; pursued, with his few hundred warriors and squaws and children by an army of pale faces ten times his number, and after several desperate encounters, in which he speaks despairingly of our troops, was finally conquered. The squaws, he says, always were his partisans in preference to Ke-o-kuk. He had but one wife, and loved he and his children with all the parental and connubial fondness that we can boast of.  Their lead mines and fisheries, and maple sugar, and wild and domestic fruits, were sources of gratification and wealth, to which they must bid adieu. Among their gallapades(sic) was one called the crane dance, when the squaws dressed in the best attire which they had purchased of the traders, and decorated themselves with feathers. He describes, also, the mode of courtship, the lover serenading his mistress with the lute. His military tactics are ambush and stratagem, i.e. kill the enemy and save you own men, not open field fights as the pale faces foolishly do. Such chiefs as recommend this latter system may do to paddle a canoe, he says, but not steer it. He says our New York squaws are very pretty for pale faces. Thought the balloon at Castle Garden went up to the Great Spirit, but declares the ore works were not so splendid as a prairie on fire. The work is full of interesting details, and some of the descriptions highly eloquent.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 2, 1834

We have received some four or five copies of Parley's Magazine, published by Lilly, Wait, ' Col. Boston. Each number contains 16 pages, and nearly as many beautiful wood-cut engravings, illustrative of the subjects treated.  This work, in our opinion, is well adopted to give the youth a durable incentive to a cultivation of the mind.   It is intended for the use of the youth, but it is also highly instructive to the adult reader. This work is published every other Saturday, for the low price of one dollar per annum, in advance. This work being a valuable acquisition for the improvement of youth, we have been induced to publish the circular of this work, in order to enable those who are desirous of imparting useful knowledge to their youth, to subscribe for it. The work can be seen in our office. The editor will act as agent for the publishers.

____________________

'The Evening and the Morning Starr,' after rising with some glory in Independence, Missouri, under the authority of the Mormonites, had not been visible here for several months past, and we presumed it had gone down the dark regions of the west, to rise no more, when we were admonished with a number by the last mail, that the Starr of the two hemispheres, had moved with the revolution, and now arises in the north, in Kerkland, Gauga county Ohio, had at this time O. Coudery, its Editor. We shall publish a chapter from the Starr at some other than in our paper.

________________________

An army of enrolling agents are strolling through the Cherokee country, and probably will be increased to the number of the Georgia Guard, and perhaps with J. A. W. Sanford, at their head, with a drum and two sticks, with which to beat it. The Council continues to be united, notwithstanding these federal pests of our society.

_____________

A LITTLE TROUBLE FOR THE GEORGIANS.

Since the liberation of the Missionaries by Governor Lumpkin, from the penitentiary, the Georgians have in every instance averted to prosecute in their courts against an Indian, a case that might be proper to carry up to the Supreme Court of the United States, by the Cherokee Nation.  The spring term of their Superior Courts are now at hand in the Nation, in which some criminal and civil cases of considerable amount are involved. If the plaintiff's prosecutes which appears to be the only alternative or otherwise back out they will be taken up by appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States and the Georgians might expect to see their law and courts in this Nation pronounced null and void again by the most enlightened judicial tribunal on earth. We expect to lay before our readers in Georgia another able decision of Judge Marshal on the Cherokee question, which we hope will carry convictions to the Georgia officers in this nation, that they had pocketed commissions only for usurpation.

_____________________

In the Message of the President of the United States to Congress in December 1831, in reference to the Cherokees of this nation, the following passage occurs 'that one half if not two thirds of that tribe, will follow the wise example of their more westerly brethren.  Those who prefer remaining at their present homes will hereafter be governed by the laws of Georgia, as all her citizens are and cease to be the objects of peculiar care on the part of the General Government.' It would appear from this passage that the President intended to convey the fact to Congress that the removal of the Cherokees had approached to its consummation, and that two thirds would remove west of the Mississippi. In the report of the Secretary of War on the same subject dated November 16th, 1833, nearly two years subsequent to the Message, and submitted by the President to the present Congress, the Cherokee question as blended in a paragraph on the Chippewas, Ottawas, 'c. the Secretary states, 'it is to be regretted that the same causes which have heretofore prevented of an adjustment of the difficulties of that tribe, and their removal west, yet continue to defeat the efforts of the Government, and no change of political relations have been effected.' But few Cherokees are removed since this pompous annunciation of the President. The truth then has been told at last by the Secretary to the discredit of the Executive Message that difficulties exists and continues to exist to defeat the policy of the Government, and that the relations which the President had transferred and nullified by Georgia, we understand from the Honorable Secretary to say are also unchanged. The course of the Cherokees has been a straight forward one, while the reports of these departments have been conflicting we have had principle and truth to sustain our cause, which we have humbly conceived ere long justice should be granted to us.

Since the extension of Tennessee jurisdiction over a portion of our Nation, great improvements have been made in that quarter by the half-breeds and white men, for speculation on the Government, who have enrolled themselves for emigration. But this act of a few of our citizens gives the General Government no right to lands, as by the article of the last treaty, which we published in our number before last.

_________________

We have obtained the following form of Sheriff's titles to lands which are sold by virtue of judgments from the courts of the State, and given to purchasers of lands lying in the Cherokee country. It sets forth distinctly that the lot sold lies within the 'Cherokee Territory,' and consequently it is incumbered with the Cherokee title to this land. In the legal sense, and indeed there is no other that we can produce, that the sale of this land, and the title given is only such as may be perfected by the extinguishment of the Cherokee title to it. Because it is particularly stated to be 'Cherokee Territory.' This is the condition in which our property is held, sold, bartered, and gambled off by the State of Georgia, and it is to them but a hope, and by extreme oppression of our Nation, to extinguish by treaty, the Cherokee, in order to perfect the Georgia title.

GEORGIA: Murray County.

WHEREAS in obedience to a writ of Fire facias issued out of the Superior Court of the county of Henry at the suit of William Trout against John Ryan; I John Harris, Sheriff of the county aforesaid, did lately seize the lot of Land hereinafter described as the property of the said John Ryan and after being duly and publicly advertised agreeably to law, did on the First day of July in the year Eighteen hundred and thirty-three at the place of public sales in the said county of Murray expose the same at public outcry, when George M. Troup, being the highest bidder, the same was knocked off to him at the price or sum of Fifty dollars.

NOW THIS INDENTURE made the First day of July in the year of our Lord One thousand eight hundred and thirty-three and in the fifty seventh year of the independence of the United States of America, between the said John Harris Sheriff as aforesaid of the one part, and the said George M. Troup of the other part, WITNESSETH, that the said John Harris Sheriff as aforesaid, for and in consideration of the sum of Fifty Dollars to him in hand paid by the said George M. Troup at and before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hath granted, and bargained and sold, and by these presents, doth grant, bargain sell so far as the office of Sheriff authorizes him, unto the said George M. Troup his heirs and assigns, all that Tract or lot of land situate lying and being in the Tenth District of the Third Section of the CHEROKEE TERRITORY, now Murray County known by being lot No. (25) (Twenty-five) containing one hundred and sixty acres together with all and singular the rights, members and appurtenances thereof unto the said Lot of land, being belonging or in any wise appertaining; and also all the estate, right tile, interest property, claim and demand of the said John Ryan in law, equity, or otherwise whatsoever, of, in or to the same: TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said Lot of land and premises, and every part thereof unto the said George M. Troup his heirs and assigns, to the only proper use, benefit and behalf of the said George M. Troup his heirs and assigns forever, in fee simple, in as full and ample a manner as the said John Ryan or his heirs and assigns did or might had held and enjoyed the same, had it not been seized and sold under the execution aforesaid.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the said John Harris hath hereunto set his hand and affixed is seal the day and year first above written.

Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of

________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

SIGNS OF THE TIMES

Mr. Editor:- In our last we noticed some of the most prominent features of the 'Indian bill.' We shall now take a view of some of the little things, contained in this singular instrument.

Some parts of the law were evidently intended to operate upon particular individuals, who stand conspicuous among our people. The section which has reference to a plurality of wives, is one of these special parts of the act, and is truly worthy of those virtuous gentlemen who gave it their sanction. This section looks like it might have been suggested by some cunning fellow, who wished to make a fortune, all at once, by taking another man's wife.  Let that be as it may, it is certainly one of those small matters to which the wise men at Milledgeville condescended.

But there is yet another section, the design of which, the people aborad will hardly understand. Would they ever imagine, that the section prohibiting the Cherokees from hiring white men, 'c., was a political manoeuvre of the union gentlemen? White men living with Cherokees very seldom vote in accordance with the ardent wishes of these shrewd politicians. One clause in this section is generally known in this country by the name of 'Baker's law.' The gentleman, I am told has a mill. I wonder how the Georgians would feel, were we to refuse to grind and saw for them?

The benevolent law-makers, knowing it would be exceedingly difficult for human nature to submit to such a flagrant outrage upon the dearest rights of man, had the precaution to provide for the enforcement of their protective laws. It is now a 'high misdemeanor' in Georgia to defend oneself against the ravages of a noon-day robber! No! Georgians, we do not intend to shed your blood, if we can possibly retain the command of ourselves; but you ought not to forget your stepping place. Recollect, we are only human beings. We care not for your jails--we disregard your Penitentiary. Do not drive us into despair, or we might destroy ourselves to kill the Philistines-better stop in tome-terrible policy, to enforce laws, exceedingly oppressive, by others still more inhuman!

But who is to be the overseer of this marvelous business? A certain Mr. Springer is to spring the triggers and to give us another fire in the spring! The little gentleman has already made his appearing, and is now counseling and preparing for the battle. It seems, however that the first effort our benevolent friend makes, is to persuade us poor unfortunate creature to enroll! I wonder if he is an enrolling agent too? But perhaps this is only his private advice as a friend. He brings the claimant with him and assures us if we enroll we shall have the rent of our improvements one year, besides getting pay from the General Government.- Certainly we must have the most singular rights of any other beings in the world! Well, dear me.

Well, Mr. Editor, I will come to a close, after a few general remarks-

1. Never did I read, in all ancient and modern history, sacred or profane, of a more selfish policy, than the one Georgia has been perusing for several years past. The able decisions of Georgia's own Courts, the luminous and unanswerable decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States; the constitution, laws, and treaties of the same; her own constitution; the past judgment of Heaven, and the fear of death and hell have all failed as yet to stop the Georgians in their lustful race after more land and gold!

2. In this mad career of our government has been trampled under foot; our schools and Churches have been torn to pieces and scattered, our missionaries, and others arrested, chained, condemned, imprisoned and banished, our lands surveyed, gambled for and torn from our possession and to complete the robbery we are next to be cast out of our houses and driven into the woods and swamps to starve. But notwithstanding all this horrible outrage upon our persons and rights and property the great body of the Cherokees are still united and determined at all hazards to see the mater out! I am proud of the virtue, courage and stability of our people.

3. We need not fear. The Judge of all the earth will do right. There is too much virtue, intelligence and enterprise among the Cherokees to come to nothing.

OCONESTA

Feb. 10th 1834




      


CIRKULAR (sic)

To Parents, Teachers and School Committees, and all who feel an Interest in the Improvement of Youth.

IT is not yet quite a year since Parley's Magazine was commenced. During that short period the number of subscribers has increased to 20,000 and the work has received everywhere the most unqualified approbation. It has found its way to thousands of families, and while it has entertained the social circle, its unobtrusive lessons have, we trust, often had a salutary influence  on the juvenile mind and heart. It has also found its way to the school room; and many classes of young pupils have been cheered twice a month by the welcome voice of the teacher bidding them to lay aside, for a few days, the class book, which they have read over and over, perhaps twenty times, and rend the pages of Parley's Magazine. The demand for the work, to be used in schools, is rapidly increasing.

Encouraged by such unexampled success, the Publishers have resolved to render it still more worthy of so liberal a patronage; and not to remit their exertions till they see it introduced into families and schools, throughout the whole length and breadth of the United States.

In this view they have secured new aid in the Editorial department. The late Editor of the Juvenile Rambler, who, in addition to his qualifications as a writer for the young, has the advantage of many years experience as a Teacher, will henceforth assist in conducting it.

We propose to present in the progress of each volume a great variety of interesting and important topics, among which are the following.

1. NATURAL HISTORY-Of beasts, birds, fishes, reptiles, insects; plants, flowers, trees; the human frame, 'c.

II. BIOGRAPHY- Especially of the young.

III. GEOGRAPHY- Accounts of places, manners, customs, 'c.

IV. TRAVELS AND VOYAGES, in various parts of the world.

V. Lively Descriptions of the CURIOSITIES of Nature and Art- in each of the United States,and in other countries.

Volume 1, . LESSONS ON OBJECTS that daily surround Children in the Parlor, nursery, Garden, 'c. Accounts of Trades, and Employments.

Volume 2, . PARTICULAR DUTIES of the YOUNG- to Parents, Teachers, Brothers, Sisters, 'c.

Volume 3, . BIBLE LESSONS AND STORIES

IX. NARRATIVES- Such as are well authenticated- Original Tales

X. PARABLES, FABLES, AND PROVERBS, where the  moral is obvious and excellent.

XI. POETRY adapted to the Youthful capacity and feelings.

XII. INTELLIGENCE- embracing accounts of Juvenile Books, Societies, and Remarkable Occurrences.

Many of these subjects will be illustrated by numerous and beautiful engravings, prepared by the best artists, and selected not only with a view to adorn the work, but to improve the taste, cultivate the mind and raise the affections of the young to appropriate and worthy objects.  We would make them better children, better brothers, better sisters, better pupils,better associates,and,in the end, better citizens.

We beg the friends of education - especially parents and teachers, to view the matter in this light. Let children look upon the pictures, not as pictures merely; but let them be taught to study them. What can be more rich in valuable materials for instructive lessons than a good engraving?

After this brief explanation of our principles and purposes, we ask the cooperation of all who receive this Circular. Will aid us, by your influence in this great work-the formation of mind and character for the rising generation? Will you assist us all in your power in our endeavors to introduce to American schools,and parlors, and firesides, the stories and lessons of Parley's Magazine?

Every single number of the new volume will have a strong paper cover, abundantly sufficient to preserve the work in good order for binding, and for use in schools.

The yearly subscription being but one dollar, our friends will perceive the impracticability of keeping open so many thousand accounts. It is therefore indispensable that we should require payment always in advance.

Two numbers more will close the first year, and we not give this notice that all who desire to continue the Magazine,may signify their intention by a seasonable advance for the second year.

If any of the subscribers should not receive all their numbers, they can request the Post Master of notify us of such as are missing, and they shall be sent again free of charge.

TEN COPIES FREE OF POSTAGE.

To accommodate Associations, Schools, and Individuals for distribution, we will deliver at any Post Office in the United States,  free of postage ten copies to one address for ten dollars remitted to us without cost.

LILLY, WAIT, ' CO. Boston






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 8, 1834

We fear our subscribers have not received our papers regularly since the 25th January. We can assure them that the fault is not ours. There are two mails that arrive at this place every Sunday evening: one from East Tennessee, ' the other from the North, via Laurenceville, Georgia. The Tennessee mail has failed three or four times since that date, while our packages have been accumulating at the Post-office, the Georgia mail is so extremely small that it could not take all the papers directed North and East. The fault may be charged to the contractors.

_________________

CHEROKEE KILLED BY A LAND HUNTER.

Some time last month, near the Alltooney Gold Mines, 35 miles south of this place, Cunnoskeskee, a Cherokee, while hunting, had killed a ground hog (so called here) and had taken a seat on a log to skin it, when a white man, having a gun and looking for a lot, discovered him, and taking the Indian for a deer, with his rifle shot the poor Indian in the back near the spine. The ball penetrated through the stomach, of which he died immediately. The perpetrator made known this circumstance, and with him the Indians proceeded to the place, carried the corpse to the nearest house and buried it. We fear this example will follwed (sic) in order to clear the Indians from this country, as the humane policy enforced otherwise drags very slowly.

__________________

We publish below an instrument of writing, purporting to be an action to recover damages of the Editor of this paper, by Col. Duke, Sheriff of Coweta County, for the publication of an article in which we stated, about the first of July, a criminal attempt had been made by Col. Duke on the persons of two Cherokee females, near this place. The writ has been executed on the editor, and at present, in the custody of the foreman of this paper, a prisoner, in our office, and is held to bail in the sum of one thousand dollars, and white persons only, taken for sureties. The labors of the editor of this paper for the present, will be suspended on account of this case, and probably will not appear again before the 12th of April.

The editor will demand to proceed into trial, if Court can dispense with the rule of Docket term, and by consent of parties, at the first Court, which comes on the last Monday inst.

This case is now managed so as to suppress the liberty of our press, and we regret to state of its success for the present, to the gratification of the whites but brazen faces, to satisfy their cupidities for Indian dirt to please the State of Georgia.

_____________

GEORGIA. Murray County.

To the Honorable, The Superior Court of the County and State aforesaid.

The petition of David Duke, respectfully showeth that Elijah Hicks of the county and State aforesaid, has injured and damaged your petitioner in the sum of ten thousand dollars, for that whereas, your petitioner now is a good, true, honest, just, and faithful citizen of this State, and as such, has always conducted and behaved himself, and until the committing the several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks, as herein after mentioned, was always respected, esteemed, and accepted by and amongst all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of this s\State, to whom he was in any wise known, to be a person of good name, fame, and credit. And, whereas, also, your petitioner hath not ever been guilty or until the time of the committing of the several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks, as hereinafter mentioned, been suspected to have been guilty of attempting to commit the monstrous crime of Rape or any such crime, by means of which said several premises he, your petitioner before the committing of the said several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks, as is herein after mentioned had deservedly obtained the good opinion and credit of all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of this State, to whom he was in anywise known. Yet the said Elijah Hicks well knowing the premises, but greatly envying the happy state and condition of your petitioner, and contriving wickedly and maliciously intending to injure your petitioner in his said good name, fame, and credit, and to bring him into public scandal, infamy and disgrace, with and amongst all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of this State, and to cause it to be suspected and believed by those neighbors and citizens, that your petitioner had been and was guilty of attempting 'the monstrous crime of a rape,' and to subject him to the pain and penalties by the laws of this State, made and provided against, and inflicted upon persons guilty thereof, and to vex, harass, oppress, and wholly ruin him, your petitioner heretofore to wit: on the twenty-second day of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred ' thirty-three, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, and maliciously did compose and publish and cause and procure to be published, of and concerning your petitioner, a certain scandalous, malicious and defamatory libel, containing amongst other things, the false ,scandalous, malicious, defamatory libelous matter, following of ' concerning your petitioner. 'About the first of this month, near this place, Mr. Duke, (meaning your petitioner,) the Sheriff of Coweta County, came to this place, and took lodgings at a tavern of William Tarvin, next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn, on his way he called at a house where there were two women, Mrs. Oosenaly, and Mrs. Foster, both married women, and called for a drink of water, he alighted, and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaly, who being in a delicate condition.' And your petitioner further saith, that the said Elijah Hicks further contriving and intending as aforesaid, to wit: on the day and year aforesaid, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, and maliciously, did publish a certain other false, scandalous, malicious and defamatory libel, of and concerning your petitioner, containing amongst other things, the false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory and libelous matter, following, of and concerning your petitioner, that is to say, 'About the first of this month, near this place Mr. Dukes, Sheriff of Coweta county, (meaning your petitioner,) came to this place, and took lodgings at a tavern of William Tarvin, next day proceeded on his journey, to look for a lot of land he had drawn, on his way he called at a house where there were two women, Mrs. Oosenaley, and Mrs Foster, both married women and called for a drink of water. He alighted, ' found them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley, she being in a delicate condition. Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter.' Meaning thereby that your petitioner had been guilty of the crime of an assault with the intent to commit a rape. And your petitioner saith that the said Elijah Hicks, who then was, and now is the Editor of a public Newspaper, published at New Echota, in the county and State aforesaid, entitled, 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate;' further contriving and intending as aforesaid, afterwards to wit: on the twenty-seventh day of July, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely ' wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully and unjustly, did publish and caused and procured to be published, under the editorial head, in said public newspaper, a certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory, of and concerning your petitioner, containing amongst other things, certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory, and libelous matter, of and concerning your petitioner, as follows, that is to say, 'He (your petitioner) alighted, and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs.Oosenaley.'  Thereby meaning that your petitioner had been guilty of committing the crime of an assault on a Mrs. Oosenaley, with an intent aid commit a rape.

And your petitioner further saith, that the said Elijah Hicks, who then was, and now is the Editor of a public newspaper, published at a place called New Echota, in the county and State aforesaid, known and distinguished by the name and title 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate' further contriving and intending as aforesaid afterwards to wit: on the day and year aforesaid, falsely and wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully, and unjustly did compose and publish, and cause and procure to be published, under the editorial head in said public newspaper, a certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory and libelous matter, of and concerning your petitioner, as follows, that is to say, 'He (meaning your petitioner) attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the persons on Mrs. Oosenaley, who being in a delicate condition. Mrs Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter.' Thereby meaning that our petitioner had been guilty of the crime of making an assault on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley with the intent to commit a rape.

And your petitioner further saith, that the said Elijah Hicks, who then was, and now is the Editor of a public newspaper, printed and published at a place called New Echota, in the county and State aforesaid, which said newspaper is known and called by the name and title of the 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate.' Further contriving and in ending as aforesaid, afterwards, to wit: on the twenty-seventh day of July, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, in the county and State aforesaid, falsely, wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully, and unjustly, did compose and publish, and cause and procure to be published, under the editorial head, in said public newspaper,and under the following caption, to wit: 'Sufferings of Cherokee Ladies.' a certain other false, scandalous, malicious and defamatory libel, of and concerning your petitioner; containing certain other false, scandalous, malicious, defamatory ' libelous matters of and concerning your petitioner as follows 'about the first of this month, meaning the month of July, near this place Mr.Dukes (meaning your petitioner,) the Sheriff of Coweta County came to this place, (meaning New Echota, the place in which the newspaper was, and is published,) and took lodging at a tavern of Wm. J. Tarvin, next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn. On his way he called at a house where there were two women, Mrs. Oosenaley, and Mrs. Foster, both married women, and called for a drink of water. He alighted,and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley, who being in a delicate condition, Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart; a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter. Duke finding his attempt frustrated, took from his coat a pocket book and offered his injured hosts satisfaction. They attempted to destroy his pocket book, and contents, but failed. Duke held in his hand a heavy horse whip, which he used on them poor women with all his force, until Algiers itself would sicken at the stripes he inflicted.  Mrs. Oosenaley presented herself to the magistrate here for redress, and exhibited to him her wounds. But he being a proselyte of the new school, told her he was not the person to relieve her, and that no Indian testimony could be received. The honorable Sheriff has been here since, but no justice for the much abused females.' Meaning thereby that your petitioner had been guilty of two different and distinct assaults on the person of the said Mrs. Oosenaley, with the intent to commit the crime of a rape; and also that your petitioner had been guilt of an assault and battery on the persons of the said Mrs. Oosenaley and Mrs.Foster.

And your petitioner further saith that the said Elijah Hicks who then was and now is the editor and publisher of a public newspaper or Journal printed, published at and issued from a place called New Echota in the county and state aforesaid, which said newspaper or Journal bear the name and title and is entitled the 'Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate' further contriving and intending as aforesaid, afterwards to wit; on the twenty-seventh day of July one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, in a number of said newspaper or Journal dated Saturday the twenty-seventh of July one thousand and eight hundred and thirty-three number twenty-four and volume five,- falsely, wickedly, maliciously, wrongfully, and unjustly did write compose, and publish and cause and procure to be published under the Editorial head in said public newspaper or Journal and under the following pathetic and affecting caption to wit 'Sufferings of Cherokee Ladies,' a certain other false, scandalous, defamatory libel,of and concerning your petitioner containing other false and scandalous malicious defamatory and libellous matters of an concerning your petitioner as follows, that is to say, 'About the first of this month (meaning the month of July) one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three the month in which the said number of the said newspaper bears date, near this place (meaning New Echota in said county and state, the place in which said newspaper or Journal is edited and published by the said Elijah Hicks) Mr. Dukes (meaning your petitioner) the Sheriff of Coweta County came to this place (meaning New Echota) and took lodgings at a tavern of Wm. Tarvin, next day he proceeded on his journey to look for a lot of land that he had drawn, on his way he called at a house where there were two women Mrs. Oosenaley, and Mrs. Foster both married women, and called for a drink of water, he alighted and finding them alone, attempted the monstrous crime of rape on the person of Mrs. Oosenaley, who being in a delicate condition-Mrs. Foster laid hold of his heels and forced them apart-a second attempt was likewise defeated by the latter-Duke finding his attempt frustrated, took from his coat a pocket book, and offered his injured hosts satisfaction, they attempted to destroy his pocket book and contents but failed.  Duke (meaning your petitioner) held in hand a heavy horse whip which he used on the poor women with all his force until Algiers itself would sicken at the stripes he inflicted. Mrs. Oosenaley presented herself to the magistrate here for redress and exhibited him her wounds-but being a proselyte of the New school told her that he was not the person to relieve her, and that no Indian Testimony could be received. The honorable Sheriff has been here since, but no justice for the much abused females.' The said Elijah Hicks Editor and author as aforesaid of the said publication if said public newspaper or Journal thereby meaning that your petitioner had been and was guilty of an assault on the person of the said Mrs. Oosenaley with the intent to commit the crime of a rape, and also meaning that your petitioner had been guilty of the crime of an assault and battery on the persons of the said Mrs. Oosenaley and Mrs. Foster.

By means of the committing of which said several grievances by the said Elijah Hicks as aforesaid, your petitioner hath been and is greatly injured in his said good name, fame, and credit, and brought into public scandal, infamy and disgrace with and amongst all his neighbors, and other good and worthy citizens of the State, in so much that divers of these neighbors and citizens to whom the innocence and integrity of your petitioner, in the premises were unknown have an occasion of the committing of the said grievances by the said Elijah Hicks as aforesaid from thence hitherto suspected and believed, and still do suspect and believe, your petitioner to have been, and to be a person guilty with intent to commit a rape and assault and Battery and have by reason of the committing of the said grievances by the said Elijah Hicks as aforesaid, from thence hitherto wholly refused, and still do refuse to have any transaction, acquaintance, or discourse with him your petitioner, as they before used and accustomed to have and otherwise would have had, all of which has injured and damaged your petitioner in the aforesaid sum of ten thousand dollars.

Wherefore your petitioner brings his suit and prays process may issue requiring the said Elijah Hicks personally or by attorney to be and appear at the next Superior Court to be held in and for the county of Murray, then and there to answer the demand of your petitioner in an action on the case for a libel.

WILLIAM B. COBB.

Plaintiff's Attorney.

GEORGIA-

To the Sheriff of Murray County

GREETING:

David Duke,

vs Case for Libel.

Elijah Hicks

The defendant is hereby required personally or by attorney to be and appear at the next Superior Court to be held in and for the county of Murray on the fourth Monday in March next, then and there to answer the plaintiff's demand in an action on the case for a libel-as in default thereof the said court will proceed as to justice shall appertain.

Witness the Hon. John W. Hooper, Judge of said Superior Court, this 6th day of February 1834.

NELSON DICKERSON,

Clerk.

GEORGIA- Before me John W. Hooper, Judge of the Superior Court of the Cherokee circuit in said State, personally appeared David Duke who being duly sworn, on oath saith, that he is about to commence his action on the case for a libel against Elijah Hicks of the county of Murray, and State aforesaid, and that he had laid his damage at ten thousand dollars, and this deponent further saith that he ha has laid his damage at ten thousand dollars, and this deponent further saith that he has sustained damage of the said Elijah Hicks by reason of the charge made against him by the said Elijah Hicks as set forth in the within declaration in the sum of ten thousand dollars or some other large sum, and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of the whole of some part of said sum unless the said Elijah Hicks is held to bail. This 27th day of January 1834.

DAVID DUKE.

Sworn to and subscribed before me,

JOHN W. HOOPER,

J.S.C.C.C.

The plaintiff David Duke, having made oath that he hath sustained damage of the defendant Elijah Hicks to the amount of ten thousand dollars or other large sums on account of the premises stated in the within declaration and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of the whole, or some part of said sum unless the said defendant is held to bail. It is therefore ordered that the Sheriff do take bail of the said Elijah Hicks in the sum of one thousand dollars, and that the usual proceedings be had thereon.  This 27th day of January 1834.

JOHN W. HOOPER,

J.S.C.C.C.






      


INDIANS.

From the Western Methodist.

ORIGIN OF THE CHEROKEES.

Messrs. Editors.- The curious and inquisitive have long since manifested anxiety to know, from which of Noah's sons, the aborigines of North America have their origin. I feel well convinced, that of this, we shall never be informed certainly; unless He who made of one blood all nations that dwell upon the earth shall condescend to make us a special revelation on the subject.

It is however, allowable I believe, to offer some speculations, built upon hypotheses, and plain matter of fact. On the latter I rely principally, I support of the notions which I shall here advance.

To me at least it is probable that the Indians (as they are commonly called) are the descendants of Shem of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob. Permit me to remark here, that I write directly in reference to the Cherokee tribe, among whom I labored as a missionary one year, and from whom I learned the circumstances and traditions detailed below, which go strongly to support the above supposition. They once had a city of refuge, the site of which could be pointed out-perhaps adjacent, or immediately on the line which divides Tennessee State from North Carolina.  It was called, and is yet known by the name Echota,- ' the beloved,' 'the holy city.'

On this consecrated spot, human blood was not to be shed. It afforded not only protection to transgressors of their own tribe, but prisoners of war were safe if ever they placed their feet on the sacred ground and continued there. 'These six cities shall be a refuge, both for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them; 'c. Numbers, 35th c. 15th v.' The seat of their general council house, after the formation of a written constitution and laws; was called in tenderized recollections of the old New Echota [pronounced E-tsho-tah.]

It is not infrequently the case, in passing through gaps of the mountains, the traveller discovers large heaps of stones; weighing, perhaps from one to five pounds. The Indian tradition of this is, that in times past, when they started on a war, or hunting, and ascended those mountains which overlooked their towns or homes, they would all pray to the Great Spirit, promising if he would keep them, and make their enterprise prosperous and bring them again in safety in that place, that again they would pray unto him and as a covenant, each would take up a stone and cast them in a heap; see Genesis 28th c. 13, and 31, 45, 46. You will doubtless be enabled to discover a very striking similarity between the circumstances related, and the scripture occurrences and facts referred to.

But, after all, some would still object to my supposition,by inquiring how could any of the Israelites ever have reached these shores. To such I would reply, we have every necessary assurance that in the reign of Solomon, they learned to some degree of perfection the art of navigation, one which no doubt they improved until the dispersion of the Ten tribes: when perhaps numbers of them scorning to be subjected to a foreign yoke, embarked, determined to seek and colonize some more peaceful clime. Guarded by divine providence, they ultimately reached this vast continent,- explored its coast, visited its interior, gave it a thin population, in process of time lost the knowledge, in a great degree of God and their duty, of the arts and sciences; and thus became the wandering savages.

A short account of their religion, laws, and customs, will furnish matter for a second communication.

 Lebanon, Jan. 3d. 1834.

[Boudinott, the first President of the American Bible Society, in his 'Star of the West' has traced many coincidences between the customs of the American Indians, and the Israelites.] Ed. Obs.




      


From the Standard of Union

CHEROKEE SOVEREIGNTY

vs

STATE SOVEREIGNTY.

The aspect of affairs in the Cherokee country, is assuming a character and complexion, demanding not only the vigilance of the government, but the sober consideration of every citizen who regards the sovereignty of the state of the rights of the people.

The state of Georgia, a few years since, acting upon her own constitutional sovereignty, determined to distribute that portion of her territory then occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and accordingly it was surveyed; thrown into the wheels of the lotteries--drawn out, and thereby became the property of individuals.

The opposition to this measure, both in and out of Georgia, and the various arguments brought forward to defeat it are very familiar to the writer, and may be spoken of more at large, 'at a more convenient season.'

The measure, however, met the public approbation by an overwhelming majority in the state, and was fully sustained by that gallant and patriotic old citizen, who sits at the head of our General Government.

Thus sustained in her policy, the state proceeded to organize the country, by laying out a number of counties, and a judicial circuit, and to appoint the proper officers of executing the laws of the State.

The counties have elected their officers, and sent their representatives to the Legislature, who have taken their full share in legislating for the state. A Judge of the superior courts was appointed, who has for more than a year, been exercising jurisdiction over the people by state authority, and who is sworn to execute the laws of the state, within its jurisdiction.

Thus organized, we had hoped that the handful of Cherokees who still lingered upon our soil, would either submit quietly to our laws, or accept the boon offered by the General Government, or removing to a country, far better suited to their habits and pursuits.

Of one thing at least, we felt confident; that however restless the Indians might be; whatever steps their counsellors might advise-whatever interest, Wirt, Webster, Freelinghuysen, Henry Clay, and the Supreme Court might take in the matter, the officers appointed by the state, and charged with the execution of her laws, would under no circumstances be instrumental in continuing old difficulties or raising up new ones; but in this we have been sadly disappointed by recent intelligence from that country.

A bill of injunction drawn up at the instance of Walter Adair and John T. Adair, charging that they are natives of the Cherokee Nation of Indians; and asserting the Cherokees to be an independent nation, has been sanctioned and served upon Wm. G. Springer, Esq. the state's agent for the purpose of restraining him from executing an important act of the last legislature whereby many good citizens who are entitled to grants for their lands, will be kept out of possession, and excluded from all the benefits intended by the act in question.

But the evil will not stop here. If the State's agent is to be arrested in the discharge of his duties because the Cherokees are a sovereign nation, every individual who has drawn or purchased land in that territory, may expect a similar process against himself in behalf of some sovereign Cherokee who may please to set up his claim.

It is time for the people to look to their interests-to vindicate their rights and stand by, and support those, who are willing to execute the laws.

The Judge may grant injunction,- he may make decrees,- he may send out attachments for contempts,--he may imprison our citizens. 

If he can; but there is a spirit among the white men of Georgia, that will look down Judge Hooper and his Indian injunction; the Executive will do his duty and the people will sustain him. He will maintain their rights with firmness and independence-and they will stand by him with strength and spirit.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 15, 1834

We announced last week the suppression of the liberty of our press, by the arrest of the editor by the Georgia officers, and that our paper would not be resumed before the middle of April. The editor having obtained his enlargement at the cost of 60 miles riding, and a bond of two thousand dollars. We shall continue as usual,the regular publication of our paper.

__________________

To those persons who have been and continue to be, in arrearage for subscriptions to this paper, we would give a special motive that our pecuniary embarrassments are such that we greatly need advances from them. This request is a matter of right, and not a seeking from the liberality of our friends, that which does not belong to us. We have become in arrears to our printers, and even if one fourth of what is owing us could be liquidated, our embarrassments could be removed. We hope that the printers voice will not be heard as an old song, but as one struggling for liberty, and so sacred in times past to our white brothers, can only be sustained by a small amount of funds, at the present time. All remittances must be post paid to our risk, to the post office at this place, or by safe private conveyance.

____________________

The humane policy of Georgia, a few days since, seemed to move in a fine gale. Some few Cherokees had enrolled for emigration, residing beyond the Coosa River, and were notified by the enrolling or rather oppressing agents, that a time had been fixed for their departure west of the Mississippi. Three teams of six horses each from the Agency, had been dispatched for these Cherokees and their baggage, 90 and 100 miles distant.  The transporting wagons obtained some baggage and pots, and perhaps had a dozen of their subjects. On their return, the Indians broke ground-the wagons passed here in half speed on their way to the agency to report themselves empty, as the humane policy is of justice.

______________________

THE LAST OF THE MISSIONARIES.

On Tuesday 10th inst. the Rev. Samuel Worcester ' family removed from their residence in this place, to Brainard, within the limits of Tennessee, Cherokee Nation. The cause of his removal is in consequence of the operation of the late law of Georgia, on white men residing on Cherokee lots. His residence was on a lot embracing several Indian improvements, and is continuance thereon, as by the law would have prejudiced the rights of the Indians to their improvements. The Governor's agent, we are informed, had addressed him an order for his removal, and having already obtained a decision in the Supreme Court, to his right of residence in the Cherokee country, and unavailing to him, perhaps the case was not unlike a man setting out on a long journey on land, and arriving at the ocean, could proceed no farther. Mr. Worcester's improvement was of considerable value, and we expect will be occupied by his oppressors. Rumor states that he expects to proceed on to the Arkansas Cherokees, on a mission, and may be the case of leaving without being dispossessed. If otherwise, the Cherokees had permitted him to reside here and preach, he should have sustained his ground until an authority had taken the premises from him.

__________________

'Washington City, Feb. 19th, 1834

'The delegation had a long conversation with the President, the day before yesterday, respecting the abominable law lately passed by the Legislature of Georgia. He professes to believe that Georgia will never attempt to enforce it; because, he said that it will bring the question growing out of it before the United States Courts, and there a decision will be made against Georgia, and then he will be compelled by duty to see it executed to our protection on the lands.  I remarked to him that the Georgians had already commenced enforcing the law, and that the Governor was issuing grants for lots of land authorized by that act, and I did not know at that moment whether my family was yet living in my house or had been turned into the woods-that the object was evidently to expel the Cherokees from the chartered limits of Georgia, and if the present state of things will be permitted to go on, that death itself would be preferable to existence. He said that the Cherokees had a right to live on the land as long as they pleased, and that they will never be drove (sic) off; but he could not do anything for them, until the Court should make a decision on the question.  That the power of deciding on the constitutionality of the laws, belong to the judiciary, and that his own power extended only to see that they were executed.'




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

SIGNS OF THE TIMES-UNION,

STATE RIGHTS AND NULLIFICATION.

Mr. Editor,- There is a great talk in our country at this time about Unionism, State Rights, and Nullification. This is something new to us Indians. The song formerly was, gold, and land for breakfast, land and gold for dinner, and gold and land for supper. But since the covetous, 'critters' have gotten possession of these alluring objects, they have introduced all their political squabbles amongst us. And were we all destitute of a knowledge of the English language it would be utterly impossible for us even to understand the sublime and profound mysteries of Georgia politics! Indeed, it is a very hard matter for those who understand the English language, to grasp their refinements. However, though it may be exceedingly difficult for the Cherokees to comprehend the theories of the above named isms, yet, when their Georgia advocates put them into practice, we are compelled, by sensible demonstrations, to understand them to perfection! Yes, we have been compelled, by a lawless guard, by chains, by imprisonment, by inhuman legislation, by robbery, and by death, to understand the meaning of Georgia 'Unionism'! They have appealed to all our senses--seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and feeling! And after having made so many sacrifices, and suffered so much to become acquainted with the thing, we, unfortunately, are not yet much enamored with its supereminent excellencies! And with a very great change in the practical part of the business, I fear our attachment will never be very warm. But when did this Union business commence? In 1827, if my memory serves me correctly, the Georgia legislature said, 'the land is ours, and we must and we will  have it.' The 'Gineral' influenced by some motive or other, (perhaps the Major knows) joined the Union and took the lead. When South Carolina began to nullify he uttered his thunders, and said 'the Union must be preserved.' The Clarkers (with a few honorable exceptions) took the hint, and commenced the song of 'Union Union,' but, alas! though the tune was different, they continued to dance the same old jig!  When any one not well skilled in the Union science, cries inconsistency! the matter is soon explained by a certain game called (by the Major) 'hocus pocus.' By this game it can be shown that, the 'Gineral's' submissionism in South Carolina, his Union nullificatioin in Georgia,and his Unionism in Alabama, are all one and the same thing? But this 'hocus pocus' business does not satisfy the Cherokees. So long as the Union tree bears such bad fruit in the south, we are compelled to believe, that there is either a toad in its heart or a worm in its root.

As to nullification and State rights, we know but little, because we have experienced but little of their effects as yet.  But from what we have seen, and heard, and felt of their operations, we would judge they were not so terrible as Unionism. Nullification (modest creature) says, 'a part will do,' but Unionism (greedy dog) says 'All, All'-the whole hog!

From what has been said on these all absorbing topice, the following conclusions may be drawn:-

1. That Unionism in Georgia, is vastly different from what it is in other parts of the United States, and if we could only get things called by their correct names these hard times it would no doubt go by the name of Executive nullification, or Union nullification. For the most distinguishing characteristic of the Georgia Unionists is, their combination with the President to nullify the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States ' to make his will and good pleasure 'the supreme law of the land!' In their tyrannical career the legislative and judicial departments of Government have been set aside, and the Executive department most wretchedly perverted.  And yet they have the assurance to talk about the Union!

2. That nullification though terribly denounced by the President and his Union friends in the South, is an immaculate virgin compared with Georgia Unionism!  It may be a dangerous extreme, and should of course be the last alternative. It is a wonderful instrument, and should only be used to bring tyrants to their senses. But it requires considerable muscular power to apply it successfully. If we only had the requisite force, it would be the very thing itself to apply to these Union fellows, who are taking our houses and farms from us, and dragging our people in chains to the West.

OCONNESTOTA.

March 5th 1834.




      


NOTICE.

ALL persons are cautioned against trading for a note given by me, payable to Thomas House, for eighty or eighty-five bushels of corn, due in October or November last: and as the consideration for which the note was given has failed, I am determined not to pay the said note unless compelled by law.

THOMAS B. WATIE.

March 8th 1834






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MARCH 29, 1834

THE TYRANTS MASTER PIECE.

We have often recurred to passing events, and especially that of the conduct of the enrolling agents who are infesting the homes of the Cherokees. The number of these resident, special, enrolling assessing and State agents with an interpreter, to each we are unable to give. They move like the swine that we have sometimes seen, to one camp, and finding nothing for his feed, would move to another in search of his food there and so on. Against the linguists in this case, we shall make no very serious objections, for they are bought up with the same high prices, as the President do his secretaries, by sending them on a mission to save their opposition. When night fall come, intellect is at work, and if there be any genius at the bottom not yet exhausted, it is invented for the deception of his Cherokee neighbor. Away they go by times, and hurried to the house of the forlorn Cherokee widow. The white and tawny faces, then tells her that she must enroll- the President is our friend-he will give your full value for your improvement-if you refuse, you have no option-the Georgians will take your property. This is dreadful news to the woman, but does not enroll. Away they go! they come next to the poor man's house, and tells him your houses are worth a heap of money, if you do not enroll you loose your rights.  He is then threatened with the dreadful Georgians, but this is likewise a failure.- Here they go again, and at last comes to a Spaniard, who wishing to go to Texas, readily signs papers that are only binding on the Indians, and then it is said that the Cherokees are enrolled. This is the manner in which these agents are proceeding to the great annoyance of the Indians who are trying to plant corn for the subsistence of their families. It is our desire that these pests be withdrawn for the present, to give the oppressed Cherokees, a few days rest for the planting of their crops.  These agents are without principle, and are as much opposed to justice, as the good and the evil principles are opposed to each other. This is tyranny exercised to the utmost limits.

__________________

DEATH OF WILLIAM WIRT.

The resolutions of the distinguished Counsellors of the Supreme Court of the United States, to offer their tribute of respect to the character of the deceased, will be found in our columns. These proceedings would have appeared in our last, but from the crowd of other matter, was accidentally left out.

MR. WIRT was counsel for the Cherokees to the Supreme Court, in the great case of the Cherokee Nation against the State of Georgia, for an injunction to restrain that State from exercising jurisdiction over the Nation. Altho' this profound counsel did not obtain this case by which to relieve the Cherokees; it resulted in the development of the relations between the General Government and the Indian tribes, and to the not little division of the Court in refusing its injunction.

The second case was that of the Missionaries against Georgia. The former being residents of the Cherokee country, the Cherokee rights in course were involved in the discussion, and the able opinion of the Court which declared the laws of Georgia, unconstitutional and void.

Mr. WIRT was not only the legal and able counsel of the Cherokees, but he was likewise their most sincere and faithful friend. To the irreparable loss of this great and good man, we have to express our deep sensibility, and to cherish the highest respect for the character of the deceased, we present our paper in the usual badge of mourning. (Note: all of the columns beginning on page two are lined in black border)

__________________

TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

At a meeting of the gentlemen of the Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States, and of the Officers of the Court, at the Court Room in the Capitol, on Tuesday the 18th inst., the Hon. B. F. Butler, Attorney General of the United States, was called to the Chair, and the Hon. Jno. Sergeant was appointed Secretary: whereupon

Mr. Webster rose and addressed the Chair as follows:

It is announced to us that one of the oldest, one of the ablest, one of the most distinguished members of this Bar, has departed this mortal life. WILLIAM WIRT IS NO MORE? (sic) He has this day closed a professional career, among the longest and the most brilliant, which the distinguished members of the profession in the United States have at any time accomplished.

Unsullied in everything which regards professional honor and integrity, patient of labor, and rich in those stores of learning, which are the reward of patient labor and patient labor only; and if equalled, yet certainly allowed not to be excelled, in fervent, animated, and persuasive eloquence, he has left an example, which those who seek to raise themselves to great heights of professional eminence, will hereafter emulously study.  Fortunate indeed will be the few who shall imitate it successfully!

As a public man, it is not our peculiar duty to speak of Mr. WIRT here.- His character, in that respect belongs to his country, and to the history of his country. And, sir, if we were to speak of him in his private life, and in his social relations, all we could possibly say of his urbanity, his kindness, the faithfulness of his friendships, and the warmth of his affections, would hardly seem sufficiently strong and glowing to do him justice, in the feeling and judgment of those, who separated, now forever from his embraces, can only enshrine his memory in their bleeding hearts.

Nor may we, sir, more than allude to that other relation, which belonged to him, and belongs to us all, that high and paramount relation, which connects man with his Maker! It may be permitted us, however to have the pleasure of recording his name, as one who felt a deep sense of religious duty, and who placed all his hopes of the future in the truth and in the doctrines of Christianity? (sic)

But our particular ties to him, were the ties of our profession. He was our brother, and he was our friend. With talents, powerful enough to excite the strength of the strongest, with a kindness both of heart and of manner capable of warming and gaining the coldest of his brethren, he has now completed the term of his professional life, and of his earthly existence in the enjoyment of the high respect and cordial affections of us all. Let us, then, sir, hasten to pay to his memory the well deserved tribute of our regard. Let us lose no time in testifying our sense of our loss, and in expressing our grief, that one great light of our profession is extinguished forever.

Mr. Webster concluded by submitting the following resolutions, which were read, unanimously adopted, viz;

Resolved, That the Members of this Bar feel, with sensibility, the loss which the profession, and the country, have sustained in the death of WILLIAM WIRT, a member of this Bar, ' heretofore for many years, Attorney General of the United States.

Resolved, That we cherish the highest respect for the professional learning of the deceased, for his varied talent and ability, for the purity and uprightness of his professional life, and for the amiable and excellent qualities which belonged to him as a man.

Resolved, That to testify these sentiments we will wear the usual badge of mourning for the residue of the term.

Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to offer to his bereaved and afflicted family, the condolence and sympathy of his brethren of the Bar and to request that he may be interred in the City of Washington, and that his professional brethren be permitted to raise a suitable monument to his memory.

Resolved, That Mr. Southard be requested to pronounce a discourse, before the Bar, upon the professional character and virtues of Mr. WIRT. at sometime during the present term, as may suit its convenience.

Resolved, That the Attorney General do move the Court that these resolutions entered on minutes of their proceedings.

The following gentlemen were appointed by the Chair to compose the Committee ordered by the fourth resolution: Mr. Swann, Mr. Jones, Mr. Webster, Mr. Clay, Mr Southard, Mr. Sergeant, Mr. Peters.




      


FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

The Emigration.

Mr. Editor,- The Emigration begins to assume a very important aspect not because of the great number of its disciples, or the character of those who have turned their faces to the setting sun; but in consequence of the deceptions and oppressive measures resorted to, in order to tempt and force our people from the land of their birth. When the benevolent policy of the General Government was revived, under the administration of John Q. Adams, the Indians were to be treated as human beings and free agents; and when the Indian Bill was passed, provision was made that existing treaties should be held sacred.

But have these principles been adhered to? No.  Soon as the President got the money into his hands, he made an experiment, and soon ascertained that the Cherokees could never be enrolled for the West on fair and honorable terms.  Then Georgia commenced her cruel legislation. The President stooped to the small business of with-holding our annuity. Next Alabama caught the spirit of sister Georgia, and came up to the help of the 'Hero' against the innocent and patriotic Cherokees. Lastly long forbearing Tennessee stepped forward to help the matter out!  Wonderful combination! Where now are the Constitution, Laws, and treaties of the United States? 'O, never mind, come let us get the Indians out of our way, and all the matters and things will work again-don't talk about Constitution and treaties in settling our Indian affairs-insignificant creatures- 'poor devils'- they killed our fathers. away with them! Send them to the Rocky Mountains. Come Georgia! come Alabama! come Tennessee and North Carolina- help me to get these savages to the West.'

But how stands the matter now?- Worse and worse!  Having tried the virtue of diabolical laws, and menaces, direct force is now the last resort! And has it come to this! Not long since some four or five wagons rolled on towards the Southwest in search of emigrants, but unfortunately the deluded creatures were unwilling to take up the line of march. Some had fled and concealed themselves, others denied having enrolled.  What was to be done? It would'nt (sic) do to expend so much Government money for nothing. Direct force was resorted to! The wagons were drove (sic) up to the doors of the emigrants, their plunder thrown in, while they themselves were put in ropes or chains! The wagons started for the place of embarkation, but alas! they had not got far before the prisoners made their escape, and left the unsuccessful Agent in a state of defunction!

The case of Desadaske is exceedingly disgraceful.  While the Georgia guard were parading about in this country, Desadaske, without any just cause, was arrested put in chains, and threatened with penitentiary, but by promising to go to the West, he washed away all his 'high misdemeanors,' and redeemed himself from the curses of the Georgia law!!

His valuable improvement was forced from his possession, and the honorable councilor took refuge in another part of his country! Considering the circumstances under which he was compelled to enroll, nobody believed he was under any obligations to comply with an extorted promise. But, under a late order, even this man was hunted up, and had it not been for the bravery of his wife, it is likely, he and his family would have been hauled in ropes or chains to the Agency! How strong is the benevolence of the policy?

One poor fellow, who it is said is not quite as honest as he ought to be, had the great misfortunate (sic) to get one hundred lashes while in the custody of the Agents! This is somewhat marvelous; for it is not unusual for the emigrants to pay off all their criminal and civil debts too, by simply enrolling! I wish our friends has been a little more careful, and retained this Arkansaw (sic) thief, for we have supported enough by such fellows, of a different color.

But why are some of the emigrants so unwilling to embark for the West, after having enrolled? Is it because they were drunk when they made their mark? or have they been deceived with regard to the money business?

There is yet something more mysterious in this wonderful hurrying. Why hurry the emigrants off before their individual treaties are ratified? One of our benevolent Agents favored me with a perusal of his Co-wna-te*, and I am very confident it talked something about a treaty. But perhaps the 'Gineral' can ratify these little treaties, without troubling the Senate with them!

Now Mr. Editor, before we enroll, or make our treaties, we must have a better understanding on the subject-We must be wide awake and duly sober! For if we, like Esau, sell our birthright for one morsel or pottage, we shall afterwards find no place for repentance, though we seek it ever so carefully with tears.

OCONESTOTA.

Fort Clay, March 10th 1834.

____

* Paper or instrument of writing.






      


INDIANS

From the Chicago Democrat

INDIAN MASSACRE IN 1812

Our last number contained a brief epitome of the early history of Chicago, and promised to continue the subject, and to lay before our readers, the story of the massacre, which took place here in 1812.  We have heard various accounts of the different causes which led to this unfortunate event, but the most authentic, as it appears to us, is the one which we subjoin. If we state any circumstance connected with the story, that is not in strict accordance with truth, our columns are open to communications from any of our readers, who are better acquainted with it than ourselves.

Somewhere about the 8th or 9th of August, 1812, Gen. Hall, then occupying Detroit with his army, conceiving the garrison at Chicago as untenable, (or from some other motive not known,) transmitted orders to Capt. Heald, then commanding the post at this place, to evacuate it forthwith and march to Fort Wayne, at the same time instructing him to distribute the provisions and ammunition, that otherwise he would be compelled to leave in the fort among the tribe of Indians in the neighborhood, the better to ensure their friendship, or at least neutrality, upon which there had been before but little reliance. In obedience to these orders, preparations were made for the immediate removal of the troops. The Indians were sent for; some at the distance of 150 miles- They came in great numbers. By the thirteenth of the month, Chicago was filled with several hundred Potawatamies, eagerly and anxiously expecting the promised supplies. At this juncture, Capt. Wells , a bold and daring officer, accompanied by thirty Miami Indians, arrived at the garrison with counter orders from Gen. Hall, that no provisions should be given to the Indians-that everything not needed by the troops should be destroyed. These subsequent orders were carried into effect. On the night following, about 200 rifles were broken, and the fragments, together with provisions and stores of all kinds were thrown into the river. This fact came into the knowledge of the Indians, and the first impulse that actuated them was their most natural passion,

revenge. Indignant at being called from their homes, to a place so far distant, under the hopes of receiving what was promised to them, and then finding that they had come only to be disappointed in their expectations, they formed the design of retaliating for the injuries and insults which they had supposed were designedly practiced upon them. Maintaining as they had previously to this, merely a neutral disposition, it needed but the smallest pretext to rouse them into hostility. That pretext they now considered as held out to them and the young men resolved to make use of it. The chiefs advised and remonstrated, but without effect, and when these were found unavailing, three Indians, Pierish le Clere (at this very time at Chicago) Win-e-mac, or Cartfish (sic), and Mack-kit-tah-puck-ke, or Black Partridge, made their way into the fort at night, and gave information of the exasperation which possessed the Indians, and the designs which they contemplated accomplishing. They further suggested to the officers a way to escape the dangers that threatened them.- They proposed, that it should be held out that the troops had relinquished the idea of moving at all, or at least of some time to come, until they had received further instructions from Gen. Hall, and until then could make no disposition of the stores. But the proposition and the warning were alike unheeded, and on the 15th of the month the post was evacuated, and the troops marched out to commence their destined journey to Fort Wayne. They had proceeded along the beach of the lake, about two or three miles, in perfect order and in supposed security, when all at once the yell of two hundred savage warriors, and the report of as many rifles rang in their years (sic) and the moment after one half of the gallant band of soldiers that had left the fort, lay dead on the beach. The Indians from the first intimation that they were to be disappointed in their expected presents, had kept a watchful eye upon every movement of the troops, and when the latter left the garrison, the former with all the ardor of Indian warriors, took a circuitous route to the lake shore at the place where the event occurred. There the ambuscade was formed directly behind a range of sand hills or bluffs, that rise to a considerable height, and from fifteen to thirty yards from the lake itself. Here the Indians waited until the soldiers arrived. And when within almost reach of the muzzle of their guns, they poured in their deadly fire. A desperate battle ensued. The whites fought like men whose existence depends upon the cast of the moment, and it was only when they found their little band overpowered by numbers, and their comrades reduced to a mere handful, and when indeed it would be worse than madness to longer resist, that they surrendered. Capt. Wells and his party of Miamies were some distance in the rear; they too were not spared. A detachment of Indians attacked them, and those of the Miamies who were not killed at the first discharge, fled in every direction. In addition to the number of soldiers, Lieut. Rounan and the surgeon, Doct. Van Voorher, were killed. Captains Heald and Helmes were severely wounded and taken prisoners. They were conveyed, or rather dragged by the Indians to their wigwams, where after a confinement of more than two months, and a partial recovery of their wounds, Capt.Helmes was released on parole. One of the most daring and adventurous incidents connected with the sequel of this unfortunate tale, is that in which two females were actors and sufferers. The wives of two of the officers, in the midst of the alarm and terror which agitated them, betook themselves to a small boat for refuge, and not only set out on, but actually accomplished in safety, a voyage to Mackinac on the open lake, without a helm or compass to guide or direct them. It was indeed a masterpiece of female heroism.- Immediately after this massacre of the troops, the Indians returned satiated with blood, but their appetite for revenge was unsatisfied, until the fort was in ashes. In this state it remained till 1817, when it was rebuilt by order of the government, and it has ever since remained with but a short interval, a military post of importance.




      


From the Religious Narrator.

AN INDIAN EXECUTION.

Choctaw Agency, Dec. 31, 1833

Mr. Editor:- I have taken up my pen to give you a description of a mournful fact, which occurred at this place a few months ago.

Las t summer, some of the Choctaws, who were intoxicated got into a quarrel, and one of them beat another pretty badly with a bottle. The Indian who had been beaten, was determined to have revenge for the injury he had sustained. Accordingly, he immediately perused the object of revenge, but not being able to overtake him, and his revengeful disposition being so thirsty for blood, he beat to death, in a most cruel manner, a friend, against whom he entertained  not the smallest degree of ill will.

Immediately after this cruel act was committed, the perpetrator of the crime informed his friends and others of what he was guilty, and gave himself up to the friends of the deceased, to be put to death according to the Choctaw custom of putting murderers to death.- He said he had killed his friend, an innocent person, and deserved death; he wanted to die, nor was he afraid to die.

Soon after the murderer had made his surrender, his friends and relations, and the friends and relations of the deceased, collected together and made preparations for his execution. His grave was dug, and the executioner appointed, who was a friend to the murderer. The choice, I believe, was made by the unfortunate criminal.- Very frequently, when Indians are to be put to death, for murder, the murderer's own brother is chosen as the executioner. Whilst the grave was digging, and other preparations making for the solemn scene that was approaching, the Indian, whose minutes were numbered, danced around the place of execution, apparently without the least dread of his awful fate; and also, during this time, he would once in a while fire a gun, as did his brother, who continued to do so, till after the execution. Just before the fatal moment arrived, the Indian who was to die, seated himself upon a blanket near the side of his grave; and whilst in this situation, his friends and relations approached him, and taking hold of his hand, bade him farewell. One of the company that came up, was a little brother of the infatuated criminal. Whilst the little boy was taking leave of his brother, who was just about to be launched into the invisible world, no groans were heard, (for these were forbidden,) but tears, in perfect silence, rolled freely over his cheeks to the ground. After a final leave had been taken of the criminal, two of his friends caught hold of his hands, one on each side, and drew his arms into a horizontal position, and in a direction parallel to each other. In this position they were held till death paralyzed them. Now the awful moment had arrived; and whilst every countenance was clothed in sadness, and ever heart palpitating with fear and sympathy, the executioner advanced just before the criminal, and discharged the contents of his weapon of death into his naked bosom; and whilst the blood was gushing from his heart, he was eased back into the icy hands of death, and covered with his blankets. As soon as the report of the gun was heard, the relations of him who had just fallen a prey to death, rushed to the fatal spot, and kneeling around the dear body, they poured forth the fountain of grief, (which they now were allowed to do,) that was pent up in their aching bosoms. After the dead body of the unfortunate native had received its last respects, it was deposited in its long and silent home. Thus, in less than twelve hours, two immortal souls were hurried into eternity, unprepared. But what was the primary cause of this sudden work of death? Ardent Spirits. It is seldom that full-blooded Indians of the same tribe quarrel with one another, or kill one another, unless they are under the influence of ardent spirits.

Yours, respectfully,

NARRATOR.




      


From the Sentinel of Freedom

The Indians- Mr. Burgess, in a speech in Congress, on the 17th ult. against Mr. Chilton's bill for inquiring into the expediency of so extending the pension law, as to embrace those who were engaged in the Indian wars, down to 1794- bore the following testimony to the injustice with which the red sons of the forest have been treated by the white men.

'Sir, look into the ornaments of your Rotunda.  Sculpture has done something to perpetuate the original character of the red man of the country.- William Penn, the man of Peace, stands in the ever during stone quietly discussing the terms of a treaty with the great Delaware Chief.  On the opposite side you see, sculptured in stone, the great hero of the West, engaged in mortal conflict with two red warriors of the woods. One of the Indians is already down; the two surviving combatants stand one on each side of him, with each a foot on the dead warrior. The sculptor, to exhibit the face of this chief to the spectator, was compelled by the narrowness of the panel, where this combat is represented, to contract his legs and arms, as they might have been drawn up by a strong convulsion, but as the limbs never are when the man has space enough to extend them in the last mortal struggle. He often thought when looking at this interesting production of human art, that the sculptor had, without intending to do so, most strikingly represented both our national avidity to engross lands, and the hard terms which we do hold out to the Aborigines. Sir, this piece of sculpture tells us that we do not leave to the Indians enough of the land of their fore-fathers to die upon.

Shall we continue to awaken and encourage the spirit or war, by chanting in our halls the praises of our own men, where no one lifts up a voice for our brave, magnanimous, but conquered foe? He has buried the tomahawk-he has retired beyond the great river; and forgetful of all war but the chase, now follows the buffalo in the prairies of the West. Shall we still be at cost-shall we offer a bounty to keep alive that spirit of chivalry, that eagerness for battle, which has driven our great adversary far beyond our borders?- The reign of peace has I trust, commenced on earth. Men have ceased to look after plunder for subsistence; they seem too have submitted to the will of the creator; and are determined to live on the productions of their own labor.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, APRIL 5, 1834

We have not taken up our pen to address our readers, an article of course billingsgate against any one of our people, nor to calumniate any one who dares to oppose our policy towards the General Government, but it is incumbent upon us, as likewise it is important, that we should notice the movements of some of our distinguished citizens, in relation, we may venture to presume here, to effect some arrangements with the General Government, to put to rest the present most unhappy state of things existing in the Cherokee country.

The Indians of the best informed class, last year, within Tennessee, and North Carolina, (their numbers not known,) enrolled for emigration ' speculation on the Government, by making large improvements previous to enrollment, preparatory to a high valuation which had been promised them by the agents. Last December, these emigrants held a convention at the Agency, to nominate a delegation to Washington, (alias Kitchen Chiefs,) for the object of entering into some arrangements with the President, to secure to themselves their interest to the soil in the Cherokee country. The meeting adjourned after the appointment of eight members. Being self-appointed, they were vested in course with unlimited powers. The day was fixed for proceeding on their mission, but these Mississippi speculators became divided, and a majority failed to proceed. Three members however, reached Washington, one after another, headed by Andrew Ross. Although Don Pedro was fighting his Brother with cannon and sword, we hoped that Andrew would not oppose his brother at Washington- (the Principal Chief,) attending to the interest of the Cherokees. These self-constituted delegates knowing the President had placed the deposits into his own hands, they imagined that money grew on bushes at the White House, and would be measured to them by a treaty. But it appears that they were found by the President to be destitute of the science of governments, Gen. Jackson, despatched Ross back to the Nation to be perfected. He arrived in post haste in this part of the country about a fortnight back, and went into secret conclave with Messrs. Ridge and Boudinot, leaders of the weak rabble; the latter, we should have bee pleased to have exempted from this remark, as a gentleman of unexceptionable talents, it would have been fortunate for us to have received his acts otherwise. They have then it appears, accepted an appointment from Andrew Ross, to proceed to Washington as agents of the President, to join in the White House sports; for they have received no authority from the Cherokees, to this course, Major Ridge, Boudinot, and Ross the Emigrant set out on last Monday in the capacity of a delegation, to be supported by the President.  Considerable excitement has  arisen among the Cherokees here in consequence of this movement, it being the firm belief that the President of the United States, since he has been travelling out of his constitutional road, in order to rid himself of the Cherokee question would stoop down and treat with a fraction of the people, and having now four years annuities in his own hands and due the Cherokees, the President might assume the power to carry a treaty into execution without previously submitting it to the Senate, and by this means, force the Nation into his measures. But we are told that these agents of the President disclaims any intention of treating away the country.  Whatever power the President may recognize in these persons as competent to act, touching the interest of the Cherokees, we have to protest against all their acts whatsoever they may be affecting our rights, as unauthorized by the Cherokees, without precedent, and as subversive of our social harmony, and as certain as any coming event can be, the Cherokees will not submit to their acts.

On the other hand, we have commenced the prosecution of our agricultural pursuits under circumstances of great depression.  The grant holders of our lands have been arriving and taking our fields, and becoming intruders on our own soil.  Human nature being absolutely incapable of bearing the present state of things in our country, we have to express our deep conviction, that the crisis have arrived that something must be done for the relief of the Cherokee people.  But let this be done by the act of the Nation, and not by agents created by the President. Therefore, we close these remarks with an abiding solicitude for the welfare of the Cherokees, we must be prepared to submit patiently to our destiny, created by avarice-created by the power of wickedness.

_____________________

In addition to what we have remarked in relation to the new agents of the President who have proceeded to Washington to visit him, it is known that such cases have occurred for two years past-to have a counter delegation at the city, but destitute of the common authority vested in delegations to transact the business of the Nation. That this is the fact in the present instance will not admit of the least qualification. The movement is at this time unknown to the people,excepting in this part of the country, will likewise be admitted by all. Under these circumstances the President has heretofore thought proper not to enter into arrangements with these minority agents for cession of the Nation. It was thought here so soon as these agents, were known to be on the eve of proceeding, considerations interesting to the Nation would justify their arrest, for calling a small meeting preparatory to their mission. But the secret manner in which this meeting had been conducted, and the short time which they had given themselves for proceeding on the mission, was sufficient to baffle all opposition. In the meantime they have assured a few leading men in order to soften the feeling against them, that no injury to the Nation shall result from their mission.  The Georgians then are on the tip toe rejoicing with the prospect of a Treaty, a Treaty, to be made in six weeks.  It is rumored much ' where there is some smoke there is also some fire, that the President has communicated officially to the Governor of Georgia that a treaty will now be effected with the Cherokees. But we have to state again that we shall not submit to a treaty made without the consent of the Cherokees.






      


From the New York Observer

ARKANSAS CHOCTAWS.

Wheelock-Alfred Wright, missionary; Samuel Moulton, teacher; and their wives. Anna Burnham, teacher.



Bethabara.-Loring S. Williams, missionary; Mrs. W. Eunice Clough, teacher.

__ Eben'r Hotchkin, catechist; and Mrs. H.

__ Matthias Joslyn, teacher; Mrs. Mary Choate, teacher.

The new Choctaw country is bounded on the east by the Arkansas territory, on the north by the Arkansas River, on the south by the Red River, and on the west by lands occupied by other tribes of Indians.

Mr. Wright recovered from the sickness by which he was detained at Little Rock, on his way from the old nation, so as to be able to enter his new field of labor on the 14th of September of last year; and soon after selected a site for a station, six miles south of Little River, a branch of the Red River, and 18 miles east of Fort Towson, to which he has given the name of Wheelock, in memory of the first President of Dartmouth College, who was a devoted friend to the Indians, and first opened his Indians school,(afterwards transferred to Hanover, N. H.) in Lebanon, Ct. the native town of Mr. Wright.  That portion of the Choctaws, among whom he labored before their removal, are settled compactly around his station, there being as many as 2,000 within the distance of 10 or 12 miles.

Mr. Williams entered the new country and selected the site of his station on the 12th day of July of last year. To his station he gave the name of Bethabara, it being near the principal fording place of the Mountain Fork of Little River, 10 miles west of the eastern boundary of the Choctaw country, and about 25 miles north of Wheelock.- Around this station, also, there is a dense settlement of Indians, amounting to 1,569, within a distance of 5 miles, and not less than 3,000 within 25 miles.

Mr. Hotchkin, who, with Mr. Moulton, arrived early in Dec. has been authorized to commence a separate station among the Christian portion of the Choctaws, near Wheelock, where he was urgently requested to settle by two chiefs. Mr. Joslyn, formerly a teacher at Mahew, and who has spent the last spring and summer at Dwight, is expected with Mrs. J. and Mrs. Choate soon to open a new station at some favorable place among the Choctaws, and devote himself to the instruction and superintendence of schools.

Churches- The missionaries appear to have been very cordially received by the Christian portion of the Choctaws generally,and entered on their labors immediately with very encouraging prospects. The church at Bethabara was organized on the 19th August of last year, embracing 56 persons, who had been members of the church before their removal, and one who was admitted on a new profession. The number has since been increased to 1143; of whom 136 are Choctaws, 5 of white and 2 of African descent, and 126 had been connected with the church in the old nation. Two pious captains have died in peace. Although many who joined the church in the old nation have, owing to the perilous situation in which they were placed for some time before their removal and during their journey, made shipwreck of the faith, yet old members generally withstand temptation, appear docile,and maintain a fair Christian character.  They have been much occupied in preparing comfortable residences for themselves and have shown too much worldliness.- Still there is a great ' striking change in their character from what it was. Seven or eight Choctaws are candidates for admission to this church at this station.

The church of Wheelock, was organized on the 2d Sabbath in December, including 87 members, 7 of whom had not before been connected with any church. All were carefully examined as to their religious views and character, the spiritual condition of this church is much the same as that of the one at Bethabara.

Congregations- As the people are settled so compactly, larger congregations can be collected in common circumstances in the old nation. The average number attending the preaching of Mr. Williams at Bethabara is 150, and the largest 500. The number attending at two other places where he spends half of his Sabbath is considerably less. Nearly all are Indians. At the stations and in a number of other places, native church members hold stated meetings on the Sabbath, which they conduct themselves, when no missionary is resent. Frequent meetings are held by the missionaries on weekdays; there are also meetings for prayer and exhortation held frequently in various places, conducted by natives.- The females also attend small prayer meetings in different places.

The Choctaws have erected two houses of public worship in the part of the nation where Mr. Williams resides; one near his station and one in a settlement 20 miles distant.

Three Sabbath schools have been established by Mr. Williams, principally taught by native teachers, embracing about 100 scholars, and two more are about to be opened.

The calls for preaching and pastoral labor are numerous and urgent,and at this crisis two or three additional laborers are much needed.

Schools.- The Choctaws on arriving in their new country, were urgently desirous of having schools established among them without delay; so much so that within a few weeks after Mr. Williams arrived, Mrs. W. opened a school of 25, the parents offering to pay three or four dollars a quarter for each scholar.  This was continued one quarter, when the health of the teacher compelled her to relinquish it. Mr. Williams has since opened schools in three settlements, in which the pupils are taught to read and write in both the English and Choctaw languages by native teachers, under his visitation and superintendence.  The parents board and clothe the scholars, and generally furnish the books. The teachers receive $12 a month each from the Board. These schools now embrace 90 scholars. A number more have probably been established already on the same plan, in other neighborhoods, under the superintendence of Mr. Wright and Mr. Hotchkin; and many others are still needed, especially one or two of a higher order, into which those who formerly attended school in the old nation add more promising pupils from the neighborhood, schools might be collected and carried through a more advanced course of instruction. The state of feeling on this subject is represented to be such both among the friends and the opposers of Christianity, that it would seem if suitable teachers and books could be furnished, that a very large portion of all the children and youth of a suitable age might be gathered into schools without delay. Mr. Moulton and Mr. Joslyn are to devote themselves to teaching and superintending the schools. One or two other persons will be sent to cooperation in the same work as soon as they can be obtained.

Books in the Choctaw language. A second edition of the Choctaw hymns amounting to 3,000 copies has been printed during the past summer, making the whole number of copies of books printed in this language 13,000.

State of the people- Definite information respecting the number of the Choctaws, who have become settled in their country, has not been received. It is probably between 10,000 and 14,000.  The number of the whole tribe, before their removal commenced, was estimated at 13,000 or 20,000. They generally appear to be satisfied with their new country, and are laboring with a good degree of vigor to prepare for themselves fields and comfortable residences, and manifest generally considerable industry and public spirit; though they have obviously suffered in their exposures to temptation while preparing for removing, and while on their long and hazardous journey. They have also suffered much from sickness while on their journey, and since their arrival in their new country; 160 out of several companies, embracing about 3,000 having died by the way, including many aged persons and infants. During the last spring and summer, the mission families also have been afflicted with much sickness.




      


INDIANS

From the Cross

THE INDIAN AND THE SPANIARD.

The following interesting scene occurred in the history of the early Spanish discoveries in America. The Indians of St. Domingo were treated in a most oppressive manner by their European masters. A chief named Enriquez, succeeded in throwing off the yoke of the tyrants, and escaped to a rough and mountainous part of the country, where, with a few followers, he lived in freedom. Many were the attempts of the Spaniards to drive him from his stronghold but were unsuccessful. His policy was altogether defensive, for which he had a double motive, a desire to spare the effusion of blood, and to escape the attacks of a disproportionate force. With a forbearance most strongly contrasted with the conduct of his enemies, he commanded his Indians never to slay a Spaniard but in self-defence, but to possess themselves of the Spanish arms whenever they could obtain them.

For ten years, every effort to reduce him to submission, by force or negotiation, was alike unsuccessful. At length in 1529, Hernandez de San Miguel, who came to the Island when a boy, with the first admiral, and who was well acquainted with the manners of the Indians and their modes of warfare as well as with the passes of the mountains, undertook, at the head of one hundred and fifty men, to hunt down the prudent insurgent.

After a pursuit of many days, during which the chieftain easily baffled the pursuer, Enriquez gave him an interview, in a spot which he selected for the purpose. Two mountain peaks arose precipitously to a great height near to each other, yet separated by a profound chasm, through which flowed a deep and rapid stream. Upon these summits, in mid air, where the warriors could hear but not approach each other, they opened a conference in which terms of peace were proposed by San Miguel, and accepted by Enriquez; the former, exhibiting full powers from the government for this purpose.

It was stipulated, that the chief and his followers might dwell in full freedom and independence, in such parts of the island as they might select refraining from all violence to the Spaniards, and restoring the gold which had been taken from certain travellers. Time and place were appointed, at which the parties should meet, accompanied each by eight attendants, for the delivery of the gold and the ratification of the treaty.

Enriquez repaired to the place on the seashore,and erected a bower, in which he placed the gold, and provision for both parties.  San Miguel too kept the appointment; and that he might better celebrate the peace, he caused a vessel which accidentally appeared on the coast to be moored near the shore, while the crew marched in procession, to the sound of musical instruments. The chief beholding this numerous force approach, whose good faith he had but too much reason to receive the Spaniards with cordiality, to deliver up the treasure, and to say that indisposition prevented him for keeping his engagement in person.

San Miguel regretted much that the conclusion of the treaty should be thus postponed; but more, perhaps, that he had failed to carry Enriquez in chains to St. Domingo. He sent him however, a friendly message; and the truce, though not formally ratified, was preserved for four years, when a permanent treaty was concluded by which the intrepid chieftain accomplished the freedom and independence of himself and his tribe.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, APRIL 19, 1834

HUMANE POLICY

The residence of Mr. John Ross, PRINCIPAL CHIEF of the Cherokee Nation, was visited last week by a purchaser of that place from the drawer of the lots, with a number of persons, and made a forcible entry upon the premises. His valuable Ferry at the junction of Oostunahlee, and Etahwah rivers commonly called Head of Coosa and his extensive farm and houses were all taken possession of, excepting a room of the lower story of his large building, was still in the occupancy of Mrs. Ross in a feeble condition of health. Thus we see in the policy of the Government and the enactments of the States. We have become as aliens in our native land-trespassers upon our own soil, outlaws in the bosom of our Nation.

_____________________

INDIAN DELEGATIONS.

Delegations of the western Indians composed of the Cherokee, Creek, and Seneca tribes have proceeded on to Washington City, and if it be true as assumed by the President in his message to Congress that they were contented and happy in their new homes, it would appear that they are adding troubles to it by engaging in missions of fifteen hundred miles.

___________________

In our last, we anticipated a crisis at hand that something must be done for the relief of the Cherokee people, and that some change of some character would become necessary to effect this relief.  But here we must be distinctly understood as not advocating a removal of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi.  To this policy, the great body of the Cherokees continues to oppose, and so far as our influence can be exercised in opposition to it, our deep expression of the reprobation of that unjust policy and the diabolical means resorted to, to accomplish it shall never be withheld.  It is a policy subversive of the sacred rights of the Cherokees, it is one that is incompatible to the principles of simple justice, and to the measures adopted for its enforcement, it is extremely revolting to the spirit of Christianity.

We have promised our readers in a former number a faithful detail of the measurers adopted by the President, and the States to expel the Cherokees from the lands of their Fathers, and guaranteed to them in solemn treaties by the Government. It is necessary for us to remark, that when we speak of the acts of the President towards us, however unjust they may be, we do it in feelings of kindness, we have been taught to know that this great fountain head of the Government had been ordained for the preservation of the Indians, by his mighty arm.  In this point of view of his duties, although he may continue to depress us, our political relations compels us to entreat him for relief. This is our humiliating condition. The view which we shall take of the past course of the President towards the Cherokees in order to accomplish their removal by compulsion, may be somewhat different from that taken of it heretofore, but on the close review of the documents, and to which it is necessary to refer, to show the secret instruction of the President in order to subserve the objects of the Government, it can scarcely be believed, as is proved in the sequel, that one enlightened nation could so unjustly, and could be capable of so fraudulently treating an innocent and faithful alley. But the documents themselves emanating from the President himself is likewise incapable of presenting a different construction at this stage of the controversy, and their manifest intentions; at the times they were severally given.  In the propositions of a Treaty of the President's Minister of War, published in our 26th number, 1833, the following passage occurs: 'But, your people must distinctly understand, that those who remain, will become citizens of the State in which they may reside, and that all the relations between them and the United States, founded upon their previous circumstances as Indians, must cease.' Now the Cherokees had been informed previous to these propositions, and especially in the message of the President, to Congress, in 1831, 'that the Cherokees remaining within the State of Georgia, would hereafter be governed by the laws of Georgia, as all her citizens are.'  Here were presented two inconsistent passages by the President, one giving authority to Georgia to treat the Cherokees as her own citizens, and subsequently proposing to negotiate with the Cherokees, to become, in certain cases, permanent citizens of the States.  The passage with we have alluded to in the propositions, had a decided effect on the minds of the Cherokees. If the President proposed in a treaty to make them citizens of Georgia, it followed as a matter of course that Georgia then had no legal right to the Cherokee country, It was presumed that the policy of the President was not a settled one, and was subject to be changed, if the Cherokees continued united.  The Cherokees, from this, were induced to continue their peaceable mode of redress, to press on the Government, in a proper manner, the protection of their rights. This was the manifest intention of this passage, in the event that the propositions were rejected. It was in this common phrase of our day,a word to please the children. On the other hand, Georgia had commenced her crusade against the Cherokees, marched a military to keep possession of the Cherokee land, and to protect her civil officers; surveys were made, counties organized, and the laws forced over the Cherokees.

Again: The next instance of this extraordinary temporizing course of policy towards the Cherokees is contained in a letter of the War Ministers to the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, dated March 14th 1833, published in our 23rd No. In this letter the Secretary notified the Chief that a military force was sent to remove intruders from the ASSAILED parts of the Cherokee country.  On the reception of this order the Cherokees were confirmed in their former impressions that their sacred rights would in the end be sustained. This order of the Secretary was calculated to keep buoyant the hopes of the Cherokees,-to proceed peaceably in asserting their rights. Otherwise the Indians might become dissatisfied of their treatment by the Government, and resort to violence to vindicate their rights. In the meantime while the Indians were flattered with the prospect of relief from the fostering care of the Government, it was giving Georgia only time to perfect her organization over FIVE MILLIONS of acres of Indian lands, Lottery drawing, locating officers, selling GOLD Lots, LAND Lots, and fractions 'c. 'C. 'C. What is done for the Cherokees by the glittering bayonets rushing to the Nation? The honorable Secretary of War informs all parties concerned that he did not intend to be understood according to the reading of the order, and that intruders could only be removed from the nation where the laws of the states had not been extended.  This interpolation by the Secretary created a shock on the feelings of the Cherokees that can scarcely be described.  According to our notions, the Government was incapable of speaking truth to the Indian. If one thing was promised them today, it was revoked the next.  During this painful suspense the authorities of Georgia was (sic) still gaining time and rushing, and numerous agents were annoying us, until a delegation was appointed to proceed to Washington and memorialize Congress for our relief.

The next document of the same character which we have enumerated and as a deceptious one is contained in a letter from Washington, containing the substance of a conversation with General Jackson in which he boldly avowed his determination to sustain the rights of the Cherokees to their lands, when the federal court determined that question in their right. This letter will be found in our 42d No. Here there is a continuation of a policy to soften the feelings of the Indians, while he is equivocating to execute his treaties with us, like the empty barrel that sounds the loudest, he would enforce the decisions of the courts on constitutional principle. We have already shown that the fluctuating definition of these several orders were only intended to give Georgia time to consummate her robbery of our inheritance, building court house, rearing jails driving the Indians out of their houses, while hope was burning for relief, in this way, and at the penning of this article, until we are literally robbed of every right that is dear to mankind, and the loss of the Principal Chief of his valuable residence at COOSA, while himself at the City is the farce played by Georgia. In conclusion we have to state that the view which we have taken of the policy of the President in creating difficulties on us to a magnitude not to be disturbed, by which to place us in no other alternative but a resort to a treaty for relief, we believe is fully proved by the documents themselves, and the circumstances transpiring during the settlement by the Georgians of the Cherokee country. This is the manner that this government has managed the Cherokee case, by the greatest and best, by a Nation professing to be honest and enlightened, with which to pay Georgia for a SMILE and shake the stability of the American institutions






      


INDIANS

From the Augusta Chronicle

THE BILLS OF INJUNCTION.

It will be seen by reference to the following letter, from a respected and obliging correspondent, and extracts from an article of Federal Union, that Judge Hooper, after a four days argument on the subject has determined to sustain the Bills of Injunction granted to the Indians sometime ago, after striking out certain portions of them, inconsistent with the Sovereignty and Jurisdiction of the State-at least, he has sustained them for the present, and referred them, for a final decision, to the Convention of Judges.

We are not sufficiently acquainted with the law of 1833, (which has not yet been published,) to speak positively on the point now at issue under that law; but believe it is as follows: The law, (if our view of it be correct,) provides that all lots occupied by the reservee under former treaties, shall not be held by them, but surrendered to the drawers-that the Governor shall appoint an agent to dispose of such cases, and that whenever a drawer shall make affidavit, that any lot drawn by him is in the possession of a reservee, it shall be the duty of such agent, to remove such reservee immediately, by force, if resisted, and put such drawer in possession of the lot:-thus, not only making the agent both judge and jury in most important legal cases, and offering the strongest inducements to perjury, oppression, bribery, and corruption but directly violating that clause of the 1st section, 3rd Article, of the Constitution, which says: 'The Superior Court shall have exclusive and final jurisdiction, in all criminal cases, which shall be tried in the county where the crime was committed, and in all cases respecting titles to land,'c.' If, then, our impression of the law be correct, it is palpably unconstitutional, and therefore void, and the decision of Judge Hooper is evidently correct, and must be sustained by the Convention of judges.

We would here mention, in support of the decision of Judge Hooper, that a gentleman of high standing and extensive legal attainments, informed us, very recently, that he had drawn for purchased land in the occupancy of reservees, and was so perfectly satisfied of the unconstitutionality of the law of '33, that instead of applying to the agent for possession, he had ordered suit to be commenced in the ordinary way, by writ of ejectment.

As to the right of the State to the soil, and to dispose of it thus at will, that is another question,-one of those (according to the Federal Union) which the Judge considered as settled before he came on the Bench, and was ordered to be struck out of the bills, and is therefore not involved in the decision. We, however, deny, and always have done, the right of the State to the soil, though it has very clearly and properly the right of jurisdiction. We doubt the right of the State to declare the reservees unentitled to occupancy, like the other Indians; for, tho' they took reservations in former treaties, we cannot see how that can affect their right to emigrate to other Indian lands, with the consent of the Indians themselves; which would seem to be a matter for the consideration of the Indians alone-its owners-certainly, if the Indians themselves have, as we contend, the right of soil-unless, however, as stated by the Federal Union, the reservations were taken 'with the condition annexed, that they (the reservees) should reside permanently on these reservations.' We think, tho' that the Federal Union must be mistaken in this; for it seems to us to have been the policy or desire of the State, not to confine the Indian reservees to their reservations, and refuse them the right of selling them, and emigrating, but rather to encourage their emigration, and get clear of them.

Another clause of the law of '33, if we recollect it rightly, deprives the Indians of the privilege accorded to them by the one of '32, of retaining possession of all the land they had under cultivation and fence, at that time, and confines them (each only who then had land under fence, 'c.) to one lot of 160 acres, or four 40 acre lots, or more than four small ones, to take one entire large lot, or four small ones-either comprising 160 acres only. Thus, many with large families, may be reduced to actual starvation - particularly where their lands are poor, or when they become worn out. And this, certainly, is most cruel oppression--and would be equally so, even if the State had the right of soil. We have not time or room now, to go into an examination of this most unreasonable, arbitrary, and unjust claim, founded on an absurd fiction; but will barely remark, that we consider the right of jurisdiction, as resulting necessarily and naturally from the establishment of Government, and not (as contended by others) from the right of soil.

_______________________

'CASSVILLE', 4th April, 1834.

I have only time to write you, that Judge Hooper has just delivered his opinion from the Bench, and had determined to sustain the Bills of Injunction, which he granted some time ago, and which have been made the subject of discussion here for the las four days. The Judge, although he does not recognize any rights of 'sovereignty,' as belonging to the Cherokees, yet views them in the light of persons subject to our laws, and entitled to the benefit and protection of them-and particularly to the rights of occupancy, to such places as they have improved, and appropriated to their own use; and he considers that no trespass or intrusion upon these rights can be committed against the Indians, and that if any of our people consider themselves aggrieved, they must seek redress through the constituted tribunals of the country, and not by force.

I forbear to make any comments on this proceeding at present, as the whole question will be taken up to the Convention of Judges, where it is to be hoped, it will be settled satisfactorily to the whole country. I believe, however, that Judge Hooper's decision will be approved by all here, with the exceptio of a few avaricious speculators, who would do anything to deprive the Indians of their scanty possessions, regardless of the character of the State, and the plighted faith of the Government, to secure these people in the occupancy of their possessions.

'I send you, herewith, for publication, a copy of the proceedings of a very large State Rights Meeting, held in this place last Monday evening, and although many of the Resolutions refer exclusively to local matters, yet the principles they involve are important,and should be known to the whole country, for the purpose of exposing the wicked and corrupt conduct of Governor Lumpkin, and his lawful adherents in this section of the country.'

Augusta Chronicle.

_____________________

From the Milledgeville Federal Union.

The Cherokee Bills.- By a treaty concluded in eighteen hundred and nineteen, the Cherokees made a cession of territory to the United States, for the use of Georgia; and, by the same treaty, reservations of land, a mile square, out of the ceded lands, were allowed to a large number of the Cherokees, with a condition annexed, that they should reside permanently on these reservations. They were treated among us as citizens, and held various civil and military offices under the state government.- Some of them drew lots of land, in the land lotteries of the state, having entered their names for draws under the oath prescribed, that they were citizens of the United States, residing within the organized limits of the state. They afterwards sold these reservations for large sums of money; and they again acquired residence in the tribe, and occupied and improved valuable bodies of land, in the territory not ceded. The last legislature, believing that these individuals had received a full equivalent for their claim to a portion of the lands held in common by the tribe, determined that they should not be permitted to retain any part of these lands, and that the grants for the lands which they occupy, should issue to the drawers. In some instances, the drawers, or persons claiming under them, had gotten possession of the lands claimed by these reservees; in others, they apprehend that they will be turned out of possession by the drawers or their vendees, with the aid of the agent of the State. To prevent this course and to restore to them the lands of which they had been dispossessed, and to quiet them in their possession, they filed the bills which have been referred to.

In these bills, they allege, that the Cherokee tribe is an independent state, having a right to make laws for its own government; and that they are the exclusive owners of all the territory on which they and their ancestors have resided, and which they have not ceded by treaty. They exhibit, in most contemptuous terms, the claim of Georgia to the sovereignty of the country; they state that their title to the whole of these lands has been guaranteed to them, in various treaties with the United States; and that the laws of Georgia for the government and disposal of this territory, are contrary to these treaties, and therefore void. And they further state, that if the act of eighteen hundred and thirty-three is valid, none of its provisions operate against them. They refuse to admit, in general terms, the jurisdiction of the state courts over them; but they acknowledge it for these particular cases; and they pray that the defendants may be enjoined from disturbing their exclusive possession, and that they may be quieted in the enjoyment of the lands which they claim.

Governor Lumpkin, with his characteristic vigilance and zeal, employed counsel to attend to these cases, not for the purpose of defending individual rights, but to resist the establishment of any principle incompatible with the sovereignty of the State,and her right to make laws for her soil.

The bills had been sanctioned by the Judge, and had been served, with the subpoenas usual in equity-cases; and to the sanction in each case was attached an order of the Judge, citing the defendants to appear before him on a given day, to show cause why injunctions should not issue agreeably to the prayer or the complainants; and commanding them in the meantime to desist from all disturbance, intrusion, or trespass on the lands particularly claimed in the bills. Agreeably to this order, the bills were called at an adjourned term of Cass Superior Court, on Monday, the 31st day of March. General demurrers were filed for the defendants on which ensued a most elaborate argument, which occupied four days.- Judge Hooper, who presided, made no final decision on the demurrers, having determined to refer the cases to the consideration of the Judges in convention. But he stated that the right of Georgia to extend her laws over the Cherokees, and to dispose of the country which they occupied, were questions settled before he went to the bench, and were not to be opened; that he could recognize no Indian claim that was not allowed by the laws of the state; and that he would retain the bills, only so far as they concerned individual rights of Cherokee Indians that were incompatible with these laws. On motion, he ordered those parts of the bills to be stricken out, which affirmed the independence of the Cherokee Nation, and their exclusive right to the soil; those parts which denied the entire sovereignty of Georgia over the Indians and the country; and those parts which maintained that the laws of Georgia, enacted for the government and disposal of the country, were contrary to treaties between the Cherokees and the United States and therefore void. As we understand the present attitude of those bills, the questions which they will present to the convention, are narrowed down to the construction of the act of 1833, ' the operation on the individual cases stated in the bills.

The counsel engaged, were for the complainants, Messrs. Barron, Harden, W. Y. Hansell, Underwood, and Samuel Rockwell; for the individual defendants, Messrs Hargrove, Baldwin, and Shackleford; and for the State, Messrs. O. H. Kenan, and J. A. Cothbert.




      


EXTRAORDINARY STORY- In the years 1675-6, Capt. Samuel Appleton was commissioned to take command of the companies which went scouting up the Connecticut River, with Captains Church, Mosely, 'c., and to unite with Maj. Treal, of Connecticut, in exterminating the Indians from Hadley and Deerfield, the scenes of many a sanguinary conflict. At this time, King Philip, who had been driven from the sea coast and the English settlements, into the interior, retired with many of his followers to the Northfield Indians; and by his influence excited them with a bitter and inveterate hatred towards the whites, and by their sudden excursions kept the surrounding villages in a constant state of alarm, and it was absolutely necessary for them to exercise unwearied watchfulness, for in any unguarded or unprepared moment they were made to feel the unforgiving enmity which actuated them.

Philip assembled a large body of Indians near the falls of Montagne, where he was surprised during the night by Captain Turner.  Many of the Indians were seized with such panic that they fled to their canoes, which they launched in such haste, that they forgot their paddles and were carried over the falls. These falls are now called Turner's Falls. This was the last and most severe blow Philip received before he returned to his native country in Rhode Island where he soon after terminated his life and the war which brought so many calamities upon New England.- It was about this time that the inhabitants of these villages found it necessary for their own defence and security, to concert together, and with unwearied diligence to watch over and protect their families from the wiles and stratagems of their subtle adversaries, and to adopt some mode of communicating with each other, so that if they should be attacked, or their forts invested by a considerable body of Indians, the others could succor them.  About this time a body of one or two hundred Indians, had been for some time prowling about the neighborhood of Squakaheage or Northfield, and the inhabitants of the surrounding villages collected about an equal number together and marched out to meet them and give them battle. They confronted each other upon two sand hills in the south part of the town, now called 'the farms.' The activeness of the Indians secured to them the fatal advantage of the first fire; and the consequence was a greater part of their enemies bit the dust and the rest fled; but the savages shouting with their peculiar cry, the national tocsin of war, pursued, and one by one they fell beneath the tomahawk and the scalping knife, excepting a solitary soldier who continued his flight to the south through the woods. Fear lent him wings, and altho' he did not gain upon his pursuers or they upon him, still hope buoyed him up that he might yet escape among the intricacies of the forest. After running about two miles, he entered a vast hollow, into which the river in certain seasons set back and overflowed it. Just before him lay prostrate across the path a large decayed tree; at one bound he cleared the trunk and instantly disappeared from their astonished sight, and though they searched carefully and diligently for his hiding place, they never beheld him again, but left the spot impressed with a superstitious awe, attributing his disappearance to the agency of evil spirits who they supposed inhabited the place. The commander of the detachment was killed upon a point of eminence called Mount Toby, being a peak of that ridge of mountains which runs parallel for many miles with the eastern shore of the Connecticut River, and a short distance southeast from where the battle commenced. A tall hemlock rears its head far above its fellows near the sequestered spot, and is the only mark to tell the little earthly mound where the unfortunate warrior fell. This place is called Beer's Point, in commemoration of the individual who there perished. The ____ soldier who escaped to relate the consequences, of this melancholy and disastrous defeat, was preserved by a singular fortuitous circumstances, for when he leaped the prostrate tree he found himself snugly secreted, and the leaves of the forest had so completely covered him and his place of refuge, that he defied the sagacity and dexterity of the lynx-eyed Indians to discover him.

The hollow, or rather the cove, was ever after called the Soldiers Cove. It is but a few miles north of Mille's River and on the banks of the Connecticut.




      


From the Frankfort Argus

We publish today the speech of Joseph Barrassa, an Indian student of the Choctaw Academy, of the Pottawatamie tribe. It is published at the instance of a special committee, with the view to show the native talent of his tribe and family; and also as an evidence of the progress of that school and its promising utility.

SPEECH OF

Joseph Barrassa

Oct. the 5th, 1833

Friends, Americans ' Brothers:

This day 20 years ago was the darkest period of your late war with Great Britain.

It was a day as gloomy, if not more so, than witnessed by the Great Washington, in 1776 in the revolutionary times.

Then how highly necessary it is that you should celebrate that dark crisis, in which you saw danger lowering over you, and particularly that in which the blood of your fathers was shed so copiously for your melioration. How extremely thankful ought you to feel in commemorating those then perilous times, which are so closely blended with your present well being; and to think you not only celebrate the past events, but can strike hand with those who fought so bravely and were shrouded in mantles of crimson on the field of battle.

Oh! what emotions must fill the war worn veteran's breast, when he takes a retrospective view of those days which tried man's souls!

I know it must be out of the reach of man's power to restrain those emotions which are produced by calling back those past and bloody scenes, when for their country and posterity they offered themselves as sacrifices.

American friends: can you not feel, can you not think?  Yes, I know you can feel, think, and weep for joy, and thank Heaven you are the happy recipients of all those blessings and privileges which were so dearly bought by your ancestors; and rejoice to have the happiness of joining those old soldiers, though half bent from carrying the knapsack and musket while in the service of their country; and defended by old age, yet can they distinctly hear the soft, sweet, and full voice of a clear conscience saying to them, you have finished your work, and your beloved country is saved.

Ask the hero, who sits before you and he will answer you by pointing to scars and wounds he received whilst in battle, which will speak in a language more affecting than the tears of an affectionate mother, and louder than thunder.

It is productive of great joy to hear those old warriors, and see them in tears, and in a trembling voice interrupted by sobs, encouraging you, the young and rising generation, to celebrate those events in which your greatest and bravest men have distinguished and immortalized themselves.

We find as far as history can carry us back, that such celebrations were held in the highest repute, by the various nations of the earth. I have the sole confidence in saying no one will in the least degree doubt, but your country has and does afford the worthiest subjects of praise ever produced by any other country in the world; and highly worthy of the warmest eulogies of your orators.

Be assured these celebrations have an unperceived tendency to keep up a military spirit, which is the very palladium of your government.

Some exclaim to all around them, in the voice of a watchman, be careful, do not trust these old soldiers!-if you do, you shall find yourselves before day on your beds swimming in seas of blood! Ask those who thus, through cowardice and ignorance, have said the same of the now administration, if they prefer any other man for their ruler? They will unanimously answer, by the language of silence which will speak stronger than an approaching earthquake, give us just such a man for our governor. For what an absurdity it is to say, he that never felt pain, knows what it is. For we find by the gone histories that the military chieftain is the most affectionate being on earth; he alone can feel the forlorn case of the orphan, and wants of the poor widow, and he alone can sympathize with the _____crepid soldier, who looks to his government for support and maintenance. But the man of ease and pleasure, as soon as he can grasp the silvery reins of government, becomes haughty and unmerciful, forgetting all but himself and the opulent.

I say to those who cried against the now President, to hold their peace till they see the above described man get into office, before they shall cry then to give alarm in a voice louder than a thousand claps of thunder.

Let it be recollected that the Washington like soldier is the only true parent of our rights and privileges, and it good policy for governments to pay due regard to war like persons. Be assured unless you give honor to our brave sons and observe these celebrations, the pride of the nation will inevitably be lost forever, and you, like many of the ancient powers, while your men of ease cry peace at your door, fall into the merciless of your enemies.

Let me for a moment cite you to the conduct of young Paris, who, for want of employment, strolls over to the court of Menelaus, a certain Greek prince, whose beautiful wife, the black eyed queen of love, young Paris corrupts and carries off, and what ensues? A war of 10 years with the Trojans; the young coxcomb Paris, his father, his brothers and myriads of his wretched subjects fell, were slaughtered and butchered and Troy, the finest city of Asia, was reduced to ashes. Search into the cause of this destruction, and to the shame of Paris, you will find it is idleness, and inattention to military men.

Yes, Americans; give praise to whom praise is due, or else you, like ancient Thebes, may fall a pitiful victim to your cruel foes.  See the grandeur ' splendor of this city with its 1000 gates, daily charmed by Bachus' trains of music, forgot military valor and soon, too soon, found itself struggling in its enemies's chains of slavery and misery.

It is useless to make any more repetitious of like examples, for they exist without number.

Then I say Hurrah for America soldiers, the true and deadly riflemen of Kentucky. Praise them with the rest of your braves and discard all those who hate all your undaunted warriors.

Kentucky friends: you should be proud to think that you had to encounter the most mighty and unnatural foe, that ever met a civilized and regular army on the field of battle, and like David of old, struck the Goliath of the West and brought him to the ground. Ask the heroes of New England and particularly Col. Chinck, and he will, with the rest of his men, tell you that Philip, the great mount hope Sachem, the king of a powerful and warlike tribe of Indians in Rhode Island in 1674, with his host, was mighty.

Ask Braddock, the proud and haughty General, who refused the counsel of pride, the brave Washington and with a face of burning shame and confusion, he will mutter, that the Indians were too unnatural fighters for him or any other Eastern General.

Philip was a great warrior indeed; but he was a mere secondary planet to Tecumseh, the Chief of Chiefs.

Think of the period in which the one flourished, and then the other; and you will see the contrast.

The blaze of honor, of the former, will be, to that of the latter, as to the moon's feeble light to the king of day's resplendent brightness.

Philip fought in an age when the Indian was great, numerous and powerful; having never met or seen his equal, he fought with unrelenting bravery, choosing no other terms but victory or death. The white man was then little and weak, strangers in a strange land, unacquainted with the savages warfare.

Philip, whenever disposed to wash his unfeeling hands in blood, had only to ascend to Beaconhill, (from which hill's blue head he could survey the white man's limited territory) and sit on its top, and swell his voice in utterance of his invariably obeyed mandate of war and instantaneously spring forth his blood thirsty warriors. Saluting his majesty as he sat on his natural throne, with the most appalling and nerve-killing whoops, that none so fearful were ever heard by the worshippers of the God of folly.

Yes, he drank the blood of his white foes when they were asleep, and butchered them before they were awake. It was as difficult for the white man to follow Philip's men in their swamps of retreat as it would be for the stiff Alligator, to tread the meandering path of the hare.

Tecumseh, had to call his men from the North and South poles of North America, but notwithstanding these apparently insurmountable obstacles, was heard, his harsh, coarse, and jupiter like voice, echoing from valley to valley and from the source of the Mississippi to its mouth, instilling in the flinty breast of his warriors, the keenest and fiercest war-like spirit, and attaching as inexpressible horror to all the inhuman and barbarous acts of the savage warfare of his red brethren.

Tecumseh was the essence of that dark and blood threatening cloud, which brooded over your northwestern frontier; but happy for you was the day when the dispelling sun arose in his might, and before his intense brightness and heat fled that death portending cloud, like a shooting star in the cells of Pluto.

You see Philip warred with the whites at sun rise, Tecumseh at noon in the brightest part of the day, and it was left by the Unseen Hand, for our own Black Hawk (old Tecumseh) at the battle of the Thames, to set the sun of war forever.

Oh! Americans, what country is there on the whole face of the globe, that can compare with yours? or what one can produce such heroes, Statesmen, and Philosophers? None?

All the nations fear you, and tremble at hearing the voice of your heroes. True, once you were so weak, the British officers thought and said they could march through all America, with five regiments; but now you hesitate not a moment to dare and defy 5 times the force of the Isles of Great Britain.

Search the histories of all nations and in which will you find such exploits and achievements as in yours, and in which you will find an equal to your Washington?

I confess that Leonidas, with his 300 braves, dared the force of half the world; but Washington dared the force of the whole world with his 300 beardless boys at Fort Necessity.

Alone of Washington it can be said, that his habitation is the universe, his memory eternity; that he alone is the good like man and truly the father of his country. Of him alone can it be said, that liberty unsheathed his sword, necessity stained, and victory returned it to its scabbard.

True Alexander wept for more worlds to conquer; but your Washington, and many others of your heroes lamented only that they had but one life to spend in the service of their country.

Other nations pride themselves in comparing their heroes to the sun, moon and stars, elevated objects; but you can justly compare your Washington to Joshua of the ancients, a man, but a godly man, whom sun and moon, and stars obeyed.

You see it is not the Britannic General leading his  numerous and well trained and regular army that can drive the savage foe?  No. But you see them fall like the leaves of the forest in autumn by the Indian Tomahawk.

But look here, ye' British Generals! and see a Kentucky band led by their young and gallant hero. They alone can drive the Indians under the brave and daring Tecumseh, and prove to them as fatal as the serpent did to the ancients, in the days of Moses.

With equal propriety it can be said of the hero of the Thames, as it was of Caesar, 'he came, he saw, he conquered.'

Yes Americans, and friends; at the wave of the swords of your heroes, the British king's throne tottered to its center, and at the voice of your statesmen the British lion's mouth was hushed. Yes! the very heavens yield to your philosophers; and Demosthenes and Cicero, blush to hear the superior eloquence of your orators.

In a word, you are as a nation the pride of the gods of war, the model of bravery, honor, fame, and true patriotism. You are the sun of the political world; around your all other nations, like subordinate planets, revolve and receive their light.

Then, Americans, and friends, be proud of your national character, your military genius and spirit,and forget not your heroes, statesmen, and philosophers; for they are the watchmen of your liberties, government and country.

Then be assured that whilst the actions and achievements of your armies are celebrated, there is no danger of your falling into the envious or jealous hands of the nations of the globe.- Be assured when these commemorations shall become general in these United States and the strength of your arms are feared, then shall the speeches of your orators be the theme of succeeding generations and the records of your historians be read with admiration by unborn myriads. Whenever the foresight of your statesmen is perceived, then shall American bards strike their will tuned harps in praise of your heroes, Washington, Lee, Green, Gates, Montgomery, Jackson, and others, and then shall your natal soil be indeed dear to you, for it shall have been not only drenched with the rich blood of your forefathers, but hallowed also by the soul cheering song of your unparalleled poets.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 3, 1834

In our remarks of the tendency of the documents emanating from the President, in the second paragraph and 10th line, after the word secret, read intentions, instead of instructions.

In our reference to the letter from Washington City, the deception which was contained in it, we wish to be understood, as not so intended by the writer himself, but by the President of the United States.

_________________

Col. Sanford, President of the Bank at Columbus, Georgia, has announced with much chagrin, the failure of the Bank. He attributes the cause of this, to a combination, who made a run upon it, in order to destroy the institution. We would here remark, that the Col. should have charged the Georgia Guard against the holders of the paper, put them in chains, in the same manner that he treated the Cherokees, and our word for it, HE would have saved the GOLD. We believe the Georgia banks are in the same condition as the character of the State.

___________________

On the 12th inst. none of the mails for this place arrived, on account, it is said, of high waters. This may be a good plea amongst white men, but as Indians were employed to transport the mail it would cease to exist. On the 20th, Uncle Sam brought very near a triple mail; Poulson's America Daily Advertiser, are in piles in our office, New York papers in quantities awaiting on us at this time, but they lie undisturbed with the dry deposit  question. The papers from the lottery State, likewise, arrived due us for three weeks. On the 27th, (yesterday) the Tennessee mail brought us four dry Jackson papers, and the post office, we mean the beautiful reformed department, sent no mail from Georgia, which brings all our southern, eastern, north, and northwestern papers.  News travels slow since the reformation.

_________________

THE PRESIDENT AND HIS TREATIES.

It is known to our readers that a tract of land equal to twelve miles square was reserved in Alabama by the treaty of 1819, as also some others in Tennessee, which was to be sold by the President of the United States as the public lands are, and the proceeds to be vested in some profitable stock, and the interest accruing there from was to be applied by the President to the education of the Cherokees east of the Mississippi. That part of the treaty however, remained dormant for fourteen years; when a part of the lands were sold last year for the sum of $45,000.00 and the fund vested accordingly.  We were somewhat startled at the fact, rather than the fulfillment of our expectations, at measures taken by the President to carry the provisions of this treaty partially into effect. At the instance of some Cherokees who have enrolled for emigration, (perhaps kissing goes by favors,) the President has engaged to educate six Cherokee boys of these emigrants, so we are informed, at the expense of this fund of the nation, at the Choctaw Academy in Kentucky.  Six of these boys were selected and clothed at the Agency, under the superintendence of the enrolling agents.

Orders were likewise given by the Secretary of War, to Col. Montgomery, to notify those who were opposed to emigration to select six more; for the purpose as stated of the others. Five boys have been selected accordingly, and with no little dissatisfaction to the Cherokees, at the measures adopted to disburse the money of the Cherokees, out of the Nation, the two party scholars as we presume the President intend to have them, left the nation on the 20th inst. for the Academy.

____________________

Extract of a letter from a gentleman of Cambridge, New York, to the editor, dated

'March 28th, 1834.

'Let me say Dear Sir, with all our discouragements-They that hold on their way, shall be as Mount Zion, which can never be moved; how precious are the promises of the Scriptures, 'Commit thy way unto the Lord, trusting in him, and he will bring it to pass' and will it be in the best way, and in the best time, since it is the Lord, who is on the Throne executing justice and judgement in the earth-and though he tarry long, he will surely come and revenge his own elect 'c.'






      


INDIANS.

From the National Banner.

The Creek Controversy- From the correspondence between Gov. Gayle of Alabama, and the Secretary of War, published by direction of the Governor in the Tuscaloosa Flag of the Union, of the 25th ultimo, it appears that the Creek controversy, as it has been called, may be considered as adjusted to the satisfaction of all parties. We have only room for the insertion of the following letter of Mr. Secretary Cass, it being the last letter of the correspondence:

Department of War.

March 12, 1834.

Sir:- I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 22d ultimo, and have submitted it to the President.

In answer, I beg leave to inform you that the additional troops, ordered last season into the state of Alabama have been withdrawn and nothing but the ordinary garrison at Fort Mitchel will remain in the Creek Country.

The President has read with great pleasure, the act of the Legislature of Alabama, which you have transmitted-and he will be much gratified if the enforcement of the stipulations of the Creek Treaty shall render it unnecessary for him to resort to the provisions of the act of 1807, which he has not the slightest wish to do, unless required by the obligations assumed by the United States in that treaty.

Very respectfully,

Your most ob't, serv't

LEWIS CASS

His Excellency John Gayle, Governor of Alabama.

__________________

The Chickasaws- The following is an extract of a letter to the Editor of this paper, from a highly respectable gentleman, formerly of this State.- The facts stated in relation to the movements and wishes of the Indians are interesting; but the description of the country, brief as it is, will be read with most interest by those of our up-country citizens, who are desirous of procuring cotton plantations in Mississippi. The writer speaks from actual personal observation. His letter is dated:

Pontotoc, Chickasaw Nation, March 18, 1834.

Dear Sir:- Being a native of Tennessee, I feel a deep solicitude in the political era and change which is just about to dawn upon that State. You will, therefore please forward me your paper, commencing with the first number published in the present month.

The great National Council of the Chickasaws is just over, and the Delegation sets out today for Washington, for the purpose of endeavoring as it is understood, to affect and alteration in the treaty as it regards the manner of taking reservations. They now wish to take them in fee simple. My opinion is, however, that the treaty will stand as first made.

The surveying is progressing very rapidly, and I have but little doubt at this time, that about one hundred townships will be ready for sale as early as October next. A considerable part of this country is beautiful and delightful; the soil is fine, and the water good. There are already a great many respectable settlers here, and as soon as the lands are sold, I am sure the population will soon become dense.

Ib.

_________________________

MISSION TO THE FLAT HEAD INDIANS.

In a letter from Mr. Lee, one of the Methodist Missionaries to the Flat-Head Indians, published in the Christian Advocate and Journal, he thus speaks of his prospects: -Southern Religions Telegraph.,

'We have made arrangements to cross the mountains with Capt. W. whose company will consist of about fifty. He expects to leave Liberty (which is about one hundred miles above St. Louis) in April. From St. Louis to the Flat Head Country are about one thousand five hundred miles.  This journey is to be performed on horseback at the rate say twenty miles per day. And when this journey, from the shores of the Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific is accomplished, the most laborious part of our work is yet before us. It will still remain for us to transport ourselves nine hundred miles up the river to the place of destination.

'Our dependence for subsistence is almost exclusively upon the rifle, as it is impossible to carry provisions for such a journey on horseback.'

Most emphatically should his closing request sound in our ears, 'Brethren pray for us.'




      


MISSION TO THE FLAT HEAD INDIANS.

In a letter from Mr. Lee, one of the Methodist Missionaries to the Flat-Head Indians, published in the Christian Advocate and Journal, he thus speaks of his prospects:- Southern Religions Telegraph.

'We have made arrangements to cross the mountains with Capt. W. whose company will consist of about fifty. He expects to leave Liberty (which is about one hundred miles above St. Louis in April.  From St. Louis to the Flat Head country are about one thousand five hundred miles; This Journey is to be performed on horseback at the rate, say twenty miles per day. And when the journey, from the shores of the Atlantic to the shores of the Pacific, is accomplished, the most laborious part of our work is yet before us. It will still remain for us to transport ourselves nine hundred miles up the river to the place of destination.

'Our dependence for subsistence is almost exclusively upon the rifle, as it is impossible to carry provisions for such a journey on horseback.'

Most emphatically should his closing request sound in our ears, 'Brethren pray for us.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 6, (SIC) 1834

In our columns will be found the usual forms of Injunctions to restrain persons from committing waste on premises which a person might legally be in possession of. Since the passage of the last Georgia law to deprive them of their improvements, the Cherokees have been compelled to resort to this mode under the Georgia laws, however humiliating it may be to seek redress from an authority having no constitutional right over the Cherokee country, like James Riley, taking fare of the Arabs, or otherwise starve to death, individuals have been compelled to this last and wretched alternative to retain possession of their inheritance left them by their fathers and test the question involved in the bill, before a tribunal forced upon them, speaking a language unknown to the Cherokees at large, and ordained by a power possessing a feeling to them, as the lion feels towards the lamb. Numerous writs of this description have been awarded to the Indians and after expunging the passages asserting the sovereignty of the Cherokees and others conflicting with that of Georgia; Judge Hooper has decided to sustain them until the convention of Judges in Milledgeville shall have given their construction to the late law of Georgia, which gave rise to these cases. We always had thought that Judge Hooper possessed more independence, than to have evaded settling the validity or not of the barbarous law of 1833.

_____________________

We are happy to inform our readers that the operations for enrolling the Cherokees, have been suspended for the present, by the President. It is said the Agents are, according to the military term, on furlough for three months.  Every year the screws are turned on the Cherokees, and as often, a treaty proposed, and oftener rejected.  At this time the President has Agents from the Nation of his own choice at the White House, where the pleasing outlines of a treaty may be fixed, but will the GREAT SEAL of the United States shine upon it west of the Mississippi? We humbly hope yet that providence will impart some scheme by which to avert the removal to that country of which the Cherokees are so much opposed.

__________________

We stated sometime since the loss of the Principal Chief to his residence at Coosa. We have information that the party who had taken the place had left it on account of the dispute arising therefrom. A Mr. Hemphill became vendee of the place, and retained the ferry only, until last week, when Mr. Mulkey in Ross behalf retook this valuable ferry, but at the peril of his life. The Georgia Sheriff made an attempt afterwards as we are informed for Hemphill, to take the ferry again, and with his gun struck Mulkey across the head which has nearly terminated his life, but still retains possession for the Chief.

___________________________




      


GEORGIA-MURRAY COUNTY:

To the Honorable JOHN W. HOOPER, Judge of the Superior Courts for the Cherokee Circuit of said State.

Humbly complaining, sheweth unto your Honor, your Orators,___________ That they are natives of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, east of the river Mississippi, and reside in the said nation, having all the privileges and rights of individual citizens of the said nation; that from time immemorial, the Cherokee Nation have composed an independent State; and in this character they have been repeatedly recognized by the United States, in the various treaties subsisting between their nation and the United States.

That long before the approach of the white men of Europe to the Western Continent, the Cherokee Nation, and the ancestors of your orators who composed a part thereof, were the occupants and owners of the territory on which they then resided, and where your orators now reside, deriving their title from the Great Spirit, who is the common father of the human family, and to whom the earth belongs; that on this territory they and their ancestors have ever been occupants, and until lately the exclusive occupants, and as they charge are now of right the exclusive owners, and should of right be governed by their own laws, usages and customs, and none other; but in as much as the courts of Georgia assume jurisdiction over the Indians, your orators now by protestation neither admitting nor denying that jurisdiction as a general abstract question, but admitting it for all the purposes of this bill, charging that if they are either rightfully or otherwise subjected to such jurisdiction they have a right to its protection so long as the same continues to be exercised over their country and them.- Your orators have been informed and believe, that in the year 1732, the then King of Great Britain, under the name and style of George II, King of Great Britain and Ireland, by a charter to a company of his own subjects there residing, affected to grant to them all the country on this continent lying between the Savannah and Altamaha Rivers; that this country was at the time inhabited by several sovereign and independent nations of Indians, amongst other by the Cherokee Nation, who were the rightful owners thereof, and that the monarch who affected to grant it had no title to it whatever. There complainants are informed and believe, that the only title to which he pretended was derived from the circumstance that a ship, manned by his subjects, had about two centuries and a half before, sailed along the coast of the Western hemisphere, from the fifty-sixth to the thirty-eighth degree of north latitude, and looked upon the face of the coast without ever landing upon any part of it.

This they are informed and believe has been called a title of first discovery, which is not true even in point of fact, as against the Cherokee Nation and other Indians, for they had discovered and occupied it long before. That whatever may be the theory of this title by discovery, as among the European sovereigns themselves, these complainants are informed and believe it was never alleged by the King of Great Britain or any of his grantees, that the charter give to them any right to disturb the Indian occupants. That various treaties have been made between the British Colony in Georgia, between the State of Georgia, before her confederation with the other States, afterwards between the confederated States, and finally between the United States, under the present Constitution, and the Cherokee Nation; in all of which the rights of the Indians to the occupancy of the country, and the lands on which they reside, have been recognized.- These complainants pray leave to refer to the following treaties between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, as part of this their bill of complaint, as published with the laws of the United States and forming according to the Constitution of the United States a part of the supreme law of the land, to wit: the treaty concluded at Hopewell, on the 28th of November, 1785, between the commissioners of the United States, and the head men and warriors of all the Cherokees; the treaty concluded on the banks of the Holston, on the 22d day of July, 1794, between the President of the United States, by his duly authorized commissioner, William Blount, and the Chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, together with the additional article thereto made at Philadelphia, on the 17th of February, 1792; the treaty at Philadelphia on the 26th of June, 1794; the Treaty of Tellico, made on the 2d of October, 1798, between the United States and the Cherokee Nation; the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 25th October, 1805; the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 24th of October, 1804; the treaty between the same parties at the same place, on the 27th October, 1805; and the treaty between the same parties made at the City of Washington, on the 7th day of January, 1806, together with the proclamation of that Convention by the President of the United States, of the 11th of September, 1807; the treaty of Washington on the 22d of March, 1816; the treaty at the Chickasaw Council House, made on the 14th September, 1816; the treaty at the Cherokee agency, on the 8th of July 1817; the treaty at the City of Washington on the 27th of February, 1819. All which treaties and conventions were duly ratified and confirmed by the Senate of the United States, and become thenceforth and still are, a part of the supreme law of the land.

That by these treaties, the right of the Cherokees to the occupancy of their lands within their prescribed boundaries, is so clearly recognized that these complainants cannot conceive a doubt can exist.

These complainants have understood that some have indulged in speculative objections to their title to the whole lands of the entire country thus claimed by the Cherokee Nation, on the ground that they are mere savages, roaming over the surface of the earth in search of game.  Even if this hypothesis were true, how such an objection could stand with those solemn treaties by which their boundaries have been designated, and their lands within those boundaries guaranteed to them, they do not comprehend; nor have they yet been informed how it has been ascertained that this earth was intended only for the purposes of agriculture, and that no title could be acquired to any portion of it in any other manner than by digging into its bowels; nor how digging and plowing into one part of it can give a title to hundreds and thousands of miles at a distance from that part so dug into or plowed.- They are still more confounded in attempting to reconcile this theory of a title derivable only from the cultivation of detached portions of a country, with the alleged title by discovery, arising simply from sailing along the coast of several miles distance from the shore.  They are equally perplexed in reconciling this theory, with the title which the United States themselves set up, to the untouched millions of acres which lie between their settlements and the Pacific Ocean, which their people have never even chased their game, nor seen them from the distant mountain tops.

But whatever foundation there may be for this theory, these complainants charge that they are neither savages nor hunters, but agriculturalists; and they charge further, that they are occupants of a certain portion of land which they and their ancestors have actually enclosed and improved, and that no politician or jurist have ever heretofore doubted the right of the native Indians to the undisturbed possession of their fields and houses; but that all the decisions of the courts both of the State of Georgia and the United States, have at least agreed, and been uniform in so holding; and that no State could, by any constitutional enactment, deprive them of such right; but that the same is secured to them by their several treaties, and by the laws of the United States; to which they pray leave to refer as part of this their bill of complaint.

These complainants show unto your Honor, that notwithstanding the said treaties and laws of Congress, and notwithstanding the uniform decision of all the tribunals of the country,as aforesaid, and notwithstanding these complaints, undoubted right of peaceable, and exclusive possession and right of occupancy to their said farms and houses, one___________ claiming under one_________ have entered upon and taken possession of a piece of land in said county, known and distinguished as lot No. 23, in the 14th District, of the 3rd Section, of formerly Cherokee, now Murray County, and have committed, and are daily committing trespass thereon; under some pretended authority, pretended to be derived from and by virtue of a statute of the State of Georgia, one of the United States of America, passed at a session  of her Legislature, held in December in the year 1833, entitled 'An act more effectually to provide for the government and protection of the Cherokee Indians, residing within the limits of Georgia, and to prescribe the bounds of their occupant claims, and also to authorize grants to issue for lots drawn on the late Land and Gold Lotteries, in certain cases, and to provide for the appointment of an agent to carry certain parts thereof into execution.'

These complainants aver, that so far as this statute of Georgia attempts to give right to dispossess, or interfere with the possession of these complainants, and all other statutes of said State which attempt such object, they are null and void, because they are repugnant to the aforesaid treaties, which are yet subsisting and in full force between the United States and the Cherokee Nation; and because they are also repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, by which, among other things, it is provided that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts; and these complainants aver that all the treaties aforesaid, are contracts of the highest character, and of the most solemn obligation. And it is further provided in the Constitution aforesaid, that all the treaties made, or to be made under the authority of the United States, compose a part of the supreme law of the land,and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or Laws of any State, to the contrary notwithstanding.  And these complainants further aver, that the statute as aforesaid of the State of Georgia, is contrary to the Constitution of said State, which give exclusive and final jurisdiction to the Superior Courts of said State, in all cases concerning the titles of land, and also that the trial by jury shall remain inviolate.

These complainants bring before your Honor, a question of property, ' of personal as well as national rights, for the        ascertainment and decision of this honorable Court, dependant on the construction of these treaties, and the Constitution of the United States, which have been declared to be the supreme law of the land, as well as on the Constitution of Georgia-they allege that the above recited statute of Georgia has been passed in violation of these treaties and constitutions,and are utterly repugnant to all the judicial decisions and opinions heretofore expressed and entertained; and also contrary to every principle of equity and good faith, and having no other object in view but to expel these complainants from their houses and farms; and this was distinctly avowed in the House of Representatives by one of the members of the Georgia Legislature, who declared it was necessary to enact rigorous laws for the purpose of compelling the Indians to leave the country; and this declaration was made by a member of the legislature, who had been, as these defendants are advised and believe, heard to say that the laws passed at the former sessions of the legislature of said State, and which extended the jurisdiction into the Indian country were unconstitutional ' void, or words to that import and who had advised the Cherokees to oppose them by an appeal to the courts of the United States, and with every assurance to them that they were unconstitutional and ought to be set aside, and which could not be carried into effect; consistently with the Constitution of the United States. This fact constrains these complainants to believe that in the enactments of this oppressive act of the last legislature every principle of constitutional propriety was set at nought and disregarded as well as every principle of justice, equity,and humanity, which commands to do to others as we would have them do to us; and a law enacted in open violation thereof, by which the property and rights of these complainants have been wrongfully invaded, and are still threatened with irremediable invasion and final destruction.

And these complainants further charge that should the said law be considered as having full force and effect, that the premises occupied by these complainants are not such as the said law can operate upon because they say, your orators,_________ and _______ are natives, and entitled to all the privileges of natives of the Cherokee Nation; amongst which privileges the right to occupancy of lands in the Cherokee Nation is one which has not been taken from them, even by the unjust, oppressive, and unconstitutional statute of Georgia, above cited, allowing all its provisions to have full force and effect; which, however, they by no means admit, and that their right of occupancy extends to and includes the premises above described, jointly, the said ___________ and ___________ who are joint complainants. And these complainants well hoped that the said _______ would have desisted from all further trespass and intrusion upon the rightful occupancy of these complainants in the premises, as in justice and equity they ought to have done.

But now so it is, may it please you Honor, the said _______ combining and confederating with divers other persons, at present unknown to these complainants, but whose names when discovered, they pray may be herein inserted, with proper and apt words to charge them, and they made parties to the bill, how to defraud these complainants in this behalf, have not desisted, nor will, unless restrained by your Honor. In tender consideration, whereof, and inasmuch as these complainants are wholly remediless in the premises, except by the interference of this honorable Court.

To the end, therefore, that the said confederates may, upon their several ' respective corporal oaths, full, true, and perfect answers make, to all and singular the premises, as fully as if the same were again repeated, and they thereto particularly interrogated; and that the said confederates may be enjoined from any manner of trespass in the premises, and from all disturbance of the peaceful, exclusive, and uninterrupted enjoyment thereof by these complainants; and that these complainants may be quieted in the peaceable enjoyment thereof, and that they may have such other and further relief as this honorable court may deem consistent with equity and good conscience, and as the nature of their cases may require.- May it please your Honor to grant to our complainants the State's most gracious writs of Subpoena and Injunction, commanding and enjoining the said ________ under certain penalties to be therein inserted, and at a day to be therein named, to appear before our Honor, to answer to these complainants, as in duty bound will ever pray, 'c.

WILLIAM H. UNDERWOOD. ' EDWARD HARDEN, Solicitors pro Complainants.

GEORGIA- Murray County;

Personally came before me _______ who after being sworn, saith that the matters and things contained in the foregoing bill, so far as they concern his own acts, or come within his own knowledge, are just and true, and so far as they concern the acts or come within the knowledge of others, he believes them to be true.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this____ day of___1834.






      


INDIANS

From the Missionary Herald.

WESTERN CHOCTAWS

Extracts from a letter of Mr. Williams, dated January 1st, 18343

Sickness among the People.

At p. 24 some account was given respecting the distressing sickness that prevailed among the Choctaws and in the mission families during the last fall. Some further statements are here added, showing the trials to which the mission families are subjected in prosecuting their work, and the need they have of the prayers and sympathies of their Christian brethren and sisters.

The sickly season just passed has been one of great distress to the poor Choctaws, and others in this country. Sickness commenced early in July in some places, and continued to increase, though it did not become general, until about the 20th of September. A great rain, just before that time, caused an uncommon overflow of the streams, which was succeeded by very warm weather. The change in the atmosphere was such, that almost the whole population was soon prostrated. Bilious remittent and intermittent fevers prevailed. Of those who reside immediately on the large streams, not more than one in twenty escaped the fever; and of the whole population, only about one in fifteen. A small proportion of cases terminated fatally;-as nearly as I can calculate, one fifteen part. Many, very many lingered in distress three and four months; and some even five months, with but little intermission. I never witnessed such a time.

Myself and family suffered more than for fifteen years previous, so that we were unable to render much assistance to our sick neighbors. Indeed we were very destitute of medicine either for ourselves or others, as our supply from Boston did not reach us in season.- Our beloved brethren and sisters at the other stations, and their people, have also suffered exceedingly.

Our meetings were for a time necessarily suspended, and our schools closed. Almost all business was completely stagnated. The poorer and more ignorant classes resorted by scores, and even by hundreds, to the houses of their doctors, so called, where they lay round about, in some instances for weeks, exposed too often to the burning sun, the midnight air, and drenching rains. Among the deceased, I have to record nine of the dear flock which the Great Shepherd had committed to my care; concerning all of whom, we are permitted to hope they are now at rest where the inhabitants shall not say, I am sick, ' there shall be no more pain. It was said by many that the sickness, which prevailed the first season among the emigrants, was owing to the change of the climate, and would be limited to one summer. But there has, in fact, been little or no difference this season between the former and the latter emigrants.

Under date of December 27, 1833, Mr. Hotchkin, who resides about 20 miles from Mr. Williams, remarks:

The Choctaws, as well as all others, have suffered extremely the past season from sickness. So much sickness has not been known since the country was first settled by the whites. In this neighborhood, which embraces 400 or 500 souls, but a single child is left under a year old. On Little River the mortality has been greater among adults. The Lord in his holy pleasure has laid his rod among us.  Some of us have been sick since the first of July. I hope he will accomplish in us all that he intends by these afflictions and make us like the gold that is seven times tried.

Mr. Williams proceeds to notice the

State of feeling among the People

It was hoped that these chastisements of their heavenly Father would have a salutary influence upon those who have been taught that 'afflictions come not of the dust, neither do troubles spring out of the ground; but it is to true, that even believers have in many instances, become lukewarm, and comparatively lifeless. Some indeed have exposed themselves to church censure. They had been much longer than usual without the public means of grace, and a kind of mental stupor has accompanied the languor and debility of their bodies.

We have not been able to have a communion season since the middle of June, until about three weeks ago.- On the 6th December, we commenced a sacramental meeting at the meeting house near this place which closed on the 9th. I was assisted by the Rev. Mr. Orr of the Methodist connection and by brother Wright from Wheelock, so that we were enabled to have considerable preaching. On the Sabbath there were probably 400 persons present, though some were still sick, and two at least were brought on their beds. Six adults were added to our church on this occasion; five of whom had been members of the Mayhew church, and the sixth was a new convert. During the administration of the ordinances a deep solemnity pervaded the assembly; and in the evening after two discourses, nine came forward, apparently with deep feeling, to converse, respecting the salvation of their souls. We were refreshed with some drops, which we fondly hoped bespoke a plentiful shower of grace. As yet, however, we mourn its absence.

Schools

The schools which were closed on account of sickness are still vacant, with one exception. Miss Clough has taken the native school on the east of the river, about mile and a half distant. We have built her a small cabin near the school house which she occupies and board herself. The other schools west of us have been delayed on account of inability on the part of the people to finish the school houses, so as to make them comfortable for winter.  They will probably both be in operation by the middle of this month. We had hoped to have had the society and labors of our late brother, Josyln in the English school in this neighborhood but God has ordered it otherwise, by calling him from his service on earth, to the employments and felicity of the heavenly state, just as he was about to re-commence his labors among the Choctaws.




      


DOMESTIC

From the New York American

THE DEATH-BED OF WILLIAM WIRT

The Richmond Compiler of the 17th inst. contains the affecting account of the last illness of Mr. Wirt written by a gentleman who attended him during that illness. We proceed to extract the principal part of it.

'On the evening of Saturday, the 8th instant, was in playful spirits, and sanguine of the success of an argument which he was to make in Court on Monday. He felt better satisfied with his preparation, he said than with any he had made for years before. On Sunday, he walked to the Capitol to Church-it was a damp chilly day, and Representatives Hall was crowded and warm. To go immediately from it into the cold,damp air, and walk slowly, as he did, a mile to his lodgings, might have been deemed imprudent in one whose health was less precarious than his then seemed.'

'The night he complained of a slight indisposition, and in the family worship of the evening, prayed with an unusual favor, and seemingly a foreboding spirit, which he communicated not save to his God. But even this was sufficient to excite vague apprehensions in a family always ready to note and to dwell upon whatsoever might seem to bode danger or safety to a friend so dear.'

On Monday he was confined to his room; no serious apprehensions were entertained, but a physician was called in-it was only a cold. On Tuesday he was worse, but we feared not the result. He complained of stiffness of the muscles of the throat and swelling of the glands-milk poultices were applied to his face, but they gave no relief.  On Wednesday he was much worse, so much as to excite alarm; on the evening of this day, it was first discovered that the disease was Erysipelas, 'a new enemy' of which Mr. Wirt then expressed his fears.- 'It was not the foe with which he had been so long accustomed to contend.'

His constitution was too weak, as the physicians apprehended, to stand the vigorous treatment which would have been most efficient in destroying the disease. By Friday, the alarm had become very serious-the door was crowded by anxious inquiring friends, and those who met in the street asked from each other the latest intelligence. The affliction of the family was extreme, but still there was hope. On Saturday, his daughter and son-in-law arrived from Baltimore, and were shocked to find the case so much worse than their worse fears.

Scarcely a glimmer of hope was left to us, but this feeble ray was most anxiously watched and cherished.- When over shadowed by so deep a gloom, the least of the twinkling stars in the firmament is more precious to our sight than is the sun itself in the noontide of an unclouded day.

Death, from the first day of his illness, had continued to approach with a steady pace, and in a form more than usually hideous.  The fine countenance so bright with intellect, so beaming with benevolence, was sadly altered by the disease partly, and partly by remedies so fruitlessly applied. The eyes had lost their speculation-the eloquent voice was hushed-the divinity had departed from the temple, and its walls were defaced but life still lingered, loath to abandon a habitation which had so long given to a thing in itself so little desirable and so worthless, beauty, purity and worth.

The attending physicians were Doctors Hunt and Hall; none could have been more anxiously attentive; the latter stayed by him every night of the last four or five.

About noon on Monday, consciousness returned and he had power to speak a few words. Nature had made a last effort to permit him to take leave of his family and friends, to give assurance that he died in Christian hope,and to join them in prayer to his God. The Rev. Mr Post officiated. In so much of the prayer as related to his family and his own acceptance with Heaven, he seemed heartily to join but when a petition was offered that he might be restored to health, he audibly dissented-'No, no!' He had done and suffered enough in this contentious world, and was entitled to a release,and the transfer to a higher existence which the just and are authorized to expect.

It was now become manifest, even to the most sanguine, that recovery was beyond the remotest probability. He was too shining a mark for death longer to miss.  All that was left to us was to smooth his passage to the tomb-to moisten his dry parched lips and tongue,and perform such little offices of affections might sooth his hard sufferings.

During the last eighteen hours he was tranquil as a child. Breathing and warmth were the only evidences of life-no motion,no pain, no consciousness-there lay the wreck of WILLIAM WIRT.

Three friends besides the clergyman attended his bedside during the night, his family, too worn as they were by nearly a week's watching, could not be induced to take repose. Anguish and affection gave them strength to bear what would have exhausted the strongest men. It was a night long to be remembered-a night of silent, despairing sorrow, which conveys to the heart a language never to be forgot-a language which is not for a pen like mine to transcribe.

Tuesday morning breaks upon the scene still unaltered,save that life flittered more faintly and all pulse was gone. About 11 o'clock the breathing became gradually more distant and more feeble-are suspended or imperceptible-another breath-he's gone? So calmly, of imperceptibly did he make his exit, that the precise moment of his departure could scarcely be marked-without a sigh or a struggle his bright spirit was departed from amongst us, to a state of existence higher, brighter, and more glorious.

Upon a highly excited mind, a slight incident will sometimes make a deep and lasting impression. As the last flickerings of life were failing--while his whole family, and the friends who had watched with them, grouped around his bed, and in silent, deep attention to awful scene, all held their breath, and their hearts and pulse stood still, a few soft, low notes from a pet bird, which had before been so silent that its presence in the room was unremarked fell with startling sweetness on the ear.- Only once before during his illness had it been known to sing. On the preceding day, at the conclusion of the last act of devotion in which he ever joined these same soft notes had mingled with the solemn 'Amen'.






      


This issue contains reprints from various sources.  There is not an editorial section  and one and a half pages of advertisements. There are two columns on page four in Cherokee.






      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 17, 1834

The ferry of the Principal Chief, at Coosa, which we stated sometime since had been released, has been again forcibly seized by the vendees of the place, (Mr. Hemphill) and the last accounts we have received of this proceeding, state that the ferry was now guarded by two or three armed men with guns.

____________________

Our readers will find in our columns, intelligence from Washington, copied from various journals of the highest standing, and for talents of their correspondents of the highest character, a crisis is stated to have arrived in the affairs of this agitated government, portending a speedy revolution, if the usurpations of the administration does not give place to established precedents, and to Constitutional principles. {Note: these items all refer to the on going controversy in relation to the national bank} It is not for the first time, that we have to remark on the probabilities of this event; for we have already stated in some of our past numbers, that if the institutions of the government and its wholesome laws were not properly regarded and executed, it would soon cease to exist as a Government of well regulated laws.  The Cherokees were the first who heard the angry mutterings for their destruction; five years have but expired, when it has become visible to the ablest of the American people, when they find the mighty Government in its dying agonies, and trembling in its foundations. Every effect has its cause.  The people of the United States, permitted their President to sink the Cherokee ship at the blow of his mighty breath to its fly-colors, regardless of the Government laws, expressly enacted for their protection, but the bane did not stop here; we ask the American reader where is the stopping place. The whole Indian relations coeval with the Government, have been rendered almost to nonentity by the single person of the President. -Nature and ambition could not be satiated at these strides to unlimited power. The American nation has now passed in our stead in groans of a dying state in the hands of one man. When the American people permitted the President to raise his mighty arm, and command the bright seals of the United States, on the 16 solemn Cherokee treaties to fade, virtue departed to return no more, but with a political change. It was this indulgence of their President to exercise unbridled power over the Indians which has contaminated the purity of the executive, and an adequate constitution ordained for a salutary government. The signs we confess are ominous to the red man first, and to the great American people; but we humbly hope, there is sufficient wisdom existing to restore the Constitution and laws to their manifest intentions.*

________

*The Government before the revolution of Indian affairs was like unto the vision of St. John, 'And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God,' rejoicing in the felicity and marching onward to protection.

__________________________

THE HUMANE POLICY IN LABOR

We frequently stated that the Cherokees in Tennessee had made great speculations on the Government, by making large improvements and then emigrating. First, the enrolling agents induced these Indians to bring white men into the nation, and make large improvements, preparatory to a valuation by the agents, and second to sell their possessory right to white men before they left the country. The Secretary of War likewise had engaged with those that enrolled to secure to such, their interest in the soil when ever a treaty could be made. This was something like a thribble price to the Indians which induced them to enroll, until the Government found it had incurred the expense of an hundred and forty thousand dollars, but first took care to send the emigrants to the never failing streams, ' where the Indians live without trouble. But the emigrants have been sent off at the point of the bayonet ' the promises made them are now too great and unjust. Return J. Meigs Counsellor at law at Athens, Tennessee, has been appointed Secretary of War to report to him the transactions of the agents and these Indians in relation to the speculation on these improvements. For which purpose, Mr. Meigs has invited the Cherokees of the best standing to the agency to testify to him what improvements were recognized to be the property of the emigrants. Hurrah and Hurrah for the humane policy.






      


INDIANS

DWIGHT MISSION.

Extract of a letter from Rev. Henry R. Wilson, Jr., dated Dwight Mission, Cherokee Nation, Jan. 16th, 1834

'The poor people to whom I am going have been much more neglected, and are consequently much more wretched. They number about eighteen or twenty thousand in all, and have lately emigrated (and indeed some of them are still emigrating) from their home, to this wilderness. They have suffered much by their removal; having lost their little property, together with their cows and horses.  Many of them have died by the way, and since their arrival many hundreds of them have been cut off by death. The remainder, disappointed in their new country-unprovided with food, and unable to procure stock, and implements of industry, have sunk down into sullenness, bordering on despair; a state of mind very unfavorable to the reception of the gospel. Driven from the homes of their fathers to the very utmost verge of our country, they know not what to do or where to go. O! could you see the wrongs which these poor people suffer; not so much from the design of government, as from unprincipled agents,-sub-agents-traders and contractors, your heart, which knows how to feel for the suffering, would weep over their condition. O! that the Christian public could see and feel the debt which, under God they owe to this poor neglected, abused, suffering people. But I believe the day is not too distant, when this will be the case, and when the remnant of these tribes shall be redeemed unto the Lord, and given to Jesus, as a part of that inheritance which He purchased with His precious blood. For this, dear brother, let us pray; for this, while God gives me grace and strength, will I continue to labor.'




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 24, 1834

The exceeding irregularity of the mails here if it is not soon remedied will cease to be useful and become a standing evil to the country. Last Monday week 12th instant, three mails were due us, when we received piles of our exchange papers some old and some of recent dates, to wit: 3 New York Observers: 3 Ohio Observers: 3 Charleston Observers: 6 of N. Y. Journal of Commerce: 6 of N. Y. Advertiser: 6 of the American: and 18 of Poulson's Philadelphia Advertiser: and of all others three weeks papers.

The mail from Georgia via. Lawrenceville to this place which brings all our important news, we are glad to inform our readers will be hereafter transported by Mr. Thompson, and we have some reasons to hope, that this gentleman will endeavor to perform his duty.

____________________

The settlers of the Cherokee country, from the lottery state, or those who have obtained cheap lands and gold mines, without paying the Cherokees for this property, in Hickory Log District, (called now by the Georgians) Cherokee County, made considerable attempts to declare war against the Cherokees on week before last, but finally no lives were lost-no razor straps from the Indians backs were carved, as was the fact at the Horse Shoe Battle with the Creeks, by way of the trophies of war. However, some cause gave rise to this attempt on the part of the whites, of which we have unceasingly counselled the Cherokees never to create, for the pretext of our oppressors to exterminate us. It appears, two Indians from Notley, on the North Carolina side of the Nation, were strolling among the Indians, near the Court-House, for several days, who were suspected of having no honest motives for their visit, at this season of the year. A rifle gun was missing at the Indians' house with whom they had put up, where they had left before light. They proceeded to the Court House, and meeting Doctor Burns in the road, the Indian with his stolen gun, came near taking the life of the above named gentleman, by shooting at his head; but fortunately, the ball struck his head so as not to fracture the skull, and endanger life. These Indians retreated and returned the rifle to the owner, and left. The brave yeomanry of Governor Lumpkin's sent as express to him, with the hat of Dr. Burns, which was shot, and in course, of wars and rumors of wars, with a call on his Excellency for muskets and ball, 'c. The Governor received the hat with the Indian's shot, but rather humorously (we suppose he is a Christian) decided that it could not be the general disposition of the Indians as he had received letters from Washington, stating that the President would soon make a treaty for the removal of the Cherokees.  In the meantime, the lottery gentlemen marched against the Indian who owned the gun with which Dr. Burns was shot, charged as an aider and abettor in the war, whom the found working in his field.  One of the company drew a gun on this Indian, and ordered him to surrender; the Indian being near, took a running start under the gun, and gave the white man a severe fall. The company drew their knives and butchered him in a barbarous manner, but is likely to recover. The return express brought no declaration of war from the chartered state, a company of Indians and whites were on pursuit of the principals.




      


POETRY

From the Hiwassean

THE NEGRO'S WISH

Foken say de Georgians mity bad,

I'spose he git no better;

He gunner 'buse de preacher men,

And now I send him letter.

De gubner say he send de law

To rule de Ingen nation,

So let he people dig he gold

And make him no 'pensation

Beside, de pony club fokes say

Steal all the Ingens poney,

And forge de note and make him pay,

So git de Ingin money.

Poor Cherokee, because he small,

You dribe him off to nebber;

You take he land, he gold and all,

And still you mighty clebber.

If Ingin man shud go and take

De whole of gubner's tater,

I bound he twis poor Ingin's neck

Like hos and allegater.

I wunder how dis gubner feel,

And all de Georgia nation,

To see poor preacher at de wheel,

No let him preach salvation.

I wish sich gubner run away

Where Georgia nebber find him,

I wish he swim de 'Lantic sea,

And big shark close behind him.

Besides, one man, he cum along,

And catch and chain de preacher;

Now if he conshence no say rong,

` Old debble be his teacher.

I spect cause he commission git,

it makes him swell much bigger,

He bin so proud and cus so loud,

He strut like sassy niggur.

He strike a little one-eye man,

He sich a mity feller;

May debbil catch him if he can,

I guess he make him better.

If he bin man, who be well bred,

Before he cus and fite him,

And nock de preacher; on de hed,

He let de mad dog bite him.

If preacher bin in fiten gale,

And nebber made no feshon,

I bound such feller turn he tail,

And run like frited heshion.

I nebber lub sich backguard trick,

I hate him wurs and wurser,

If I could gim him one good lick,

I bound I spile his busser.

I wish he cum to Tennessee,

I larn him for dance juber,

But he so mean I frade of he,

I guess he steel my goober.

I wish he skin turn rong side out,

I guess he cut a figgur,

I wish he lib on possum snout,

And sleep along with niggur.

I wish he be in Guinea too,

I wish he bed rite woolly;

Dem niggers know how smart he do,

Dey hab him for great bully.

I wish he in de briar patch,

And had to swallow briar,

And when he skin git proper scratch,

I set em all on a fire.

I wish de fross would bite he ear,

I wish he shanks get bandy,

I wish he ride de no horn steer,

I bound he look so grandy.

I wish de steer mite frow him down,

And set he nose to bleedin,

So he be sich sassy Georgia clown,

Mite larn some sort of breedin.

I wish he in de blacksmifs shop,

And had to eat de cinder,

I wish de blacksmif take he sledge,

And nock him all to flinder.

I wish he whipt out of he skin,

And make him run to nebber,

I wish he nebber cum agin,

Without he be more clebber.






      


INDIANS

From the Missionary Herald.

OJIBWAS

Upper Red Cedar Lake

July 10, 1832_ reached upper Red Cedar, or Cassina Lake. This latter name it receives from Governor Cass who visited it in 1820. Two branches of the Mississippi enters into this lake. The Indians residing here, being aware of our approach came to meet us, firing salutes of musketry. Their summer village, they informed us, was on an island, about ten miles distant.

As we approached this island from the northeast, which over looks the lake by high bluff, rising some sixty or more feet above the water, almost the first object that I saw, was a fine field of corn, potatoes, and squashes, growing luxuriantly. The next I knew was a discharge of muskets from amid the sanding corn. We were directed to make the west side of the island where we should find a good landing and a place for encampment. In the meantime one continual hooting, yelling, and firing was kept behind the bushes which lined the shore. On disembarking I found a musket in the hands of almost every little Indian boy, many of whom followed the example of their fathers, came forward and took us by the hand. All bid us welcome, and seem overjoyed that their father has come to see his children.

Evening- While our canoes were unloading, tent, erecting, 'c. I took a walk to see the field of corn in the northern extremity of the island, which we passed. But ere I had reached it, I passed no less than two or three other little fields, all of which remind me of New England, where I never saw better corn, squashes or potatoes, than I find here with Indian culture. The growth of wood and timber on this part of the island is entirely destroyed, save here and there a large oak or maple.- All the high land is covered with rank grass and sumac, except the plats here and there under cultivation.

The soil is easy to work with a hoe, the only tool with which the squaw makes her garden. I say squaw, from the fact that she always makes the garden, in as much as the Indian deems it degrading to himself to use the hoe or axe. I next visited the lodges which were about half a mile south of our encampment.  Here I found another piece of corn, potatoes, and squashes. While our party were procuring some small canoes suitable for our route to Elk Lake, I went into one of the lodges, read several portions of Scripture, among others the ten commandments, and sung several Indian hymns. All listened with apparent interest and surprise. As I had not an interpreter, I was unable to communicate much more than to read such portions of Scripture and hymns as were familiar to me. In the lodge, directly before me were suspended three human scalps.  These were the trophies of victory with which they have just returned from the Sioux. Several of the warriors of this band joined the Leech Lake Band in the recent excursion and the Indian who was killed belonged here.

Before I had returned to our tent, which is pitched but a few yards from two graves, the greater part of the Indians had here collected and begun the scalp dance. It was led by three squaws, each bearing in her hand one of the recent scalps.  Two or three men sat beating drums and singing while old and young male and female, all joined them in the song.  Occasionally all would become so animated, that there would be one general hop, and all at the same time throwing their heads back, would raise a most horrid yell, clapping the mouth with the hand to render, if possible, more terrific. Here were seen little boys and girls, not six years old, all looking on with the most intense interest, imitating their fathers and mothers, and participating in their brutal joy. Thus early do they learn by precept and example to imbibe the spirit of revenge and war, which is fostered in their bosoms, and in after life stimulates to go and perform some deed of daring and blood, which shall gain for themselves the like applause

A circumstance which rendered the scene not a little appalling, as it was performed around the graves of the dead.  At the head of one of the graves hangs an old scalp some ten feet above the ground, which the winds have almost divested of its ornaments and its hair. The grass and turf for several yards around are literally destroyed, and I presume, by their frequent dancing. One of the scalps I examined. The flesh side had apparently been smoked and rubbed with some material till it was pliant, after which it was painted with vermilion. A piece of wood is turned in the form of a horse-shoe, into which the scalp is sewed the threads passing around the wood, which keeps it tight.  Narrow pieces of cloth and ribands of various colors, attached to the bow, were ornamented with beads and feathers.  A small stick, which serves for a handle to shake it in the air when they dance, was attached to the top of the bow by a string. While examining it, a lock of hair fell from it, which the Indian gave me, and which I still preserve.

Return to Upper Red Cedar Lake

Most of the party remaining at the Indian village on the island in Upper Red Cedar Lake, Mr. Boutwell proceeded with Mr. S. and others up one of the streams that empty into the lake, as before stated, to Elk Lake; and thence he crossed by portage to another stream; also emptying into Upper Red Cedar Lake,and descended to that lake again.

15. Sabbath.- Reached the island early this morning having marched all night. Find all our men well and much recruited by resting four days during our absence.  The party that had accompanied us are so fatigued by our tour to Elk Lake, that it is thought best to defer our service in English, while I devote what time and strength I have to the Indians.  Retired in the morning with the three pious soldiers and spent an hour in prayer and conversation. I find them all much depressed. I read to some of the Indians who came to our tent this forenoon. In the afternoon collected seventy Indians or more, all of whom listened with apparent interest and god attention to the word of God, and most of them for the first time. Our place of assembling was near the graves, before mentioned, on the ground where the horrid scalp dance is often exhibited. Never did I witness a more interesting, respectful and attentive Indian audience. Mr. J. read to them the account of the creation and the flood, after which I read the ten commandments from which I made some remarks, and informed them of the object of my visit. The inquiry was put to the principal man, the chief being absent, 'Would you like a missionary to come and live with you, instruct your children, and tell you about God?' To which he replied, 'Neither myself nor any one present can answer the inquiry, as the chief is absent, and many of the young men are very vicious.'

As we assembled for our worship, five or six Indians were sitting near, in a game of platter which was soon left. Not long after our meeting closed, the dance began and continued without cessation till eleven o'clock. I learn from some of the men who remained, that the Indians danced almost day and night during our absence. I am also informed that three canoes from Leech Lake passed here yesterday on their way to Red Lake, to carry the wampum and the pipe to invite that band to join them in another war party to revenge the death of the Indian who was killed in their late excursion.

I much regret that I must leave this people without seeing the chief. The land is capable of raising corn, ' I presume, wheat, barley and rye. The first is already cultivated to a considerable extent. This band is far removed from all Catholic influence, and there is no very distinguished 'medicine man' or conjurer among them, whose influence is much to be feared. One would think, in looking at their growing corn, potatoes, 'c., that they are already far advanced in the arts of civilized life. One requested a few beans to plant next year. Another asked for a little salt, and in return brought us very fine potatoes which were not merely a rarity to us, but a curiosity here at this advanced season. They obtained the corn which they have cultivated here many years from Red River.  The island is large and in the form of a cross. The lake is a large body of water and affords many fish. Much wild rice is gathered in the vicinity. The only water communication is with the Mississippi River. The distance to Dandy Lake is 350 or 400 miles; and to the Falls of St. Anthony the distance is from 650 to 800 miles. Wild rice is an important article of food among the Indians in this quarter. The kernel is long, slender and of a dark color, but a taste much like common rice.




      


The Cholera was still prevailing, with little or no abatement among the Cherokee emigrants, encamped near the mouth of the Cadron, when we last heard from them.  The number of deaths in the party from all diseases, since they left Waterloo, on the Tennessee River, amount to about 50- a fearful mortality in a party originally not exceeding 550 souls in the short space of about two months. Every humane exertion within the control of Lieut. Harris, the Conducting Agent, has been used to alleviate the sufferings of the emigrants. One of the Physicians Dr. J. C. Roberts, employed by him to attend on the sick, was attacked with the disease, and died on Thursday last, and Dr. John T. Fulton, the only other attending physician, was also seized with it last week, but, we are happy to learn, was convalescent and out of danger, on Friday evening last. Another has since been employed, from this county who we hope, may be more fortunate. The disease also appears to be spreading along the river. A citizen of this county, Mr. Madison Taylor, died last week about 15 or 20 miles above this place, and there was said to have been another case in his family and one of the vicinity, both of which are convalescent. There have been several cases of the cholera at or near Pine Bluff's within the last 10 or 15 days, and three or four blacks have died-but the disease had abated when the last steamboats left there.

For the information of our friends abroad, we have the pleasure of assuring them, that we have no case of the Cholera in town, nor in the vicinity, and that our citizens are as healthy as usual at this season of the year. -Gazette.

__________________

The Cholera- We copy the following painful intelligence from the Little Rock (Ark) Advocate of the 2d inst.- Nat. Ban.



United States Troops.- About 140 U. S. Troops, recruits, for the 7th Infantry at Gibson, passed up on board the steamboat Galliopolis, on Friday last under command of Lieuts. Taylor and Chandler. The cholera had made its appearance among them. Six had died since they left New Orleans, and 40 or 50 reported sick on their arrival here.

The cholera was still prevailing among the Cherokee emigrants, at our last advises. This party of emigrants numbered, originally 550- but of that number 60 or 65 have died since their embarkation.

Dr. Fulton has returned to this place, and we are happy to state has partially recovered.

_____________________

The Chickasaws- From Col. Reynolds, the Agent who has just returned from an exploring expedition in company with a delegation of the Chickasaw Indians, we learn that the prospects for a location of this tribe, west of the Mississippi, are not altogether satisfactory. The country in which they are willing to settle, is claimed by the Choctaws, who appear unwilling to cede any portion of it to another tribe. But they propose to receive the Chickasaws within their limits, and extend to them the same privileges that are granted to their own tribe; permitting them to choose their own chiefs,and to be governed by their own laws, 'c. This proposition has not been accepted. The Choctaws have not, however, absolutely refused to cede a part of their territory, but have required farther time to consider the proposition. A final decision is expected during the present year.-  N. Alabamian.




      


CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 31, 1834

Mr. JOHN V. TITTERMARY, of Philadelphia, is Agent for the Cherokee Phoenix. Subscribers in arrears with this paper, in the State of Pennsylvania, will hereafter make payments to him.

__________________

Our present number ends the 5th volume of the Phoenix. We would, on this occasion say to our friends, that we need much assistance in the pecuniary department of this paper, in order to the continuation of this organ of the Cherokees, through which to make known their grievances to the American people. We have a sufficient amount due us for this paper, to enable us to continue it, and we have concluded to stop our operations for a few weeks,say to the 1st of July, for the purpose of collecting funds.

Another reason is: the health of its editor has been in a feeble condition for a long time past, and the warm season having approached, he would avail the opportunity of recruiting himself.

To those of our contemporaries throughout the United States, who have sent their able papers to us, we would return our grateful thanks. For the articles they have copied from our journal,and the indulgence with which we have been treated, in our remarks during our labors, in opposition to the most wicked policy that the wit of man could conceive, to expel the Cherokees from their beloved homes, the cruelly treated Cherokees would return to those kind Editors, all they have - their kindest feelings.

To our Cherokee readers, we would say, DON'T GIVE UP THE SHIP; although our enemies are numerous, we are yet in the land of the living,and of our clearly recognized rights. Improve your children, in morality and religion, and say to intemperance now growing at our doors, depart ye cursed, and the JUDGE of all the earth will impart means for the salvation of our suffering nation.

___________________________

The administration papers expresses some sympathies for the misfortunes of the few emigrating Cherokees, in consequence of the mortality of one eight (sic) of them by cholera, at one time on the Arkansas River.  Now we had always believed that this faculty had its foundation in the instinct of all mankind, ' was as natural to present itself on the above occasion, as it is for water to rundown its stream. Now how happens it that no solicitude and sympathy has been felt by the same party, on a fit occasion too, of the cruel treatment of the defenseless Indians here; scourging their backs, shooting the Indians for digging their own gold, and tying Cherokee women with ropes and forcing them to emigrate. We admire the feeling displayed in the present instance, but do not oppress us first, and if the fire be too hot, so that we run and fall unto death, it seems to come with but little grace, to say, that we are sorry for these Indians.




      


$250 REWARD

STOP THE MURDERER

JOHN M. WARD, a native of the Cherokee Nation, murdered Mr. JOHN JORDON, on Monday morning, the 6th inst. and has escaped.- Ward is a man supposed to be about 25 years old; he is spare made, and about 5 feet 10 inches high; his hair is of a light color, he has grey eyes; he is a pale swarthy complexion; his left arm has been slightly injured so that he cannot straighten it; and a man of very bad countenance. The above reward will be paid for the apprehension of Ward, so soon as it is ascertained n what jail he is secured.

ALEXANDER JORDON.

Volume 1, neyard, P. O. April 25,----4t.