  
CONSTITUTION OF THE CHEROKEE NATION,
Formed by a Convention of Delegates from the several Districts, at New Echota, July 1827.
WE THE REPRESENTATIVES of the people of the CHEROKEE NATION in Convention assembled, in order to establish justice, ensure tranquility, promote our common welfare, and secure to ourselves and our posterity the blessings of liberty, acknowledging with humility and gratitude the goodness of the sovereign Ruler of the Universe, in offering as an opportunity so favorable to the design, and imploring his aid and direction in its accomplishment, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the Government of the Cherokee Nation.
_____
ARTICLE I
Sec. 1. THE BOUNDARIES of this nation, embracing the lands solemnly guarantied and reserved forever to the Cherokee Nation by the Treaties concluded with the United States, are as follows; and shall forever hereafter remain unalterably the same-to wit- Beginning on the North Bank of Tennessee River at the upper part of the Chickasaw old fields; thence along the main channel of said river, including all the islands therein, to the mouth of the Hiwassee River, thence up the main channel of said river, including islands, to the first hill which closes in on said river, about two miles above Hiwassee Old Town; thence along the ridge which divides the waters of the Hiwassee and Little Tellico, to the Tennessee River at Tallasasei, thence along the main channel, including islands, to the junction of the Cowee and Nanteyalee; thence along the ridge in the fork of said river, to the top of the Blue Ridge; thence along the Blue Ridge to the Unicoy Turnpike road; thence by a straight line to the main source of the Chestatee; thence along its main channel, including islands, to the Chattahoochy; and thence down the same to the Creek boundary at Buzzard Roost; thence along the boundary line which separates this and the Creek Nation, to a point on the Coosa River opposite the mouth of Will's Creek; thence down along the south bank of the same to a point opposite to Fort Strother; thence up the river to the mouth of Will's Creek; thence up along the east bank of said creek to the west branch thereof, and up the same to its source; and thence along the ridge which separates the Tombechee and Tennessee waters, to a point on the top of said ridge; thence due north to Camp Coffee on Tennessee River, which is opposite the Chickasaw Island; thence to the place of beginning.
Sec. 2. The Sovereignty and Jurisdiction of this Government shall extend over the country within the boundaries above described, and the lands therein are, and shall remain the common property of the Nation; but the improvements made thereon, and in the possession of the citizens of the Nation, are the exclusive and indefeasible property of the citizens respectively who made, or may rightfully be in possession of them; Provided, That the citizens of the Nation, possessing exclusive and indefeasible right to their respective improvements, as expressed in this article, shall possess no right nor power to dispose of their improvements in any manner whatever to the United States, individual states, nor to individual citizens hereof; and that, whenever any such citizen or citizens shall remove with their effects out of the limits of this Nation, and become citizens of any other government, all their rights and privileges as citizens of this nation shall cease; Provided nevertheless, That the Legislature shall have power to re-admit by law to all the rights of citizenship any such person or persons, who may at any time desire to return to the Nation on their memorializing the General Council for such readmission. Moreover, the Legislature shall have power to adopt such laws and regulations, as its wisdom may deem expedient and proper, to prevent the citizens from monopolizing improvements with the view of speculation.
ARTICLE II
Sec. 1. The Power of this Government, shall be divided into three distinct departments; the Legislative, the Executive, and the Judicial.
Sec. 2. No person or persons, belonging to one of these Departments, shall exercise any of the powers properly belonging to either of the others, except in the cases hereinafter expressly directed or permitted.
ARTICLE III
Sec. 1. THE LEGISLATIVE POWER shall be vested in two distinct branches; a Committee, and a Council; each to have a negative on the other, and both to be styled, the General Council of the Cherokee Nation; and the style of their acts and laws shall be,
'RESOLVED by the Committee and Council in General Council convened.'
Sec. 2. The Cherokee Nation, as laid off into eight Districts, shall so remain.
Sec. 3. The Committee shall consist of two members from each district, and the Council shall consist of three members from each District, to be chosen by the qualified electors of their respective Districts for two years; and the elections to be held in every District on the first Monday in August for the year 1828, and every succeeding two years thereafter; and the General Council shall be held once a year, to be convened on the second Monday of October in each year, at New Echota.
Sec. 4. No person shall be eligible to a seat on the General Council, but a free Cherokee Male citizen, who shall have attained to the age of twenty-five years. The descendants of Cherokee men by all free women, except the African race, whose parents may be or have been living together as man and wife, according to the customs and laws of this Nation, shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges of this Nation, as well as the posterity of Cherokee women by all free men. No person who is of negro or mulatto parentage, either by the father or mother side, shall be eligible to hold any office of profit, honor or trust, under this Government.
Sec. 5. The Electors, and members of the General Council shall, in all cases except those of treason, felony, or breach of peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at election, and at the General Council, and in going to, and returning from the same.
Sec. 6. In all elections by the people, the electors shall vote viva voce. Electors for members to the General Council for 1828 shall be held at the places of holding the several courts, and at the other two precincts in each District which are designated by the law under which the members of this convention were elected; and the District Judges shall superintend the elections within the precincts of their respective Court Houses, and the Marshals ' Sheriffs shall superintend within the precincts which may be assigned them by the Circuit Judges of their respective Districts, together with one other person, who shall be appointed by the Circuit Judges for each precinct within their respective Districts, and the Circuit Judges shall also appoint a clerk to each precinct. The superintendents and clerks shall on the Wednesday morning succeeding the election assemble at their respective Court Houses and proceed to examine and ascertain the true state of the polls, and shall issue to each member, duly elected, a certificate; and also make an official return of the state of the polls of election to the principal chief, and it shall be the duty of the Sheriffs to deliver the same to the Executive Office; Provided nevertheless, The General Council shall have power, after the election of 1828 to regulate by law the precincts and superintendents and clerks of elections in the several Districts.
Sec. 7. All free male citizens (except negroes, and descendants of white and Indian men by negro women, who may have been set free,) who shall have attained to the age of eighteen years, shall be equally entitled in vote at all public elections.
Sec. 8. Each House of the General Council shall judge of the qualifications, elections, and returns of its own members.
Sec. 9. Each House of the General Council may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish a member for disorderly behavior, and with the concurrence of two thirds, expel a member; but not a second time for the same cause.
Sec. 10. Each house of the General Council, when assembled, shall choose its own officers; a majority of each house shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalty, as each house may prescribe.
Sec. 11. The members of the committee shall each receive from the public Treasury a compensation for their services, which shall be two dollars and fifty cents per day during their attendance at the General Council; and the members of the Council shall each receive two dollars per day, for their services during their attendance at the General Councils Provided, That the same may be increased or diminished by law, but no alteration shall take effect during the period of service of the members of the General Council, by whom such alteration shall have been made.
Sec. 12. The General Council shall regulate by law, by whom and in what manner, writs of elections shall be issued to fill the vacancies which may happen in either branch thereof.
Sec. 13. Each member of the General Council, before he takes his seat, shall take the following oath of affirmation; to wit:
'I A, B, do solemnly swear (or affirm as the case may be) that I have not obtained my election by Bribery, Treats, or any undue and unlawful means used by himself, or others by my desire or approbation, for that purpose; that I consider myself Constitutionally qualified as a member of _________,; and that, on all questions and measures which may come before me, I will so give my vote, and so conduct myself, as may, in my judgment, appear most conducive to the interest and prosperity of this Nation; and that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same, and to the utmost of my ability and power observe conform to, support, and defend the Constitution thereof.'
Sec. 14. No person who may be convicted of felony before any court of this Nation shall be eligible to any office or appointment of honor, profit, or trust, within this Nation.
Sec. 15. The General Council shall have power to make all laws and regulations, which they shall deem necessary and proper for the good of the Nation, which shall not be contrary to this Constitution.
Sec. 16. It shall be the duty of the General Council to pass such laws as may be necessary and proper, to decide differences by arbitrators to be appointed by the parties; who may choose that summary mode of adjustment.
Sec. 17. No power of suspending the laws of this Nation shall be exercised unless by the Legislature or its authority.
Sec. 18. No respective law, nor any law impairing the obligations of contracts shall be passed.
Sec. 19. The Legislature shall have power to make laws for laying and collecting taxes, for the purpose of raising a revenue.
Sec. 20. All bills making appropriations shall originate in the Committee, but the Council may propose amendments or reject the same.
Sec. 21. All other bills may originate in either house, subject to the concurrence or rejection of the other.
Sec. 22. All acknowledged Treaties shall be the Supreme Law of the land.
Sec. 23. The General Council shall have the sole power of deciding on the construction of all Treaty stipulations.
Sec. 24. The Council shall have the sole power of impeaching.
Sec. 25. All impeachments shall be tried by the Committee; when sitting for that purpose, the members shall be upon oath or affirmation; and no person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two thirds of the members present.
Sec. 26. The Principal Chief, assistant principal Chief, and all civil officers, under this nation shall be liable to impeachment for any misdemeanor in office, but Judgment in such cases shall not extend further that removal from office, and disqualification to hold office of honor, trust or profit, under this Nation. The party, whether convicted or acquitted shall, nevertheless, be liable to indictment, trial, judgment and punishment according to law.
[TO BE CONTINUED]










INDIAN EMIGRATION.
 Excerpt of a letter from Thomas L.M'Kenney to the Secretary of War, dated.
Nov. 29, 1827.
I have come to the conclusion, (I refer now mainly to the Creeks) and from close and personal observation that no treaty can be concluded with these people as such, and that whatever may be attempted, in this way will be with persons not of the Creek nation, but such as have artfully insinuated themselves into their confidence, and who govern their councils.
From this may be inferred the ignorance and weakness of the Creeks, and the inference is just. Conscious of their own inefficiency to manage for themselves their concerns, they have yielded to this State of dependence on others. But this is not all. They are a wretched people. Poverty and distress are visible everywhere; and these have become entailed upon them by habitual drunkenness. No man who has the feelings of a man can go trough their country and see their total abandonment in this vice, without emotions of the most painful kind. I hold their recovery from it, and from its long train of miseries, while they retain their present relations to the State to be hopeless. No human agency can reform them as a people. It is vain to try. They are a devoted people and destruction just before them. Humanity and justice unite in calling loudly upon the government as a parent promptly to interfere and save them.
They feel the miseries of their condition; and many of them look most imploringly for help. I believe they would submit cheerfully to be guided by the government in regard to any new relation which it might be that proper to establish for them. But those influences, under the direction of which they have placed themselves would counteract the kindest designs unless the measures which may be adopted for bettering their condition shall be accompanied by a power that shall cause those interested people to cease their interfering agencies; and this, in my opinion is within the range of a sound policy, nor will the exercise of it conflict with any one of the great principles upon which rest justice, or mercy, or the freedom of the citizen. It will be found to be:
 First- In the preparation of a suitable (and none other would be offered to them) and last home, for these unfortunate people, and
 Second- In providing suitable means and support for their transportation, and taking them kindly but firmly by the hand and telling they must go and enjoy it; and
Lastly- In letting those persons who interfere in such matter know, that the object of the government being kind to the Indians, and intended wholly to better their condition, its determination is final, and that no persons will be permitted with impunity to interfere in it. To sustain this last position the presence of a few troops only would be required.
I would have it distinctly understood that a reasonable number of reservations should be granted and that they should be given in fee simple to those who might prefer to remain.
This policy applies in its fullest extend, to the Creeks. I confine it in this extend, to this people not because it is not in a great degree applicable to others, but because I consider the way to be wide open for the Chickasaws and Choctaws; and therefore, no illustrations in reference to them are needed.
In regard to these (the Chickasaws and Choctaws) I believe, it will only be required to make the provision as has been more fully explained in my reports of the 17th and 18th October, marked A. B. and C. and they will go. I believe also, the greater portion of the Cherokees would follow, upon a bare exposition of the plan which has been recommended, the establishment of a suitable system for their transportation, and an invitation to them to go and join their brothers.
I did not, as you are aware, visit the Cherokees. It was my wish to have seen them, and in pursuance of your instructions, made known the views and wishes of the government to them also. My time I found would not hold out; and if it had been longer, I must have arrived in their country at the period when the commissioners were engaged in negotiating for the privilege of uniting, by means of a canal through their country, the waters of Conesage and Highwassee, and I should have deemed it prudent even with time enough to have visited them, not to distract their councils by calling off their attention to any other subject.
Of the Cherokees it is due, that I should speak from my knowledge, obtained, however, otherwise than by personal observations, in terms of high commendation. They have done much for themselves. It has been their food fortune to have had born among them some great men; of these the late Charles Hicks stood pre-eminent. Under his wisdom, which was guided by virtues of a rare quality, these people have been elevated in privileges of every local description, high above their neighbors. They seek to be a people, and to maintain by law and good government, those principles which maintain the security of persons, defend the rights of property, 'c.- They deserve to be respected, and to be helped. But with the kindest regards to them, and with a firm conviction the propriety and truth of the remark, they ought not to be encouraged in forming a constitution and government within a State of the Republic, to exist and operate independently of our laws. The sooner they have the assurance given them, that this cannot be permitted, the better it will be for them. If they will agree to come at once under our laws, and be merged as citizens in our privileges would it be objected against? But if they will not, then no people, of all the Indians within our limits, are better qualified to go into a territory, such as it is proposed to provide for our Indians, and by their superior lights, confer, under the suitable form of government, benefits upon the Indian race. They are wise enough, I think to see this, ' magnanimous enough to undertake it. For my own part, I am solicitous for their happiness and prosperity; and being conscious that their hopes must rest ultimately, upon such a home as the Chickasaws have, with such a display of wisdom, determined to go and provide for themselves. I cannot but believe that a great majority of the Cherokees will consent to join them.
We cannot but express our regret that Col. M'Kinney should believe that the greater portion of the Cherokees would follow the Creeks, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, in their emigration to, we know not where, when we are confident that this belief is founded upon no evidence whatever. He did not pay us a visit, and of course could not obtain the views of our people in regard to the present policy of the General Government, in its intercourse with the Indians; and we presume that those with when he might have had an interview, never assured him anything of this nature. We have formed our opinion on the subject from personal observation, and would not hesitate to express our belief, that the Cherokee (I think unanimously) are adverse to remove. The public are already aware that we have frequently made known our reluctance to part with our Country, ' betake ourselves to the west of Mississippi. And let it here be stated that this reluctance, on our part, not a thing of late origin, as it has been insinuated. At a conference held in Philadelphia 1792 between Gen. Knox, Secretary of War, ' deputation of the Cherokees, Al-neshe-loo_-yah (or Bloody Fellow) delivered a speech of which the following is an extract, which will show the disposition of the Cherokees on this matter at that early period. The speeches of the Deputation, and the answers of the President and the Secretary of War will be given in future numbers of our paper.
'When I found Governor Blount wanted to purchase our lands, I told him that I love my lands, and would not part with them, that I came there not to treat of selling land, but on public business of friendship between the white and red people. I tell you truly what I said to Governor Blount, and I am come to ask of you, whether he was authorized to purchase our lands?
We remained seven days at the place of treaty, on this business, and Governor Blount still urging us to sell our lands  the thought of which made tears come into eyes daily.
On the seventh day, finding Governor Blount still urging the sale of lands, I said to him, I was desirous of going to General Washington and Congress, to see whether I could not obtain better satisfaction; to which Governor Blount replied that he was fully authorized for the purpose, therefore it would be unnecessary for any Indians to go.
I however persevered in my wishes to go to Philadelphia, when Governor Blount asked me, whether I had money to defray the expenses of my journey-this struck me forcibly, and reflecting that our people young and old were in his power, I then told him that if he would not demand so much land of us, we would give him a small piece, without any consideration whatever, if he would let us and our children return to our own country in peace and safety.'
If such were the feelings of a Cherokee Chief, more than thirty years ago, when his countrymen were yet in a rude state, what may not be expected from his successors, whose minds have in some measure been enlightened ' who depend on the products of their lands for their support.
There is no one amongst us, who would have any objection to hear a bare explanation of the plan which Col. M'Kinney has recommended; but we would protest against the employment of coercive measures, as the means of civilizing us. Such measures as will appear evident even to the most superficial observer of human nature, instead of proving beneficial to us, will render all the former attempts for our good completely abortive.
It has been repeatedly and strongly urged by some of our white brethren, among whom appears to be Col. M'Kinney, whose connections with Indian affairs and the General Government, would seem to establish authority on his opinion, that the Cherokees ought not to be permitted to form a Constitution of their own, which they have lately done. It is well known that we always have had the right of passing laws for ourselves, and regulating our affairs, or at least this right has never been as we know, denied us. Why is this cry made now at this late hour? Is it because we have given the name of Constitution to our fundamental principles of Government? If that is the reason, we are willing to dispense with the name, and in its stead substitute Laws. Is it said that our Government 'exists and acts independently of the laws of the United States? Such has always been the case in a great measure, and if we are in any way bound to her (which we do not deny) it will easily be discovered in the several treaties between the General Government and the Cherokees. These treaties we regard with sacred respect as being the bases of our safety, and would upon no consideration whatever, infringe upon them.- When a determination was made for forming a constitution, we believe it was the universal understanding that it should be formed agreeably in the general and state constitutions, the intercourse laws, and the treaties by which the Nation is and has been connected with the United States. If there is any article, section or clause in this Constitution which clashes with all or either of the above instruments the framers of it have unintentionally committed error, and claim rather the indulgence of the public, and deserve its severe censure.
We are very fearful that the policy and measurers of the General Government, in civilizing the Indians, is about to take a new turn. Instead of encouraging them to embrace the useful arts, education and religion in the land of their forefathers, which has formerly been done to the honor of WASHINGTON, JEFFERSON, and others, they are gravely told that their case is hopeless, whilst they retain their present relation to the States. We have always thought that we were related to the General Government, and not to the states; and let it be remembered that our relation with the United States has been one of the most efficient causes in bringing to pass the improvement amongst us, which Col. M'Kinney, in the above extract, has publicly acknowledged. To show the policy which the General Government formerly employed towards the Indians, and the interest she took in their welfare, we present to our readers the following speech of Thomas Jefferson, one of the Presidents of the United States, delivered Jan. 9, 1809, to a deputation of the Upper Towns. We give the speech entire, so that there may not be any imputation of favoring ourselves.- We beg that the same kind spirit which this speech breathes, may be extended to us and to our children.
______________
 My Children, Deputies of the Cherokee Upper Towns,
I have maturely considered the speeches you have delivered me, and will now give you answers to the several matters they contain.
You inform me of your anxious desires to engage in the industrious pursuits of agriculture and civilized life; that finding it impracticable to induce the nation at large to join in this, you wish a line of separation to be established between the upper and Lower Towns, so as to include all the waters of the Hiwassee in your part; and that having thus contracted our society within narrower limits, you propose, within those to begin the establishment of fixed laws and of regular government. You say that the Lower Towns are satisfied with the division you propose and on these several matters you ask my advice and aid.
With respect to the line of division between yourselves and the lower towns, it must rest on the joint consent of both parties. The one you propose appears moderate, reasonable and well defined; we are willing to recognize those on each side of that line as distinct societies and if our aid should be necessary to mark it more plainly that nature has done, you shall have it. I think with you that on this reduced scale, it will be more easy for you to introduce the regular administration of laws.
In proceeding to the establishment of laws, you wish to adopt them from ours, and such only for the present as suits your present condition; chiefly indeed those for the punishment of crimes and the protection of property. But who is to determine which of our laws suit your condition, and shall be enforce with you? All of you being equally free, no one has a right to say what shall be law for the others.- Our way is to put these questions to the vote, and to consider that as law for which the majority votes-the fool has as great a right to express his opinion by vote as the wise, because he is equally free, and equally master of himself. But as it would be inconvenient for all our men to meet in one place, would it not be better for every town to do as we do--that is to say: Choose by the vote of the majority of the town, and if the country people nearer to that then to any other town, one, two, three, or more according to the size of the town, of those whom each voter thinks the wisest and honest men of their place, and let these meet together and agree which of our laws suit them. But these men know nothing of our laws. How than can they know which to adopt? Let them associate in their council our beloved men living with them, Col. Meigs, and he will tell them what our law is on any point they desire. He will inform them also of our methods of doing business in our councils, so as to preserve order and obtain the vote of ever member fairly. This council can make a law for giving to every head of a family separate parcel of land, which, when he has built upon and improved it, shall belong to him, and his descendants forever, and which the nation itself shall have no right to sell from under his feet. They will determine too, what punishment shall be inflicted for every crime. In our states generally, we punish murder by death, and all other crimes by solitary confinement in prison.
When you shall have adopted laws, who are to execute them? Perhaps it may be best to permit every town and the settlers in its neighborhood attached to it, to select some of their best men by a majority of its voters to be judges in all differences, and to execute the law according to their own judgment. Your council of representatives, will decide on this or such other mode as may best suit you. I suggest these things, my children, for the consideration of the Upper Towns of your nation, to be decided on as they think best, and I sincerely wish you may succeed in your laudable endeavors to save the remains of your nation, by adopting industrious occupations and a government of regular law. In this you may always rely on the council and assistance of the government of the United States. Deliver these words to your people in my name, and assure them of my friendship.
TH. JEFFERSON
 January 9th, 1809.










NEW ECHOTA
Thursday, February 21, 1828
To The Public
We are happy in being able, at length, to issue the first number of our paper, although after a longer delay than we anticipated. This delay has been owing to unavoidable circumstances, which, we think, will be sufficient to acquit us, and though our readers and patrons may be wearied in the expectation of gratifying their eyes on this paper of no ordinary novelty, yet we hope their patience will not be so exhausted, but that they will give it a calm perusal, and pass upon it a candid judgment. It is far from our expectation that it will meet with entire and universal approbation, particularly from those who consider learning and science necessary to the merits of newspapers. Such must not expect to be gratified here, for the merits, (if merits they can be called,) on which our paper is expected to exist, are not alike with those which keep alive the political and religious papers of the day. We lay no claim to extensive information; and we sincerely hope, this public disclosure will save us from the severe criticisms, to which our ignorance of many things, will frequently expose us, in the future course of our editorial labors.- Let the public but consider our motives, and the design of this paper, which is, the benefit of the Cherokees, and we are sure, those who wish well to the Indian race, will keep out of view all the failings and deficiences [sic] of the Editor, and give a prompt support to the first paper ever published in the Indian country, and under the direction of some of the remnants of those, who by the most mysterious course of providence, have dwindled into oblivion. To prevent us from the like destiny, is certainly a laudable undertaking, which the Christian, the Patriot, and the Philanthropist will not be ashamed to aid. Many are now engaged, by various means and with various success, in attempting to rescue, not only us, but all our kindred tribes, from the impending danger which has been so fatal to our fore-fathers; and we are happy to be in a situation to tender them our public acknowledgements for their unwearied efforts. Our present undertaking is intended to be nothing more than a feeble auxiliary to these efforts. Those therefore, who are engaged for the good of the Indians of every tribe, and who pray that salvation, peace, and the comforts of civilized life may be extended to every Indian fire side on this continent, will consider us as co-workers together in their benevolent labors. To them we make our appeal for patronage, and pledge ourselves to encourage and assist them, in whatever appears to be for the benefit of the Aborigines.
In the commencement of our labours [sic], it is due to our readers that we should acquaint them with the general principles, which we have prescribed to ourselves as rules in conducting this paper. These principles we shall accordingly state briefly. It may, however, be proper to observe that the establishment which has been lately purchased, principally with the charities of our white brethren is the property of the Nation and that the paper, which is now offered to the public, is patronized by, and under the direction of, the Cherokee Legislature, as will be seen in the Prospectus already before the public. As servants we are bound to that body, from which, however, we have not received any instructions, but are left at liberty to form such regulations for our conduct as will appear to us most conducive to the interests of the people, for whose benefit, this paper has been established.
As the Phoenix is a national paper, we shall feel ourselves bound to devote it to national purposes. 'The laws and public documents of the Nation,' and matters relating to the welfare and condition of the Cherokees as a people, will be faithfully published in English and Cherokee.
As the liberty of the press is so essential to the improvement of the mind, we shall consider our paper, a free paper, with, however, proper and usual restrictions. We shall reserve to ourselves the liberty of rejecting such communications as tend to evil, and such as are too intemperate and too personal. But the columns of this paper shall always be open to free and temperate discussions on matters of politics, religion, 'c.
We shall avoid as much as possible, controversy on disputed doctrinal points in religion. Though we have our particular belief on this important subject, and perhaps are as strenuous upon it, as some of our brethren of a different faith, yet we conscientiously think, ' in this thought we are supported by men of judgment that it would be injudicious, perhaps highly pernicious, to introduce to this people, the various minor differences of Christians. Our object is not sectarian; and if we had a wish to support, in our paper, the denomination with which we have the honor and privilege of being connected, yet we know our incompetency for the task.
We will not unnecessarily intermeddle with the politics and affairs of our neighbors. As we have no particular interest in the concerns of the surrounding states, we shall only expose ourselves to contempt and ridicule by improper intrusion. And though at times, we should do ourselves injustice, to be silent, on matters of great interest to the Cherokees, yet we will not return railing for railing, but consult mildness, for we have been taught to believe, that 'A soft answer turneth [sic] away wrath; but grievous words stir up anger.' The unpleasant controversy existing with the state of Georgia, of which many of our readers are aware, will frequently make our situation trying, by having hard sayings and threatenings [sic] thrown out against us, a specimen of which will be found in our next. We pray God that we may be delivered from such spirit.
In regard to the controversy with Georgia, and the present policy of the General Government, in removing, and concentrating the Indians, out of the limits of any state, which, by the way, appears to be gaining strength, we will invariably and faithfully state the feelings of the majority of our people. Our views, as a people, on this subject, have been most sadly misrepresented. These views we do not wish to conceal, but are willing that the public should know what we think of this policy, which, in our opinion, if carried into effect, will prove pernicious to us.
We have been asked which side of the Presidential question we should take. Our answer is, we think best to take a neutral stand, and we know that such a course is most prudent, as we have no vote on the question, and although we have our individual choice, yet it would be folly for us to spend words and time on a subject, which has engrossed very much, the attention of the public already.
In fine, we shall pay a sacred regard to truth, and avoid, as much as possible, that partiality to which we shall be exposed.-- In relating facts of a local nature, whether political, moral, or religious, we shall take care that exaggeration shall not be our crime. We shall also feel ourselves bound to correct all mistatements [sic], relating to the present conditions of the Cherokees.
How far we shall be successful in advancing the improvement of our people, is not now for us to decide. We hope, however, our efforts will not be altogether in vain.-- Now is the moment when mere speculation on the practicability of civilizing us is out of the question. Sufficient and repeated evidence has been given, that Indians can be reclaimed from a savage state, and that with proper advantages, they are as capable of improvement in mind as any other people; and let it be remembered, notwithstanding the assertions of those who talk to the contrary, that this improvement can be made, not only by the Cherokees, but by all the Indians, in their present locations. We are rendered bold in making this assertion by considering the history of our people within the last fifteen years. There was a time within our remembrance, when darkness was sadly prevalent, and ignorance abounded amongst us-when strong and deep rooted prejudices were directed against many things relating to civilized ( word unclear) had when it was thought a disgrace for a Cherokee to appear in the costume of a white man. We mention these things not by way of boasting, but to show to our readers that it is not a visionary thing to attempt to civilize and Christianize all the Indians, but highly practicable.
It is necessary for our white patrons to know that this paper is not intended to be a source of profit, and that its continuance must depend, in a great measure, on the liberal support which they may be pleased to grant us. Though our object is not gain, yet we with as much patronage, as will enable us to support the establishment without subjecting it to pecuniary difficulties. Those of our friends, who have done so much already for us by instructing us in the arts of civilized life, and enabling us to enjoy the blessings of education, and the comforts of religion, and to those exertions may be attributed the present means of improvement in this Nation, will not think it a hard matter that their aid should now be respectfully requested. In order that our paper may have an extensive circulation in this Nation and out of it, we have fixed upon the most liberal terms possible; such, in our opinion, as will render it as cheap as most of the Southern papers; and in order that our subscribers may be prompt in their remittances, we have made considerable difference between the first and the last payments. Those who have any experience in the management of periodicals will be sensible how important it is, that the payments of subscribers should be prompt and regular, particularly where the existence of a paper depends upon its own income. We sincerely hope that we shall never have any occasion to complain of the delinquency of any of our patrons.
We would now commit our feeble efforts to the good will and indulgence of the public, praying that God will attend them with his blessing, and hoping for that happy period, when all the Indian tribes of America shall arise, Phoenix like, from their ashes, and when the terms, 'Indian depredation,' 'war whoop,' 'scalping knife' and the like, shall become obsolete, and for ever be 'buried deep under ground.'










The failure of the 2 last mails, by the late freshets [sic], has rendered our present number destitute of intelligence. We would also state to our readers in this Nation, that our receipts of Washington papers have been so irregular, that we are not able to present to them what is doing in Congress in regard to affairs of Indians.










W. has our thanks for his communication on the Cherokee Alphabet.-- We hope to be favored from another source with an account of the invention of this singular Alphabet. We would recommend to W. to continue his correspondence on the Cherokee Language.










NOTICE
ALL persons are forewarned against trading for a Note of hand, drawn by John Martin, in favor of John M'Carver, and Monce Gore of East Tennessee, for three hundred and fifty Dollars; payable on the first day of March next, dated January 1st, 1828.
As the Consideration for which said note was given, has proved to be unsound, I am determined not to pay unless compelled by law.
JOHN MARTIN
New Echota, Feb. 21, 1828










POETRY
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.
TRANSLATION OF THE LORD'S PRAYER.
[Next follows a paragraph in Cherokee.]
THE LORD'S PRAYER VERSIFIED.
Tune Dalston.
[Next follows five stanzas in Cherokee]
Literal Translation of the Lord's Prayer from Cherokee into English.
Our Father, who dwellest above, honored by thy name. Let thy empire spring to light. Let thy will be done on earth as it is done above.- Our food day by day bestow upon us. Pity us in regard to our having sinned against thee, as we pity those who sin against us. And lead us not into any place of straying, but, on the other hand, restrain us from sin. For thine is the empire, and the strength, and the honor forever. So let it be.
The above is perhaps as literal a translation as can well be given in English of the Lord's prayer in Cherokee, as it stands at the head this of [sic] column. As however, the Cherokee cannot be said to be a strictly literal translation from the original, so neither is the English from the Cherokee. the idiom of the one language is so widely different from that of the other, that literal translation appear to be an impossibility.
W.










[CONTINUED]
CONSTITUTION OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
Formed by a Convention of Delegates from the several Districts, at New Echota, July 1827.
ARTICLE IV
Sec.1 . The Supreme Executive power of this Nation shall be vested in a Principal Chief, who shall be chosen by the General Council, and shall hold his office four years; to be elected as follows.- The General Council, by a joint vote, shall, at their second annual session, after the rising of this Convention, and at every fourth annual session thereafter, on the second day after the Houses shall be organized, and competent to proceed to business, elect a Principal Chief.
Sec. 2. No person except a natural born citizen shall be eligible to the office of Principal Chief; neither shall any person be eligible to that office, who shall not have attained to the age of thirty-five years.
Sec. 3. There shall also be chosen at the same time, by the General Council, in the same manner, for four years, and assistant Principal Chief.
Sec. 4. In case of the removal of the Principal Chief from office, or of his death, resignation, or inability to discharge the powers and duties of the said office, the same shall devolve on the Assistant Principal Chief, until the inability be removed or the vacancy filled by the General Council.
Sec. 5. The General Council may, by law, provide for the case of removal, death, resignation or inability of both the Principal and assistant Principal Chiefs, declaring what officer shall then act as Principal Chief, until the disability be removed, or a Principal Chief shall be elected.
Sec. 6. The Principal Chief and assistant Principal Chief shall, at stated times, receive for their services a compensation which shall neither be increased nor diminished during the period for which they shall have been elected; and they shall not receive, within that period, any other emolument from the Cherokee Nation, or any other government.
Sec. 7. Before the Principal Chief enters on the execution of his office, he shall take the following oath, or affirmation; I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the Cherokee Nation.'
Sec. 8 He may, on extraordinary occasions, convene the General Council at the Seat of Government.
Sec. 9. He shall from time to time give to the General Council information of the State of the Government, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he may think expedite.
Sec. 10. He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.
Sec. 11. It shall be his duty to visit the different districts, at least once in two years, to inform himself of the general condition of the Country.
Sec. 12. The Assistant Principal Chief shall, by virtue of his office, aid and advise the Principal Chief in the Administration of the Government, at all times during his continuance in office.
Sec. 13. Vacancies that may happen in offices, the appointment of which is vested in the General Council, shall be filled by the Principal Chief, during the recess of the General Council, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the end of the next Session.
Sec. 14. Every Bill which shall have passed both Houses of the General Council shall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation. If he approve, he shall sign it, but if not, he shall return it, with his objections, to that house in which it shall have originated who shall enter the objections at large on their journals, and proceed to reconsider it. If, after such reconsideration, two thirds of that House shall agree to pas the bill, it shall be sent, together with the objections, to the other house, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that house, it shall become a law. If any bill shall not be returned by the Principal Chief within five days (Sunday excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the same shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it; unless the General Council by their adjournment prevent its return, in which case it shall be a law, unless sent back within three days after their next meeting.
Sec.15. Members of the General Council and all officers, Executive and Judicial, shall be bound by oath to support the Constitution of this Nation, and to perform the duties of their respective offices, with fidelity.
Sec. 16. In case of disagreement between the two houses with respect to the time of adjournment, the Principal Chief shall have power to adjourn the General council to such a time as he thinks proper, provided, it be not to a period beyond the next Constitutional meeting of the same.
Sec. 17. The Principal Chief shall during the sitting of the General Council attend at the Seat of Government.
Sec. 18. There shall be a Council to consist of three men to be appointed by the joint vote of both Houses to advise the Principal Chief in the Executive part of the Government, whom the Principal Chief shall have full power, at his discretion, to assemble; and he, together with the assistant Principal Chief, and the Counsellors or a majority of them, may, from time to time, , hold and keep a Council for ordering and directing the affairs of the Nation according to law.,
Sec. 19. The members of the Council shall be chosen for the term of one year.
Sec. 20. The resolutions and advice of the Council shall be recorded in a register and signed by the members agreeing thereto, which may be called for by either house of the General Council; and any counsellor may enter his dissent to the resolution of the majority.
Sec. 21. The Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation shall be chosen by the joint vote of both Houses of the General Council for the term of two years.
Sec. 22. The Treasurer shall, before entering on the duties of his office, give bond to the Nation with sureties to the satisfaction of the Legislature, for the faithful discharge of his trust.
Sec. 23. No money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but by warrant from the Principal Chief, and in consequence of appropriations made by law.
Sec. 25 [sic]. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive all public moneys, and to make a regular statement and account of the receipts and expenditures of all public moneys to the annual Session of the General Council
ARTICLE V
Sec. 1. The Judicial Powers shall be vested in the Supreme Court, and such Circuit and Inferior Courts, as the General Council may, from time to time, ordain and establish.
Sec. 2. The Supreme Court shall consist of three Judges, any two of whom shall be a quorum.
Sec. 3. The two Judges of each shall hold their Commissions four years, but any of them may be removed from office on the address of two thirds of each house of the General Council to the Principal Chief, for that purpose.
Sec. 4. The Judges of the Supreme and Circuit Courts shall , at stated times, receive a compensation, which shall not be diminished during their continuance in office, but they shall receive no fees or perquisites of office, nor hold any other office of profit or trust, under this Nation or any other power.
Sec. 5. No person shall be appointed a Judge of any of the Courts before he shall have attained to the age of thirty years, nor shall any person continue to execute the duties of any of the said offices after he shall have attained to the age of seventy years.
Sec. 6. The Judges of the Supreme and Circuit Courts shall be appointed by a joint vote of both houses of the General Council.
Sec. 7. There shall be appointed in each District, under the Legislative authority, as many Justices of the Peace as it may be deemed the public good requires, whose powers, duties, and duration in office, shall be clearly designated.
Sec. 8. The Judges of the Supreme Court and Circuit Courts shall have complete criminal Jurisdiction in such cases ' in such manner as may be pointed out by law.
Each Court shall choose its own Clerks for the term of four years; but such Clerks shall not be continued in office unless their qualifications shall be adjudged and approved of, by the Judges of the Supreme Court and they shall be removable for breach of good behavior at anytime, by the Judges of their respective courts.
Sec. 10. No Judge shall sit on trial of any cause, where the parties shall be connected with him by affinity or consanguinity, except by consent of the parties. In case all the Judges of the Supreme Court shall be interested in the event of any cause, or related to all, or either, of the parties, the Legislature ma provide by law for the selection of three men of good character and knowledge, for the determination thereof, who shall be specially commissioned by the Principal Chief for the case.
Sec. 11. All writs and other process shall run, in the name of the Cherokee Nation, and bear test, and be signed by the respective clerks.
Sec. 12. Indictments shall conclude, 'against the peace ' dignity of the Cherokee Nation.'
Sec. 13. The Supreme Court shall hold its session annually at the Seat of Government to be convened on the second Monday of October in each year.
Sec. 14. In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall have the right of being heard, of demanding the nature and cause of the accusation against him, of meeting the witnesses face to face, of having compulsory process for obtaining witness in his favor, and in prosecution by indictment or information, a speedy public trial by an impartial jury of the vicinage; nor shall he be compelled to give evidence against himself.
Sec. 15. The people shall be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and possessions from unreasonable seizures, and searches, and no warrant to search any place or to seize any person or things, shall issue without describing them as nearly as may be, nor without good cause, supported by oath or affirmation.  All prisoners shall be bailable by sufficient securities, unless for capital offenses, where the proof is evident, or presumption great.










CHOCTAWS.
From a letter lately addressed to us by Col. David Folsom one of the Principal Chiefs of our Choctaw brethren, we make the following extract.
'The Choctaw people are determined to hold on to their land. They have no disposition whatever to sell their Country and make off to the west of the Mississippi.-- Civilization is rapidly taken place among them, and they are visibly improving in their habits. Much industry is displayed among them, and considerable exertions are used to educate their sons and daughters. Some of the leading men feel much interested in the education of their people. But notwithstanding all this, there is a great deal of opposition among us.'
_______________________
Creek Indians.--- The controversy between Georgia and the Creek Indians is at length amicably and finally terminated. The Georgia Telagraph [sic] informs us that a full Council of the Creek Nation of Indians assembled at their Council Ground on Monday, the 31st ult. and continued for several days. At this council, the Treaty made by Col. McKenney, with the Chiefs, for the purchase of their remaining strip of lands in the boundaries of Georgia was laid before them by the Agent, and received their full assent. The Government is to pay them $47,491 -- being $5,000 more than mentioned by Colonel M'Kenney, in his letter to the Secretary of War.
Nat. Int.
The above is confirmed by a letter which we have lately received from one of our correspondents.
Ed.
_____________________________
ANCIENT DOCUMENT
In the year 1762, Oganastota, a distinguished chief and warrior of the Cherokee Nation, whose memory is still held in great veneration amongst us, made a visit to Great Britain, a notice of which is to be seen in Smollet's continuation of Hume's History of England. It appears that the then reigning king was so well pleased with the visit, as to furnish him with a certificate, which we transcribe from the original parchment.
GEORGE KING.
This is to certify that Skiagusta Oconesta, a Cherokee Chief and Warrior, having confirmed as Williamsburgh in Virginia the Peace lately concluded at Charles Town in South Carolina between His Majesty's subjects and the Cherokee Indians, and being desirous of paying his Respects to His Majesty, and seeing this Country, did, in the Month of June last, arrive here with ten of his Followers, and was admitted to His Majesty's Royal Presence, and that his Majesty was graciously pleased to receive kindly the Assurances of Attachment which the said Skiagusta Oconesta gave, and that His Majesty was further pleased to express much Satisfaction upon this Occasion, and to declare to Skiagusta Oconesta his Regard for him, and for the whole Cherokee Nation, and his Majesty having ordered proper Attention to be shown to the said Skiagusta Oconesta during his stay in England, and having given him other Marks of his Royal Favor, directed one of his ships of War to receive and carry him back to his own Country. Whitehall, August the Sixteenth, 1762.










COMMUNICATIONS
For The Cherokee Phoenix
STRICTURES,

 On 'The Report of the Joint Committee on the state of the Republic,' in the Legislature of Georgia, on the subject of the Cherokee Lands; purporting to prove the absolute jurisdictional right of the said state to the same.
This document, bearing on its front an imposing form; deserves a passing notice from those, who are vitally interested in the subject of which it treats. The field of argument is always entered, by the Aborigines of America, encumbered with peculiar disadvantages, when compared with those of their white neighbours [sic], who have power and science to sustain them. Impressed with the knowledge of my inadequacy for the task, I enter the list, at the request of a friend, who calculates more on me, than I dare expect to accomplish. But truth is apt to penetrate the gloom, which sometimes surrounds it, and justice will follow after to disperse the black clouds that hang in threatening volumes, over the habitations of peace and innocence.
In the first place, 'The Joint Committee' speak of the 'momentous subject,' they are required to examine, and tell us, they 'have bestowed mature and deliberate consideration upon the subject,' 'and although some of the positions which they feel waranted [sic] in occupying, may at first view appear bold and novel, yet they cherish the hope, that by adverting to the well ascertained and long established laws of nations, those positions will be found abundantly supported.' They next, after speaking of their suffering in silence and their moderation and forbearance, propose to discharge their duty, by inquiring, first into the nature and present situation of their claim on the General Government.-- This claim originated and is embraced in a compact of 1802, entered into between the United States and the State of Georgia, which binds the United States, at their own expense, to extinguish for the use of Georgia, all the Indian lands, situated within her chartered limits,' as early as the name can be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms.' The language of the compact is plain and explicit, as all treaty stipulations should be, and admits of but one construction and this does not impair the Cherokee title; the said compact being the exclusive act of Georgia and the United States. Georgia asserted a claim to a vast extent of country, of itself and Empire, if its extent is considered, then owned and in the possession of formidable and warlike Indians, whose southern frontier bordered on the Spanish Provinces. This claim of Georgia was destitute of lawful foundation, either natural or divine, but existed in a royal Grant of an English Sovereign, who had never seen it; a country, which the proudest and the most daring of his officers had never surveyed.
The United States, acquainted with the instability of savage nations, and calculating on the surrender of their lands, by treaty or otherwise, purchased of Georgia the pre-emption right of all the Indian lands in question to which, as a State, she asserted a claim.  Georgia had no right, had she the power, to drive the Indians from those lands, or to purchase them; having previously surrendered her right of making treaties, and of trade, to the United States.  Georgia very well knew, that the Cherokees, under the protection of the United States, lived nearest to her jurisdictional limits which rendered their territory the more desirable. They were connected with the United States by treaty, which guaranteed to them their lands. They were in their native and untutored state, and delighted in hunting.  The enterprising sons of North Carolina and Virginia had already greatly extended their settlements in their rear; and the Creek war having taken place, in which the Cherokees assisted the United States throughout, and the Creeks having been defeated, their country fell into the hands of the conquerors, the United States, who established the States of Alabama and Mississippi. In consequence of these events, the outlet for game was obstructed by the white population, and the Indians were of course compelled to hunt near home, where the game was destroyed. We are not disposed to attach blame to the United States for these counsequences [sic].
I coincide with the Joint Committee, that the time of the fulfilment [sic] of the promise of the United States was left 'indefinite and uncertain'-- This strengthens the construction of the words 'reasonable and peaceable terms,' which forbids any one to believe, that the promise was absolute and positive. If the Cherokee lands were intended to be obtained 'by any means,' their probationary existence, for the operation of peaceable inducements, would have been limited, perhaps to this year, 1828, and the fulfilment [sic] of the promise would not have been disposed of in a state of uncertainty as to time. Language explicit and clear would have been used in the compact, that, if the Cherokees refused to yield their country for compensation, they should be 'ousted' of possessions, at the point of the bayonet. But Philosophers and Statesmen were parties to the contract, and could not commit themselves into obligations of inhumanity. The Cherokees were their allies, such as they were, by the solemnities [sic] and formalities of treaties sanctioned ' ratified by Sages ' Patriots of America. If the United States had bound themselves to the extent imputed to them by the 'Joint Committee,' we may apprehend the language of their promise as the following: 'We will extinguish the Indian title to lands in your limits, by any means in our power as early as possible. The laws of Nations do not authorize force, and right does not dwell in the sword; but we will use both, because we are strong now, and independent of England, and are at peace with Europe.' Who in these days would think the United States guilty of such a promise, or Georgia so lost to sensibility as to require it!
'We admit,' say the Committee, 'that after much anxiety and delay, Georgia is about to reap the full benefit of the contract in question, so far as it regards her lands situated within  the Creek Nation of Indians. But the manner in which this has been accomplished, compels us to say, we are less indebted to the General Government for the result, than to the exertions of our late able and patriotic Governor.' General Gaines officially obtained ample testimonials of 'manner' in which the 'old Treaty' of the Indian Springs was effected. These documents were called for in the Senate, when the Georgia Senators were opposing the ratification of the new treaty; and what ought to be a little curious, the Georgia Senators were opposed the call. If the 'manner' by which the Creek lands have been obtained, reflect credit to the energy and patriotism of the 'late Governor,' why were these documents suppressed? 'I too have been a looker-on in Venice.'
Let us now view the consequences of the 'manner' in which these lands were obtained. The unfortunate McIntosh, naturally noble, if not deluded, was first seduced into a treaty with money, and with a promise of protection in his ears. At dawn of day, he awoke from his slumbers by the yell of his injured countrymen, his house enveloped in flames and his wives and children mingling their cries with the ascending smoke. Fighting bravely with his musket in hand, he fell at his door, shot down by his once admiring friends, but now his enemies. He was dragged, after death, by the heels to the edge of his yard, and his head shattered to pieces by repeated vollies of rifles, in the presence of his children. This was the consequence of the 'manner' of obtaining the lands in question! Two other chiefs shared his fate, with but little less of cruelty. Poor ignorant and unfortunate Chieftains! You deserved a better fate, if you had been under the influence of better counsels.
'And Alabama has been acquired,' say the Committee,' for the use of the United States, upon 'peaceable and reasonable terms,' since 1802. This is a mistake as to the former term, however true the latter might be.-- The Creeks having become hostile in that quarter, the Head Chiefs nearest to Georgia were pacific and assisted the United States to conquer the revolters to their power. The Cherokees also were engaged in the war on the part of the United States; and if, at the conclusion of the war, as the 'Joint Committee' say, the United S. had the opportunity to prescribe terms to the Cherokees for the surrender of their lands, they would have been guilty of unnatural conduct to their allies and friends.
Complaint is made against the United States, by the Committee, for adding comforts to the Cherokees, and exercising policy calculated to promote their civilization which tends to confirm their attachment to the soil.  The policy of adding comforts and promoting civilization originated with Washington's administration, and has been pursued by his successors to the present time. The United States were bound by treaty,* to furnish the Indians with the means of improving them from the condition of hunters to that of tradesmen and farmers, to which the Cherokees have successfully arrived.
SOCRATES
(TO BE CONTINUED.)
_____________________
*The Treaty to which we suppose our correspondent alludes is the Treaty of peace, and friendship entered into between the United States and the Cherokee Nation of Indians, at Holston, in the year 1798, four years previous to the date of the compact with Georgia.
Ed.










MONEY AND PRINCIPLES.
In reviewing the Public offices of the Cherokee Nation now held by different persons, it will be found, on recurrence to the signers of the late Constitution, that there is no conformity to it in their subsequent proceedings, compared with their asserted principles. The late Constitution was composed of twenty one members, ten of whom were then members of the National Committee; to them and other Counsellors this Constitution was submitted for the government of the Cherokees.  The law which created the above Constitution has these words--'that after the rise of the Council of 1827, the new Constitution shall go into full and operative force.' This Constitution in article 4th contains these words; 'that the judges of the Supreme and Circuit Courts shall receive no perquisites of office, nor hold any other office of profit or trust.' It is much to be feared that the last council, in electing John Martin, one of the signers of the Constitution, Treasurer of the Nation for one year, have infringed on their principles recommended to us for our government. That the elected treasurer is adequate to the duties of the department is admitted by all.  But when the Constitution was going into force, it was inconsistent and exceptionable in a high degree to have elected a treasurer who was at the same time a presiding Circuit Judge, a Judge of the Supreme Court, and holding a 4th executive appointment as public Turnpike keeper on the Federal Road:-being one of the signers of the Constitution, who were so careful as to distribute offices, so that one man should not hold more than one Constitutional appointment, ' now exercising the duties of four different offices. In what way then can his acceptance of the treasury be safely accounted for, if it be not that friends exalt high; and that emolument of office, has induced an abandonment of principles, which were
at the same time advised for the Cherokee Government. It is feared that the last Council, having established a precedent in keeping the treasury at Coosawatee, in preference to New Echota, the seat of government of the Nation, will in the next treasury election, add to our present inconvenience in respect to that department, by sending it up to the mountains on the skirts of N. Carolina, or one of the most novel ideas in legislation that has ever occurred in the annals of history.
A. CHEROKEE










NEW ECHOTA

We publish today a part of a Report of a joint Committee, in the Legislature of Georgia on the Cherokee lands. We think it proper that those of our readers in this Nation, who have not seen this extraordinary document, should be informed of the proceedings of some of those we are accustomed to call, elder brothers. This report is drest with very strong language, and had we never before realized a similar specimen of 'moderation' rome that quarter, we should consider ourselves in a serious dilemma. The present would certainly be a troublesome time with us, if our welfare depended on the will of the Committee, we do not say the people of Georgia, for we are unwilling to suppose, that the principles contained in the report can ever meet with the approbation of the people of a Christian state. We have had our trials and difficulties never to find a resting place, never to enjoy a spot of ground which they can call their own, and which their white brethren will ever condescend to do them the kindness if not justice, to acknowledge as such. At such times as the present, we have been wont to look to the General Government for aid, and justice requires us to say, not in vain. We have full reason to believe that it will not now forsake us, and deliver us up to those who seek our hurt.-- We beg our readers to peruse the extract of the Report of the 'Committee on Indian Affairs,' in the House of Representatives which we publish to-day. Tho' an appropriation of $50,000 is recommended, to extinguish the Cherokee title to lands within the chartered limits of Georgia, yet we cannot but admire the liberality with which the Committee were evidently actuated.--There is a striking contrast between the two reports.
_____________________________________
CONGRESS
Nothing very important has been done as yet in Congress in regard to Indian affairs, so far as has come to our knowledge, and we presume nothing very decided will be effected during this session. We hope the kind feelings of the General Government towards the Indians will be continued, notwithstanding the hot talk of the Legislature of Georgia. Our readers may hope that this will be the case, from the following extract of the report of the Committee on Indian Affairs in the House of Representatives.
The committee recommend that a further sum of $50,000 be made and placed at the discretion of the President, to aid such other Indians as may be disposed to emigrate to the west of the Mississippi; and that the President be authorized and empowered, out of said last mentioned appropriation, to extinguish the title of the Cherokee Indians to any land within the limits of the State of Georgia, at any time when he may be able so to do, 'upon peaceable and reasonable terms'. This the United States are bound, by compact with the State of Georgia, to do; and the committee are of opinion, that the United States are bound in good faith to the citizens of the State of Georgia, to hold themselves in readiness at all times to fulfil said engagement.-- They, therefore, recommend the aforesaid appropriation, as applicable to that object, and to aid the said Cherokee Indians, and such other Indians as may be disposed, to emigrate as aforesaid. The committee beg leave to refer to a report made by them to the House of Representatives during the present session, (No. 67.) which is intimately connected with this subject; and also to certain resolutions of the Legislature of the State of Georgia. A report of a committee of that body, as contained in document No. 102, was referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs, ' which is calculated to explain the necessity of this appropriation.
The Committee therefore submit the following resolution:
Resolved. That the sum of $25,124 be appropriated for the objects specified in the estimates from the Treasury Department, marked 'submitted,' and that $50,000 be appropriated for the aid of the Creek Indians in their removal west of the Mississippi; and the further sum of $50,000 to enable the President of the United States to extinguish the title of the Cherokee Indians, when it can be done upon 'peaceable and reasonable terms,' and to aid said Cherokees, and such other Indians as may disposed, to emigrate west of the Mississippi.










MISSIONS
Mr. Boudinott- The following very brief summary view of the Missions of Foreign Missionary Societies in the United States is offered for your disposal. It is formed chiefly from the January number of the Missionary Herald.
AMERICAN BOARD OF FOREIGN MISSIONS.
The whole number of preachers of the Gospel stated to be in the employment of the American Board is ---------------------------------------------------------41.
Physicians, [besides one who is also a preacher.) 4
Teachers, 27
Printers 3
Farmers 17
Mechanics 6
Females, married and unmarried 102
Whole number of Missionaries and assistants 200
The preachers of the Gospel are stationed indifferent parts of the world as follows:
India (Bombay and Ceylon) 9
Western Asia 6
Sandwich Islands, 7
Cherokees* 5
Choctaws 3
Cherokees of Arkansas 2
Osages, 6
Maumee Indians 1
Mackinaw Indians 1
Seneca Indians 1
Total as above 41
The number of pupils in the schools under the care of missionaries of the Board is not less than 30,000, and about 5000 native teachers are employed (chiefly in India and the Sandwich Islands. Not far from 300 persons have received into the Mission churches. The number of books and pamphlets published by the missionaries of the Board in foreign languages is estimated at 426,360.
AMERICAN BAPTIST BOARD.
The missions of the American Baptist Board are in India, Western Africa, and among the Indians in North America.- The number of its ordained missionaries is 10; viz. five in Burmah [sic], India, one in the colony of Liberia, Africa,  one among the Creek Indians, two among the Cherokees, and one at the Choctaw Academy  in Kentucky.
METHODIST EPISCOPAL SOCIETY.
The American Methodists have missions among several tribes of the North American Indians; viz: the Creeks, Cherokees, Putawatomies, Wyandots, Mohawks, and is stated to be 12 in all;; but the number apportioned to each tribe I have not the means of ascertaining.
UNITED BRETHREN'S MISSIONS.
The Missions of the United Brethren are all, I believe, under the direction of the same society, the seat of whose operations is in Europe. Those in which the churches in the United States are particularly concerned are among the Cherokees and the Delawares in Upper Canada.  In this nation they have two preachers of the Gospel, and two among the Delaware Indians.
SYNOD OF SOUTH CAROLINA ' GEORGIA.
The Missions lately under the care of the Synod of South Carolina and Georgia are among the Chickasaw Indians, where are four stations, and three ordained missionaries. The care of these missions has been recently transferred to the American Board.
CUMBERLAND PRESBYTERIANS.
The Cumberland Presbyterians have one station and one ordained missionary among the
Chickasaw Indians.
SUMMARY
The whole number of stations supported by American Foreign Mission Societies is 62
Number of ordained missionaries 71
Missionaries of all classes, and
both sexes about 260
Learners in Mission Schools about 31,000
Latest annual expenditures
of the American Board. $104,430
American Baptist Board 15,408
Methodist, about 6,000
United Brethren [in 1825] 860
Others, unknown
Total not far from $130,000
*Including the Rev. Mr. Hoyt, since dead.










PROSPECTUS.
It has long been the opinion of judicious friends to the civilization of the Aborigines of America, that a paper published exclusively for their benefit, and under their direction, would add great force to the charitable means employed by the public for their melioration.  In accordance with that opinion, the legislative authorities of the Cherokees have thought fit to patronize a weekly paper, bearing the above title; and have appointed the subscriber to take charge of it as Editor. In issuing this PROSPECTUS the Editor would, by no means, be too sanguine, for he is aware that he will tread upon untried grond [sic]: Nor does he make any pretentions [sic] to learning, for it must be known that the great and sole motive in establishing this paper, is the benifit [sic] of the Cherokees. This will be the great aim of the Editor, which he intends to pursue with undeviating steps. Many reasons might be given in support of the utility of such a paper as that which is now offered to the public, but it is deemed useless. There are many true friends to the Indians in different parts of the Union, who will rejoice to see this feeble effort of the Cherokees to rise from their ashes, like the fabled PHOENIX. On such friends must principally depend the support of our paper.
The Alphabet lately invented by a native Cherokee, of which the public have already been apprized, forms and interesting medium of information to those Cherokees who are unacquainted with the English language.  For their benifit Cherokee types have been procured.
The columns of the Cherokee Phoenix will be filled, partly with English, and partly with Cherokee print; and all matter which is of common interest will be given in both languages in parallel columns.*
As the great object of the Phoenix will be the benifit of the Cherokees, the following subjects will occupy its columns.
1. The laws and public documents of the Nation.
2. Account of the manners and customs of the Cherokees, and their progress in Education, Religion and the arts of civilized life; with such notices of other Indian tribes as our limited means of information will allow.
3. The principal interesting news of the day.
4. Miscellaneous articles, calculated to promote Literature, Civilization, and Religion among the Cherokees.
In closing this short Prospectus, the Editor would appeal to the friends of Indians, and respectfully ask their patronage.  Those who have heretofore manifested a Christian zeal in promoting our welfare and happiness, will no doubt freely lend their helping hand.
ELIAS BOUDINOTT.
* In order to lessen the labour [sic] of our printers, we have concluded not to publish smaller articles in English and Cherokee in parallel columns, but rather to place the Cherokee translation, directly under the English.










MARRIED--- At Two Runs, in the Cherokee Nation, by the Rev. Mr. Henderson, Rev. James Trott, missionary of the Methodist Episcopal Church, to Miss Sally Adair of the former place.
DIED--- At Tellico, Ten., on the first inst. of consumption, the Rev. RICHARD NEALY aged 26 years, formerly a missionary of the Methodist Episcopal church, and late a citizen of the Cherokee Nation.
At Coosewatee, KEELECHULE an aged member of the National Council.
At Willstown, on the 18th inst. very suddenly, Rev. ARD HOYT, missionary of the American Board of Foreign Missions.
CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE
Saturday May 22, 1830
Volume 3 No. 5
Page 4 col. 5b
MARRIED
At the Valley Towns by the Rev. E. Jones, 12th April, 1830, A-ga-lu-ga to Ga-lo-nus-gee, Dsu-do-dsa-la to Ga-lu-sda-ye, Dso-sdo-suh to Du-na-ye, Guh-na-ne-da to Yo-gwe-se, Oe-dsa-lu-de to Dse-ge-eh.
_________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Thursday April 24, 1828
Volume 1 No. 10
Page 3 Col. 5b
OBITUARY.
We were in hopes of obtaining, for the columns of our paper, a biographical notice of the late Rev. John Gambold, one of the first Missionaries of this Nation. At present, we merely give a Notice of his death, sent to us by a bereaved fellow labourer [sic].- We take pleasure in inserting it, though at this late hour.
Departed from this life, November 7th 1827, at the Moravian Missionary station at Ochgelogy among the Cherokees, the Rev. JOHN GAMBOLD; Aged 67 years, 4 months and 21 days, of a pectoral dropsy.
His faithfulness, humility, and zeal for the missionary cause, in behalf of which he sacrificed every thing, his childlike confidence in the heavenly Father, which was never shaken, even in the most difficult and pressing circumstances, his philanthropic, collected, and highly circumspect behaviour [sic] in word and deed, which was so peculiarly adopted to the character of the nation, among which he preached the Gospel, and by which he was esteemed and loved as a Father-, all these qualities will insure to the dear deceased a grateful and glorious tribute in the ranks of departed, and illustrious missionaries.
______________________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE
Saturday June 5, 1830
Volume 3 No. 7
Page 3 Col. 5
DIED- At the Head of Coosa, on the 22d of May, DANIEL ROSS, aged about 70 years, a respectable citizen of this Nation.
______________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday, June 4, 1828
Volume 1 No. 15
Page 3 Col. 5a
DIED- On the 27 inst., about 1 o'clock A. M. Captain JOHN SPEER, in the 48th year of his age. He as a kind Husband, an affectionate Father, a faithful Friend and a good neighbour [sic].
He had left a very affectionate wife and several children to lament their irreparable loss.
He has served about ten years as Interpreter for the United States at the Cherokee Agency, which office he filled with credit to himself and with faithfulness to the government ' justice to his own people.
He was a brave man in the field, and distinguished himself at the battle of the Horse Shoe, where he commanded a company of Cherokees, and where he received a severe wound in the left breast, which no doubt was eventually the cause of his death.
He was confined to his bed about nine days in great pain, which he bore with patience and resignation, and at last expired almost without a struggle. His burial was numerously attended, and his neighbors who knew well his worth, sympathized freely in the many tears shed by his friends.
[COMMUNICATED.]
28th May, 1828.
____________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday July 2, 1828
Volume 1 No. 19
Page 3 Col. 4b
RIDGE'S FERRY, 24th April, 1828
Mr. Editor:- We were again visited by death in the person of an elderly Lady, OO-DAH-YEE, at the Savanna, 10 miles from here, on the 22d inst. She was a woman distinguished through life for honesty and industry, habits of application to Agricultural pursuits, and the support of a large family, that would give to any of the other sex a claim for admiration.- Unassisted by education, only in the knowledge of simple addition and subtraction which is within the reach of uncultivated minds, she, by dint application in farming and trading, had accumulated a very handsome property, consisting of household furniture, mill, waggon [sic], horses ' cattle, sheep, Negro Slaves and some money, all of which she has left to an only daughter and three grand children, who are now called to mourn her loss. She did amidst friends in the wilderness, far from the consolations of religious guide, or those who could direct her to a Saviour [sic]. Her last words were, 'I am gone before.' I had a coffin made for her and sent to her from here, and before she was consigned to her long repose, I am informed, that all present took her by the hand and bid her adieu! She died of the Pleurisy.
JOHN RIDGE.
__________________________________
[TRANSLATION.]
Died at my house in Wills-valley, KA-NA-SE-TA.  He was a good man, a professor of religion, and an exhorter. His disorder was consumption, of a year's continuance. He was a member of the Methodist Society. His good words were many; for he exhorted his friends, Remember the commandments of our Savior, for we know not the time of our death, Now in truth he no longer lives here upon earth, but his spirit dwells with our Savior in heaven.
JOHN HUSS
___________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday August 20, 1828
Volume 1 No. 25
Page 3 Col. 6b
MARRIED- On Sunday 17 inst. by the Rev. John Mitchess, Mr. JOHN BREWER to MISS ELIZABETH daughter of Richard Taylor of Chickamauga District.
________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday October 15, 1828
Volume 1 No. 33
Page 3 Col. 5b
MARRIED- On Thursday last, by the Rev. Mr. Byhan, Mr. David Vann, Esq. of High Tower District, to Miss Martha, youngest daughter of Capt. David M'Nair of Amohee District.
______________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday October 29, 1828
Volume 1 No. 35
Page 3 Col. 5b
MARRIED- On Thursday 23 inst. by the Rev. Mr. Samuel A. Worcester, Mr. George W. Gunter of Creek Path, to Miss Eliza Nave daughter of Mr. Henry Nave of Rossville, Chickamauga District.
_______________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday January 14, 1829
Volume 1 No. 44
Page 3 col. 4b
DIED at the Hermitage, near Nashville, Tenn. on the 22d of December last, Mrs. RACHEL JACKSON, wife of General Andrew Jackson, President elect of the United States.
_____________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE
Wednesday February 11, 1829
Page 3 Col. 4b
MARRIED- On the 2d. inst. at Carmel, by the Rev. John Thompson, Mr. GEORGE CANDY to Miss ELIZABETH H. BELL, daughter of Mr. John Bell of Coosawatee.
________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE
Wednesday April 29, 1829
Volume 2 No. 7
Page 3 Col. 3b
Married on the 3d of March, at the Asbury Missionary Institution, near Fort Mitchell, Creek Nation, by the Rev. Mr. Hill, Mr. James Hill of the U. S. Army, to Miss Amanda Doyle, a Creek pupil of the institution.- This establishment is under the charge of Mr. and Mrs. Hill, who were desirous of showing the natives how this ceremony is performed in a refined state of society, and the highest encomiums are due them for their entire success.  Great exertion and ingenuity were necessary to accomplish it.- The company consisted of about twenty white persons and one hundred and fifty natives.  The bride and her two maids were dressed with great taste and propriety, according to the fashion of the age. The groom and his two associates were in full military costume; and those persons present, accustomed to wedding scenes, pronounced the bridal party one of the handsomest they had ever witnessed.  After the marriage ceremony, the happy pair were congratulated with all good wishes; cake and wine were passed round, and in due time a bountiful supper was partaken of by the whole company, and the evening passed off in the most agreeable manner possible. All parties seemed delighted with the occasion.  A number of strangers present, will never forget the kind and hospitable reception given them by Mr. and Mrs. Hill.- Georgia Courier.
____________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE
Wednesday April 29, 1829
Volume 2 No. 7
Page 3 Col. 5b
MARRIED
In this town, on Thursday evening last, by Rev. S. A. Worcester, Mr. JOHN F. WHEELER printer of the Cherokee Phoenix, to Miss NANCY WATIE of Oougilogee.










REPORT
Of a Joint Committee in the Legislature of Georgia, on the Cherokee Lands.
THE Joint Committee upon the State of the Republic, to whom was refered [sic] so much of the late Governor's communication, as regards the acquisition of the Georgia lands at present in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, and the absolute and jurisdictional right of the State of the same Report:
That they have bestowed upon this momentous subject, the most mature and deliberate consideration; and although some of the positions which they feel warranted in occupying, may at first view, appear bold and novel, at yet they cherish the hope, that by adverting to the well ascertained, and long established laws of nations, those positions will be found abundanty [sic] supported.
We are aware that our repeated appeals to the General Government upon this subject, so vitally interesting to the people of Georgia, have been looked upon as impertinent and obtrusive; but your committee believe, that the State has been disposed to suffer in silence, so long as the evils under which she labored were sufferable, and that when her claims shall be fairly investigated, and it is seen how unreasonably they have delayed, an enlightened and just community will pronounce the course she has pursued, to have been marked with great moderation and forbearance.
We propose in the discharge of our present duty, to enquire first, into the nature and present situation of our claim upon the General Government; and second, to investigate the nature and extent our title to the territory in question, considered abstractedly from our claim upon the General Government.
By the 4th section of the articles of agreement and cession, entered into on the 24th of April, 1802, between the Commissioners of the United States on the one part, and the Commissioners of the State of Georgia on the other part, it was expressly stipulated and agreed, that the United States should at their own expense, extinguish for the use of Georgia as early as the same could be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms,  the Indian title to all the lands within the State of Georgia.
It will be hardly be contended, that this was a mere naked promise, and therefore to be violated at pleasure by the United States, for the contract imports upon its face a most ample and sufficient considerations.
We are not ignorant of the fact, that the General Government having the power in her own hands, is disposed to put her own construction upon this promise, and to make herself the sole and exclusive judge of what may be considered 'reasonable terms;' but we respectfully contend, that if she design to keep up even the show of justice, she will suffer this to be controlled by the same rule of construction applicable to all other contracts--that is to say, that the words used, shall be understood in that sense which is best calculated to effectuate the true intention of the contracting parties.
The reciprocal objects intended to be accomplished by the United States and Georgia, by the contract in question, were few and simple. They intended that Georgia should cede to the United States a vast extent of territory therein described; that the United States should at their own expense, and upon their own responsibility, extinguish for the use of Georgia whatever claim or title the Indians might have to the lands lying within her limits; and that this should be done 'as early' as it could be upon peaceable and reasonable terms.
We consider it certain from the terms of the contract itself, and particularly from the consideration which was paid, that it was the intention of both parties that the Indian title should certainly, at some time or other be extinguished.  The time was left indefinite and uncertain--not because it was contemplated that any circumstance should occur, or state of things exist, that should deprive Georgia of those lands; but, because this State reposed such unbounded confidence in the justice and good faith of the General Government as induced her confidently to believe, that no opportunity would be permitted to escape, and that no fair and honorable exertion would be withheld for the speedy and punctual fulfilment [sic] of the promise.
We admit that after much anxiety and delay, Georgia is about to reap the full benefit of the contract in question, so far as it regards her lands situate within the Creek Nation of Indians--But the manner in which this has been accomplished, compels us to say, that we are less indebted to the General Government for the result, than to the exertions of our late able and patriotic Governor. Although Georgia is about to obtain the last foot of Creek lands to which she is entitled, yet it must be remembered that there is still a considerable portion of Cherokee lands to which she has precisely the same title, in relation to which the general government is under the same obligation, ' which nevertheless still remains in the possession of the Indians.  By what motive or reason the general pertinaciously [sic] ' unjustly refusing entirely to redeem her pledged faith to Georgia, we are unable to perceive. The whole civilized world knows, that Georgia acted a gallant ' distinguished part during the revolutionary war, in achieving our liberty and independence; and our sister States will do us time, Georgia has not withheld her treasure or her sword from the defence of our common country, and national rights. We mention these things, not by way of boasting, or out of vainglory; but, to show that Georgia has violated none of the obligations by which she was bound to her sister States, and therefore, that there is the less justice in their violating their obligations to her.
It will be remembered, that the articles of agreement and cession were entered into in 1802, and that they imposed upon the United States the obligation of procuring the relinquishment of the Indians title so soon as the same could be done 'peaceably' and upon 'reasonable terms.' Immediately upon the ratification of these articles, it became the duty of the general government to improve every opportunity that might present itself,, and with all her influence and energies faithfully applied, to have sought diligently for opportunities to effect such relinquishment. She did not do so.--But on the contrary, manifested so much indifference, and for so long a time, that Georgia became dissatisfied, and took occasion respectfully to call the attention of the general government to this subject--a liberty that she has several times since found it necessary to exercise--but which has either been treated with silent contempt, or has subjected her to reproach and calumny. That the United States have violated most palpably their contract with Georgia, we think is made evident, when it is remembered, that since the ratification of the articles of agreement and cession, the Indians have been removed entirely from Ohio, Kentucky, North and South-Carolina, Tennessee, Missouri, and almost all Arkansas; and that since that time, five or six times as much land as belonged to Georgia, and was in the possession of the Indians, has been acquired in Alabama for the use of the United States, and that too, upon 'peaceable terms,' besides large cessions in Mississippi, Illinois, Michigan, and Florida. And it is a fact so notorious, that we presume no one will venture to dispute it, that upon the termination of the late war with Great Britain and the Indians, the United States had it completely in their power to procure for the use of Georgia, every foot of land to which she was entitled; not only upon 'peaceable and reasonable terms,' but upon just such terms as they might have pleased to prescribe--But this was not done.--On the contrary, the United States by negotiation, effected for their own use and aggrandisement [sic], large cessions of territory, and so circumscribed their limits, as greatly to diminish the prospect of their willingness to make further sessions, either for the benefit of Georgia, or for any other purpose. And since that time, it has been the constant and favorite policy of the United States, not to hold out inducements to the Indians to yield up the possession of the Georgia lands; but to so add to their comforts, and so instruct them in the business of husbandry as to attach them so firmly to their country and to their homes, as almost to destroy the last ray of hope that they would ever consent to part with the Georgia lands. It is now alledged [sic], we understand, that it is impossible for the United States to obtain the lands in question for the use of Georgia, upon 'peaceable and reasonable terms,' and therefore, that they are under no obligation obtain them at all. By whom and in what way we beg to enquire, has this impossibility been produced? Surely by the United States, and by their policy, and that too against the consent and remonstrance of Georgia--And is it possible, that the general government will  consent in this way to benefit herself, and to take advantage of her own acts, and that too to the injury and oppression of one of her own members?  For the dignity and honor of our common country, we earnestly hope not. But should this plea be urged, it cannot upon principle prevail; because the United States were bound to obtain for the use of Georgia the lands in question 'as early' as it could be done upon reasonable and peaceable terms. If they could not have been obtained sooner, we all know, and our sister States will not deny it, that they could have been obtained upon the terms prescribed at the end of the late war. The United States then had an opportunity of complying with their contract with Georgia--they let that opportunity pass--it was their own wilful neglect; and in failing to obtain the lands at that time, the contract according to its very terms was broken; and they thereupon became legally and equitably bound, (and they yet remain so bound) to Georgia, to procure for her the lands in controversy, no matter how much treasure or blood may be expended in their procurement.  But although the general government is under this obligation, and from which she cannot honorably release herself in any other way than by complying with it, yet judging from our past experience, we can scarcely venture to hope, that she will redress our injuries and establish our rights. We are apprised that this subject engaged the attention of the last Legislature, that the resolutions which they adopted were submitted to the President of the United States; and we are glad that in reply, he condescended to express to our Senators in Congress a 'wish to gratify the State,' but we are sorry that he added 'negotiation' (with the Indians) 'was hopeless, and that he could not consent to apply force.'  We are at liberty to understand this answer no otherwise, than as a distinct and formal determination, to take no step either of a pacific or war-like nature, to obtain for and secure to Georgia, her long delayed rights. We have waited upon and trusted to the justice and liberality of the United States for the fourth of a century, and the result to us is disappointment, insult and injury.
(To Be Continued)










Indian Arithmetic.- Their manner of numbering evidences the extreme simplicity of their language. We have asked of all the tribes, with which we have met, their numerical terms, as far as a hundred. In some few, the terms are simple, as far as ten. In others, six is five-one, seven, five-two, and so on. Beyond ten, they universally count by reduplication of the tens. This they perform with great dexterity by a mechanical arithmetic, intricate to explain, but readily apprehended by the eye. The principal operations are bringing the open palms together, and then crossing the hands, which tells as far as a hundred.- Some of the tribes are said to be perplexed in their attempts to number beyond a hundred.- When the question turned upon any profit, that involved great numbers, we have generally heard them avail themselves of an English word, the first, we believe, and the most universally understood by savages-'heap!' Western Review.










LAKE OF ARDENT SPIRITS
Mr. Editor- In recently turning over the pages of a Magazine printed in the year 1813, my attention was attracted by a calculation of the amount of ardent spirits consumed in the United States in the year 1810.  This amount is stated at 33,365,-529
[sic]gallons. The estimate appears to have been made on well established grounds. After making his statement the writer adds the following mathematical calculations.
The quantity which the year 1828 will consume would doubtless fill a lake much larger still. W.
Now 33,365,529 gallons, is 248,932 hogsheads, (at more than 134 gallons the hogshead,) which supposing one team to carry two hogsheads, would load 124,466 waggons [sic]. These, allowing only three rods for each team, would reach more than 1,166 miles, or nearly the whole length of the United States, from north to south! The number of hogsheads necessary to contain the liquor, must, upon a moderate computation cost 600,000 dollars, and would, if placed so as to touch each other, reach more than 178 miles, exceeding by 48, the whole length of Massachusetts Proper, on the northern line. Or, to present the subject in another light, the quantity of ardent distilled spirits, which is annually drunk in the United States, is sufficient to fill a canal 42 miles long, 10 feet wide, and 2 feet deep; affording convenient navigation for boats of several tons burthen [sic]! The same quantity if brought together, would form a pond more than 68 rods long, 40 rods broad, and six feet deep, covering an area of 17 acres.










[CONCLUDED]
CONSTITUTION OF THE CHEROKEE NATION
Formed by a Convention of Delegates from the several Districts, at New Echota, July 1827.
ARTICLE VI
Sec. 1. Whereas the ministers of the Gospel are, by their profession dedicated to the service of God-and the care of souls, and ought not to be diverted from the great duty of their function, therefore, no minister of the Gospel, or public preacher, of any religious persuasion whilst he continues in the exercises of his pastoral functions, shall be eligible to the office of Principal Chief, or a seat on either house of the General Council.
Sec. 2. No person who denies the being of a God, or a future state of rewards ' punishments shall hold any office in the civil department of this Nation.
Sec. 3. The free exercise of religious worship, and serving God without distinction, shall forever be allowed within this Nation Provided, That this liberty of conscience shall not be so construed as to excuse acts of licentiousness or justify practices inconsistent with the peace or safety of this Nation.
Sec. 4. Whenever the General Council shall determine the expediency of appointing delegates, or other public Agents, for the purpose of transacting business with the Government of the United States; the Principal Chief shall have power to recommend and by the advice and consent of the Committee, shall appoint and commission such delegates or Public Agents accordingly, and on all matters of interest touching the rights of the citizens of this Nation, which may require the attention of the United States Government, the Principal Chief shall keep up a friendly correspondence with that Government, through the medium of its proper officers.
Sec. 5. All commissions shall be in the name and by the authority of the Cherokee Nation, and be sealed with the Seal of the Nation, and be signed by the Principal Chief.
The Principal Chief shall make use of his private seal until a National Seal shall be provided.
Sec. 6. A sheriff shall be elected in each District by the qualified electors  thereof, who shall hold his office for the term of two years, unless sooner removed. Should a vacancy occur subsequent to an election, it shall be filled by the Principal Chief as in other cases, and the person so appointed shall continue in office until the next General election, when such vacancy shall be filled by the qualified electors and the Sheriff then elected shall continue in office for two years.
Sec. 7. There shall be a Marshall appointed by a joint vote of both houses of the General Council for the term of four years, whose compensation and duties shall be regulated by law, ' whose jurisdiction shall extend over the Cherokee Nation.
Sec. 8. No person shall for the same offence be twice put in jeopardy of life, or limb, nor shall any person's property be taken or applied to public use without his consent; Provided, that nothing in this clause shall be so construed as to impair the right and power of the General council to lay and collect Taxes. All courts shall be open, and every person for an injury done him in his property, person, or reputation, shall have remedy by due course of law.
Sec. 9 The right of trial by jury shall remain inviolate.
Sec. 10. Religion morality, and knowledge being necessary to good Government, the preservation of liberty, and the happiness of mankind, Schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged in this Nation.
Sec. 11. The appointment of all officers, not otherwise directed by this Constitution shall be vested in the legislature.
Sec. 12. All laws in force in this nation, at the passing of this Constitution shall so continue until altered or repealed by the legislature, except where they are temporary, in which case they shall expire at the times respectively limited for their duration; if not continued by act of the legislature.
Sec. 13. The General Council may at any time propose such amendments to this Constitution as two thirds of each house shall deem expedient; and the Principal Chief shall issue a proclamation, directing all the civil officers of the several Districts to promulgate the same as extensively as possible within their respective Districts, at least nine months previous to the next General election; and if at the first session of the General Council after such General election, two thirds of each house shall by yeas and nays ratify such proposed amendments, they shall be valid to all intents and purposes, as parts of this Constitution; Provided, That such proposed amendments shall be read on three several days in each house, as well when the same are proposed, as when they are finally ratified.
Done in Convention at New Echota, this twenty-sixth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty seven. In testimony, whereof, we have each of us, here unto subscribed our names.
Delegates of Chickamauga District.
Jno Ross, President of Convention.
John Baldridge, his x mark
Delegates of Chattooga District.

George Lowrey,
Jno Brown
Edward Gunter.
Delegates of Coosawatee District
John Martin
Joseph Vann
Kelechulee, his x mark
Delegates of Amohee District
Lewis Ross
Thomas Foreman
Hair Conrad, his x mark
Delegates of Hickory District
James Daniel
John Duncan
Delegates of Etowah District
Joseph Vann
Thos. Petitt, his x mark
John Beamer, his x mark
Delegates of Taquee District
Ooclenota, his x mark
Wm. Boling, his x mark.
Delegates of Aquohee District
John Timson
Situwakee, his x mark
Richard Walker, his x mark
A. McCoy, Secretary of Convention.










REPORT
Of the joint Committee in the Legislature of Georgia, on the Cherokee Lands.
From this gloomy and almost hopeless prospect, we turn our attention to the second branch of our enquiry, and trust that we shall be able to establish in the State of Georgia a good legal, and perfect title to the lands in question, and that we have the right, by any means in our power to possess ourselves of them.
In the examination of this important and interesting question, we are necessarily carried back to the earliest history of this country. When the continent of America was first discovered, it was possessed and owned by various tribes of savages; and the discovers asserted successfully the right of occupying such parts as each discovered, and thereby established their supreme command over it, asserting their claim both to domain and to empire. By domain we mean that, by 'virtue of which a nation may use the country for the supply of its necessities; may dispose of it as it thinks proper, and derive from it any advantage it is capable of yielding.' And the 'empire' we mean the 'right of sovereign command by which the nation directs and regulates at its pleasure, everything that passes in the country.' Precisely in this way, and no other, did Spain, France, England, Holland, and Portugal obtain sovereignty over the portions of this country discovered by each. It maybe contended with much plausibility, that there is in these claims more of force than of justice; but they are claims which have been recognized and admitted by the whole civilized world, and it is unquestionably true that under such circumstances force becomes right. This kind of title is not only good and valid agreeable to the laws of Nations, but is perfectly consistent with justice. The earth was certainly made for the benefit, comfort and subsistence of man, and should be so used as to accommodate the greatest possible number of human beings.  It was therefore perfectly in accordance with the design of nature, that the densely populated countries of Europe, should possess themselves of the immense forests in America, which were used only as hunting grounds, and employ them in promoting the comforts and providing for the subsistence of their overflowing population. Acting no doubt upon these principles, Great Britain occupied and colonized the province of Georgia, the limits of which anterior to the Revolutionary War, were defined, and made to extend from the Atlantic coast to the Mississippi; and from the 31st to the 35th degrees of north latitude. The whole of this territory was made to form a provincial government, thus exercising the highest and most unequivocal act of sovereignty. In this exercise, both of domain and  of empire on the part of Great Britain, certain portions of territories were reserved for the use of the Indians, and the Indians themselves were declared to be under the 'protection' of Great Britain; and the lands reserved were also under the 'sovereignty, protection and dominion'' of that government. Thus it is seen, that the sovereignty of Great Britain over the whole of Georgia was complete and perfect; that the absolute right to the soil was in her; that the Indians were under protection; and that their possession was only permissive. Things remained in this condition until the Revolutionary War; upon the termination of which, by treaty of peace between the United States and the mother country, sovereignty in full extent as claimed, owned and exercised by Great Britain over all the lands and Indians within the State of Georgia, passed to and vested in the people of this State. We have shown we trust very clearly that at the end of the Revolutionary War, Georgia possessed and had a right to exercise absolute control and sovereignty over the whole of the territory lying within her limits; that her claim to domain and empire was not disputed; that the absolute title to the soil was in her; that the Indians were under her protection; and that their possession was by her permission, as it had previously been by that of Great Britain. Thus far, we apprehend the premises that have established, and the conclusions that we have drawn will not be disputed; for if they are wrong, the very argument that proves them to be so, must defeat the title by which every foot of land in the United States is held, for they all derive title in the same way.
It now remains for us to show, that since the Revolutionary War, Georgia has done no act, and entered into no compact with her sister States, by which she has divested herself of any portion of her sovereignty, affecting her rights now in question. And this proposition will be supported, if we can show that no such consequence can result from the Articles of Confederation, the Federal Constitution, or the Articles of Agreement and Cession of 1802.
To show that the Articles of Confederation have divested Georgia of no portion of her sovereignty, it does not appear to us necessary to take any other ground than the very obvious one, that these articles have been abrogated by the Federal Constitution, which was adopted in its place and stead.- But we contend that even prior to the adoption of that Constitution, they contained no provision when properly construed, affecting the right in question. In the Articles of Confederation we find this provision: 'Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence; and every power, jurisdiction, and right' which is not by the 'confederation expressly delegated to the United States,' is reserved to the people of the States. We may search in vain in the Articles of Confederation for any express delegation of the right of sovereignty or jurisdiction by Georgia to the United States over the territory in controversy.  No such express delegation was ever made-the consequence is obvious; it is reserved to the people of the State.- Those who differ with us in opinion, may attempt to sustain themselves by one further provision in the Articles of Confederation.- We allude to the power given the United States of regulating 'trade' and managing all affairs with the Indians, not members of any particular State, but by express provision this power is in no instance to be exercised so as to 'infringe or violate the Legislative right of any State within its own limits.' We are by no means satisfied, but that the Indians resident within the limits of Georgia, may fairly be considered 'members' of the State; if so, the United States possess not the right to interfere with them even so far as to regulate trade; but whether they be members of the State or not, the United States are expressly prohibited from interfering with them in any way so as to 'infringe or violate the legislative right of the State within her own limits.' We think, therefore, that the Articles of Confederation have not affected our title in the least.
We next proceed to the enquiry whether the State's  title to and right of sovereignty over the lands in controversy, have been affected by the Federal Constitution; and if affected in what extent? We are not disposed to afford even the feeble aid of our example for frittering away the Constitution by construction; we prefer to take that instrument as it is, and not to take from, or add to its provisions.- We have always believed, and yet do, that all powers not expressly granted by the Constitution, or plainly implied in, and necessary and proper to the execution of the expressly granted power; are reserved to the States; and we earnestly insist upon this rule of construction so far as that instrument applies to the subject under consideration.
In the third section of the fourth article of the Constitution, we find this provision: 'Congress shall have power to dispose of, and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the United States or of any particular State.' We are unable to see what argument can be fairly drawn from this provision to show that Georgia has surrendered up to the U. States any portion of her rights so as to affect the present question. This provision only give to the United States the power to control and dispose of the territory or property of the General Government; but it vests them with no power whatever to control or dispose of the territory or property of any State; on the contrary it is expressly stipulated, that in the exercise of this power, the claims of no particular State shall be prejudiced. It will not be contended we apprehend, that since the Articles of Agreement and Cession of 1802, the United States have the smallest shadow of a title to the lands in controversy; and if it were considered necessary, we could easily show that even before that time, they had no well founded title. There is, therefore, nothing in this part of the Constitution expressly or impliedly divesting Georgia of the right of sovereignty in question, and from the very fact, that no such right was surrendered up into the hands of the United States, we are warranted in asserting that the right was retained by the State.
We understand that the power which the Constitution confers upon the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate to make treaties, is claimed to have an influence upon the present question; but we are unable to discover any necessary connection between this provision in the Constitution the question under consideration. This part of the Constitution, we have always understood, applied to foreign affairs only. We are apprised however, that the United States have treated with various tribes of Indians at different times and that those treaties have been submitted to the Senate for ratification; but if we mistake not, since the adoption of the Constitution, Virginia, Ohio, New York, and Kentucky, have exercised the right of treating with the Indians residing within their limits; and their right to do so has not, so far as we know or believe, been disputed. But upon this point we feel no sort of solicitude, for it is sufficient for our purpose, that in the Constitutional provision now under review, there is no express or plainly implied surrender on the part of Georgia of her right of sovereignty to the territory in question.
If there is any other provision in the Federal Constitution affecting this question, we are not apprised of it.- And we consequently arrive at the conclusion, that the rights and powers of Georgia in and to the lands in question, remain precisely where they stood immediately upon the conclusion of the Revolutionary War, with the exception, that Georgia has, in common with all the other States, given up to the General Government a portion of her right of empire; but she has surrendered that right no farther in relation to the territory in dispute, than she has in relation to all the rest of her territory.  In aid of our opinion upon the question of title, we beg leave to refer to the decision made by the Supreme Court of the United States in the famous case of Fletcher ' Peck, which fully establishes the principle, that the 'Legislature of Georgia, unless restrained by its own Constitution, possesses the power of disposing of the unappropriated lands within her own limits, in such manner as her own judgment may dictate.' And the same case establishes the further principle, that 'the Indian title is only permissive and temporary, and not at all inconsistent with a seisin in fee on the part of Georgia.' We need only add that this decision was made long subsequent to the adoption of the Federal Constitution.
By the articles of agreement and cession of 1802, Georgia parted with and gave up all her claims and rights, both of domain and empire to the territory thereby ceded to the United States; but these articles contain no formal and express surrender of any such right to the territory reserved.- We are aware, that such surrender is claimed to be implied from the term 'Indian title' as there used. But when the subject is properly understood, we contend that this conclusion does not necessarily result from the premises.  This term was not intended, and cannot be understood as building up and vesting in the Indians, any kind of title to the lands in controversy; nor was it intended to add to, or detract from the title which they already had. It was only used as a term descriptive of that title.  We have already seen what that title was; that it was a mere possessory one; and that they had so little interest in the soil, that their possession was not inconsistent with a seisin in fee on the part of Georgia. But it is contended, that by the articles of agreement and cession, a consideration was contemplated to be paid by the United States to the Indians, for their relinquishment of this title; and therefore that it was of such a character as was entitled to respect, and as could not be taken from them unless by their consent. We are of a different opinion. We have already seen the fragile tenure by which they held, and do yet hold those lands; but however slender it may have been, yet some act was necessary to be done by the United States of Georgia, in order to oust them of possession. This act must necessarily have been of either a warlike or pacific character. If of a warlike character, no consideration of a pecuniary nature could be necessary; but if of a pacific character, then the object was to be accomplished by negotiation, and a consideration would necessarily be the result. Whenever it has been necessary to accomplish a similar act with the Cherokees, or any other nation of Indians, by either of the means just mentioned, from obvious motives of policy, as well as humanity, the United States have preferred resorting to negotiation and presents. In all such instances the United States were by no means bound to resort to such measures; they did so from choice.
This custom was well known to the contracting parties to the articles of agreement and cession at the time it was entered into, and the relinquishment of the Indian title was intended to be affected in the same way, and the provision in question was simply intended to make the United States sustain all the expense of negotiation, presents and consideration, which otherwise would have fallen upon Georgia, had she proceeded to the accomplishment of the same object by pacific means. But there is nothing in this provision which prevents the United States or Georgia from resorting to force; on the contrary, this right seems to be admitted, although the United States would not
bind themselves to use it. At all events it is evident that if Georgia possessed this right before entering into those articles, she possesses it yet, for a surrender of it is no where to be found. Before Georgia became a party to the articles of agreement and cession, she could rightfully have possessed herself of these lands, either by negotiation with the Indians of by force, and she had determined in one of the two ways to do so but by this contract she made it the duty of the United States to sustain the expense of obtaining for her the possession, provided it could be done upon reasonable terms and by negotiation; but in case it should become necessary to resort to force, this contract with the United States makes no provision; the consequence is, that Georgia is left untrammelled and at full liberty to prosecute her rights in that point of view, according to her own discretion, and as though no such contract had been made.  Your committee, therefore, arrive at this conclusion: That anterior to the Revolutionary War, the lands in question belonged to Great Britain; that the right of sovereignty both as to domain and empire was complete and perfect in her; that the possession by the Indians was permissive; that they were under the protection of that Government; that their title was temporary; that they were mere tenants at will; and that such tenancy might have been determined at any moment either by negotiation or force at the pleasure of Great Britain. That upon the termination of the Revolutionary War, and by The Treaty of Peace, Georgia assumed all the rights and powers in relation to the lands and Indians in question, which before belonged to Great Britain.- That since that time, she has not divested herself of any right or power in relation to the lands now in question, further than she has in relation to all the balance of her territory, and that she is now  at full liberty, and has the power and right to possess herself by any means she may choose to employ of the lands in dispute, and to extend over them her authority and laws.
Although your committee believe the absolute title to the lands in controversy is in Georgia, and that she may rightfully possess herself of them when and by what means she pleases, yet they would not recommend an exercise of that right till all other means fail. We are aware that the Cherokee Indians talk extravagantly of their devotion to the land of their fathers, and of their attachment to their homes; and that they have gone very far toward convincing the General Government, that negotiation with them in view of procuring their relinquishment of title to the Georgia lands will be 'hopeless.'- Yet we do confidently believe, that they have been induced to assume this lofty bearing, by the protection and encouragement which has been afforded them by the United States; and they will speak a totally different language if the General Government will change its policy toward them, and apprise them of the nature and extent of the Georgia title to those lands, and what will be the probable consequence of their remaining refractory.
Your committee would recommend that one other, and the last appeal be made to the General Government, with a view to open a negotiation with the Cherokee Indians upon this subject- That the United States do instruct their commissioners to submit this report to the said Indians; and that if no such negotiation is opened, or if it is, and it proves to be unsuccessful, that then the next Legislature is recommended to take into consideration that propriety of using the most efficient measures for taking possession of, and extending our authority and laws over the whole of the lands in controversy. Your Committee in the true spirit of liberality, and for the alone purpose of avoiding any difficulty or misunderstanding with either the General Government or the Cherokee Indians, would recommend to the people of Georgia to accept any treaty which may be made between the United States and those Indians, securing to this State so much of the lands in question, as may remain after making reserves for a term of years, for life, or even in fee simple, to use of particular Indians, not to exceed in the aggregate one sixth part of the whole territory.- But if all this will not do; if the United States will not redeem her pledged honor; and if the Indians will continue to turn a deaf ear to the voice of reason and of friendship, we now solemnly warn them of the consequence.- The lands in question belong to Georgia- She must and she will have them.
Influenced by the foregoing considerations, your Committee beg leave to offer the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That the United States in failing to procure the lands in controversy 'as early' as the same could be done upon 'peaceable' and 'reasonable terms' have palpably violated their contract with Georgia, and are now bound at all hazards, and without regard to terms, to procure said lands for the use of Georgia.
Resolved, That the policy which has been pursued by the United States toward the Cherokee Indians, has not been in good faith toward Georgia; and that as all the difficulties which now exist to an extinguishment of the Indian title, have resulted alone from the acts and policy of the United States; it would be unjust and dishonorable in them to take shelter behind those difficulties.
Resolved, That all the lands appropriated and unappropriated which lie within the conventional limits of Georgia, belong to her absolutely; that the title is in her; that the Indians are tenants at her will, and that she may at any time she pleases, determine that tenancy, by taking possession of the premises.- And that Georgia has the right to extend her authority and laws over her whole territory, and to coerce obedience to them from all descriptions of people, be them white, red or black, who may reside within her limits.
Resolved, That Georgia entertains for the general government so high a regard, and is so solicitous to do no act that can disturb or tend to disturb the public tranquility, that she will not attempt to enforce her rights by violence until other means of redress fail.
Resolved, That to avoid the catastrophe which none would more sincerely deplore than ourselves, we make this solemn- this final- this last appeal to the President of the United States, that he take such steps as are usual, and as he may deem expedient and proper for the purpose of, and preparatory to the holding of a treaty with the Cherokee Indians, the object of which shall be, the extinguishment of their title to all or any part of the lands now in their possession within the limits of Georgia.
Resolved, That if such treaty be held, the President be respectfully requested to instruct the commissioners to lay a copy of this report before the Indians in convention, with such comments as may be considered just and proper, upon the nature and extent of the Georgia title to the lands in controversy, and the  probable consequences which will result from a continued refusal upon the part of the Indians to part wit those lands. And that the commissioners be also instructed to grant, if they find it absolutely necessary, reserves of land in favor of individual Indians or inhabitants of the nation, not exceeding one-sixth part of the territory to be acquired, the same to be subject to future purchase by the Gen. Gov. for the use of Georgia.
Resolved, That his excellency the Governor, be requested to forward a copy of the foregoing Report ' Resolutions to the President of the United States, and on to our Senators and Representatives in Congress with a request that they use their best exertions to obtain the objects therein expressed.










INDIAN COUNCIL.
Mr. Penn, when he first arrived in Pennsylvania, in the year 1683, and made a treaty with them, makes the following observations, in a letter he then wrote to his friends in England. 'Every king has his council, and that consists of all the old and wise men of his nation, which perhaps are two hundred people.  Nothing of moment is undertaken, be it war, peace, selling of land, or traffic, without advising with them. 'Tis admirable to consider how powerful the chiefs are, and yet how they move by the breath of the people. I have had occasion to be in council with them upon treaties for land, and to adjust the terms of trade. Their order is thus; the king sits in the middle of an half moon, and hath his council, the old and the wise on each hand. Behind them, at a little distance, sit the young fry, in the same figure. Having consulted and resolved their business, the king ordered one of them to speak to me. He came to me, and in the name of his king, saluted me. Then took me by the hand, and told me that he was ordered by his king to speak to me; and that now it was not he, but the king who spoke, because what he should say was the king's mind. During the time this person was speaking, not a man of them was observed to whisper or smile. The old were grave-the young reverend in their deportment. They spoke little, but fervently and with elegance. He will deserve the name of wise, who out-wits them in any treaty about a thing they understand. At every sentence they shout, and say amen, is their way.'
Mr. Smith, in his history of N. Jersey, confirms this general statement. 'They are grave even to sadness, upon any common, and more so upon serious occasions-observant of those in company, and respectful to the aged-of a temper cool and deliberate-never in haste to speak, but wait, for a certainty, that the person who spake before them had finished all he had to say. They seemed to hold European vivacity in contempt, because they found such as came among them, apt to interrupt each other, and frequently speak altogether.- Their behavior in public councils was strictly decent and instructive. Everyone in his turn was heard, according to rank of years or wisdom, or services to his country. Not a word, whisper or murmur, was heard while anyone spoke; no interruptions to commend or condemn: the younger sort were totally silent. Those denominated kings, were sachems distinguished by their wisdom and good conduct. The respect paid them was voluntary, and not exacted or looked for, not the omission regarded. The sachems directed in their councils, and had the chief disposition of their lands.'










NEW ECHOTA
Thursday, March 6, 1828
To Readers And Correspondents.
'Socrates' is deferred on account of the length of the report of the Committee in the Legislature of Georgia, which we could not very well divide. It shall appear in our next.
The Communication of 'A FRIEND' we have inserted with some corrections. We rather apprehend that the subject is not properly understood by either 'A FRIEND' of 'A CHEROKEE'. We consider the Constitution to be in force, yet it does not affect the appointments previously made, until the election of 1828. The appointment of Judge Martin as Treasurer of this Nation, is not, in our opinion, unconstitutional.
________________________________________
Our readers will notice, that there are more sections in the Cherokee part of the Constitution published today, than in the English. The mistake occurred in the original copy, and in correcting the proof sheet, it was accidentally overlooked, and before we could examine the second proof sheet, the first side of the Number was struck off. For the same reason, a number of other typographical errors will be noticed.
We particularly requested our principal Printer to change the order in which the English names of members of the Convention, and names of Districts stood annexed to the Constitution, as we thought it rather uncouth to mention a person's name, after his place of residence.  But he has thought it to print them as they are.
________________________________________
The situation of Indians is peculiar in the history of man; and the disadvantages in the way of their becoming an enlightened people, which they are obliged to encounter, are numerous and formidable.  Such has been the case from the discovery of America to the present moment, and for aught we can say, will still continue to be so. Enemiss [sic] to Indian improvement, would do well to consider, these disadvantages. When they are properly and candidly considered, we cannot but believe, instead of creating astonishment why the Indians have not been civilized before, they will at least suggest the enquiry why they have not degenerated more. What but pernicious effect must such a document as the report of the Joint Committee in the Legislature of Georgia, have on the interest and improvement of the Indians? Who will expect from the Cherokees, a rapid progress in education, religion, agriculture, and the various arts of civilized life, when resolutions are passed in a civilized and Christian Legislature, (whose daily sessions, we are told, commenced with a prayer to Almighty God) to wrest their country from them and strange to tell, with the point of the bayonet, if nothing else will do? Is it in the nature of things, that the Cherokees will build them good and comfortable houses and make them great farms, when they know not but that their possessions will fall into the hands so strangers and invaders? How is it possible that they will establish for themselves good laws, when an attempt is made to crush their first feeble effort towards it? These are sad facts, ' we beg our readers to bear with us, when we express ourselves so freely ' frequently on a subject which we consider to be of vital importance to the Indian race. But midst troubles, difficulties and evil wishers, we can look around us with much satisfaction, and see those who are truly our friends, not only in profession, but in deed. As a specimen of the feelings of such friends we take pleasure in publishing an extract of a letter addressed to us by an esteemed correspondent.
'The fact that a newspaper is to be put in circulation among the Cherokees, in their own language, and designed for their benefit, and edited by one of their own Nation is, in itself a Prospectus--pointing out the condition to which the Cherokees may, ere long, attain as an enlightened people;-- a guarantee, under providence, to their rise and prosperity as a Tribe a State, prepared for the privileges of inter-community, in all that constitutes political life, and health, and vigour [sic], and enjoyment, among the States, composing the Great American Republic.'
_____________________________________________
 Cherokee Constitution.-- We are happy to see that the attempts made in the House of Representatives of the United States, to interfere with the newly organized government of the Cherokee nation, are likely to fail. It would have been a deep reproach to this country, after all the injustice the Indians have suffered at our hands, and all the aspersions that have been cast on their native character and capacity, if we should refuse to permit them to follow us in those paths of civilization and moral improvement, which through our means have been already strewn with thorns for their feet.  The prospects of the Cherokees are flattering in some respects. They are considered equal to any of the red men in their mental capacity; they have made very considerable progress in civilization and one of their members has recently made an invention of a syllabic alphabet, which seems to afford the only means by which education can be speedily and efficiently introduced among them; an invention which is considered, under all the circumstances of the case, comparable to that which the ancients ascribed to Cadmus. They have within a few months, by popular delegates, formed a government under the first liberal constitution ever adopted by a savage tribe. This will form an era in a new branch of the history of constitutions, and if their plan succeeds, will furnish philanthropists new grounds for congratulation, and legislators new subjects of reflection. ______
N. Y. Daily Adv.

__________________________________________
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
MR. BOUDINOTT-- I see in your paper of the 28th, a communication signed 'A Cherokee,' on the subject of public offices, in which he says, 'In viewing the public offices of the Cherokee Nation now held by different persons; it will be found, on recurrence to the signers of the late Constitution, that there is no conformity to it in their subsequent proceedings, compared with their asserted principles.'
That the late convention which framed the Constitution was composed of twenty-one Members, and that several of those members were members of the Convention, and others members of the Council, I readily admit.--Those members were recommended by the Legislature to the several districts in which they respectively resided, under a law which passed both houses of the Gen. Council on the 13th(?) of Nov. 1826, and under which the delegates from the several districts were duly elected as members of the Convention to frame a Constitution for the Government of the Cherokee Nation. This Constitution was submitted to the General Council for their assent or rejection, and was unanimously approved by that body. 'A Cherokee' complains of one person's holding more than one office; referring to the electing of the present Treasurer of the Nation. He appears to think that the Council, in appointing John Martin Treasurer for one year, acted unconstitutionally from the provision made in the constitution, which expressly declares that no person shall hold more than one office, under the authority of the nation; stating that the Treasurer now holds four different offices. It would appear at first sight of the Communication that a Cherokee thinks that the present Treasurer has abandoned principle for the sake of gain. Among the provisions of the Constitution, you will find in the 12th section of the 6th article these words. 'All laws in force in this nation, at the passing of this Constitution, shall so continue until altered or repealed by the legislature, except when they are temporary, in which case they shall expire at the times respectively limited for their duration; if not continued by an act of the Legislature.' I cannot therefore admit or argue that the constitution is in full and operative force, neither will it be until after the rise of the General Council in 1828, at which time the several offices of the nation will be appointed and commissioned agreeably to the provisions of the Constitution. If the present Treasurer's acceptance of his appointment is an abandonment of the principles of the Constitution, I am confident that other officers of the Nation are guilty of the same, as some of them are holding responsible offices under the United States Government. But this I do not consider contrary to the Constitution, as it is not yet in full and operative force.
I will not however pretend to say that the Constitution is without its faults, this part of the subject I leave for those who are more qualified than myself; but the appointment of a Treasurer was made by a joint vote of both houses of the General Council; and if the same appointment had often been conferred as a citizen living in a remote part from the seat of Government, of the Cherokee Nation, I say let him have it, if he can give sufficient security, for the faithful discharge of his duty.
A FRIEND.
________________________________________
Page 3 Col. 4a
MURDER
We are informed of a murder being committed in the neighbourhood of Sumach. The name of the person killed is William Fallen, and of the murderer Bears Paw.  We have not heard of the circumstances.
___________________________________________
Page 3 Col. 4b
In the year 1804, the number of persons committed for trial in England and Wales was four thousand, three hundred and forty-six; in 1816 it had increased to nine thousand, and ninety-one; ' in 1826, it amounted to sixteen thousand, one hundred and forty seven.
________________________________________________
No less than 105,517 hogs have passed the turnpike gate, Cumberland River, Ten. the past season. New York Ob.










MISCELLANEOUS.
TRAITS OF INDIAN CHARACTER.
The following beautiful remarks are from the pen of  WASHINGTON IRVING, originally published in the AN ELECTIC MAGAZINE.
'In the present times, when popular feeling is gradually becoming hardened by war, and selfish by the frequent jeopardy of life or property, it is certainly an unsuspicious moment to speak in behalf of a race of beings whose very existence has been pronounced detrimental to public security. But it is good at all times to raise the voice of truth however feeble; to endeavor if possible to mitigate the fury of passion and prejudice, and to turn aside the bloody hand of violence. Little interest, however, can probably be awakened at present, in favor of the misguided tribes of Indians that have been drawn into the present war. The rights of the savage have seldom been deeply appreciated by the white man-in peace he is the dupe of mercenary rapacity; in war he is regarded as a ferocious animal, whose death is a question of mere precaution and convenience. Man is cruelly wasteful of life when his own safety is endangered and he is sheltered by impunity-and little mercy is to be expected from him who feels the sting of the reptile, and is conscious of the power to destroy.
'It has been the lot of the unfortunate aborigines of this country, to be doubly wronged by the white men-first, driven from their native soil by the sword of the invader, and then darkly slandered by the pen of the historian. The former has treated them like beasts of the forest; the latter has written volumes to justify him in his outrages. The former found it easier to exterminate than to civilize; the latter to abuse than to discriminate.- The hideous appellations of savage ' pagan were sufficient to sanction the deadly hostilities of both; and the poor wanderers of the forests were persecuted and dishonored not because they were guilty, but because they were ignorant.
'The same prejudices seem to exist in common circulation, at the present day. We form our opinions of the Indian character from the miserable hordes that infest our frontiers.- These, however, are degenerate beings, enfeebled by the vices of society, without being benefitted by its arts of living. The independence of thought and action that formed the main pillar of their character has been completely prostrated and the whole moral fabric lies in ruins. Their spirits are debased by conscious inferiority, and their native courage completely daunted by the superior knowledge ' power of their enlightened neighbors. Society has advanced upon them like a many headed monster, breathing every variety of misery. Before it, went forth pestilence, famine and the sword; and in its train came the slow, but exterminating curse of trade. What the former did not sweep away, the latter has gradually blighted.  It has increased their wants without increasing the means of gratification. It has enervated their strength, multiplied their diseases, blasted the powers of their minds and superinduced on their original barbarity the low vices of civilization. Poverty, repining and hopeless poverty-a cancer of the mind unknown to sylvan life-corrodes their very hearts.- They loiter like vagrants through the settlements, among spacious habitations replete with artificial comforts, which only render them sensible of the comparative wretchedness of their own condition. Luxury spreads its ample board before their eyes, but they are expelled from the banquet.  The forest which once furnished them with ample means of subsistence has been levelled to the ground-waving fields of grain have sprung up in its place; but they have no participation in the harvest; plenty revels around them, but they are starving amidst its stores; the whole wilderness blossoms like a garden, but they feel like the reptiles that infest it.
'How different was their case while yet the undisputed lords of the soil. Their wants were few, and the means of gratifying them within their reach. They saw everyone around them sharing the same lot, enduring the same hardships, living in the same cabins, feeding on the same aliments, arrayed in the same rude garments. No roof then rose, but what was open to the houseless stranger, no smoke curled among the trees, but he was welcome to sit down by its fire, and join the hunter in his repast. 'For, says an old historian of New England, 'Their life is so void of care, and they are so loving also that they make use of those things they enjoy as common goods, and therein so compassionate that rather than one should starve throughout, they would starve all, thus do they pass their time merrily, not regarding our pomp, but are better content with their own, which some men esteem so meanly of.' Such were the Indians while in the pride and energy of primitive simplicity; they resemble those wild plants that thrive best in the shades of the forest, but which shrink from the hand of cultivation, and perish beneath the influence of the sun.
[To Be Continued]










CHEROKEE LAWS.
The following laws of the Cherokee Nation, we publish as we find them in print, without any corrections, except what we suppose maybe typographical errors. They have already been circulated in this Nation in a pamphlet form.- Our readers at a distance will perhaps be gratified to see the first commencement of written laws among the Cherokees. We publish some that are not now in force. The repealing laws will appear in the order of time they were passed.
LAWS
Resolved by the Chiefs and Warriors in a national council assembled, That it shall be, and is hereby authorized, for regulating parties to be organized to consist of six men in each company; one captain, one lieutenant and four privates, to continue in service for the term of one year, whose duties it shall be to suppress horse stealing and the robber of other property within their respective bounds, who shall be paid out of the national annuity, at the rates of fifty dollars to each captain, forty to the lieutenant, and thirty dollars to each of the privates; and to give their protection to children as heirs to their fathers' property and to the widow's share, whom he may have had children by, or cohabitated with, as his wife, at the time of his decease; and in case a father shall leave or will any property to a child at the time of his decease which he may have had by another woman, then his present wife shall be entitled to receive any such property as maybe left by him or them, when substantiated by one or two disinterested witnesses.
Be it resolved by the Council aforesaid, When any person or persons which may or shall be charged with stealing a horse and upon conviction by one or two witnesses, he, she, or they shall be punished with one hundred stripes on the bare back, and the punishment to be in proportion for stealing property of less value; and should the accused person or persons rise up with arms in his or their hands, as guns, axes, spears, and knives, in opposition to the regulating company, and should they kill him or them, the blood of him or them shall not be required of any of the persons belonging to the regulators from the clan the person so killed belonged to.
Accepted.
BLACK FOX, Principal Chief,
PATH KILLER, Sec'd
TOOCHALAR.
CHARLES HICKS, Sect'y to the Council. Brooms Town, Sept. 11th 1808.
Be it known That this day, the various clans or tribes which compose the Cherokee Nation have unanimously passed an act of oblivion for all lives for which they may have been indebted, one to the other, and have mutually agreed that after this evening the aforesaid act shall become binding upon every clan, or tribe; and the aforesaid clans or tribes have also agreed that if in future, any life should be lost without malice intended, the innocent aggressor shall not be accounted guilty.
Be it known also, That should it so happen that a brother, forgetting his natural affection, should raise his hand in anger and kill his brother, he shall be accounted guilty of murder and suffer accordingly. And if a man has a horse stolen, and overtakes the thief, and should his anger be so great as to cause him to kill him let his blood remain on his own conscience, but no satisfaction shall be demanded for his life from his relatives or the clan he may belong to.
By order of the seven clans.
TURTLE AT HOME
Speaker of Council.
Approved.
BLACK FOX, Principal Chief.
PATH KILLER, Sec'd.
TOOCHALAR.
CHARLES HICKS, Sect'y to the Council.
Oostanallah, April 10, 1810
WHEREAS, fifty-four towns and villages having convened in order to deliberate and consider on the situation of our nation, in the disposition of our common property of lands without the unanimous consent of the members of the Council, and in order to obviate the evil consequences resulting in such course, we have unanimously adopted the following form for the future government of our nation.
ARTICLE 1st. It is unanimously agreed, that there shall be thirteen members elected as a Standing Committee for the term of two years, at the end of which term they shall be either re-elected or others; and in consequence of the death or resignation of any of said Committee, our head Chiefs shall elect another to fill the vacancy.
ARTICLE 2d. The affairs of the Cherokee Nation shall be committed to the care of the Standing Committee but the acts of this body shall not be binding on the Nation in our common property, without the unanimous consent of the members and Chiefs of the Council, which they shall present for their acceptance or dissent.
ARTICLE 3d. The authority and claim of our common property shall cease with the person or persons who shall think proper to remove themselves without the limits of the Cherokee Nation.
ARTICLE 4th. The improvements and labors of our people by the mother's side shall be inviolate during the time of their occupancy.
ARTICLE 5th. This Committee shall settle with the Agency for our annual stipend, and report their proceedings to the members and Chiefs in council; but the friendly communication between our head Chiefs and the Agency shall remain free and open.
ARTICLE 6th. The above articles for our government, maybe amended at our electional [sic] term, and the Committee is hereby required to be governed by the above articles, and the Chiefs and Warriors in Council unanimously pledge themselves to observe strictly the contents of the above articles.- whereunto ye have set our hands and seals at Amoah, this 6th day of May, one thousand eight hundred and seventeen.
Approved in Council, on the day and date above written.
EHNAUTAUNAUEH
Speaker to the Council.
Approved of the within government by the head Chief,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. McCOY, Sect'y to the Council.
CHARLES HICKS.
[To Be Continued]










STRICTURES,
On 'The Report of the Joint Committee on the state of the Republic,' in the Legislature of Georgia, on the subject of the Cherokee Lands; purporting to prove the absolute jurisdictional right of the said state to the same.

(CONCLUDED)
From this subject, which the Committee denominate 'gloomy' they turn to the second branch of their inquiry and tell us for the first time, that they are able to establish in the state of Georgia, a good, legal, and perfect title to the lands in question, and that they have the right, by any means in their power, to possess themselves of them.  How unfortunate it is to the contracting parties, that this right was not thought of in 1802, when Georgia 'sold her birth-right for a song.' When in the history of civilized diplomacy, she afforded to the world the remarkable spectacle of purchasing her own lands! The Committee are unfortunate in the selection of a position, which is truly 'novel', but at war with the nature of trade, as conducted at the present day.
In the next place, they call our attention to the discovery of America, when it was the pratice [sic] of discoverers to take possession of vacant lands for their respective sovereigns, under whose auspices and flags they sailed. 'The discoverers,' say they,' asserted successfully the right of occupying such parts as each discovered, and thereby established their supreme command over it, asserting their claim both to domain and empire.' 'By domain' say they, 'we mean that by 'virtue of which a nation may use the country for the supply of its necessities, may dispose of it as it thinks proper, and derive from it any advantage it is enabled of yielding;'-and by 'Empire, we mean the 'right of sovereign command, by which the nation directs and regulates, at its pleasure, everything that passes in the country.''
This lucid explanation of 'domain and empire' is taken from Vattel's Laws of Nations. It affords me pleasure that the Committee consulted this work, which is open to me also for the same use. In our Courts of justice, when a witness is called to bear testimony in either a civil or criminal case, he is called upon, on oath to tell the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, in the case depending. The witness is not called upon to tell a part of the truth, but the whole truth. As Vottel is the text book, let us ask him a few questions on the subject of our discussion.
1st. You have satisfactorily explained the meaning of domain and empire, tell us in what situation and when can a nation assert these rights to any country?
Answer. 'When a nation takes possession of a country that never yet belonged to any other, it is considered as possessing the empire or sovereignty, at the same time with the domain.'
2d. Georgia claims the right of empire and domain over the whole of its chartered limits, and over lands in the possession of the Cherokees;-tell us how far a nation have right to arrest their domain and empire, or have they the right to assert to as much space as they please?
Answer. 'The whole space over which a Nation extend its Government, is the seat of its Jurisdiction, ' called its Territory.'
3d. The Cherokee Nation is composed of a number of free families, spread over a district of country which has been held by them from time immemorial; are they in legal possession of it, and how far does their right of command extend?
Answer. 'If any free families over an independent country come to unite in order to form a nation, or state, they altogether possess the empire over the whole country they inhabit. For they already possess each for himself the domain; and since they are willing to form together a political society, and establish a public authority, which each should be bound to obey, it is very manifest that their intention is to attribute to that public authority, the right of command over the whole country.'
4th.  Is there any difference in the portion of rights possessed by different Nations to land in a state of nature?
Answer. 'All mankind have an equal right to the things that have not yet fallen into the possession of any one; and these things belong to the first possessor.'
4th and last. When therefore can a nation take lawful possession of a country?
Answer. 'When a Nation finds a country uninhabited and without a master, it may lawfully take possession of it, and after it has sufficiently made known its will in this respect it cannot be deprived of it by another.'
If then the right of the Cherokees to their country, is to depend on the laws of Nations, the premises of the Committee are not supported. In vain will a Nation disposed to assert rights by force, appeal to this law. The Cherokees were settled in towns over this territory, before a white man ever appeared on these shores, and when he did appear and made discovery, he only discovered the Cherokees in peaceable possession of a country,
'There is another question to which the discovery of the new world has given rise. It is asked if a nation may lawfully take possession of a part of a vast country, in which there are none found but erratic nations, incapable by the smallness of their numbers to people the whole?'- (See Vattel p. P58)
Our Author is of the opinion that such wandering tribes were never designed by nature to exclude other nations from a participation of the benefits of a vast extent of country, appropriated by the Creator for the subsistence of the human species. He admires the New England Puritans, who notwithstanding their being furnished with a Charter from their Sovereign, purchased of the Indians, the lands they resolved to cultivate. This laudable example was followed by William Penn who planted a colony of Quakers in Pennsylvania. The judgment of a man disposed to obtain truth, must yield its conviction to the power of such reasoning. The Indians in an erratic or wandering state could have no right to domain and empire, over a vast Territory of country, over which they had seldom chased the bounding stag, or traced the furious bear. The earth was made for the benefit of mankind. If, then wandering Indians were not allowed to monopolize such countries, they yet had a right to their share, which the sword of the Invader could not lawfully take away. But there is a question whether the Cherokees could ever have been properly called an erratic nation. Let us look to history for information.
'It may be remarked that the Cherokees differ in many respects from other Indian nations, that have wandered from place to place, and fixed their habitations on separate Districts. From time immemorial they have had possession of the same  territory which at present they occupy.  They affirm that their forefathers sprung from the ground, or descended from the clouds upon those hills. These lands of their ancestors they value above all things in the world. They venerate the places where their bones lie interred, and esteem it disgraceful in the highest degree to relinquish their depositories. The man that would refuse to take the field in defence of these hereditary possessions, is regarded by them as a coward, ' treated as an outcast from their nation.' (See History of South Carolina and Georgia.)
Such was the character and situation of the Cherokees at the settlements of S. Carolina ' Georgia. We need not say anything of their present condition, and character, more than this, that they are here yet on the same ground, and on the same hills, excepting that portion of it which they have relinquished to the U. States by treaty.
But it is stated by the Committee that as the earth was made equally for the benefit of the human species, 'Great Britain no doubt on these principles occupied and colonized the Province of Georgia, the limits of which, anterior to the Revolutionary war [sic], were defined, and made to extend from the Atlantic Coast to the Mississippi, and from the 31st to the 35th degrees of North Latitude. The whole of this territory was made to form a provincial Government thus exercising the highest and most unequivocal act of sovereignty?'
I have proved that a nation cannot exercise or lawfully assert the right of sovereignty over a country which it has not settled. And we are yet to learn from the Committee in what manner and at what time Georgia ever exercised its unequivocal act of sovereignty over the limits first mentioned.  The jurisdiction of a state has terminated and most terminate precisely where the settlements or habitations of its subjects extend. Anterior to the Revolutionary War, the limits of Georgia were scarcely half as large as they are now, notwithstanding the extensiveness of the Royal Charter, capable only of witnessing the folly that characterized the administration of Great Britain, which at length effected the separation of its transatlantic provinces from their political connexion [sic] with the Mother Country.
'In the exercise' say the committee, both of domain and empire on the part of Great Britain, certain portions of territory were reserved to the use of the Indians, and the Indians themselves were declared to be under the protection of Great Britain, and the lands reserved were declared to be under the sovereignty, protection and domain of that Government.'
The early history of Georgia will enable us to understand the true state of the subject in regard to the Indians and Georgia.   A certain corporation in England, from motives of humanity, attempted to colonize Georgia by sending over, at their expense, a certain population, who were selected as fit objects of charity.  In 1732 they arrived at Savannah, under the direction of General Oglethorpe of worthy memory. After building huts to shelter his little colony, his first care was to secure their safety by a treaty of peace and friendship with the Creek Indians, who lived in the country, and purchased lands from them.  He found an Indian woman, the wife of a trader, who spoke English and Creek, ' employed her with a handsome salary as an interpreter.--'By her assistance, says history, he summoned a general meeting of the Chiefs, to hold a Congress with him at Savannah, in order to procure their consent to the peaceable settlement of his colony-fifty Chiefs were present. After Oglethorpe represented the power and wealth of Great Britain and the benefits that would arise to the Indians from a connection and friendship with them, he went on to say,--'as they had plenty of Lands, he hoped they would freely resign a share of them to his people who were come among them for their benefit, and instruction. After having distributed some presents, which must always attend a proposal of friendship and peace, and agreement was made.'--This cannot be misunderstood.
The Cherokees living contiguous to South Carolina, their intercourse of treaty and trade was pretty much confined to it, and through its official functionaries to Great Britain. These treaties particularly designated boundaries and regulation for a rule of intercourse between the Cherokees and England. The Cherokees were bound to hold friendly intercourse with the subjects of England, and to fight her enemies, and trade only with her; in consideration of which England obligated herself to protect them from all enemies, and to trade with them on the most reasonable terms.--When therefore, the United States declared themselves Independent, and Cherokees, in alliance with King George, ' under his protection, raised the warwhoop and hatchet to reclaim his rebellious children to his power. The children after a severe struggle prostrated the power of the mother, England, in America.--Always perfidious to its Indian Allies, Great Britain secured to herself a cessation of hostilities by a treaty of peace, regardless of her red children. Thus did she relinquish her protection to the Indians, in the day of adversity, in time of both trials and peril, when the woods bore marks of blood shed in her cause by these children of the forest. The states had surrendered their rights of regulating trade, making treaties or declaring war to the United States in the adoption of a constitution. The Indians secured an honorable peace with the United States, in General Washington's administration, by treaty which guarantied to them their lands, and adopted measures to promote their civilization. Great Britain, whatever rights she may have had to the Indians, had forfeited them forever, and as the colonies had destroyed their connection with the Mother Country, the Indians were thrown in their original condition, unencumbered by treaties, capable of fighting and perishing on their lands, or of making treaties with those who alone had the power, the U.S.
If the Indians were naturally or constitutionally incapable of making treaties, or
contracts, as some would have it, why was the incompetency not mentioned before, and their treaties resisted, and rejected. If any time could be proper, the proper time would have been in their savage state, to experience the misfortune rather than now, after being tantalized with the hypocritical language of friendship and offers of Civilization and Religion to have their rights and liberties crushed in the cold embrace of Iron power. If we consult the history of the different states, their lands for the most part were obtained by peaceable purchase, unless obtained afterwards by conquest, but never then, unless the Indians had given occasion by acts of hostility. I speak of North America. Banished far from memory, be the Spanish blood hounds, Cortes [sic] and Pizzaro, as unfit for any human reference.
When the Olive Branch of peace and good will to men is seen at every door; when a new era has commenced, and the world is making the sublime effort of relieving nations yet in darkness, to behold the splendor of the rising happiness of nations in the enjoyment of liberty and religion, we may well be astonished to hear an inglorious doctrine, that 'force is right' sent abroad from a quarter, that we have been taught to believe, would esteem the doctrine in the greatest abhorrence. Is it possible, that any citizens of the United States, have so fallen from the exalted virtue of their ancestors, as to be in reality capable of believing in 1828 'that force is right!' I have heard of a man, that is noted for talking and nothing more, who represents in Congress a certain District adjoining this nation, that recommends the removal of Indians to the paradise country at the setting sun ' to remove them without their consent, as he says they are in the act of destroying themselves by drinking poison, and he wishes to save them from extermination.  What is sugar to Indians is gall to his palate, and why? because the Cherokees happen to be in possession of a fine Country, and he happens to violate the 10th Commandment.
The Report of the Joint Committee closes with a string of Resolutions, the substance of which is that they, Georgia, will make the last solemn and awful appeal to the United States, for the fulfilment [sic] of their promise, instructing them to offer to certain Indians, if nothing else will succeed, reservations of lands, for life, for a time, or even in fee simple, for the attainment of the object; and if all this will not do, and if the Cherokees will shut their ears to the voice of wisdom, justice and friendship 'c. then they recommend to the next Legislature to make preparation to take the land by any means in their power.
In the black catalogue of Infamy, where characters have been destroyed by avaricious inducements, the Traitor Arnold and Judas Iscariot, possess a horrid distinction. Perhaps a third may be added in consequence of the said reservations. But if there is a Cherokee, so lost to patriotism and virtue as to fall before such a bribe, he has yet to be thought of and to be found.
All Nations have their seasons of prosperity and adversity. Mighty empires, that figure with amazing lustre on the page of history, are now silent in awful oblivion. And the men that wielded the sceptres [sic], where are they? 'Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.' and shall I quake with fear at threatening politicians? Shall sweet sleep escape my eyelids at prospect of annihilation, when it is my fate to die? No! Let me in civil peace resign my fate to him who rules the world, and who has the Government of the strong and the feeble.
'A time may come, when summer's sun
And winter's blast may beat uncheck'd
On my defenceless [sic] head, and none
Be with me when my fortune's wreck'd?
But while I bear and unsold heart,
And self reproach remaineth [sic] dumb,
Let wealth and all her train depart;
That time's not fearful:-let it come.'
SOCRATES.










FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Mr. Editor- In reading one of the numbers of the NATIONAL JOURNAL, I notice a short speech delivered by Mr. Mitchell of Tennessee, in the House of Representatives, in support of a solution recommending a systematic arrangement whereby all the Indians east of the Mississippi may be removed beyond the limits of any state or territory. I am not surprised, Mr. Editor, nor am I in the least offended, that Mr. Mitchell took the liberty to recommend such a solution, for he is but one amongst many riders of this hobby horse of the Gen. Government. He no doubt did it conscientiously, and from good ' benevolent motives; he at least declares so, and I have no inclination to question him. I cannot however but confess, that the veracity of a man becomes doubtful, when, in open day, he makes exaggerated assertions, entirely opposed to facts, and to the experience and observation of hundreds, and of course unsupported by any kind of evidence. This is the character of the speech, of which I have taken the liberty to complain. It contains nothing but exaggerated and unwarrantable assertions. I say unwarranted for of all those who have thought fit to describe our miserable situation, Mr. M. has had the best advantage of knowing our true condition.  He has been a neighbor to us, and was, if I mistake not, for a time, a resident merchant in the Nation. But how does he repay us for his stay amongst us?  The following quotations form a fair specimen of the speech, and the views of the speaker in regard to the situation of Indians.
'Some of them (the Indians) indeed roll in great wealth; but the great mass of what may be called the poorest class, is in the most abject situation to which human beings can possible be.' Now this is mere verbosity, or much empty talk, for who ever believed that an Indian ever rolled in great wealth? The terms are expressive of the highest state of wealth, such as with propriety, may be applied to Croesus, Crassus and others of ancient times, and Roschildes, Gerard and other monied men at the present day.  But it is the height of folly to apply it to Indians, who taken in general, are yet but poor people, and those who have possessions, cannot be called very wealthy. A few Negro slaves, (justice forbids that these should be accounted good property,) and a few head of cattle, horses, and hogs, are what constitutes the riches of an Indian.
But the most sweeping part of the speech is where the speaker levels the poorer class of Indians, (including of course the Cherokees,) to the most degraded of the human race. This is very great exaggeration, which every person the least acquainted with the Cherokees and some other tribes, will easily discover.  I, being one of the 'poorer class,' feel hurt in reading this public sentence. It is certainly humiliating to think, after making exertions to raise myself above the level of the most degraded of the human race, and presuming to have succeeded, at least in a small degree, it should still be declared that I have made no progress. This is poor encouragement for Indians. Yet I cannot be made to believe that the 'poorer class' of the Cherokees are as wretched and degraded, as some other nations of which I have heard; such as the Hottentots of Africa, and some of the inhabitants of the Isles of the Sea. I would still go further, and say that a part of the population of this boasted land of liberty, I mean the United States, are more wretched and degraded than the 'poorer class' of the Cherokees.  This I know from observation, and I appeal to you, Mr. Editor, to say, whether you would not freely prefer the condition of one of 'poorer class' of the Cherokees, to that of one of the poorer class of the whites, thousands of whom you have no doubt seen in your travels.  Reflect for a moment on the wretchedness that exists in the cities? Where there is the most splendour [sic], refinement and wealth, there is also the most misery and degradation. Surely I should not be tempted to exchange conditions with hundreds and thousands I have seen in this land of equality, and I think I am not the only one in this Nation who can speak thus.  There are hundreds of Cherokees of the 'poorer class,' who will perfectly assent to what I say.
The Speaker further says, 'they have been under the dominion of despotic government, and have been held in bondage with an iron grasp.' And again, 'It is not in the nature of things that they could be free or happy, or intelligent, while their master lorded over them with despotic sway.'  I was first going to inquire whether it was in the nature of things for a member of Congress to speak without exaggeration--but I will guard against indiscriminate censure. This I can say, however, that Mr. M. is notoriously guilty of violating the rules of rhetoric, (which by the way an orator ought always to observe, when he makes a speech,) in delighting to use hyperbolical expressions; and further in this present instance, he appears to evince a determined spirit of misrepresenting, or very great ignorance of things which lie within the compass of his observation. That which I have now quoted is certainly very great exaggeration, as every person the least acquainted with the petty Governments of the Indians will easily perceive, and it is a wilful mis-statement, if the speaker intended, as he undoubtedly did, to apply his remarks to the Cherokees. I believe liberty is as sweet to a Cherokee as to a white man, and it is with pleasure I can say that we have never been shackled with the 'iron grasp' of a despot, and I hope that we will not only boast of being a free people, but be so in reality. Let us not possess liberty only in name, but let it grow freely, until its branches shall over-shadow every family, and equality, peace, comfort and intelligence, which are the ingredients of liberty, shall prevail without intermission through these hills and mountains. I will here transcribe the words of an Author, who deserves to say the least, as much credit as Mr. M. and is certainly more capable of enlightening our minds on this subject.
' The Indians are perfect republicans; they will admit of no inequality among them but what arises from age, or great qualifications for either council or war. Although this is the case in peace, yet in war they observe great discipline, and perfect subordination to their beloved man who carries the holy ark, and to their officers, who are appointed on account of the experience they have had of their prowess in war, and good conduct in the management and surprising of an enemy, or saving their men by a timely retreat; but this subordination ends with campaign.'--
(Star in the West.)

One or two more quotations from Mr. M. will suffice. 'In their present situation, it could not be denied that they are an injury both to themselves, and to the people among whom they reside.' This assertion, however, can be boldly contradicted, as far as the Cherokees are concerned, not-withstanding the confidence with which it is made. We have only to appeal to disinterested men who have frequently visited us, and made their reports. Mr. McKenney for instance, in his letter to the Secretary of War, and extract of which I notice in the first number of your paper, has done us the justice to give us our due.-- He has my thanks, though I must here acknowledge, that some of the doctrines which he recommends are repugnant to my feelings, ' I believe they must be to all, except such as are already 'held in bondage with an iron grasp.'
The following is as absurd as it is unfounded.  'They are as if they had been taking a dose of slow poison, the deleterious effects of which are gradually destroying them.' The result of the census which was taken in 1824 by order of the General Council proves beyond a doubt the falsehood of this remark, as it respects the Cherokess[sic].  On comparing the census of 1824 and the one taken by order of the General Government a number of years ago, it will be seen that the Cherokees have been on the increase, nearly equal in ratio with the whites; and the difference of the two statistical tables taken at the two periods, incontrovertably [sic] shews [sic], that we are not on a retrograde motion.-- The Speaker, after exhausting words, which may have a tendency to shew [sic] our wretched and most degraded condition, recommends a remedy and that is nothing more than our speedy removal to the west of Mississippi, beyond the limits of any state or territory. There he is to put a new kind of government on our shoulders, appoint Governors, Judges and other officers over us, and establish Schools amongst us 'not your ABC Schools.' (Where shall we learn our letters if we are not to have Schools of a lower order?)  And all this is to be done, if I properly understand the subject, without our desire, without our approbation, and without our vote. If this is not a 'bondage with an iron grasp,' I confess I do not understand the terms. There appears to be a new kind of friendship, Mr. Editor, in the coining of which, this subject of concentration has had no small agency.-- But it is worse than none.  It is much like the friendship of Joab, who we are told, went to Amasa and said unto him, 'Art thou well my brother? and Joab took Amasa by the beard with the right hand to kiss him.  But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand: so he smote him therewith in the fifth rib.'
It is to be lamented that public men should not be sufficiently scrupulous in making assertions, liable to contradiction, and to public scrutiny. The same beaten track is still trodden by those who declaim on the condition of the Indians, though one would suppose it to be too late in the day. It was my opinion that the Indians were frequently, and intentionally misrepresented, and I am sorry to say that the speech, which has been the cause of this unworthy communication has most sadly confirmed by believe.
B [two symbols] DB.










NEW ECHOTA
THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1828
CONGRESS- Our last Washington papers contain a debate which took place in the House of Representatives, on the resolution, recommended by the Committee on Indian Affairs, published in the Second Number of our paper. It appears that the advocates of this new system of civilizing the Indians are very strenuous in maintaining the nobel opinion, that it is impossible to enlighten the Indians, surrounded as they are by the white population, and that they will assuredly become extinct, unless they are removed.  It is a fact which we would not deny, that many tribes have perished away in consequence of white population, but we are yet to be convinced that this will always be the case, in spite of every measure taken to civilize them. We contend that suitable measures to a sufficient extent have never been employed. And how dare these men make an assertion without sufficient evidence?  What proof have they that the system which they are now recommending will succeed. Where have we an example in the whole history of man, of a Nation or tribe, removing in a body, from a land of civil and religious means, to a perfect wilderness, in order to be civilized. We are fearful these men are building castles in the air, whose fall will crush those poor Indians who may be so blinded as to make the experiment. We are sorry to see that some of the advocates of this system speak so disrespectfully, if not contemptuously, of the present measures of improvement, now in successful operation among most of the Indians in the United States-the only measurers too, which have been crowned with success, and bid fair to meliorate the condition of the Aborigines.
The following remarks of Mr. Vinton, on this subject, in the House of Representatives, we freely publish, as our readers in this Nation will be glad to perceive that this concentrating business has met with a manly opposition, and as the views of Mr. Vinton generally, so far as they have been expressed in this extract, are consonant to our views and feelings.
_____________________
What is the proposition of Mr. Monroe? It is, first that you shall establish certain fundamental principles of policy, and then send intelligent men to the Indians to explain those principles; and when they give their assent, then, to fulfil the recommendation of the message of 1825, you may remove them. They rely on the government for protection, and this is the proper course. Instead of this, we have pressed the Indians over the Mississippi without giving them any choice, or assurance of protection.  It is a policy of death of desolation, and they who force this upon the Indians ought to pause before they proceed further.
He referred to two or three cases which had occurred. A treaty was made with the Florida Indians, while living in happiness and prosperity, in the heart of the country. A gentleman holding high a station in Florida, had told him that he was struck with the comfortable manner in which these Indians were living, compared with the Indians at the north. We sent our commissioners to them to ask them to leave this country for one of sand ' sterility. They refused to go. They are told, they must-they should go. They then threw themselves on the mercy of the commissioners, and the organ of that nation told us, in the most powerful language, that death must be the inevitable consequence of the policy of commissioners. This language was prophetic of the tragedy which followed. It was afterwards established here, that 1500 of these poor Indians perished of starvation in the swamps to which the were removed. We then voted 20,000 dollars for their relief; and he had the honor to point out the provision in the bill which extended their territory of good land. Yet we are now told by the gentleman from Florida, that the condition of these Indians is now such that they are obliged to prey upon his constituents. How does he propose to relieve them? By sending them 2000 miles further north. He would point out another, and a speedier method of relief. He called on his colleague, who is at the head of the committee on Indian Affairs, and who is in a measure responsible for the lives of these Indians, to see this treaty fulfilled. He called on his colleague, as a Christian to do this; and he pledged himself to call the attention of the House to the provision on some suitable occasion.
He referred to the policy which had been pursued towards the Quapas whom we had removed to the Red River, and supported for a time. We now hear of the misery of these poor Indians.- As to the Delawares, removed from Indiana into Missouri, which seems to be the common reservoir of the Indians. In 1825, these Indians, as soon as they crossed the hunting path of an Osage, created difficulties, and it was with great difficulty that a war of extermination between these tribes was prevented. The executive has recommended, as the only means of preserving peace, that the Delawares shall be removed 600 miles from the Osages; yet in the same paper, it is strongly recommended, absurd as it may seem, the country West should be laid off into contiguous Districts for the Indian tribes.
His colleague had yesterday produced a letter from Governor Clarke to be read, which probably had its effect upon the committee. It was there said that these Indians were perishing; and that, unless relieved, they must break out upon other tribes, for pillage. This, the letter says, is the result of the removal of these Indians from their comfortable homes; and ought to operate upon us to be careful how we remove them hereafter.
The facts he had stated were the strongest arguments against moving another step until we have provided those principles which will protect them from want and death. It is avowed that this is the policy of the Government. If we allure the Indians beyond the Mississippi, the whole of the Indians, as soon as we have taken this first step, while allured by powerful inducements to follow, until the whole have migrated. It is a system of cruelty, fraud, and outrage, which has no parallel.
If we are to proceed with this policy who do not gentlemen offer some principle to consideration which ma be adopted ' made known ' acted on, instead of seducing the Indians gradually to migrate, under those circumstances to which he had referred.
He regarded this movement as pushing forward these Indians half way to that ocean where, it is to be eared, they are ultimately destined to terminate their existence and misery together. Gentlemen have described in glowing terms the condition of these Indians. They tell us that the Indians cannot be civilized in the neighborhood of the whites, that man cannot be civilized man.- He contended that we had not tested this assertion. We have done no act of legislation to incorporate them into the family of civilization. We have never undertaken to regulate the principles on which property is held among them. We have done nothing to break down the system of Kings and Chiefs among them. Until we have done this, it is wrong to argue they cannot be civilized. How did we find these Indians? With the exception of the Cherokees, who have formed a Constitution, we find the Indians governed by the same laws, as when the pilgrims first came to this country,.- He asked if it would not be too great an effort to be expected from uncivilized men to break these shackles.- It is not to be expected from the chiefs and head men that they will destroy their own power and influence.
But suppose these Indians are removed across the Mississippi. We all agree that they are not to be removed unless their condition shall be bettered. What is to be done to better that condition They must be brought to consent to the removal, to change the existing relations between the chiefs and people, to hold their property in severalty.  They must be brought to consent to these modifications which are necessary to the improvement of their condition.
Supposing all this preliminary process gone through, and you place 100,000 individuals in the wilderness-men, strangers to each other, entertaining opinions and feelings in hostility to each other-and you undertake to civilize them. He asked by what process this is to be accomplished,.- All that has yet been said on the subject is mere declamation. We find then there is total ignorance of the laws and regulations of the new Government which is to be imposed upon them. He would ask, by what legislative spell these people could be at once reduced to order and civilization. He who could accomplish it, would deserve a higher fame than that of Solon or Lycurgus.
But, as his colleague yesterday remarked, there were no Elysian fields in the wilderness. Where do we hear of misery and distress? Is it on this side the Mississippi? With the exception of Florida, it is not. It is beyond the Mississippi. The letter which was yesterday read proves this fact.  It is said the Indians only degenerate in the vicinity of whites. Here the argument is not supported by the fact. He referred to the opinions of Gov. Cass, that the Indians are wasting away in the wilderness with a rapidity which is unknown in the vicinity of the whites. He accounts for this on rational principles. While their knowledge was confined to the bow and arrow, they were unable to destroy the immense herds of buffalo and elk; but since the traders have put fire arms into their hands to destroy the animals merely for the sake of the hides, they neglect laying in provision for the winter, and destroy the means which Providence has given for their own subsistence. The consequence often is, the most indescribable suffering from hunger, and sometimes actual death. If, then, you put these Indians in that region of country, you send them into the midst of desolation.- What is the consequence? It would require less to sustain an army of 200,000 men, than to support half that number of Indians five hundred miles in the interior.










DIED- In this neighbourhood, on the 8th instant Mr. EDMUND CRUTCHFIELD. We are told that the deceased went to be apparently well, and was found a corpse the next morning.
At Albany, on the 11th ultimo, very suddenly, His Excellency DE WITT CLINTON, Governor of the State of New York
Cherokee Phoenix
Thursday, March 13, 1828
Volume 1, No. 4
Page 3, col. 5b
NOTICE
All persons are hereby forewarned against trading for a Note of hand, given by the Subscriber to James Cunningham, of Ten. for the sum of $14 with a credit of five dollars; dated the 19th day of February 1828. Also a Due Bill of thirty four dollars given by Alexander McCoy in favor of Michael A. Remley with a credit of about two dollars and twenty five cents made over to said James Cunningham by me.
As the consideration for which the said Note and Due Bill were given, has proved to be unsound, I am determined not to pay except by due course of law.
EDWARD ADAIR.
March 6, 1828










MISCELLANEOUS.
TRAITS OF INDIAN CHARACTER.
By Washington Irving
[Continued]
'In the general mode of estimating the savage character, we may perceive a cast degree of vulgar prejudice, and passionate exaggeration, without any of the temperate discussion of true philosophy. No allowance is made for the difference of circumstances, and the operations of principles under which they have been educated. Virtue and vice, though radically the same yet differ widely in their influence on human conduct, according to the habits and maxims of society in which the individual is reared.  No being acts more rigidly from rule than the Indian. His whole conduct is regulated according to some general maxims early implanted in his mind. The moral laws that govern him, to be sure, are but few, but then he conforms to them all. The white man abounds in laws of religion, morals, and manners; but how many does he violate?
'A common cause of accusation against the Indians is, the faithlessness of their friendships, and their sudden provocations to hostility. But we do not make allowance for their peculiar modes of thinking and feeling, and the principles by which they are governed. Besides, the friendship of the whites towards the poor Indians, was ever cold, distrustful, oppressive, and insulting. In the intercourse with our frontiers they are seldom treated with confidence, and are frequently subject to injury and encroachment. The solitary savage feels silently but acutely; his sensibilities are not diffused over so wide a surface as those of the white man, but they run in steadier and deeper channels. His pride, his affections, his superstitions, are all directed towards fewer objects, but the wounds inflicted on them are proportionably severe, and furnish motives of hostility which he cannot sufficiently appreciate.  Where a community is also limited in number, and forms, as in an Indian tribe, one great patriarchal family, the injury of the individual is the injury of the whole; and as their body politic is small, the sentiment of vengeance is almost instantaneously diffused. One council fire is sufficient to decide the measure.- Eloquence and superstition combine to inflame their minds. The orator awakens all their martial ardor, and they are wrought up to a kind of religious desperation, by the visions of the prophet and the dreamer.'
'An instance of one of these sudden exasperation, arising from a motive peculiar to the Indian character, is extant in an old record of the early settlement of Massachusetts. The planters of Plymouth had defaced the monuments of the dead at Passouagessit, and had plundered the grave of the sachem's mother of some skins with which it had been piously decorated. Everyone knows the hallowed reverence which the Indians entertain for sepulchers of their kindred.- Even now, tribes that have passed generations exiled from the abodes of their ancestors, when by chance they have been traveling on some mission to our seat of government, have been known to turn aside from the highway for many miles distance, and guided by wonderfully accurate tradition, have sought some tumulus [sic], buried perhaps in woods, where the bones of their tribe were anciently deposited; and there have passed some time in silent lamentation over the ashes of their forefathers. Influenced by this sublime and holy feeling, the sachem, whose mother's tomb had been violated, in the moment of indignation, gathered his men together, and addressed them in the following beautiful simple pathetic harangue-which has remained unquoted for nearly two hundred years-a pure specimen of Indian eloquence, and an affecting monument of filial piety in a savage.'
'When last the glorious light of all the sky was underneath this globe, and birds grew silent, I began to settle, as my custom is, to take repose. Before mine eyes were last closed, me thought I saw a vision, at which my spirit was much troubled, and trembling at that doleful sight, a spirit cried aloud-behold my son, whom I have cherished; see the breasts that gave thee suck, the hands that lapped thee warm ' fed thee oft! canst thou forget to take revenge of those wild people, who have defaced my monument in a despiteful manner, disdaining our antiquities and honorable customs. See now, the sachem's grave lies like the common people defaced by an ignoble race. Thy mother doth complain, and implores thy aid against this thievish people, who have newly intruded in our land. If this be suffered I shall not rest quiet in my everlasting habitation.  This said, the spirit vanished, and I, all in a sweat not able scarce to speak, began to get some strength and recollect my spirits that were fled, and determined to demand your counsel, and solicit your assistance.'
'Another cause of violent outcry against the Indians, is their inhumanity to the vanquished. This originally arose partly from political and partly from superstitious motives. Where hostile tribes are scanty in their numbers, the death of several warriors completely paralyzes their power; and many an instance occurs in Indian history, where a hostile tribe, that had long been formidable to its neighbor, has been broken up and driven away, by the capture and massacre of its principal fighting men. This is a strong temptation to the victor to be merciless, not so much to gratify any cruelty of revenge, as to provide of future security. But they had other motives originating in a superstitious idea, common to barbarous nations, and even prevalent among the Greeks and Romans-that the manes of their deceased friends, slain in battle, were soothed by the blood of the captives. But those that are not thus sacrificed are adopted into their families, and treated with the confidence and affection of relatives and friends; nay, so hospitable and tender is their entertainment, that they will often prefer to remain with their adopted brethren, rather than return to the home and friends of their youth.'
'The inhumanity of the Indians towards their prisoners has been heightened since the intrusion of the whites. We have exasperated what was formerly a compliance with policy and superstition into a gratification of vengeance. They cannot but be sensible that we are the usurpers of their ancient dominion, the cause of their degradation, ' the gradual destroyers of their race. They go forth to battle, smarting with injuries and indignities which they have individually suffered from the injustice and the arrogance of white men, and they are driven to madness and despair, by the wide spreading desolation and the overwhelming ruin of our warfare.- We set them an example of violence, by burning their villages and laying waste their slender means of subsistence; and then wonder that savages will not show moderation and magnanimity towards men, who have left them nothing but mere existence and wretchedness.'
'It is a common thing to exclaim against new forms of cruelty, while, reconciled by custom, we wink at long established atrocities. What right does the generosity of our conduct give us to rail exclusively at Indian warfare. With all the doctrines of Christianity, and the advantages of cultivated morals to govern and direct us, what horrid crimes disgrace the victories of Christian armies. Towns laid in ashes; cities given up to the sword; enormities perpetrated, at which manhood blushes, and history drops the pen. Well may we exclaim at the outrages of the scalping knife; but where, in the records of Indian barbarity, can we point to a violated female?'
'We stigmatize the Indians also as cowardly and treacherous, because they use stratagem in warfare, in preference to open force; but in this they are fully authorized by their rude code of honor.  They are early taught that stratagem is praiseworthy; the bravest warrior thinks it no disgrace to lurk in silence and take every advantage of his for. He triumphs in the superior craft and sagacity by which he has been enabled to surprise and massacre an enemy.  Indeed, man is naturally more prone to subtlety than open valor, owing to his physical weakness in comparison with other animals. They are endowed with natural weapons of defence; with horns, with tusks, with hoofs and talons; but man has to depend on his superior sagacity In all his encounters, therefore, with these, his proper enemies, he has to resort to stratagem; and when he perversely turns his hostility against his fellowman, he continues the same subtle mode of warfare.'
'The natural principle of war is to do the most harm to our enemy, wit the least harm to ourselves; and this of course is to be effected by cunning. That chivalric kind of courage which teaches us to despise the suggestions of prudence, and to rush in the face of certain danger, is the offspring of society, and produced by education. It is honorable, because in fact it is the triumph of lofty sentiment over an instinctive repugnance to pain, and over those selfish yearnings after personal ease and security which society has condemned as ignoble. It is an emotion kept up b pride, and the fear of shame; and thus the dread of real evils is overcome by the superior dread of an evil that exists but in the mind.  This may be instanced in the case of a young British officer of great pride, but delicate nerves, who was going for the first time into battle. Being agitated by the novelty and awful peril of the scene, he was accosted by another officer of a rough and boisterous character.- 'What, sir,' cried he, 'do you tremble?' 'Yes sir,' replied the other, 'and if you were half as much afraid as I am you would run away.'  This young officer signalized himself on many occasions by his gallantry, tho had he been brought up in savage life, or even in a humbler and less responsible situation, it is more than probable he could never have ventured into open action.'
'Besides, we must consider how much the quality of open and desperate courage is cherished and stimulated by society.- It has been the theme of many a spirit stirring song, and chivalric story. The minstrel has sung of it to the loftiest strain of his lyre- the poet has delighted to shed around it all the splendors of fiction-and even the historian has forgotten the sober gravity of narration, and burst forth into enthusiasm and rhapsody in its praise. Triumphs and gorgeous pageants have been its reward-monuments, where art has exhausted its skill, and opulence its treasures, have been erected to perpetuate a nation's gratitude and admiration. Thus artificially excited, courage has arisen to an extraordinary and factitious degree of heroism, and arrayed in all the glorious 'pomp and circumstance' of war, this turbulent quality has even been able to eclipse many of those quiet, but invaluable virtues, which silently ennoble the human character, and swell the tide of human happiness.'
'But if courage intrinsically consist in the defence of danger and pain, the life of the Indian is a continual exhibition of it. He lives in a perpetual state of hostility and risk.- Peril and adventure are congenial to his nature or, rather, seem necessary to arouse his faculties and give an interest to existence. Surrounded by hostile tribes, he is always equipped for fight with his weapons in his hands. He traverses wildernesses, exposed to the hazards of lonely sickness, of lurking enemies or pining famine. Stormy lakes present no obstacle to his wanderings; in his light canoe of bark, he sports like a feather on their waves, ' darts with the swiftness of an arrow down the roaring rapids of the rivers. Trackless wastes of snow, rugged mountains, the glooms of swamps and morasses, where poisonous reptiles curl among the rank vegetation, are fearlessly encountered by this wanderer of the wilderness. He gains his food by the hardships and dangers of the chase; he wraps himself in the spoils of the bear, the panther, and the buffalo, and sleeps among the thunders of the cataract.
'No herb of ancient or modern days can surpass the Indian in his lofty contempt of death, and the fortitude with which he sustains all the varied torments with which it is frequently inflicted. Indeed we here behold him rising superior to the white man, merely in consequence of peculiar education. The latter rushed to glorious death at the cannon's mouth; the former coolly contemplates its approach, and triumphantly endures it, amid the torments of the knife and the protracted agonies of fire. He even takes a savage delight in taunting his persecutors and provoking their ingenuity of torture; and as the devouring flames prey on his very vitals and the flesh shrinks from the sinews, he raises his last song of triumph, breathing the defiance of an unconquered heart, and invoking the spirits of his fathers to witness that he dies without a groan.










CHEROKEE LAWS.
[Continued]
Unanimously agreed. That schoolmasters, blacksmiths, millers, salt petre and gun powder manufacturers, ferrymen and turnpike keepers, and mechanics, are hereby privileged to reside in the Cherokee Nation under the following conditions; viz:- Their employers procuring a permit from the National Committee and Council for them, and becoming responsible for their good conduct and behavior, and subject to removal for misdemeanor; and further agree, that blacksmiths, millers, ferrymen, and turnpike keepers are privileged to improve and cultivate twelve acres of ground for the support of themselves and families should they please to do so.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't. N. Committee.
A. McCOY, Clerk, N. Committee.
In Committee, New Town, Oct. 26, 1810.
_________________
This day decreed by the National Committee and Council,  That all citizens of the Cherokee Nation, establishing a store or stores for the purpose of vending merchandize, shall obtain license for that purpose from the clerk of the National Council, for which each and every person so licensed shall pay a tax of twenty-five dollars per annum, and that no other but citizens of the Cherokee Nation, shall be allowed to establish a permanent store within the Nation And it is also decreed, that no peddlar or peddlers, not citizens of the nation, shall be permitted to vend merchandize in the Nation without first obtaining license, from the agent of the United States for the Cherokee Nation, agreeably to the laws of the United States; and each and every one so licensed, shall pay eighty dollars to the treasury of the Cherokee Nation per annum, and all such person or persons, so licensed, shall obtain a receipt on the back of his or their license from the treasurer for the sum so paid; and in case any person or persons violate this decree, he or they shall forfeit and pay a fine of two hundred dollars to the National treasury, and it shall be the duty of the Regulators of Lighthorse to collect the same-and any person discovering and giving information of the same shall be entitled to the sum of twenty-five dollars. And it is also hereby further decreed, that no person or persons, not citizens of the Nation, shall bring into the Nation and sell spirituous liquors, and all such persons so offending, shall forfeit the whole of the spirituous liquors that may be found in his or their possession, and the same shall be disposed of for the benefit of the Nation; and if any person or persons, citizens of the Nation, shall receive and bring into the Nation, spirituous liquors for disposal, and the same or any part thereof, be found to be the property of any person or persons not citizens of the nation, and satisfactory proof be made of the fact he or they shall forfeit ' pay the sum of one hundred dollars, and the whiskey be subject to confiscation as aforesaid, and this decree to take effect from and after the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and twenty, and to be strictly enforced; Provided nevertheless, That nothing shall be so construed in this decree, as to tax any persons bringing sugar, coffee, salt, iron, ' steel, into the Cherokee Nation for sale; but no permanent establishment for the disposal of such articles, can be admitted to any person or persons not citizens of the Nation.
JNO ROSS, Pres't N. Committee.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A. McCOY, Sec'ty to the Council.
New Town, October 28, 1819
__________________
In Committee, New Town, Cherokee Nation, October 30th, 1829.
Be it hereby resolved, That no person or persons whatsoever, shall be permitted to cut out any road or roads leading from any main road now in existence, so as to intersect the same again and to the injury of the interest of any person or persons, residing on said road, without first getting an order from the National Council for the opening of said roads; ' any person or persons violating this decree, contained in the foregoing resolution, shall be subject to such punishment and fine as the National Council and committee may hereafter decide and inflict, on any such case as may be brought before them for trial.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Committee
his
Approved- PATH  x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
___________________
New Town, Cherokee N. Nov. 1, 1819
In Committee.
Resolved by the National Committee, that no contract or bargain entered into with any slave or slaves, without the approbation of their masters shall be binding on them.
JNO ROSS, Pres't. N. Com.
his
PATH   x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS,
A. M'COY, Clerk.
_________________
New Town, Cherokee N. Nov. 1, 1819.
In Committee.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any person or persons employing or instigating any person or persons whatsoever, to steal the property of another, and such person or persons being tried and convicted upon satisfactory proofs, shall forfeit and pay the value of the property so stolen, and be punished alike with the person or persons so employed to steal agreeably to the sentence of such a trial.
By order.- JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved    PATH x   KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A.M'COY, Clerk.
__________
Resolved by the National committee and Council,  That in case any person or persons, citizens of the nation, not enrolled for the Arkansas country who has or may take possession of, and occupy any improvement or place where Arkansas emigrants had left before any privileged emigrants to continue in this nation, shall retake possession of such place or places aforesaid, shall be entitled to an exclusive right of the same.
By order
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved PATH x  KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A. M'COY, Clerk.










WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES
It has been common of late days, amongst the great men of the United States, to say much on the subject of Indian civilization, and do but very little, towards accomplishing this desirable thing. Many plans have been recommended, but as yet they have existed only in declamations. The fact is, that mere theory will never civilize an Indian, or any other man; it will require active, unremitting and persevering exertions- with these, and correct theory, the roving Indian may be turned to an industrious and respectable citizen. Among those who properly understood the subject if Indian civilization, Gen. Geo. Washington, that truly great and illustrious man, deserves a particular notice.  Under his administration, originated this liberal and kind policy , which the United States have exercised towards the Indians, and under which the Cherokees have made laudable improvement, in agriculture and civilization; thereby shewing [sic] the practicability of the measures of Washington to enlighten the Indians. The following talk will exhibit to the reader, the plan of improvement which he recommended to the Cherokees, and it may not be amiss to state, that their present situation proves beyond a doubt, that this plan was not mere declamation. The happy effects of it are now to be seen in almost every house.
TALK
Of the President of the United States to his beloved men of the Cherokee Nation.
BELOVED CHEROKEES,
Many years have passed since the White people first came to America. In that long space of time many good men have considered how the condition of the Indian natives of the country might be improved; and many attempts have been made to effect it. But, as we see at this day, all these attempts have been nearly fruitless. I also have thought much on this subject, and anxiously wished that the various Indian tribes, as well as their neighbours [sic], the White people, might enjoy in abundance all the good things which make life comfortable and happy. I have considered how this could be done; and have discovered but one path that could lead them to that desirable situation.  In this path I wish all the Indian nations to walk. From the information received concerning you, my beloved Cherokees, I am inclined to hope that you are prepared to take this path and disposed to pursue it. It may seem a little difficult to enter; but if you make the attempt, you will find every obstacle easy to be removed. Mr. DINSMOOR, my beloved agent to your nation, being here, I send you this talk by him. He will have it interpreted to you, and particularly explain my meaning.
Beloved Cherokees--You now find that the game with which your woods once abounded, are growing scarce; and you know when you cannot meet a deer or other game to kill, that you must remain hungry; you know when you can get no skins by hunting, that the traders will give you neither powder nor clothing; and you know that without other implements for tilling the ground than the hoe, you will continue to raise only scanty crops of corn.  Hence you are sometimes exposed to suffer much from hunger and cold; and as the game are lessening in numbers more and more, these sufferings will increase.  And how are you to provide against them?  Listen to my words and you will know.
My beloved Cherokees--Some among you already experience the advantage of keeping cattle and hogs; let all keep them and increase their numbers, and you will ever have a plenty of meat. To these add sheep, and they will give you clothing as well as food. Your lands are good and of great extent. By proper management you can raise live stock not only for your own wants, but to sell to the White people. By using the plow you can vastly increase your crops of corn. You can also grow wheat, (which makes the best of bread) as well as other useful grain. To these you will easily add flax and cotton, which you may dispose of to the White people, or have it made up by your down women into clothing for yourselves. Your wives and daughters can soon learn to spin and weave; and to make this certain, I have directed Mr. DINSMOOR, to procure all the necessary apparatus for spinning and weaving, and to hire a woman to teach the use of them.  He will also procure some plows and other implements of husbandry, with which to begin the improved cultivation of the ground which I recommend, and employ a fit person to show you how they are to be used. I have further directed him to procure some cattle and sheep for the most prudent and industrious men, who shall be willing to exert themselves in tilling the ground and raising those useful animals. He is often to talk with you on these subjects, ' give you all necessary information to promote your success. I must therefore desire you to listen to him; and to follow his advice.  I appointed him to dwell among you as the Agent of the United States because I judged him to be a faithful man, ready to obey my instructions and to do you good.
But the cares of the United States are not confined to your single nation. They extend to all the Indians dwelling on their borders. For which reason other agents are appointed; and for the four southern nations there will be a general or principal agent, who will visit all of them, for the purpose of maintaining peace and friendship among them and with the U. States to superintend all their affairs; and to assist the particular agents with each nation in doing the business assigned them. To such general or principal agent I must desire your careful attention. He will be one of our greatly beloved men. His whole time will be employed in contriving how to do you good, and you will therefore act wisely to follow his advice. The first general or principal agent will be Colonel Benjamin Hawkins, a man already known and respected by you. I have chosen him for this office because he is esteemed for a good man, has a knowledge of Indian customs, and a particular love and friendship for all the Southern tribes.
Beloved Cherokees-- What I have recommended to you I am myself going to do. After a few moons are passed I shall leave the great town and retire to my farm. There I shall attend to the means of increasing my cattle, sheep and other useful animals, to the growing of corn, wheat, and other grain, and to the employing of women in spinning and weaving; all which I have recommend [sic] to you that you may be as comfortable and happy as plenty of food, clothing and other good things can make you.
Beloved Cherokees-- When I have retired to my farm I shall hear of you; and it will give me great pleasure to know that you have taken my advice and are walking in the path which I have described. But before I retire I shall speak to my beloved man, the Secretary of War, to get prepared some medals, to be given to such Cherokees as by following my advice shall best deserve them. For this purpose Mr. DINSMOOR is from time to time to visit every town in your nation. He will give instructions to those who desire to learn what I have recommended. He will see what improvements are made; who are most industrious in raising cattle; in growing corn, wheat, cotton and flax; and in spinning and weaving; and on those who excel these rewards are to be bestowed.
Beloved Cherokees--The advice I here give you is important as it regards your nation; but still more important as the event of the experiment made with you may determine the lot of many nations. If it succeeds, the beloved men of the United States will be encouraged to give the same assistance to all the Indian tribes within their boundaries. But if it should fail they may think it vain to make any further attempts to better the condition of any Indian tribe; for the richness of the soil and mildness of the air renders your country highly favorable for the practice of what I have recommended.
Beloved Cherokees--The wise men of the United States meet together once a year, to consider what will be for the good of all their people. The wise men of each separate state also meet together once or twice every year, to consult and do what is good for the people of their respective states. I have thought that a meeting of your wise men once or twice a year would be alike useful to you. Every town might send one or two of the wisest counsellors to talk together on the affairs of your nation, and to recommend to your people whatever they should think would be serviceable. The beloved agent of the United States would meet with them.--- He would give them information of those things which are found good by the white people, and which your situation will enable you to adopt. He would explain to them the laws made by the great council of the U. States for the preservation of peace; for the protection of your lands; for the security of your persons; for your improvement in the arts of living, and for promoting your general welfare. If it should be agreeable to you that your wise men should hold such meetings, you will speak your mind to my beloved man, Mr. DINSMOOR, to be communicated to the President of the United States, who will then give such directions as shall be proper.
Beloved Cherokees--That this talk may be known to all your nation, and not forgotten, I have caused it to be printed, and directed one, signed by my own hand, to be lodged in each of your towns. The interpreters will, on proper occasions, read and interpret the same to all your people.
Beloved Cherokees--Having been informed that some of your chiefs wished to see me in Philadelphia, I have sent them word that I would receive a few of the most esteemed. I now repeat that I shall be glad to see a small number of your wisest chiefs; but I shall not expect them 'till November. I shall take occasion to agree with them on the running of the boundary line between your lands and ours, agreeably to the treaty of Holston. I shall expect them to inform me what chiefs are to attend the running of this line, and I shall tell them whom I appoint to run it; and the time and place of the beginning may them be fixed.
I now send my best wishes to the Cherokees, and pray the Great Spirit to preserve them.
Given at the City of Philadelphia, the twenty-ninth day of August, in the year on thousand seven hundred and ninety-six, and in the twenty-first year of the Independence of the United States of America.
GEO. WASHINGTON.
By command of the President of the United States.
James H. Henry. Sec'y of War.










NEW ECHOTA:
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1828
TO CORRESPONDENTS
The communication of 'A Cherokee,' we have inserted entire, according to his request, with verbal corrections. As our correspondent seems to think we have done him a little injustice, in omitting a sentence in his former communication, it may be proper to state for his consideration, that our word is out before the public, and we consider it to be our duty to adhere to it.- We request those who write for the columns of the Phoenix, to peruse our address to the public, published in our first number, and to observe, scrupulously, the principles therein contained, as we shall endeavor to do the same. 'A Cherokee' is under a mistake if he thinks the correcting of Grammatical errors in communications one of the duties of an Editor. We hope no one will write under such a belief.- It will be equally as advantageous to our correspondents as it will be relieving to us, if they will pay particular attention to correctness; and we would beg of them to send their pieces transcribed in a legible hand. We do not wish to be severe, and we hope our remarks will be taken in no other light than as dictated by a wish to avoid misunderstanding. We are willing, as far as we are able, to make necessary corrections on the pieces of our correspondents; but we wish it to be distinctly understood, that we do it merely out of choice, not under a conviction that it is our duty.
_________________
We were not a little diverted, in noticing lately, in a paper, to which we are not now able to recur, a motion made in the House of Representatives, by Mr. Wilde, a member from Georgia, to take measures to ascertain, what white persons have assisted the Cherokees in forming the late constitution; and in what way, and to what extent, such assistance has been afforded. It is a little surprising that in almost ever instance, wherein the Indians have undertaken to imitate their white brethren, and have succeeded, (to be sure not in a remarkable degree,) it is currently noised about, that all is imposition, as though Indians were incapable of performing the deeds of their white neighbors.  This evidences an extreme prejudice.  We cannot conceive to ourselves, what benefit Mr. Wilde expected to receive in offering such a motion, or who are the persons that are suspected of having interfered in this affair? We believe that the Cherokees are as scrupulous, in avoiding such interference, as Mr. W. if not more so.
It has been customary of late to charge the Missionaries with the crime of assisting the Indians, and unbecomingly interfering in political affairs; and as some of these are the only white persons (with few exceptions) in this Nation, who are capable of affording any substantial assistance, it is probable Mr. W. had a distant reference to them.  We can, however, assure him, that he need not be under any apprehension from this class of our population, for the Cherokees will not, by any means, permit them to have anything to do with their public affairs; and we believe, that as their sole object is to afford religious instruction, the societies under which they labor particularly forbid their interference in political matters. We know this is the case with the Presbyterian Missionaries, and we doubt not it is equally true with respect to the others; and as far as our acquaintance extends, we are prepared, and would not hesitate, to express our belief, that they have conformed to the rules of their Societies. They have our hearty approbation for what they have done amongst us, and we hope those at a distance will reward them by their kind wishes and sympathies, instead of affixing to them the term of 'mercenary Missionaries.' They certainly deserve better treatment. Perhaps this short article will be considered an imposition by such persons as are wont to judge at a distance and without evidence, and as nothing more than a Missionary's own defence.
Our object, when we commenced to pen this article, was to correct the mistake, under which some may labor, and to declare once for all, that no white man has had anything to do in framing our constitution, and all the public acts of the Nation. The Cherokees only are accountable for them, and they certainly do not wish to have any innocent person implicated wrongfully.- We hope this practice of imputing the acts of Indians to white men will be done away.
________
The Rev. Thos. Stringfield, the late editor of the 'Knoxville Enquirer,' is to be succeeded by J. J. Meredith, who is his address to the public, proposes to support the cause of the Administration.










The Rev. THOS. STRINGFIELD, the late editor of the 'Knoxville Enquirer,' is to be succeeded by J.J. MEREDITH, who in his address to the public, proposes to support the cause of the Administration.
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
MONEY AND PRINCIPLES.
Mr. Editor,-- Over the signature of 'A Friend' appears a short exposition, but apparently an elaborate detail of the actual state of the several points, in which I had rather accused the Council and their Treasurer of indifference to principles, which they had recommended for the future government of the Cherokee Nation, than maintained that every article and clause of the new Constitution should be carried into effect immediately after the rise of the Council of 1827.--I will here again recur to, and quote more particularly the last clause of the law which created the Convention. Is as follows:
Be it also further Resolved,  That the Principles which shall be established in the constitution to be adopted by the convention, shall not in any degree go to destroy the rights and liberties of the free citizens of this nation, not to affect or impair the force of the fundamental Principles and Laws, by which the Nation is now governed; and that the General Council to be convened in the Fall of 1827 shall be held under the now existing authorities; PROVIDED NEVERTHELESS, nothing shall be construed in this last clause so as to invalidate nor prevent the constitution adopted by the Convention from going into effect after the aforesaid next General Council.'
The Convention then met on the 4th July, 1827, which framed the new Constitution; and the subsequent Council convened on the second Monday in October, 1827. This Council embraced ten influential members, who composed the most conspicuous members of the Convention. They again had to deliberate on the final adoption of the Constitution, which was accordingly done. This Council, then being composed in part of members of the Convention, were as much bound, on the principle of consistency, to conform in every act to the spirit of the newly advised Government, as they will be in October 1828. When the same members of the Convention which formed the Constitution, adopted it again in Council, and then acted upon principles contrary to it, it would fairly mark out the fact that the framers themselves could not relish the new Constitution; inasmuch as they had set to work and conferred nearly all the offices on one individual. The circumstance cannot be denied to exhibit their attachment to the former practices of the Government. When the exercise of long established principles had been decided by members of the Convention to be wrong in July, and they had proclaimed in lieu certain dissimilar principles, which should direct the government of the Cherokees, then in October following the same members acting upon the principles decided to be unfit, amounts to an abandonment of principle by the party giving, as well as by the party receiving. When the hunter, after traversing the wilds, finds the game of which he has been laboriously in pursuit, he does not run off immediately from it, but, with the greatest caution, adopts measures in order to secure his object. The members of the Convention should, from the time the new Constitution was adopted, have maintained strictly every principle that they had discovered to be so important and essential for the Cherokees. Again, when the planter sows his grain, it becomes his duty to cultivate and cherish the growth; for it would be an unwise employment to be engaged in retarding and depressing the growth. Hence it may be permitted to state, that the guide of the Council and of the Treasurer has not been principle, but their ever dear attachment to the aristocracy in the National Committee, that has so long wielded the affairs of the Cherokee Council.
If there may be a fallacy in the objections alledged [sic] against the Council and Treasurer for keeping the Treasury away from Echota, the fact cannot be denied, that it has been done to the inconvenience of the greatest portion of the people. The institutions of Government are for the security and convenience of its subjects, to command what is right, and inhibit what is wrong. For this purpose the late Principal Chief, Charles Hicks, had called his cabinet council, in order to remove the Treasury to Echota; but, in the mean time, the Path Killer's death, and his own, prevented the accomplishment of the necessary arrangement.
A seat of Government without a treasury may be called a coat without a pocket and all sincere advocates for a well organized government would endeavor to adorn a naked metropolis with its Treasury. The relation in which the Treasury stands to the seat of Government is so essential, that a nation will always stand below its merited elevation, so long as the public offices are conferred elsewhere;  and this will be the case, while the government is held and directed by men politically wanting, and politically wandering.
But 'A Friend' argues, 'if a person residing at a remote distance receives the appointment of Treasurer; and can give sufficient security for a faithful discharge of his duty, let him have it.' This policy, if persisted in, will not fail to confirm the Georgia position, that the Cherokees are an erratic people and for that reason they ought to be removed.  If the Cherokee consider themselves permanently located, they should cease to keep away from the seat of Government their public offices. Supposing, 'A Friend' were to remove his crib twenty miles from his residence; what would be his convenience in such a situation? I presume that, after a few days experience, he would find it convenient to concentrate his stores. Who, that has a fancy for the common forms of Government now in America, could learn the following circumstance, but would condemn the present policy. The Second Principal Chief, a short time before his election, had occasion to search and ascertain where the National Treasury was kept.  He had heard of it at Coosawatee; and, from the singularity of the country, there are several paths leading to that place. He came to a small stream after dark. Although, being a Cherokee, he was a stranger to personal fear, he apprehended it might be dangerous to cross the stream. After some delay, a search for a log succeeded. Here again the spirit of fear repelled the venture; but necessity being stronger than fear, impelle [sic] his excellency to coon the log. One more circumstance will suffice. A short time since the Editor of the Phoenix dispatched a young man to the Treasury, who on his return was crossing Salloquoe river [sic], when only his faithful horse saved him from drowning. Entirely wet he encamped in a waste house, together with his bleaky [sic], nightly companion. These are a few among the numerous difficulties which the Treasury is producing by its movement towards Georgia. The friends of this policy have never disclosed to the public the utility of sending the Treasury the circuit it has gone. If they have any to disclose, which carries a wholesome countenance, they would do well not to remain in silence.
As to that portion of the communication of 'A Friend', in which his lynx-sighted eyes have discovered more persons than I had accused, who have not adhered to principles, I have, after several days reflection, come to a conclusion to whom he must have alluded.  But one person, I believe, the Marshal of Chattooga District, holds a responsible office under the United States Government, who, we are told, is a contractor for the post route through this place, and who, no doubt, may have unintentionally trespassed against popular principles.-- But if ' A Friend,' has deluded himself into notion that the Postmaster at New Echota, who was President of the Committee at the time of the last General Council, holds two offices, his firm confidence may be easily eradicated. The President of the National Committee was chosen during his absence; for what term he was not informed; but, on his acceptance, distinctly informed the Council, that he accepted the office for no longer time that during the then present session. If the National Committee is now in existence, it is without a President.
A CHEROKEE










MISCELLANEOUS.
TRAITS OF INDIAN CHARACTER,
By Washington Irving.
[Concluded]
'Notwithstanding all the obloquy with which early historians of the colonies have overshadowed the characters of the unfortunate natives, some bright gleams will occasionally break through, that throw a degree of melancholy lustre on their memories. Facts are occasionally to be met with, in their rude annals, which though recorded with all the coloring of prejudice and bigotry, yet speak for themselves; and will be dwelt on with applause and sympathy, when prejudice shall have passed away.
'In one of the homely narratives of the Indian wars in New England, there is a touching account of the desolation carried into the tribe of the Pequod Indians. Humanity shudders at the cold blooded accounts given of indiscriminate butchery on the part of the settlers. In one place we read of the surprisal of an Indian fort in the night when the wigwams were wrapped in flames, and the miserable inhabitants shot down and slain, in attempting to escape,' all being despatched and ended in the course of an hour.' After a series of similar transactions, 'Our soldiers,' as the historian piously observes, 'being resolved by God's assistance to make a final destruction of them,' the unhappy savages being hunted from their homes and fortresses, and pursued with fire and sword, a scanty but gallant band, the sad remnant of the Pequod warriors, with their wives and children, took refuge in a swamp.'
'Burning with indignation, and rendered sullen by despair-with hearts bursting with grief at the destruction of their tribe, and spirits galled and sore at the fancied ignominy of their defeat, they refused to ask their lives at the hands of an insulting foe, and preferred death to submission.'
'As the night drew on they were surrounded in their dismal retreat, in such manner as to render escape impracticable. thus situated, their enemy 'plied them with shot all the time, by which means many were killed and buried in the mire.' In the darkness and fog that preceded the dawn of day, some few broke through the besiegers and escaped into the woods: 'the rest were left to the conquerors, of which many were killed in the swamp, like sullen dogs who would rather, in their self-wildedness [sic] and madness, sit still and be shot through, or cut to pieces,' than implore for mercy. When the day broke upon this handful of forlorn, but dauntless spirits, the soldiers, we are told, entering the swamp, 'found several heaps of them sitting close together, upon whom they discharged their pieces, laden with ten or twelve pistol bullets at a time; putting the muzzles of their pieces under the boughs, within a few yards of them; so as, besides those that were dead, many more were killed and sunk into the mire, and never were minded more by friend or foe.'
'Can anyone read this plain unvarnished tale, without admiring the stern resolution, the unbending pride, and loftiness of spirit, that seemed to nerve the hearts of these self taught heroes, and to raise them above the instinctive feelings of human nature? When the Gauls laid waste the city of Rome, they found the nobles clothed in their robes, and seated with stern tranquility in their curule chairs; in this manner they suffered death without an attempt at supplication or resistance. Such conduct in them was applauded as noble and magnanimous; in the hapless Indians it was reviled as obstinate and sullen. How much are we the dupes of show and circumstance? How different is virtue, arrayed in purple and enthroned in state, from virtue, destitute and naked, reduced to the last stage of wretchedness and perishing obscurely in a wilderness.'
'Do these records of ancient excesses fill us with disgust and aversion? Let us take heed that we do not suffer ourselves to be hurried into the same iniquities. Posterity lifts up its hands with horror at past misdeeds, because the passions that urged to them are not felt, and the arguments that persuaded to them are forgotten; but we are reconciled to the present perpetration of injustice by all the selfish motives with which interest chills the heart and silences the conscience. Even at the present advanced day, when we should suppose that enlightened philosophy had expanded our minds, and true religion had warmed our hearts into philanthropy-when we have been admonished by a sense of past transgressions, and instructed by the indignant censure of candid history-even now, we perceive a disposition breaking out to renew the persecutions of these hapless beings.  Sober-thoughted men, far from the scenes of danger, in the securities of cities and populous regions, can coolly talk of 'exterminating measures,' and discuss the policy of extirpating thousands. If such is the talk in the cities, what is the temper displayed on the borders. The sentence of desolation has gone forth-'the roar is up amidst woods' implacable wrath, goaded on by interest and prejudice, is ready to confound all rights, to trample on al claims of justice and humanity, and to act over these scenes of sanguinary vengeance, which have too often stained the pages of colonial history.'
'These are not the idle suggestions of fancy; they are wrung froth by recent facts which still haunt the public mind. We need but turn to the ravaged country of the Creeks to behold a picture of exterminating warfare.
These deluded savages, either excited by private injury or private intrigue, or by both, have lately taken up the hatchet, and made deadly inroads into our frontier settlements.- Their punishment has been pitiless and terrible. Vengeance has gone like a devouring fire through their country-the smoke of their village yet rises to heaven, and the blood of the slaughtered Indians yet reeks upon the earth. Of this merciless ravage, an idea may be formed by a single exploit, boastfully set forth in an official letter that has darkened our public journals.* A detachment of soldiery had been sent under the command of one General Coffee to destroy the Tallushatches towns, where the hostile Creeks had assembled. The enterprise was executed as the commander in chief+ expresses it, in style- but, in the name of mercy, in what style!  The towns were surrounded before the break of day. The inhabitants, starting from their sleep, flew to arms, with beat of drums and hideous yellings. The soldiery pressed upon them on ever side, and met with desperate resistance-but what was savage valor against the array and discipline of scientific warfare?  The Creeks made gallant charges, but were beaten back by overwhelming numbers. Hemmed in like savage beasts surrounded by the hunters, wherever they turned they met a foe, and in every foe they found a butcher. 'The enemy retreated firing,' says Coffee in his letter, 'until they got around and in their buildings, where they made all the resistance that an overpowered soldier could do; they fought as long as one existed, but their destruction was very soon completed; our men rushed up to the doors of the houses, and in a few minutes killed the last warrior of them; the enemy fought with savage fury, and met death with all its horrors, without shrinking or complaining; not one asked to be spared, but fought so long as they could stand or sit. In consequence of their flying to their houses, and mixing with the families, our men in killing the males, without intention, killed and wounded a few of the squaws and children.'
'So unsparing was the carnage of the sword, that not one of the warriors escaped to carry the heart-breaking tidings to the remainder of the tribe. Such is what is termed executing hostilities in style!-Let those who exclaim with abhorrence at Indian inroad-those who are so eloquent about the bitterness of Indian recrimination -let them turn to the horrible victory of General Coffee, and be silent.'
'As yet, our government has in some measure restrained the tide of vengeance, and inculcated lenity towards the hapless Indians who have been duped into the present war. Such temper is worthy of an enlightened government-let it still be observed-let sharp rebuke and signal punishment be inflicted on those who abuse their delegated power, and disgrace their victories with massacre and conflagration. The enormities of the Indians form no excuse for the enormities of white men. It has pleased heaven to give them but limited powers of mind++ and feeble lights to guide their judgments; it becomes us who are blessed with higher intellects to think for them, and to set them an example of humanity. It is the nature of vengeance, if unrestrained, to be headlong in its actions, and to lay up, in a moment of passion, ample cause for an age's repentance. We may roll over these miserable beings with our chariot wheels, and crush them to the earth; but when war has done its worst- when passion has subsided, and it is too late to pity or to save-we shall look back with unavailing compunction at the mangled corpses of those whose cries were unheeded in the fury of our career.'
'Let the fate of war go as it may, the fate of those ignorant tribes that have been inveigled from their forests to mingle in the strife of white men, will be inevitably the same. In the collision of two powerful nations, these intervening particles of population will be crumbled to dust, and scattered to the winds of heaven.  In a little while, and they will go to the way that so many tribes have gone before. The few hordes that still linger about the shores of Huron and Superior, and the tributary streams of the Mississippi, will share the fate of those tribes that once lorded it along the proud banks of the Hudson; of that gigantic race that are said to have existed on the borders of the Susquehanna, and of those various nations that flourished about the Potomac and the Rappahanoc, and that peopled the forests of the vast valley Shenandoah. They will vanish like a vapor from the face of the earth-their very history will be lost in forgetfulness-and 'the places that know them, will know them no more forever.'

'Or if perchance some dubious memorial of them should survive the lapse of time, it may be in the romantic dream of the poet, to populate in imagination his glades and groves, like the fauns, and satyrs, and sylvan deities of antiquity. But should he venture the dark story of their wrings and wretchedness-driven from their native abodes and the sepulchers of their fathers-hunted like wild beasts about the earth, and sent down in violence and butchery to the grave-posterity will either turn with horror and incredulity from the tale, or blush with indignation at the inhumanity of their forefathers.- 'We are driven back,' said an old warrior, 'until we can retreat no further-our hatchets are broken-our bows are snapped-our fires are nearly extinguished-a little longer and the white men will cease to persecute us-for we will cease to exist!'
_______
'Letter of Gen Coffee, dated Nov. 4, 1812.
+ Gen. Andrew Jackson.
++ We should very reluctantly concede the truth of this remark, though we are aware that it is the belief of many. The real difference between the whites and the Indians, we should attribute to the extent of advantages of improvement, enjoyed by the one, and the same withheld from the other; and this may be said of all the human race. The white man, who has his mind improved, certainly can lay claim to greater acquired abilities, than an Indian in his rude state, this nevertheless does not prove that God has seen fit to give the Aborigines of this Country, limited powers of mind. Abundant evidence has been given that the natural powers of the mind, amongst most of the Indians, are very much like most nations, and we have had, as yet, no reason to believe, that under suitable advantages, and proper instruction, they will fail of equal acquired abilities.
Ed.










CHEROKEE LAWS.
New Town, Cherokee N. Nov. 2, 1819,

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any white man who shall hereafter take a Cherokee woman to wife be required to marry her legally by a minister of the gospel, or other authorized person, after procuring license from the national clerk for that purpose, before he shall be entitled and admitted to the privilege of citizenship; and in order to avoid imposition on the part of any white man.
Resolved, That any white man who shall marry a Cherokee woman, the property of the woman so married, shall not be subject to the disposal of her husband, contrary to her consent, and any white man so married and parting from his wife without just provocation, shall forfeit and pay to his wife such sum or sums, as may be adjudged to her by the N. Committee ' Council for said breach of marriage, and be deprived of citizenship. And it is also resolved, that it shall not be lawful for any white man to have more than one wife, and it is also recommended that all other should also have but one wife hereafter.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
__________________
New Town, October 24, 1820
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That single white men are hereby admitted to be employed as clerks to any of the stores belonging to natives, which may be established in this Nation, on condition, that the employer obtains a permit and becomes responsible for the good behavior of such clerks, and it is also resolved, that nay person or persons, whatsoever, who shall bring into the Cherokee Nation, without permission from the National Committee and Council, a white family, ' rents lands to the same, and proofs being authenticated before any of the judges in the district Councils, for such offenses they shall forfeit and pay the sum of 500 dollars, and one hundred stripes on the bare back.
By order-JNO. ROSS, Pres't. N. Com.
his
Approved PATH x  KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A. M'COY, Clerk.
________________
New Town, October 20, 1820.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the Cherokee Nation shall be laid off into eight districts, and that a council house shall be established in each district for the purpose of holding councils to administer justice in all causes and complaints that may be brought forward for trial and there shall be one judge and one marshal in each district, and one circuit Judge to have jurisdiction over two districts, to associate with the district judges in determining all causes agreeable to the National laws, and the marshals to execute the decisions of the judges in their respective districts, and the District Councils to be held in the spring and fall seasons, and one company of light-horse to accompany each circuit judge on his official duties, in his respective districts, and to execute such punishment on thieves as the judges and Council shall decide, agreeably to law; and it shall be the duty of the marshals to collect all debts, and shall be entitled to eight per cent for the same; and the Nation to defray the expenses of each District Council, and in case of opposition to the marshals in the execution of their duty, they shall be justifiable in protecting their persons from injury in the same manner as is provided for the National light horse by law.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Committee
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Sec'y to the Council.
___________________
New Town, October 25, 1820.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That a ranger shall be appointed in each district, whose duty it shall be to receive, post and advertise, all stray horses that may be found in their respective districts, giving the age, height, color, ' marks, as plain as possible, and should the proper owner not reclaim his horse or horses in two months after posting such horse or horses, they shall be sold at public sale, on six months credit, and the purchaser keeping such horse or horses six months, and should the proper owner not reclaim his horse or horses in that time, such horse or horses to be the  rightful property of the purchaser; the money arising from the sales to be paid into the National Treasury; and the ranger shall be entitled to one dollar for every horse so posted; and it shall further be the duty of the ranger, to endeavor to place in good hands all work horses for keeping on account of their labor, or otherwise; one dollar per week shall be allowed for keeping a horse on forage.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO ROSS, Pres't N. Committee.
his
Approved PATH x  KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
_______________
New Town, October 25, 1820.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That each head of a family shall pay a poll tax of fifty cents, and each single man under the age of sixty years shall also pay fifty cents per annum, to be collected by the marshals in each District, and paid into the National treasury, to be applied to such purposes as the national committee and Council shall deem proper.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x   KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A.M'COY, Clerk.
__________________
New Town, October 25, 1820

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That a national turnpike gate shall be erected to the Federal road, near Captain David M'Nair's and the rates of toll shall be equal to that of the turnpike on the Nickojack road, at Hicks' and the rates of the turnpike toll at Coosawatee shall be reduced so as to make it also equal to the one on the Nickojack road; and it is also resolved, that those persons who have entered into contract for the repairing of the Federal road, shall be bound in the penalty of the sum contracted for each payment, for the faithful performance of their contracts for putting the road in good repair.
By order of the N.Committee,
JNO ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A.M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
____________
New Town, October 226, 1820.
WHEREAS, much inconvenience and expense have devolved on the Missionaries from their scholars running away from school, and the negligence on the part of the parents to take such children back to the schools; therefore,
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That in future, any scholars, who are now or may hereafter be put under the tuition of the Missionary Seminaries in the Cherokee Nation by the voluntary consent of their parents or guardians, who shall leave such schools without permission from their teachers and without just provocation, and shall return home to their parents or guardians, and after application being duly made by any person authorized by the superintendents of the mission establishments from which such scholars ran away, to their parents or guardians, refusing to take proper measures to compel their children to return to school, they shall be bound to pay all expenses incurred by their children to the mission establishment for clothing, board, and tuition, to the superintendents of such institutions; and further,
Resolved That the superintendents of the missionary stations shall have privilege to take out of their schools such scholars as they shall deem proper, with the consent of their parents or guardians, and bind them out to learn such mechanical trades as may be attached to their respective establishments, to the best interest of the apprentices so bound; and in case of elopement of such apprentices, the same rules and regulations provided for in the foregoing resolution shall be observed, and that the nation shall procure, at the public expense, a set of tools for every such apprentice who shall have learned a trade.
By order of the National committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
Approved,
his
PATH  x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
_____________________
New Town, November 2, 1820.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That each District shall be entitled to four members to represent them in the national council, and that each member shall be allowed one dollar per day for his services, during the sitting of the councils, and that a Speaker to the council be appointed and allowed one dollar and fifty cents per day for his services, and the clerk of the council be allowed two dollars and fifty cents per day, and that the two principal chiefs, viz: THE PATH KILLER, shall be allowed one hundred and fifty dollars per annum, and CHARLES R. HICKS two hundred dollars per annum, considering the burden of writing and interpreting which devolves on him entitles him to this difference; and,
Be it resolved also,  That each committee man be allowed two dollars per day, and the President of the committee be allowed three dollars and fifty cents per day, and their clerk two dollars and fifty cents per day, during the sitting of the national council; and a member of the committee shall be chosen as an Interpreter, and be allowed fifty cents per day in addition to his pay.
By order of the National Com.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
EHNAUTAUNAUEH,
Speaker of Council.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS..
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Committee










COMMUNICATIONS.
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.
Mr. Editor:- In the 5th Number of your paper, appears a second communication of 'A Cherokee,' which appears to be more the offspring of an excited mind, than the sober dictate of political philosophy; and bearing upon its face, such misrepresentations, and illegal constructions of the Constitution, and points of law, to which he has had reference, that it deserves some correction, lest the credulous suffer and imposition therefrom. I am confident of my inability to write, and I should not have assumed to myself this unpleasant task, had not such manifest personal references been made towards myself, as well as to other distinguished individuals. Had it not been for this unmerited attack never should I have attached to it any importance.
Commencing with the present Treasurer of the Nation, he has gratuitously lavished upon him his reproaches, and assuming to himself the functions of a judicature has condemned him for a wanton abandonment of
principles for a small pecuniary gain which his country bestows upon him for his faithful services. The Conventioneers, and members of the last General Council, have shared a fate similar to the Treasurer's. Here, if not sooner, it might be thought that prudence would have bid him stop; but in the warmth of his zeal, has set defiance to her bounds, and sought out the Marshal of Chattooga District as another proper person to be introduced before the public, as having trespassed upon popular principles by holding two offices, one under the U. States Government.  During this continual harping upon 'popular principles,' a chord has at length been touched, that does not altogether harmonize with my feelings, however symphonious it may be to his.
Let us first see how far the Constitution has gone into 'operative force,' and then whether a 'legal' construction thereof, and other laws, will place the Treasurer in the predicament that 'A Cherokee' has placed him. The following are the two last clauses in the resolution which gave rise to the Constitution, (with the omission of a few lines which have no reference to the point in question,) passed 13th Nov. 1826.
'Be it also further resolved, that the principles which shall be established in the Constitution, to be adopted by the Convention, shall not in any degree go to destroy the rights and liberties of the free citizens of this Nation, nor to effect, or impair, the force of the fundamental principles and laws, by which the Nation is now governed, and that the General Council to be convened in 1827, shall be held under the new existing authorities. Provided nevertheless, nothing shall be so construed in this last clause, so as to invalidate, or prevent the Constitution to be adopted by the Convention, from going into effect after the aforesaid next General council.'
How plain and simple, is the language of this resolution. It expressly declares that the Constitution when adopted by the Convention, shall not impair the force of the laws that were then in existence; and that the General Council of 1827, should be held under those very same laws. Of course, it follows that as the Council was not held under the Constitution, that all appointments then made, were under, and agreeably to the laws, and long established usages of the Government of this Nation, that existed in 1827. This plainly demonstrates that the Constitution was not in operative force at the time of these appointments; and cannot be carried into effect by these officers, as their offices did not originate under the provisions of the Constitution. The new representatives of the people are first to be elected under the provisions of the new system (in next August) who are to assemble together, and hold a General Council in October, under the provisions of the Constitution, and appoint new officers under the newly advised system of Government. Then it will be in complete organization, and in full and operative force, and not before. It is now open for its 'principles' to be examined that it may become familiar to the people before it goes into 'operative' force, and for new members to the next General Council to be chosen under, and farther than this it is not in force.
Those who wish for more proof, I will refer to the proceedings of the last Council. All the appointments to offices made by the last Council, without even a single exception, were limited to the next General Council, which is a sufficient proof of itself that the operative force of the New Constitution is suspended until the meeting of the new members. Or why was the Treasurer's term limited to one year, when under the new system this term is four years? And why were these eight Marshals appointed when there is provision made for but one, whose jurisdiction will extend over the Nation, and whose term of office is four years, whilst the others have been limited to one year? This point is proved beyond a doubt. Now where is the man of candor whose mind is unbiased by prejudice, and who would dispassionately examine into the matter, would condemn John Martin for an abandonment of principle, whilst holding a judicial appointment (if his country chose to bestow it upon him) when it was perfectly in accordance with the laws, and long 'established usages' of the Nation. That it has ever been a 'usage' in this Country from time immemorial for one man to hold a plurality of offices cannot be denied.  The case of the Marshal is a similar one to that of the Treasurer, with this difference, he holds a contract for transporting the United States mail, which the learned 'Cherokee' pleases to call an 'office.' Now I had thought that there was a difference between an 'office' and a 'contract.' But even admitting that it is an office there is no existing law in the Nation that would prohibit me from holding it with the office I now hold in the Nation.  Even if the Constitution was in full and operative force, there would be no prohibition still; the Principal Chiefs, and Judges of the Supreme and Circuit Courts only are prohibited from holding an office under the United States Government during their continuance in office here.
'A Cherokee' has written himself into some very gross errors in, and relative to the Constitution, and has strangely perverted the true meaning of the law, which gave it rise; for he has had reference to the same law to which I have had, but the lameness of the application he has made from it, is strikingly perceptible. He has given us the history of the Constitution from its birth down to the present day; but his relations are not strictly in accordance with facts.  He says, 'after the framing of the Constitution by the Convention it was submitted to the Council of 1827, which was partly composed of the conventioneers, and they again had to deliberate on its final adoption, which was accordingly done.- Again in substance as follows, 'after the second adoption in council, it fairly marked out the fact, that by the framers conferring nearly all the appointments on one individual, that they could not relish the system of Government that they themselves had advised, adopted and then acted contrary to. How inconsistent; and I do not hesitate to meet these bold assertions with a flat denial of their correctness which I shall prove to any candid man's satisfaction.  The General Council in 1826, in a special resolution, gave to the Conventioneers the power, not only to frame, but also to adopt a Constitution for the Cherokee Nation. By a reference to the said resolution it will be found to contain these words; 'By it also further resolved, that the principles which shall be established in the Constitution to be adopted by the Convention.- Language so explicit affords but one construction, that the Constitution was then to have been adopted by the Convention, cannot be denied.  But again nothing shall be so construed in this last clause so as to invalidate, nor prevent the Constitution to be adopted by the convention, going into effect after the aforesaid next General Council.'- Here again at appears plainly as having to be adopted by the Convention; which was done; and by recurrence to the preamble of the Conventioneers, prefaced to the Constitution, will be read, they the Conventioneers, 'do ordain and establish this Constitution for the Government of the Nation.' Thus it is that it was adopted by them, independent of the General Council; and no law can be pointed out requiring that it should be submitted for a second deliberation, and second adoption by the Council, which never was done. Yet it was submitted thro' the Council to the people, and was read for the information and satisfaction of the members. If there was more wisdom concentrated in that body, why did they not frame and adopt of themselves?- A considerable expenditure of public funds would have been voided thereby and considerable trouble to the people dispensed with in electing members to the Convention.
If 'A Cherokee' is of the opinion as it would appear, that framing and adopting a constitution are synonymous terms, I would advise him to consult his Dictionary for information. I too have been a witness to passing events.
It does not appear as a novel idea, to find that the Treasury department has been sent up to Coosawatee; when the General Council has never located it at any particular place. If the Treasurer chooses to remove himself, it is optional with him to remove the Treasury to any place within the limits of the Nation without having to call a 'Cabinet Council' for the express purpose. And I doubt not but the council in the selection of a Treasurer has more the safety of the public funds in view than that Friends should exalt high.' Probably the department may at some future day be located at Echota, when the office can be bestowed upon men who are neither 'politically wanting' nor 'Politically wandering.' 'A Cherokee' is apprehensive, that by removing it towards Georgia it will confirm them in the belief that we are an erratic race of people. Yet he longs to have the monied department at Echota, which is still nearer to Georgia than where it is.
He has introduced the second Principal Chief into his communication (no doubt for his own amusement) in the posture of an Ape upon a long which lay across a small stream on his way to the Treasury department, or according to his own words, 'necessity being stronger than fear, impelled his Excellency to coon the log.' Here is portrayed by words a picture of a highly distinguished individual. This narrator does to the author no credit.- The respectability of the person whom he has so unbecomingly introduced to the public, is not confined to the limited bounds of his country, but is deservedly acknowledged abroad where he has been known, and whose happiness is so interwoven with that of his country's that he deserves to be more courteously spoken of to the public; for such men are but 'solitary stars in the political sky of our country.' If it is the primary object of 'A Cherokee' by spreading his brilliant talents before the public, to gain eclat and distinction, he has undoubtedly taken up too delicate a subject; or rather, has done injustice to it; for all the ill- grounded reproaches and sarcasms which he has so indiscreetly cast forth upon the public men of his country, will eventually recoil upon his own head in a two fold bitterness. Or if has it would rather appear that he wishes to write himself into some 'public office,' I fear without a change, he will never realize his expectations.
I did not think, Mr. Editor, I should have been so lengthy. But I have one more remark to make, and I shall have done. Should I ever during the course of my life, so presume upon limited abilities and friends, as to declare myself a candidate for some high office, such an one sir, as a member of the Committee, I am satisfied that I shall not at that time, appear before the public in the attitude of an anonymous calumniator.
MARSHAL.










FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.
INTERMARRIAGES.
This nation owes to its character and safety, the establishment of a systematic policy, to preserve both.- The exercise of sovereignty must necessarily embrace, and touch many, and various objects and interests, but the interests of individuals must sometimes be surrendered and give way to the interest and existence of a nation. These observations are drawn from the contemplation of our present intermarriage laws with citizens of the adjoining states which is extremely defective, inasmuch as every species of characters are privileged to marry our citizens, usually to the injury of the woman, and a source of affliction to the parent. In this observation I am aware, I may touch feelings, that may vent themselves into severe remarks, and perhaps end in a settled animosity. But this consequence I disregard in the knowledge that no respectable white man, will consider it personal to himself, or respectable parents be found to disapprove a better policy, for the better security to his offsprings matrimonial connection, which perhaps is the most important object in the esteem of all classes of society, however defective their prudence and judgment might be in their selections. Far be it from me to cut asunder the ties of Love, or to part those who are now happily or unhappily united in destiny by marriage. But I entertain a wish to establish such laws as will be calculated to exclude the thief, the robber, the vagabond and the tippler, and adulterer, from the privilege of intermarrying with Cherokee women, and thereby rendering their existence wretched, and inflicting a deep rooted and corrupted ignorance among our people.
How can this be done? By enacting law for the establishment of an office, with a discreet officer to superintend it, requiring all such citizens of different states, to bring good and sufficient recommendation for good character 'c. in writing, and to give bond and security, countersigned by a citizen of this Nation, to pay to the Treasurer of the Nation, not less than $100 or more than $500, should the said person so giving bond 'c. be different in character than recommended, his marriage should then become null, and be expelled from the nation as a Base intruder. And also making it the duty of said officer to give a faithful account of his superintendency and the number of licenses issued, and to whom, and the names of the Cherokee women so married, according to the law, yearly to the legislature of the nation.
SOCRATES.










INDIAN'S SORROW
'The very ancient men who have seen the former glory and the prosperity of their country, or who have heard from the mouths of their ancestors, and particularly from their beloved men, (whose office it is to repeat their traditions and laws to the rising generations, with heroic achievements of their forefathers) the former state of their country with the great prowess and success of their warriors of old times they weep like infants, when they speak of the fallen condition of their nation. They derive, however, some consolation from a prophecy of ancient origin and universal currency among them, that the man of America will at some future period, regain his ancient ascendancy and expel the man of Europe from this western hemisphere. This flattering and consolatory persuasion has enabled the Seneca and the Shawnese prophets to arrest in some tribes the use of intoxicating liquors and has given birth, at different periods, to attempts for a general confederacy of the Indians of North America.'- Clinton.
The writer of this was present at a dinner given by General Knox, to a number of Indians in the year 1789, at New York; they had come to the President on a mission from their nations. The house was in Broadway. A little before dinner, two or three of the Sachems, with their chief or principal man went into the balcony at the front of the house, the drawing room being up-stairs. From this they had a view of the city, the harbor, Long Island, 'c., 'c. After remaining there a short time, they returned into the room, apparently dejected; but the chief more than the rest. General Knox took notice of it and said to him, brother! what has happened to you?- You look sorry!- Is there anything to distress you? He answered- I'll tell you brother. I have been looking at your beautiful city- the great water-your find country-and see how happy you all are. But then I could not help thinking, that this fine country, this great water were once ours.  Our ancestors lived here-they enjoyed it as their own in peace-it was the gift of the great spirit to them and their children. At last the white people came in a great canoe. They asked only to let them tie it to a tree, lest the waters should carry it away-we consented. They then said some of their people were sick, and they asked permission to land them and put them under the shade of the trees. The ice then came, and they could not go away. They then begged a piece of land to build wigwams for the winter-we granted it to them. They then asked for some corn to keep them from starving-we kindly furnished it to them, they promising to go away when the ice was gone. When this happened, we told them the must go away with their big canoe; but they pointed to their big guns round their wigwams, and said they would stay there, and we could not make them go away. Afterwards more came. They brought spirituous and intoxicating liquors with them, of which the Indians became very fond. They persuaded us to sell them some land. Finally they drove us back, from time to time, into the wilderness, far from the water, and the fish, and the oysters-they have destroyed the game-our people have wasted away, and now we live miserable and wretched, while you are enjoying our fine and beautiful country. This makes me sorry brother! and I cannot help it.'--Boudinot.










NEW ECHOTA
THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 1828
'Cherokee lands,' 'Georgia and the Cherokees,' 'Georgia rights' 'c. are now becoming popular topics of editorial talk in some of the Georgia papers, and they are certainly well suited to that boisterous kind of genius, which has been frequently exhibited in Milledgeville.  If the Editors of the 'Statesman' and 'The Southern' are to be taken as a fair specimen of the advocates of the right of Georgia to lands now occupied be the Cherokees, we should rather apprehend, that this controversy will not be improved. And to suppose that the lands in question will be attained, by means of such language as has been exhibited in this report which we have published, and such language as we continually notice in the papers, would be to deceive oneself and to show an utter ignorance of the spirit of the times.  It will be doing an injustice to the U. States, to have the distant idea, that she will be influenced to redouble her exertions to purchase the Cherokee lands, merely by boisterous and frequently unbecoming language; and unless we are very much deceived, the Cherokees will not be influenced to move a step towards the setting sun, by such means.   If the State of Georgia ever attains her wishes, it will be by fair and friendly means, when the United States shall purchase, and the Cherokees voluntarily relinquish, the Country, and receive an equivalent. But it is expected they will act independently for themselves, as freemen, ' as the rightful owners of the land. We are aware that force is talked of, but is nothing more as yet, and it is our opinion that it will not be carried into effect, either by the United States or the State of Georgia. This great Nation, this land of the oppressed, this land of civil and religious liberty, will not disgrace itself; by driving away with the point of the bayonet a few handfuls of Indians, and for what? for a small tract of country, and because these Indians, by their smallness, are unable to defend it. It will be more honorable and highly more becoming, if those, who wish to make the Cherokee question a matter of private conversation, and public harangues, will pay attention to decorum and propriety of language. This would be the best course, for if their cause is just, it will not require intemperate language to disclose the truth, and if their cause is unjust, which we rather think is the case, they will be saved from much mortification.
It would appear from what has heretofore come to our knowledge, that the people of Georgia, we mean those who are urging for the acquisition of the Cherokees lands, were perfectly united, and that the foundation of their claim was well known and harmoniously supported. The case, however, seems to be different.  while some are establishing their right to the lands in question, from a grant of a English Sovereign, others merely laugh at this idea, and resort to another, equally as absurd, 'permanent occupancy.' What they mean by permanent occupancy, we are not able to divine. It cannot be the common acceptation of the word, for the Cherokees have, most undoubtedly, a stronger claim to this Country, on the ground of occupancy, original and permanent occupancy, than any other people. They were is peaceful possession of their lands, given them, not by a Roman Pontiff, but by the Creator, when the first inhabitants of Georgia came into this Country, and it is well known that this possession ever since has been permanent.  We have not yet seen a Georgian permanently occupying any part of the Cherokee Nation; and in fact none have ever attempted to settle it without being driven out by order of the United States Government. It would seem rather curious and not a little mortifying if the declaration of these men, for it is nothing more, was admissible, the rightful owners should be driven from their possessions, with the point of the bayonet.
The determination of the Cherokees not to remove, is considered insolent, and the reason of this insolence is ascribed to the Protection of the United States. It is true the General Government has greatly befriended the Cherokees, and it is well for them, for if it had been otherwise, they would most assuredly have been devoured fifty years ago. But it is to true that they have become insolent from this fact. They have been respectful to their great Father, and the wish to preserve the same respect, though they have refused to sell their country to him. But is it a crime to refuse to sell ones property? Is an inferior person accounted guilty when he conscientiously withholds his possessions from his superior? In this land of liberty he certainly ought not to be. We claim the privileges of free men, and wish to have the right of disposing of our lands to the United States, when, and in what way we please. Query. If the lands, now in the peaceable possession of the Cherokees, are absolutely the property of the State of Georgia, why is it, that money is appropriated, Commissioners appointed, and proffers made to purchase these lands? There is somewhere a manifest inconsistency.
___________________
MOHAWK INDIANS.
A gentleman in York, Upper Canada, in a letter to the Editor writes as follows: 'The Mohawk tribe of Indians, who have a village on the banks of the Grand River, in Upper Canada, are a civilized nation, many of whom can read the English language well. They have books in their own language, a church, schools, 'c.










CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday Feb. 21.
Mr. Wilde offered the following resolution which was red and laid on the table:
Resolved, That the President of the United States, be requested to inform this House, if it will not, in his opinion, be injurious to the public interest, whether any and what measures have been taken to preserve inviolate that part of the Constitution of the United States, which declares, that no new States shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any other State, nor any State be formed by this junction of any two or more States, or parts of States, without the consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned, as well as of Congress.
 Friday, Feb. 22
The resolution offered yesterday by Mr. Wilde was taken up for consideration.
Mr. Wilde said, that having moved this resolution it might be incumbent on him to say a word or two in explanation. It would be recollected that the Constitution as it is called, formed by the Cherokee Nation, or rather by some white man, is now before us. He reminded the House that the relations between the U. States and the Indian tribes are unsettled and anomalous. He wished information from the President on this subject, on obtaining which it would be matter for consideration what other measures should be adopted. Whatever power may belong to the Indians themselves it was not to be disputed that any interference by white citizens, to erect a new state within the limits of an old one, is punishable.
Mr. Storrs said, it seemed from the explanation, that this resolution referred to the formation of some kind of government among the Indians.- He did not see that this could encroach on the provision of the Constitution. It appeared to him to relate entirely to the internal government of the Indians to which the Constitution made no reference. Still he had no objection to the information; but to obtain all that should be necessary, he would move to amend the resolution by striking out all after the word 'for,' to the word 'interest,' and inserting the following:
'Communicate to this House any information in the possession of the Executive Department, in relation to the formation or erection of any new State of government within the jurisdiction of any other State, if the communication of the same will not, in his opinion, be injurious to the public interest, and'-
Mr. Wilde accepted the amendment as a modification of the resolution.
Mr. Lumpkin liked the resolution better as it came from his colleague. He stated that information had been obtained by the Committee on Indian Affairs, which had been examined, and on which a report had been made, accompanied by an opinion of the committee.
Mr. Wickliffe said, if this had been an ordinary call for information, he should not have risen. But there was a peculiarity in the phrase of this resolution, which entitled it to notice. It called for that species of information which can be furnished by the representatives of the people. On that ground, he would vote for the resolution as modified. He reminded gentlemen that the Indians had always a government of some kind.  We had no right to interfere in this more than in the formation of any society in a State. The Freemasons are as much an encroachment on the Constitution, as this government of the Indians. He moved to lay the resolution on the table, which was agreed to.
_______________
Mr. Wilde, on the 21st ult. introduced a resolution calling on the President for information as to what measures had been adopted by the General Government in relation to the new constitution formed by the Cherokee Indians. As the information had been previously obtained by the committee on Indian Affairs and acted on, we are at a loss to discover his drift, unless his practice in the Supreme Court had so much occupied his attention, that he was actually unacquainted with what had transpired on the subject or was of opinion that it would be for the benefit of Georgia to drop the whole business where it then was, and begin de novo.  We fear, that unless he be a little more attentive to his official duty, he will find what was once poetry with him discouraging reality- that 'none will shed a tear for him.'  We say so with regret; for he once had talents.-  Geo. States.










A NEW PLAN TO PROCURE CHEROKEE LANDS.
After some of the people of Georgia strenuously recommending force, it is diverting to notice the following expedient to obtain the Cherokee lands, contained in the Southron, a new paper established in Milledgeville, Ga. We can assure the Editors that such a plan will not avail them anything, for, we hope the Cherokees have more important business to perform than to be receiving white and black stones.- Such a course is unnecessary, for they are not ignorant of the means of conveying their wish to remove-if the majority of them have a mind so to do.
There is indeed one measure which might, if fairly executed procure from the Cherokee tribe an immediate acquiescence in what is said to be the wishes of the General Government.- Let the General Government send intelligent, firm, and perfectly upright men into the Nation, summon the whole male population above 21 years of age, explain to them the wishes of the General Government; the necessity of their removal to lands not claimed by any state; offer them a just equivalent for that removal; then give to each male Indian a black and white stone, and direct him to put the white stone into a box, which will be handed to him, if he is willing to remove, a black one if he is not. Hand the box round, and if the white stones exceed the black in number, make immediate preparations and remove the whole. This would be just to the Indians; and unless the state of the tribe is misunderstood, the majority would be in favor of removal. Care should be taken to prevent the use of threats or any species of intimidation by the present rulers. The voter should be under no dread of consequences of voting contrary to the wishes of the chief men. The vote given by each Indian should not be known, even to his neighbor.










CHEROKEE LAWS.
(Continued)
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the Cherokee Nation be organized ' laid off into districts, and to be bounded as follows:--
1st. The First District shall be called by the name of CHICKAMAUGEE, and be bounded as follows; beginning at the mouth of Aumuchee creek, on Oostennallah river, thence north in a straight course to a spring branch between The Island and Raccoon Village; thence a straight course over the Lookout Mountain, where the heads of Will's and Lookout creeks oppose against each other on the Blue Ridge, thence a straight course to the main source of Raccoon creek and down the same into the Tennessee river and up said river to the mouth of Ooletewah creek, and up said creek to take the most south eastern fork, thence a southern course to the mouth of Sugar creek, into the Cannasawgee river, and down the said river to its confluence with Oostennallah river, and down the same to the place of beginning.
2d. The SECOND DISTRICT shall be called by the name of CHATTOOGEE, and be bounded as follows; beginning at the mouth of Raccoon creek, in the Tennessee river, and down the said river to the boundary line, commonly called Coffee's line, and along said line where it strikes Will's creek, and down the said creek to its confluence with the Coosa river, and thence embracing the boundary line between the Cherokees ' Creeks, run by Wm. M'Intosh and Cherokee Commissioners appointed by their respective Nations, running south eastwardly to its intersection with Chinibee's Trace, and along said trace leading eastwardly by Avery Vann's place, including his plantation, and thence on said trace to where it crosses the Etowah river at the old ford above the fork, and down said river to its confluence with Oostannallah river, and up said river to the mouth of Aumuchee creek, and to be bounded by the First District.
3d. The THIRD DISTRICT, shall be called by the name of COOSAWATEE, and bounded as follows; beginning at the widow Fool's Ferry on the Oostannallah river, where the Alabama road crosses it, along said wagon road eastwardly; leading towards Etowah town to a large creek above Thomas Pettit's plantation, near to the Sixes, and up said creek, north eastward, to its source; thence a straight course to the head of Talloney creek, up which the Federal road leads, thence a straight course to the head source of Potatoe Mine creek ; thence a straight course to the head of Clapboard creek ; thence a straight course to the most southern head source of Cannasawgee river ; thence a northwestern course to Cannasawgee river and to strike opposite to the mouth of Sugar creek into the Cannasawgee river, and to be bounded by the first and second Districts.
4th The FOURTH DISTRICT, shall be called by the name of AMOAH, and be bounded as follows; beginning at the head source of Cannasawgaee river where the third District strikes the said source; thence eastwardly a straight course to Spring Town above Hiwassee Old Town; thence to the boundary line run by Colonel Houston, where it crosses Sloan creek ; thence westwardly along said line to the Hiwassee river thence down said river into the Tennessee river, and down the same to the mouth of Oolatewah creek, and to be bounded by the first and third Districts.
5th. The FIFTH DISTRICT shall be called by the name of HICKORY LOG, and shall be bounded as follows; beginning at the head of Potatoe Mine creek, on the Blue Ridge, thence to where Cheewostoye path crosses said ridge, and along said path to the head branch of Frog Town creek, and down the same to its confluence with Tahsantee; thence down the same to the Shallow wagon ford on said river above the standing Peach Tree; thence westward along said wagon road leading to ____________ Town, where it crosses Little river a fork of the Etowah river and down the same to its confluence with Etowah river, and down the same in a direct course to a large creek, and up said creek to where the road crosses it to the opposite side, and to be bounded by the third district.
6th. The SIXTH DISTRICT shall be called by the name of ETOWAH, and be bounded as follows; beginning on the Chattahooche river at the shallow wagon ford on said river, and down the same to the Buzzard Roost where the Creek and Cherokee boundary line intersects the said river; thence along said boundary westwardly, to where it intersects Chinibee's trace, and to be bounded by the fifth and third districts, leaving Thomas Pettit's family in Etowah district.
7th. The SEVENTH DISTRICT shall be called by the name of TAUQUOHEE and be bounded as follows; beginning where Col. Houstons' boundary line crosses Slare's creek, thence along said boundary line south eastwardly to the Unicoy turnpike road, and along said road to where it crosses the Hiwassee river, in the Valley Towns; thence a straight course to the head source of Coosa creek, on the Blue Ridge above Cheewostoyeh, and along said Ridge eastwardly, where the Unicoy turnpike road crosses it; and thence a direct course to the head source of Percimmon creek ; thence down the same to the confluence of Tahsantee and the Frog Town creek ; and to be bounded by the third, fourth and fifth districts.
8th. The EIGHTH DISTRICT shall be called by the name of AQUOHEE, and be bounded as follows; beginning where the seventh district intersects the Blue Ridge, where the Unicoy turnpike road crosses the same; thence eastwardly along said Ridge to the Standing Man, to Col. Houston's boundary line, thence along said line to the confluence of Nnateyalee, and Little Tennesse [sic] river ; thence down the same to Tallassee village, thence along said boundary line westwardly, to where it intersects the Unicoy turnpike road; and to be bounded by the seventh district; and that each district shall hold their respective councils or courts, on the following days, viz;
The first Mondays in May and September, for Chickamaugee district; and on the
Second Mondays in May and September, for Chattoogee district; ' on the
First Mondays in May and September for Coosewattee district; and on the
Second Mondays in May and September, for Amoah district; and on the
First Mondays in May and September for Hickory Log district; and on the
Second Mondays in May and September, for Etowah district; and on the
First Mondays in May and September for Aquohee district; and on the Second Mondays in May and September for Taquohee district; and each of the councils or courts shall sit five days for the transaction of business at each term.
By order of the council and committee,
CH. R. HICKS.
_____________________________________________
New Town, Oct. 27, 1821
Resolved by the National Committee and Council. That any person or persons, whatsoever, who shall choose to emigrate to the Arkansas country, and shall sell the improvements he or they may be in possession of, to any person or persons whatsoever, he or they, so disposing of their improvements, shall forfeit and pay unto the Cherokee nation the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars; and be it further resolved, that any person or persons whatsoever, who shall purchase any improvement from person or persons so emigrating, he or they so offending shall also forfeit and pay a fine of one hundred and fifty dollars to the nation, to be collected by the marshal of the district.
By order.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER,
mark,
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
 New Town Oct. 27, 1821.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That it shall be the duty of the district and circuit judges, to inquire particularly into the circumstances of all stray horses that may be taker up in their respective districts; ' all horses which shall evidently appear to have been stolen away from citizens of the United S. by citizens of this action shall be surrendered up to the United States' Agent for this nation, agreeably to the  treaty existing between the United States and this nation.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER,
mark,
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'Coy, Clerk.
______________________________________________________
New Town, Oct. 27, 1821
 Resolved by the national committee and council, That is any person or persons whatsoever, shall resist and kill any of the marshals or light-horsemen in their official duties, it shall be the duty of the marshals to lead the light-horse to apprehend, or kill the person or persons so transgressing.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved------- PATH x KILLER,
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
______________________________________________________
New Town, October 27, 1821.

Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any person or persons who have been citizens of this nation and now have reservations and living on the same, or under the laws of the United States, and has a public ferry croossing [sic] opposite his or their reservations, such person or persons shall not be permitted to keep a white ferryman on the lands belonging to the Nation, neither shall he be permitted to tend any land thereon, for the use of his ferryman; but nothing shall be so construed in the above resolution, as to affect the rights and privileges of such citizens as may have moved off the ceded lands and now living in the Nation.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Commmittee [sic].
his
PATH x KILLER,
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Sec'y to the Council.
_________________________________

 New Town, November 8, 1821
Resolved by the National Committee,  That all prommissory [sic] notes, payable after date, shall be entitled to bear on interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, after the date, payable until such notes are paid; this resolution to take effect and be in force from and after this date.
By order of the National Com.
JNO ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
EHNAUTAUNAUEH
Speaker of Council
his
PATH x KILLER
mark.
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Committee.
____________________________________
New Town, November 2, 1821

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the circuit judges be allowed fifty-five dollars, and the district judges twenty-five dollars each per annum for their services.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't Nat. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark.
A.M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk of N. Council.
________________________________________
New Town, November 2, 1822

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council. That the salary of the circuit judges be, and the same is hereby raised from fifty-five dollars to eighty dollars per annum, commencing from the date hereof.
By order of the National Committee.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
Approved,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council,
New Town, C. N. Oct. 23, 1822.

IN COMMITTEE AND COUNCIL.
WHEREAS, it appears in the prints of the public newspapers, that
in consequence of the earnest solicitations of the Governor and legislature of the State of Georgia, the Congress of the United States did appropriate a sum of money last session, with a view of holding a treaty with the Cherokees for the purpose of extinguishing their title to lands within the chartered limits, claimed by the State of Georgia, and it also appearing in the public prints that the President of the United States has appointed Commissioners in conformity to the views of said appropriation, and anticipating a call by the commissioners; the head chiefs of the Cherokee nation requested the judges to ascertain the sentiments and disposition of the citizens of their respective districts on the subject, and to report the same to them, which reports having been accordingly made and now laid before the national committee and council, declaring, unanimously,
with one voice and determination, to hold no treaties with any commissioners of the United States to make any cession of lands being resolved not to dispose of even one foot of ground:
BE IT THEREFORE KNOWN AND REMEMBERED, That we the undersigned members of the national committee and council, after maturely deliberating on the subject,
Resolved, That the chiefs of the Cherokee nation, will not meet any commissioners of the United States to hold a treaty with them on the subject of making cession of lands, the property of the Cherokee nation, as we are determined hereafter never to make any cession of lands, having not more than sufficient for our nation and posterity. But on any other business not relating to making a treaty of cession, we will, at all times during the cession of the national council, at New Town, receive the United States' commissioners or agents, and with friendship and cordiality, and will ever keep bright the chain of peace and friendship which links the Cherokee nation, and the government of the United States.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Committee.
his
Approved--           PATH x  KILLER,
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
The above is signed by upwards of fifty-four members of both branches of the legislative council and committee.










NEW ECHOTA
We have reason to think that the complaint of our correspondent 'Oakfuskie' is too well founded, at least as it respect the Officers of this District.-- We have heard of thefts around us, and unless this abominable practice is in time vigorously restrained by enforcing the laws of this Nation, the citizens will not be secure in their property. If the officers of this district are not more vigilant than they are at present, we should not be much surprised if the old game should be played over--the existence of a league between White ' Cherokee thieves. This is the worst of all confederacies; for as soon as a stolen property passes the boundary line, the owner need not flatter himself to see it. It is incumbent on the civil officers of this nation to secure those vagabonds who carry with them wherever they go, the deep stain of the guilt of stealing; and now is the time to arrest this practice, by inflicting an exemplary punishment on those, who are now acknowledged by all to be really guilty. Yet nothing is done with them-they are permitted to go at large, running stolen horses to Sand Town and other places on the frontiers of Georgia, where there are not wanting men who professed business is to received such stolen property.
We are likewise, informed that Bear's Paw, who committed Murder [sic] not long since at Sumach, is permitted to run unmolested. We doubt whether any effort has been made to bring him to justice. The indifference of our officers in regard to this Murderer [sic] has emboldened others, as will appear from the following facts, which we have received from a credible source.
A man, by the name of Gunnowsoske, who was lately tried at Coosewattee court for stealing, convicted and punished, was a short time since, caught and bound for the same offence, by Bear's Paw (another Bear's Paw) from whom it appears, Gunnawsoske [sic] stole a side saddle and some other articles, which is said to have constituted half the property of this poor man. In the presence of three others, Bear's Paw told the prisoner that it was an unpleasant duty which now devolved upon them, to be under the necessity of bringing him to deserved punishment. They did not wish to do it, and that if he would promise never to steal again as long as he lived, and to be a good man in future, they would release him.-- The prisoner  replied that he would promise no such thing, but would steal as long as he lived, and that they might punish him as often as they pleased. These words were hardly uttered, when Bear's Paw struck him dead with an axe. Thus it appears another person has been killed at Sumach.-- It is to be wished that the officers of this District were more vigilant and more attentive to their duties. Unless they do speedily go to work, they will make themselves liable to public reprehension; and these frequent thefts and murders will go to confirm the world in the opinion that we are still savages.
__________________________________
We hear it reported, that the General Government has found exception in the Constitution of this Nation, and that the Agent has been directed to call a Council and point out the errors. It is not our opinion that the Cherokees will be prohibited from enforcing their constitution, which is intended for the Government of their own people. It is probable that the General Government has seen some faults in it which the framers unintentionally committed, and which is desirable to be rectified. If so, we hope our principal men will not be obstinate, but duly consider the relation which exists between the United States and the Cherokees, and make such alterations, as they will, after mature consideration, discover to be wrong.
__________________________________________________
Under the head, Congress, will appear Mr. Woods motion in the House of Representatives to inquire, by what authority Col. McKenney took upon himself to depose a Chief, acknowledged as such by the Creek Indians. When we heard of this instance of power exercised by Mr. McKenney, we could not but consider it oppressive , unwarrantable, and despotic,  marking the way to the time, when the liberties of the Indians will gradually be taken away from them.-- To this result, many are now aiming. It is true the person who was deposed, is a Cherokee, yet we doubt whether there is any treaty existing between the United States and the Creek Indians, which will go to vindicate Mr. McKenney, and debar any private Cherokee from acting as Secretary for any of their Indian brethren. The person in question acted as such, from the commencement of the Creek controversy, and was well known in that capacity, in Washington, by Mr. McKenney, and the Secretary of War. Yet no objection was made by the Executive.  If there was any reason then existing, that Indians should not befriend each other in times of emergencies, why was it not made known?-- It is even said, unless we are very much mistaken, that large sums of money were offered to this ' impertinent Cherokee' and his associate to purchase their 'impertinence,' or in other words, to present them so much, if they would influence the Creek delegation to sell their Country. There was no crime then to be interfering with the Creeks, on the part of the United States. We rather think this late assumption of power by the Agent of the United States cannot be easily defended from the charge of inconsistency. We have no evidence that this Cherokee has behaved impertinently.  This we know, that it was owing in a great measure, to his exertions, that the base treaty, called the treaty of the Indian Springs [sic] , was abrogated, and another more advantageous treaty for the Creeks substituted, ' thus the U. S. saved from recognizing acts obtained by unwarrantable means. If this is impertinence, as Mr. Lumpkin would no doubt call it, it is a pardonable one.
_______________________________________________________
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
INDIANS.
The House then took up the following resolution offered yesterday by Mr. WOODS.
Resolved, That the President of the United States be, and he hereby is, requested to inform this House, ( if not, in his opinion, incompatible with the public interest, by what authority Thomas L. McKenney informed the Creek nation of Indians, that no communication of any sort would be received from them if a certain man referred to in his letter to the Secretary of war [sic], of the 29th of November, 1827, had any agency in it, or what were the reasons for breaking said individual, and of depriving him of his authority and in what capacity said individual was acting for said Indians; and to communicate to this House the agreement made with said Indians, referred to in said letter to the Secretary of War, with such information respecting the same as he may think proper to communicate.
The resolution having been read--
Mr. M'LANE asked for the question of consideration, which was carried in the affirmative.
Mr. WOODS. said, some misunderstanding seemed to prevail, as to the objects which he wished to attain by the resolution.  It is stated in the report made to the Secretary of War, by Col. M'Kenney, that he was unable to make a treaty, or to effect the object of his mission to the Creek Indians until he assumed and exercised the power of depriving one of the Chiefs, or head-men of the nation of his authority. After he had thus interposed his power, and prevented that chief from acting for the nation, he was able to accomplish his object.
Mr. Woods went on to say that he had, on a former occasion, stated that the system pursued by the Government in regard to the Indians, was one of fraud and perfidy. He wished to obtain a full statement of the facts in this case.  This was not the only instance of the kind. He thought we had acted towards these people in a manner unbecoming the character of our Government, and contrary to the principles of justice and right. We pretend to negotiate--to make treaties, and to enter into compacts with the Indians, while on our part it is little less than a system of fraud and violence. The resolution he had offered was expressed in the language of the agent himself. He says, in the document referred to, and which had been communicated to this House, that he 'broke him on the spot, by announcing in the name of the President of the United States, that for the reasons there assigned, no communication, of any sort, would be received by the President if that man had any agency whatever in it.' If the individual who was thus deposed belonged to the nation and was one of the chiefs of head-men he was at a loss to know what right Colonel M'Kenney had to depose him, and to deprive him of his authority to act as the agent of the Indians. He wished to know if the agent of the United States, who assumed this authority, had the sanction of the Executive. The resolution is merely one of inquiry. It calls on the President to communicate the facts, if not incompatible with the public interest; and to lay before this House the treaty made with these Indians, by Colonel M'Kenney. He had seen a copy of what he supposed to be this treaty in the papers of this morning.  The subject would, probably, be brought before the House in the form of a bill, or in some other way, ' he was desirous to have all the facts properly before the House, that they might be prepared to act upon the subject.
Mr. M'Lean said it was not because he was opposed to the resolution itself that he called for the question of consideration, but he was aware that it would lead to a protracted debate, and a useless consumption of time. If his colleague had attentively read the documents, he would have seen that Colonel M'Kenney said that, being sent by the Government, he had taken on himself the responsibility of breaking this Chief, and he gives his reason for taking this step. Here Mr. M'Lean read an extract from the report of Col. M'Kenney. He had previously given an account of certain persons among the Creeks, who had before interposed; and after demonstrating their cupidity, he broke this man. He expressly says that he had no authority for this act; why then ask the President, on what authority this was done? The papers of this morning contained a publication of the treaty. The gentlemen, therefore; has all the information which he desires. He knew of no good result which could arise from this resolution.
Mr. LUMPKIN said, without any inquiry into the facts, he had no doubt that the agent, Mr. M'Kenney, complained of, was either one of the impertinent Cherokees, or a renegado [sic] white man, interfering in what did not concern them. The agents of the General Government could never be able to carry their views into effect, or to act with any efficiency, unless they assume the commanding tone which was properly assumed by Col. M'Kenney on this occasion. Every man who is acquainted with the Indians, knows that to do anything with them, it is necessary to assume a decided character, and to speak in positive and commanding terms. Col. M'Kenney knew he could do nothing unless he did this. He really hoped that the House would never condescend to approach the Executive with such little inquiries as the conduct of an Indian Chief.  Our humanity, Christianity, and all the benevolent feelings of our humanity, are appealed to on all occasions by those who consume a great portion of the time of the House in order to enforce their opinions on others. All that they accomplish, however, is to shew [sic] that they do not understand the character of these Indians: and that their efforts and objects are only calculated for sectional and home consumption.
Mr. WICKLIFFE moved to amend the resolution, by adding the following words, which Mr. WOODS accepted as a modification of the original resolution:
' And also, a detailed statement of the expenses of the several Missions to the Indian tribes sent, under the authority of the War Department, during the years 1826 and 7, specifying the object of the expenditure, and the persons employed.'
Mr. WOODS said the gentleman from Georgia had stated that the agents of the Government must have decision of character, or they would find it impossible to effect the objects we have in view. When the great questions respecting the policy to be pursued by the Government in relation to the Indians, shall come before the House he would be prepared to meet gentlemen on the subject of the treatment of Indians; and it would then be decided whether those who thought with him in regard to the measures pursued by our Indian agents, or those who entertained the opinions of the gentleman from Georgia, were the true friends of the Indians. The House had been told by the gentleman, that an agent of the General Government ought to have and exercise the power to depose Indian Chiefs.
Mr. LUMPKIN, in explanation, said he did not contend that agents had a right to depose Indian Chiefs. He had said this man was an impertinent, interfering Cherokee, or a white renegado.
Mr. WOODS said he did not wish to misrepresent what the gentleman had said. The power is claimed to depose these interfering and impertinent agents-half breeds, as they are called. Sir, we do not extent to these half breeds any of our privileges.--We do not give them the rights of citizens, we treat them as Indians, but we are frequently told, in the language of complaint, of the influence which these men exercise over the Indians. It seems that they have by their intelligence, been able to defeat the designs of the agents of the General Government-not the policy of the Government itself, but the interested and sectional views which certain gentlemen seem to entertain. He disclaimed all sectional views. But when our agents ' officers of the Government have darling schemes and objects in view, they are disposed to stop at nothing which will enable them to remove the obstructions in their way. It is time for us to obtain some information on this subject.-- He had called for this information.--He wished to know who this man was. Was he a Creek Chief? Was he a Cherokee; or a white renagado [sic]?--There is no evidence before us on the subject.  We have not even a statement of the reasons which induced the agent of our Government to exercise this extraordinary power. He supposed the individual was a chief, or head man of the Creek Indians, or at least recognized by them as such; and that he could not be deprived of his authority in this way by our agent.
Whenever we are unable, said Mr. W. to effect our wishes by making use of the authority possessed by the Indian chiefs, we exercise our power ' deprive them of their authority ' influence over their nation. The Indians themselves have been compelled to break and turn out the corrupt chiefs, whom we had brought over to our interests, ' they have put in their places intelligent young men, who are able to meet our agents, and to resist their plans. Yes, sir, they complain loudly of the influence which these young men have acquired by their intelligence, and, they complain that the Government has interfered with their policy by endeavoring to civilize the Indians. We have even heard on this floor, that the policy of the government in educating the Indians and teaching them the arts of husbandry, and furnishing them with the means of living by agriculture, was an interference with the rights of our own citizens. He said he would not pursue the subject farther. The treaty which he had seen in the paper of this morning pleased him.  It was better than he could have expected, when obtained by such means. But his is no justification of the means employed. He wished to know if we were still, without inquiry or examination, to pursue this course and sanction this mockery of justice. As far as it depended on him, said Mr. W. he would expose it. He would, to the extent of his feeble abilities, lend his aid to break down the whole system, which is productive of, and at the same time sustained by so much fraud and injustice.
Mr. WOODS replied in the negative.
Mr. THOMPSON suggested an amendment to that purpose.
Mr. WOODS accepted the amendment as a modification.
Mr. Williams of N.C. said he saw no practical effect which could result from the resolution. The treaty was published, and nothing more could be altered.
He moved to lay the resolution on the table.--Ayes 70 --Noes 54.
The resolution was then laid on the table.
____________________________________________________________
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Officers, under any Government, are intended to perform the duties for which they were created. The laborer should be worthy of his hire.- Malevolent motives are sometimes ascribed, to the undeserving of such censure, when in the honesty of mind, they find it a duty to complain of public servants. The Marshals of this nation were appointed in lieu of our light horse Companies, who it was believed, would render more and exact service to our country. This calculation has lost its power to delude the people any longer. Our Marshals are asleep on the watch tower, and have no disposition to awake from their slumbers, unless it be at the approach of our Legislative Council, to get their forty dollars for services expected of them, but not rendered. They are like drones in a Bee-hive, useless to the Nation. The duties of the officers as required of them, are contained in a law passed 11th Nov. 1824, viz:
'The several Marshals, Sheriffs, Constables, shall take cognizance of every violation of law within their respective bounds of districts, and to give information of, and bring to justice, according to law, such person or persons so offending; and should any of the aforesaid officers neglect to bring to justice any transgressor of law after having been duly informed of such trangression [sic], such officers, upon conviction before any of the district courts, shall be subject to pay a fine to be assessed by the court, the fine not to exceed one hundred dollars and not less than five dollars; and the officer or officers so neglecting, shall be subject to be removed from office, at the discretion of the National Council.'
The Marshal of Chattooga, instead of attending to his duties within his bounds, is living at his ease in Chickamauga District, 70 or 80 miles from the seat of justice of the district of which he is an officer. The Marshal of Coosewattee has taken a journey towards the west, to the Arkansas or to the Texas, and we do not know whether he is still in the land of the living or not.  But it is needless to particularize  any farther.
Thieves are again rising in contempt of half breed officers, in spite of our Marshals, and Sheriffs, and Constables. May the next Legislature notice their indolence, and discount their wages. If we wish to have our property secure, and criminals punished, our wishes will be unrealized, so long as these officers remain in neglect of duty, and adhere to the policy of picking money from the National pocket without rendering the required service. I may be excused in the opinion that the Light horse Companies were the best and most efficient officers for vigilance, and were better adapted to keep down the thieves of the country, and to inflict punishment on their naked backs. But fine times now for rogues.
OAKFUSKIE.










 A Second Troup.[sic] - His Excellency Governor Forsyth, of Georgia, appears to possess a full portion of the spirit of his predecessor, in the office of chief magistrate of the above mentioned state. It is well known that the Cherokee Indians in the state of Georgia, have made such advances in civilization and the arts, as to have established over themselves a regular form of government, with tribunals of justice, 'c. and that they are making rapid advances in every species of improvement in civilized life. Among other things they have established schools, and a printing press, and bid fair, in short time, to become a well ordered, respectable community.-- In this state of things, and with such a prospect before them, Governor Forsyth has issued a proclamation, the object of which is obvious. It is to break up this tribe, drive them away after the Creeks to the wilderness, crush every effort towards civilization, and destroy all the hopes of improvement which have thus far been entertained in behalf of this injured people.--N. Y. Dai. Adv.

____________________________________

Distressing Shipreck. [sic]--In the Journal du Havre, of the 18th December we find the following particulars of the distressing shipreck [sic] of the American brig Lydia, Capt. Sylvia, bound to this port from Cork.--N. Y. Adv.
HAVRE, 18th Dec.- The crew of this vessel, to the number of 36 arrived this morning, by the Jean Baptiste, Capt. Auburt, who took them off at sea the 28th November. The statement of Capt. Sylvia is subjoined. The Lydia sailed from Cork on the 13th October for New-York. 16th was overtaken by a storm which split his sails.  On 31st another storm, in which the mainmast was carried away, the pumps choked, and two of the best hands disabled.  4th Nov. fell in with ship Corinthian, of Baltimore, bound to Lima, who refused us all succor, though informed that each one on board was reduced to an ounce of bad bread per 24 hours.--Fortunately the same day fell in with the French ship Panurga, from Charleston to Havre, from whom we received some sails and a few provisions. When we reached the 62 deg. of long. the mate was no longer able to work. 13th Nov. spoke brig Ospray from Salem, bound to Boston from Gibraltar, from whom we received a little bread and flour. 21st, lost our other mast, and the vessel became unmanageable. Every body being exhausted by fatigue and want, despair was visible in every face, the provisions were exhausted-a dog then served for our food for three days; this last resource consumed, and famine staring us in the face, all tho'ts were turned to another horrible resource. The exhausted ' miserable wretches whose strength had failed them, became the victims of those who could yet work at the pumps!! In this desperate situation, Heaven, sent to our relief on the evening of the 28th, the French brig Jean Baptiste, which restored hope to our worn out spirits. A boat was sent to us, and two of our passengers returned in her to communicate to the commander our frightful situation. M. Aubert said he was bound from Charleston to Havre, and would take us all on board-we were 36-but when, in spite of the rough weather, the women and children were safely transported to the French brig, the captain said that having a long route yet before him, he could not burden himself with so many people, but would send provisions and sails to those left on board. The boat returned with this news, and a scene of terrible despair ensued. The separation of mothers from children, and brother from brother, seemed more terrible than death itself; and as the brig prepared to make sail, the most piercing cries of despair were uttered from both vessels. The generous Frenchman, touched by the scene, and listening rather to the dictates of human nature than of prudence, (since he only had on board the necessary allowance for his own crew,) resolved to receive all in his vessel; and each sailor emulating the example of his captain, shared with the shipwrecked sufferers his bottle and his bread. To this generous devotedness [sic] do we owe our existence.










CHEROKEE LAWS.
[Continued]
New Town, Oct. 28, 1829
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any person or persons whatsoever, who shall trade with any negro slave without permission from the proper owner of such slave, and the property so traded for, be proven to have been stolen, the purchases shall be held and bound to the legal proprietor for the same, or the value thereof; and be it further
Resolved That any person who shall permit their negro or negroes to purchase spirituous liquors and vend the same, the master or owner of such negro or negroes shall forfeit and pay a fine of fifteen dollars for every such offence to be collected by the marshals within their respective districts for the national use; and should any negro be found vending spirituous liquors without permission from their respective owners, such negro, so offending shall receive fifteen cobbs or paddles for every such offence from the hands of the patrollers of the settlement or neighborhood in which the offence was committed, and every settlement of neighborhood shall be privileged to organize a patrolling company.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk.
_________________
New Town, Nov. 8, 1828.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the judges of the district courts shall keep a record of the proceedings of all causes, evidences and decisions; and
Be it further Resolved, That each person who may be employed as clerk of the district courts shall be allowed and paid the sum of two dollars per day for his services during the sitting of the courts.
By order of the National Committee.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk, N. Council.
______________
New Town, Nov. 8, 1828.

WHEREAS, the great variety of vices emanating from dissipation, particularly from intoxication, and gaming at cards, which are so prevalent at public places, the national committee and council, seeking the true interest and happiness of their people, have maturely taken this growing evil into their serious consideration, and being fully convinced that no nation of people can prosper and flourish or become magnanimous in character, the basis of whose laws are not founded upon virtue and justice; therefore, to suppress, as much as possible, those demoralizing habits which were introduced by foreign agency.
Resolved by the National Committee, That any person or persons whatsoever, who shall bring ardent spirits within three miles of the General Council house, or to any of the court houses within the several districts during the general council, or the sitting of the courts, and dispose of the same so as to intoxicate any person or persons whatsoever, the person or persons so offending, shall forfeit his or their whiskey, the same to be destroyed; and be it further
Resolved That gaming at cards is hereby strictly forbidden, and that any person or persons whatsoever, who shall game at cards in the Cherokee nation, such person or persons, so offending shall forfeit and pay a fine of twenty-five dollars; and further, any person or persons whatsoever who may or shall be found playing cards at any house, camp, or in the woods within three miles of the general council house or any of the court houses of the several districts during the session of the general council or sitting of the district courts such person or persons, so offending, shall forfeit and pay a fine of fifty dollars each for ever such offence, and that any person or persons whatsoever, who shall bring into the Cherokee nation and dispose of playing cards, such person or persons, being convicted before any of the judges, marshals, or light horse shall pay a fine of twenty-five dollars for every pack of cards so sold; and it shall be the duty of the several judges, marshals and light horse companies to take cognizance of such offenses and to enforce the above resolutions; and
Be it further Resolved That all fines collected from persons violating the above resolutions, the money so collected shall be paid into the national treasury.  To take effect and be in full force from and after the first day of January next.
By order of the N. Committee.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't Nat. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk of N. Council.
_______________
New Town, November 20, 1822

Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any person or persons whatsoever, who shall wilfully embezzle, intercept and open any sealed letter, so that the owner be injured or deprived of the benefits of such letter, the person or persons so offending, upon conviction, shall forfeit and pay a fine of one hundred dollars and be punished with one hundred stripes on the bare back, the fine to be converted to national purposes.
By order.
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
Approved his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A. M'COY, Clerk.
___________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1822
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That there shall be a superior court, to be held at New Town during the session of each national council, to be composed of the several circuit judges, to determine all causes which may be appealed from the district courts; and
Be it further Resolved, That the law appropriating forty dollars for the support of each district council, is hereby repealed, and that in future the nation shall not be accountable for supplies furnished the district councils.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Com.
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Council.
______________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1822.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That the circuit judges be vested with authority to nominate light horse companies in their respective districts, in case of resignation or otherwise, and such nomination being repeated to the head chiefs and sanctioned by them, shall be considered valid.
By order N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Council
ELIJAH HICKS, National Com.
_______________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1822.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the marshals or tax collectors of the several districts are hereby authorized to seize upon and attach the property of any person or persons who shall not make punctual payments of their respective taxes, when called upon, and the property so seized and attached shall be advertised for sale, and ten days shall be allowed for the redemption of the property so attached.  In case the property be not redeemed in that time, than the marshal or collector shall proceed to expose to public sale such property to the highest bidder, and all sums of money which may be received over the amount of taxes, for which the property may be seized, attached and sold, shall be returned to the person or persons from whom it was taken.
By order of the National Com.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, clerk N. Council.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Com.
___________________
New Town, Nov. 13, 1822.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the Chattoogee, Chickamauga and other turnpike companies, who have not been heretofore under any obligation to keep in good repair their respective roads, be, and they are hereby, required to keep in good repair their respective roads and incase of non-compliance with the aforesaid requisition, the privileges and authority in them vested for keeping a toll gate thereon, shall cease and become void whenever full and sufficient evidence may be established before the national committee and council
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker,
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Com.
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Coun.
__________
New Town, Nov. 13, 1822.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That a decree passed October 28, 1819, imposing a tax on merchant citizens of the nations, is hereby reduced from twenty dollars to twelve dollars per annum, and the tax on peddlers, not citizens of this nation is also hereby reduced from eighty dollars to fifty dollars, per annum, to take effect after the first of January next; the regulation to be observed and enforced agreeably to the said decree.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER,
A. M'COY, Clerk of N. Com.
________________
 New Town, October 114, 1823.
Resolved, That the business of the council, during the session, be suspended on the Sabbaths, and also that the merchants ' peddlers, and mechanics, at New Town, close the doors of their shops and suspend all business; and any person or persons violating this resolution shall forfeit and pay the sum of fifteen dollars, to be collected for the benefit of the nation by the proper officer.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Committee,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Sec'y to the Council.
_____________________
New Town, October 9. 1823.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all resolutions emanating from either body, shall receive the concurrence of the other, before the assent and signature of the head chiefs shall be required; and their concurrence shall then give effect to such resolutions.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
Concurred in by the council,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Cl. N. Council.
________________
New Town, October 17, 1823.
The National Committee have discovered that claims of a private nature, which more properly belong to the courts for adjustment, have been taken up by the Council and acted upon by that body and submitted to the Committee for concurrence, those claims are brought before the committee without evidence of the presence of the parties, which makes it difficult and impossible to investigate the matters of dispute, therefore,
Resolved by the Committee, That all matters of private controversy, brought before the Council or Committee which have not been appealed from the district courts should be submitted to that court of the district where the parties reside, and all causes which have been appealed from the decision of the district courts should be submitted to the supreme court in session for a decision agreeable to law and equity.
By order,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com,
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk. N. Com
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council.










INDIAN DANCE
The following account of a dance performed by the Chipaway Indians, is taken from a work lately published by Thomas L. McKenney of the Indian department, entitled, 'Sketches of a Tour to the Lakes,' 'c. A copy of this work has been sent to the Cherokee, by the author, as a token of his friendship. We have it now in our possession, and will endeavor in future to make some other extracts.
Soon after the inspection, and while seated in my room, I heard a yelling and shouting among the Indians. One of the bands had landed from the island about forty strong. Ben came in and told me the Indians were dancing. I went out to witness the ceremony. They came up from the landing in double file, or two abreast, with their drums in the lead, dancing, or rather jumping in short jumps to the time kept by the drummers.- The drums, as I have before stated, are like tambourines, and had rattles to them. Those who beat, or thumped the drums, sang also; but the song was a jumble of sounds; a kind of 'a--ha; a-ha, eh, eh'- the 'eh' aspirated with great force; and at short intervals the whole would yell and shout, and multiply the sounds by clapping their hands on their mouths.
On reaching the ground opposite the door of our quarters the line was formed by this jumping motion into a circle, out of which those who beat the drums kept stations. Round and round, they went, with a kind of double short step, first with one foot, and then with the other; but the motion throughout was up and down.- When they had gone twice or thrice round the circle, the drums would give the signal, when they would scream and whoop, and clap their mouths with their hands-then stand. I could see from their breathing- for they were all naked (except the auzeum) and painted,- that their dancing was a severe exercise. Some were painted black, others one half red, and the other black, and the colors were separated by a nicely dividing line down the spine of the back, and in front; the colors dividing below the body, and one thigh and leg being black and the other red, they might have been taken for halves of two bodies of different colors.  Their heads were ornamented with feathers, and their hair plaited, with little bells and other trinkets suspended from the plaits. From the waist string of some, hung small looking glasses, and their knives, and the skins of birds, while their ankles were bound round with pieces of fur, and from the heels of some, would trail out a fox's tail. Some few wore leggings, and a few others moccasins.  The faces of all were painted after all manner of devices; with red, green, yellow, and black; in lines, circles, and stars, or points, or all these together. That nothing in this group or medley should be wanting to make the scene a finished grotesque, a little boy, not over five years old, was in the midst, painted black, keeping time to the drum, with an enormous head-dress of feathers, and who went through the whole ceremony with them, which consisted wholly in the 'a-ha-a-o-eh,', and muttering kinds of interludes; of the monotonous though regular thump of the drum, the jumping of the group in time to the sounds in a circular movement, and at intervals the yelling and whooping of the whole together. In the pauses a warrior would tell his exploits; and these would be shouted to vociferously.
This was a pipe dance, a dance of ceremony, or rather, as it ought to be called, a begging dance. Their object was to get presents; and it would have been deemed most ungracious not to have given them. We put out a mocock filled with tobacco, and some whiskey, (the chief object of their visit) well diluted with water. They drank each a wine-glass of this beverage-except those who have children with them. These were brought along to multiply the glasses, for the child, being entitled to his glass in common with the rest, receives it, but never tastes it. He hands it directly to his father, who never fails to discharge the last drop into his mouth; and to feel grateful no doubt, that he has a child present, thus to increase his bliss. Some fell heir to as many as three glasses; and if they had chanced to have had thirty children, the thirty glasses would have been all handed by these dutiful children to their whiskey loving parents.
These presents were distributed by one of the band who is called Machinewa; a kind of attendant, on whom devolves this duty. Almost every chief has one of these, who always receives presents, and distributes them to the members of the family. There is no appeal from his mode of making the division.
On receiving these presents they discharged a gun, shouted, formed in a double file, and went off yelling, and singing and dancing to the Captain's quarters to get an additional supply.
All this my dear friend; impressed me deeply.  It was a scene of interest, it is true, but filled with incidents which demonstrate the superior excellence of civilized, and polished, and Christian society, over that of the savage. Tell me not of the happiness of the Indians-of their freedom from restraint-of their independence-it is all fable, at least as the condition of these unfortunates now stands. I believe it was different with them once. Such a sight presents a wide field for moral reflections; and furnished a dark foreground to the picture I have just sketched, of the repose of the peace of the Sabbath! No one can witness such a scene, and look upon bodies of the finest mould for they are all such, and one especially the most perfect I ever beheld, and would in Italy be worth its thousands for a model, without feeling anxious for the arrival of the time (but how slow have been its advances!) when all these unmeaning and barbarous customs shall give place to the refinements of civilized life, and the sensual object which led to this, be changed to the nobler one of which their faculties are so manifestly capable.
I look to a speedy interference of our government in this work of mercy. It is not possible for it to be longer delayed. Public opinion, that secret, but operative and powerful principle, is strong against a further delay. It is too late to tell us that Indians cannot be civilized, aye, and Christianized too.  The time was when this doubt formed the barrier to exertion; but that has been broken down. The way is open. Experience has come in with its demonstrations- And while we give up the old Indians to die as they live, and leave them and their destiny to their God, we are bound by ever consideration of moral and religious obligation, to save their off-spring. I will not reason upon it.- The proposition carries with it its own illustration and demonstration. Indians are men-they are within our jurisdiction-they are sufferers-we have the power, and they the capacity; and we are bound to relieve them.










MR. EDITOR.--In your sixth number has appeared a new defendant against the position which I have maintained, that popular principles have been prostrated by the Council and their Treasurer. I proceed to reinforce my position, the correctness of which he has denied, and answer some of his annihilating sarcasms, to the performance of which he appears strictly to have adhered. It is said that when two persons throw dirt against each other, both cannot be clean; and let it be observed that in the conclusion of his exposition, 'Marshall' has applied to be the epithet of a calumniator, when at the same time the course he has taken is big with the same consequence. Not having ever witnessed a similar spirit of high resentment in support of a question in collision with another, the conclusion is irresistible, that he has not a little strained the faculties of his mind. In this hasty effort of establishing some of his questions, have originated some of his preposterous allegations. In the support due my position I hold it to be an immutable principle, which it will test all the scrutiny of Philosophy to overthrow, that when a set of men imbibe certain special principles, formally, which it is agreed should be governing principles twelve months afterwards, they are bound from the time such principles are decided to de [sic] fit for the happiness of a people, so far as virtue and ability are hand in hand, and accompanied by a strict regard to consistency, from every consideration to have adhered to them as near as the nature of the case would admit without awaiting the given time. The appointment of the different officers by the Council,(excepting the Treasurer,) was conforming as near as could be done, to the principles in the new Constitution; but the appointment of a treasurer, who was then holding three offices under the nation, is as much as to say, that altho' we have proclaimed some important principles to govern us tomorrow, in preference to our old ones, let us with all our industry gratify, ourselves in the enjoyment of our old unfit principles to-day. If the comparison which I have drawn be a correct one, then if there has been no abandonment of principle, yet a great indisposition is manifested to approach near to the Constitution. The Council of 1827, as quoted by 'Marshall', sitting under the then existing authorities, does not at all imply, that it was perfectly right, not to imitate as near as possible the principles in the new Constitution; but on the other hand it does appear obvious, in as much as they were so fond of principles prohibiting persons from holding more than one office, that they should have drawn closed to them, than to confer almost the whole powers of government on one person.
But 'Marshall' appears to have been forced on the public, by ny implication, that he was an intentional trespasser on popular principles. I must here assure him that he has placed an unwarrantable stress on my former remark,'that the Marshal of Chattooga district held two offices.' 'A Friend', in his first piece against me, gave rise to that remark, but if was done so cautiously, that it is unequivocally acknowledged to be an unintentional trespass. If prudence had not been blended with political vengeance, he could have enabled himself to find, that he was freed from my unmerited attack.  Yet this is one of the prominent offences [sic], and alledged [sic] criminations [sic], from which he has taken such umbrage, that all my sentiments cease to harmonize with his chords.
In the 5th number of the Phoenix, I have rather disclaimed having maintained, that the New Constitution with all its articles should be immediately carried into effect, after the Council of 1827. The point to which I had objected was, that the same men, that had framed the Constitution, and then adopted it again in Council, continued to confer a plurality of offices on one man, which circumstance still controls conclusion, that they were waging war in favor of old principles, against newly imbibed ones. 'Marshall' has intervolved [sic] some of his quotation to prove that the council of 1827 had no right to adopt the new Constitution that it was read only for the information of the people, and that no law existed authorizing such a course.--This reasoning will be found on further examination, to be fallacious. The National council in their resolution provides, 'the principles to be adopted by the convention in the Constitution, shall not go to destroy the rights and liberties of the Cherokee people.' The enquiry arises from this pointed expression of the law, who was the supreme authority to decide upon the legality of the principles to be then adopted in the new constitution?  This plain expression of the resolution, denying the force of the principles should they go to destroy the people's rights, shew [sic], on an impartial view that the sovereignty of the nation was not vested in the Convention solely to adopt permanent principles for the government of the Cherokees; but that even a person uninformed of the political condition of the Cherokees, must consequently come to the conviction, that that power was reserved somewhere else. That was necessarily in the National Council who did take it into consideration, and finally adopted it for the future government of the Cherokees.  The preamble in a constitution, 'do ordain and establish' is so invariably linked with the condition of the acceptance of the body politic, over who it is to operate, that it cannot be practically a constitution, until it is accepted by such body; It is reasoning with facts to say, that a constitution cannot be binding on a people before they consent; and it was upon this contingency that the new Constitution has received its validity. In the event that the Council had disapproved of the principles in the new Constitution, it would no more have been binding on the nation, that it would be binding on the United States. If there was no law, as stated by 'Marshall,' to authorize the council to act on the new Constitution, so much the better; the National Council, being the democracy of the nation, had the supreme right to act, and do what they pleased. If they had power to create the Convention, they still retain power to review their proceedings. The Council being the highest summit of power in the old system, was at full liberty to investigate the proceedings of the Convention, which had no power to come forward and prohibit the Council from acting on any case. And while this power of the Council visibly existed, to be exercised in the adoption of the new Constitution, they did adopt it for the people, in as much as they were their representatives; for it was not sent elsewhere to get the people's approbation of it. No republican in the nation would have submitted to the constitution if its articles had been contrary to the people's rights, and only adopted by the Convention. The gentleman who was Clerk, when the Council was in committee of the whole on the subject, has admitted with me that the Council did adopt the new Constitution.  His testimony, I presume, will preponderate in favor of my position, and be a sufficient arbiter to the candid.
In a liberal government every person has a right to his sentiments, to the expression of which perhaps a person without presumption feels some aversion. It was this tolerated right that induced me to a narration of his Excellency's visit to the National Treasury. I have myself cooned [sic] a log, and yet never have exposed my fancied life in others' breast. I never intended it a categorical fire to explode in other breasts. It was disclosed for the express purpose of shewing[sic] the many inconveniences which our distinguished men were subject to; hoping that it would be the means at some future day, to concentrate the National Treasury, with other offices at New Echota. But this is viewed as a heated calumny. If the integrity of the Chief had been disputed, his talents underrated, and the case managed with all malevolent design to the greatest advantage, it would yet have failed to accomplish his downfall. It may be necessary to illustrate the innocency of the case. I presume the story is familiar among the enlightened Cherokees, of the race which was run by President Madison with his servant, from the battle of Blandensburgh; General Jackson in all his glory is called old Hickory; John Randolph with his expanded talents is known often in the feminine gender. These oddities bear some analogy to my case; yet these idled terms have never been viewed, by those who are a witness to passing events, in the light of calumny.
A CHEROKEE.










NEW ECHOTA
Thursday, April 10, 1828
It is said that the principal and assistant principal Chiefs are to meet the United States Agent for this Nation at his residence, on the 15th of this month, to consider the exceptions made by the General Government to some portions of the Cherokee Constitution.  If they deem it necessary, they will call a Council.
_________________________________
We have frequently heard of a proclamation issued by Governor Forsyth, in relation to the extension of the criminal jurisdiction of the state of Georgia over that part of the Cherokee Nation which lies within the Chartered limits of that state.--We should suppose that as the Cherokees would necessarily be interested in such a proclamation, every exertion would be used to have it extensively known in this Country. But as yet we have merely heard of it, and we doubt whether any of our Citizens have seen it. We would suggest to his Excellency the propriety of publishing his proclamation in this Nation.
______________________________________
CHURCH AT CARMEL
By politeness of a friend, we are permitted to insert the following extract of a letter from Mr. Proctor, Missionary at Carmel.
We had a very solemn ' interesting meeting on the Sabbath. The congregation was large. Three full Cherokees were baptized. They live about 25 miles from us in a small town very much secluded. Some of our Cherokee members and Mr. Butrick have visited them. These men appeared better than any candidates I have ever seen , all things considered.  They say there are many more in that place, who are serious. They are very anxious to have some parts of scripture in Cherokee, or any Cherokee tracts, I understand, the other day, that you were about to get the Gospel of Matthew printed. Do let me know by next mail how soon we can obtain it. Many copies are wanted in this place, and I have been requested to write for them. It is a pleasing, but a singular fact, that here the Bible is preferred to the newspaper.
The Cherokee members of this church, and those of the church at Hightower, have formed societies to hire a Cherokee brother to go as their missionary into those dark towns north of us, to carry bibles, tracts, and hymnbooks. We therefore want to know when we can obtain all these, and what will be the prices.
Similar applications with equal earnestness have been made from other parts of the Nation, and we are sorry not to be in a condition to meet the demands upon our press. The publication of Scripture, Tracts and Hymn books, must depend entirely on the limited force now connected with the establishment; and as yet the paper has occupied the full attention of our printers. Exertions will, however, be made to supply these demands. At present our Cherokee readers will obtain Hymns, and the Gospel of Matthew, thro' the medium of the Phoenix.










PENOBSCOT INDIANS.
The following notice of the Penobscot Indians is taken from a letter dated, June 23d, 1823, and addressed to the Editor by Mr. Brewer, now Missionary to the East.
'This tribe which is now reduced to about 300, own and occupy all the islands in the river between this and Metowomkeag, 50 miles above.- They have likewise reserved to themselves four whole townships on the river farther north. The islands contain some thousand acres of the best of land. You are perhaps aware that these Indians as well the Passomaquoddies and St. Johns (both now small tribes) have for a long time been under the influence of Catholic priests. For two years past, since the government of the State have declined paying their salary, there has been no one among them. Only two or three of them can read, and though they have annually 20 or 30 acres plowed for them by government, yet they give but little attention to agriculture.- The game towards the sources of the Penobscot, which has been their chief dependence will soon fail them, and surrounded as they are by the whites, their situation will soon become wretched unless they turn their attention to cultivating the ground.'










CHEROKEE LAWS
[Concluded]
New Town, Nov. 12, 1824.

Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That suits which have been appealed from the district courts to the superior court, in cases of debt; the person or persons not suited, or against whom judgment shall be given, such person or persons shall pay a cost of six per-cent on the amount of the judgment issued, which per-cent shall be collected for the benefit of the person or persons non-suited or cast in consequence of the want of that persons testimony; and
Be it further resolved, That such witness attending agreeably to the summons, he, she, or they, shall be entitled to fifty cents for each day's attendance, to be levied off the persons against whom judgment maybe issued; and
 Be it further resolved, That any person who shall be guilty of perjury or give false evidence in any court of justice in the Cherokee Nation, upon conviction, shall be forever disqualified from being a witness in any matter of controversy, and shall also receive thirty-nine stripes on the bare back, to be inflicted by any officer or officers on duty in the district in which the offence is or may be committed.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council.
____________________
New Town, Nov. 9, 1822.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That no person or persons whatsoever shall be allowed or permitted to dig for salt within the circumference of half a mile from the salt well of any person or persons who may have obtained salt water by digging under the special permission of the National Committee and Council; Provided, that this resolution shall not extend so far as to deprive any person or persons from digging within their own enclosures, who may be living within such bounds, and may have settled there previous to the digging for, and the discovery of salt.
By order,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't Nat. Com.
Concurred in by the council,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clk. N. Council.
__________________
New Town, Nov. 13, 1824.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That no citizen or citizens of the Cherokee Nation shall receive in their employment any citizen or citizens of the United States, or negro slaves belonging to citizens of the United States, without first obtaining a permit agreeably to law, for the person or persons so employed; and any person or persons violating this resolution, upon conviction before any of the district courts, shall pay a fine for every such offence at the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten dollars; and the person employed to be removed.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk, N. Com.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Council.
________________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1822.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That a Register's office be opened at New Town, and a Register be appointed, whose duty it shall be to record all the advertisements of estray property which may be sent to him by the rangers of the several districts, and each advertisement so recorded, to be set up at a public house at New Town, and the Register shall be entitled to twenty-five cents for each advertisement recorded, to be paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the property so advertised and sold; and it shall be the duty of the several Rangers to transmit a copy of all their advertisements to the Register at New Town, and if there should be no opportunity to forward, by private conveyance, the advertisements to the register, it shall be the duty of the captain of the light horse company when applied to by a Ranger, to send one of his men with the advertisement to the Register; and
Be it further resolved, That all estray cattle, hogs, sheep, and goats, shall be advertised and sold by the Ranger in the same manner as is prescribed by law for estray horses.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS., Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Council.
ELIJAH HICKS, National Com.
________________
 New Town, October 25, 1824.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the road from Chattahoochee River, to May's Ferry on Hiwassee River, and also the one to Blythe's Ferry on Tennessee River, are hereby ordered to be let out in ten shares, to the lowest bidders, to be opened and kept in good repair for the term of five years from the first day of December, 1824, on the following conditions, to wit:
The road to be cut and opened twenty-four feet wide, clear of trees, and the cause waying to be covered with dirt, together with the digging of mountains and hills, to be fourteen feet wide, clear of rocks, roots and grubs and the banks of all water courses to be put in complete order, and the road to be divided into shares in the following manner; (to wit:) From May's Ferry to Canausauga River, including one bank, and half the width of the bed of the river if required; from Walker's Ferry to Five Killer's; from Blythe's Ferry to Canda's Creek, including one bank of said creek; from thence to where May's Ferry road intersects the same; from thence to the middle of Cannasauga River, to Vann's Mill Creek; from thence to the middle of Coosawatee River from thence to the middle of Talking Rock Creek; from thence to the middle of Long Swamp Creek; from thence to the middle of Etowah River from thence to the Chattahoochee River; and
Be it further resolved, That the undertakers enter into bond and sufficient security for the faithful performance of the respective contracts, in a penal sum of twice the amount of the sum for which the undertakers may engage with the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation, and that the Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to appoint one or more commissioners, to review the roads once in four months, throughout the year, whose duty it shall be, to make a report to him of the situation of said roads, and in case of violation of the part of any of the undertakers, that suits be instituted against such person or persons in the courts of the district to which he or they may belong and in case of forfeiture, the Treasurer is authorized to let out the share or shares so forfeited.
By order of the National Com.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Council.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Com.
______________________
New Town, Jan. 27, 1824.
WHEREAS, great evil has resulted from the disposition and use of ardent spirits at ball plays, all night dances, and other public gatherings, and in order to suppress this growing evil,
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That no person or persons whatsoever, shall vend or otherwise dispose of in any manner, ardent spirits at such places, under the penalty of having all their liquors wasted; and it shall be the duty of every light horseman, marshal, sheriff, deputy sheriff and constable, to take cognizance of such offenses, and to execute this resolution, and if any of the aforesaid officers being in full possession of the fact of a violation of this resolution, fail to enforce its penalty, they shall upon conviction, before any of the district courts, pay such a fine as may be imposed upon them by the court, one half to the informer, ' the other half to the treasury of the Cherokee Nation. This law to be and remaining full force from and after the first day of January, 1825.
By order of the N. Committee.
JNO. ROSS . Pres't. Nat. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk of N. Council
_______________
New Town, Nov. 11, 1824.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That it shall be the duty of the several marshals, sheriffs, constables, and light horsemen, to take cognizance of every violation of law within their respective bounds of districts, and to give information of, and bring to justice, according to law, such person or persons, so offending, and should any of the aforesaid officers, neglect to bring to justice any transgressor of law, after having been duly informed of such transgression, such officers, upon conviction before any of the district courts, shall be subject to pay a fine, to be assessed by the court; the fine not to exceed one hundred dollars, and not less than five dollars; and the officer of officers so neglecting, shall be subject to be removed from office at the discretion of the National Council.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
Approved
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council.
_________________
New Town, November 11, 1824.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That all Free negroes coming into the Cherokee Nation, under any pretence whatsoever, shall be viewed and treated, in every respect, as intruders and shall not be allowed to reside in the Cherokee nation without a permit from the National Committee and Council.
By order.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com,
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Coun.
______________
 New Town, Nov. 11, 1824
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any person or persons whatsoever, who shall commit robbery upon another, he, she, or they so offending, being prosecuted in any of the district courts, shall, upon conviction, be subject to such penalty and punishment as the court may impose; Provided, That such punishment shall not extend so far as to inflict death.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk










CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
INDIAN AFFAIRS.
The House took up the resolution offered yesterday by Mr. Woods.
Resolved, That the Secretary of War be requested to inform this House, what were the reasons assigned for breaking an individual and depriving him of his authority among the Creek Indians, as stated in the letter of Thomas L. McKenney, of the 29th November, 1827, to the Secretary of War, and who said individual was, wish his residence; and in what capacity he was acting for said Indians; and to communicate to this House, a detailed statement of the expenses of the several missions to the Indian Tribes, sent under the authority of the War Department, for the years 1826 and 1827, specifying the objects of the expenditure, and the persons employed; and, also, copies of any evidence or complaints which are in the Department, concerning any alleged improper conduct of any agent or superintendent, in regard to the granting or withholding of passports through the Indian Country.
The question being on the following amendment offered by Mr. McLane:
And, also, the expenses and payments to commissioners and other agents for negotiating treaties with the Indian tribes since 1813, relating the objects in which the several sums were expended.
Mr. McLane withdrew that amendment, and proposed to amend the resolution by striking out the words 'for the years 1826 and 1827,' and to insert 'from 1812 to 1827, inclusive.'
Mr. Woods suggested to the mover a modification to the amendment, which was agreed to by the mover.
The amendment, as modified, was then agreed to.
Mr. Ingham moved to amend the resolution, by adding the following words:
'And also, to inform this House whether the persons employed to hold treaties with Indian tribes in the Territory of Michigan during the year 1827 have undertaken to constitute and appoint an Indian Chief, and if so whether any chief thus constituted and appointed has signed any treaty with the United States.
Mr. Woods accepted the amendment as a modification.
Mr. Mitchell, of Tennessee, said, he was convinced that the House must, by this time, be satisfied that no good whatever could result from this enquiry. He did not know to what particular object it was to be considered a directing index. He considered it as only tending to produce abroad impressions which could not be realized, and to bring our legislation into disgust. He saw nothing in it but that which would excite angry passions, and induce false impressions. As for himself, and the gentlemen who acted with him from the South, they were satisfied that everything was right. Gentlemen who were not satisfied should enquire at the department, where they would receive frank answers to all their interrogatories. He would undertake to say here, in his place, all was right. He would have hated the man who would have acted in this case. It would have been puerile to have done otherwise. If Jack Ridge was among these Indians, and had an opportunity to ingratiate himself with them, he did it to influence their passions, and not to direct them to a judicious decision. When he spoke to this individual he wished it to be understood that he knew the man. He disclaimed any desire to draw a dark picture of a savage.
As to the expenditures, everything relating to them ma be obtained at no great distance from the Speaker's chair; and to make an application to the Department for that information, is but an advertisement of our own ignorance. He had no desire to put is sign manual to such an advertisement. We are in the habit of making too many useless inquiries.
He spoke of the Indians from his personal knowledge; for they were unfortunately his neighbors, and he was acquainted with them.  The chiefs are nabobs, and the inferior Indians are in a much worse situations than the most abject of slaves, than even the boors of Russia, and those of the wildest and most inhospitable regions of that empire.
These nabobs rule over the tribes; and we, by our speeches, filed with a false humanity, aid them to rivet the chains by which they hold their inferiors more firmly. Whenever it may be proper for us to legislate at all on this subject, he wished that we should take that proper course which would effectually relieve the Indians by putting down this system of despotism. Now, from feelings which he respected as much as any man could, for want of sufficient information on the subject, we are doing worse than nothing.  He trusted that gentlemen would pardon his opposition to the resolution. He believed that it originated in a good source; but he could not sit quietly and see a proposition adopted, which is calculated to do much mischief. He repeated that the information could be all obtained without going far in quest of it; and said: that as he could see no legislation which was likely to grow out of the resolution, he would move to lay it on the table.
The question to lay the resolution the table, was then put and negatived. Ayes 60, Noes 76.
Mr. Mallary stated that he was quite a stranger to the transaction to which this resolution referred. If it was intended to show that an agent of the government had exercised the authority which was stated in the resolution, it was palpable violation of his duty. He considered the enquiry as emanating from a quarter which was entitled to respect.  If the act had been committed which was imputed by the resolution, the nation ought to be informed of it. The gentleman from Tennessee seemed to think that the resolution could be of no use, and that it would excite unpleasant feelings. What is it to us, if unpleasant feelings are excited? Because such feelings may be excited, we are not to be deterred from instituting an enquiry which may lead to beneficial results, and to the correction of abuses, if they are found to exist. The gentleman from Tennessee had assured the House that nothing was wrong; and doubtless, according to the view which he took of the subject, nothing was wrong. But it was somewhat out of the ordinary course for gentlemen to rise in the House, and expect to put a stop to an enquiry, by the personal assurance that nothing was wrong. If this practice had prevailed, what would have become of all the resolutions of enquiry which had been submitted to the House? Because gentlemen thus rise, and give assurance to the House, the process of enquiry is not to be stayed. Although the gentleman from Tennessee considered that all was fair, and that nothing of an injurious character had taken place, he (Mr. M.) might be of a different opinion. He could only form that opinion from the testimony which might be placed before him.- At present he could only say, that, if it was true that the agent of the government had gone into the Indian country and had deposed a chief, in order to obtain a treaty on more advantageous terms, it was an act of tyranny which could not be justified. This miserable portion of the Indians was not too well protected; and he hoped that when any attempt was made to abridge the poor remnant of rights which was left to them, the government would extend its arm in their defence.
Mr. Lumpkin said that if gentlemen had taken the trouble to examine the testimony which is before the House, it would have saved all this inquiry. How did the House become acquainted with so much of this affair as was already known? On the return of the agent from his mission to the Indians, he had communicated the facts to the Secretary of War, and from the Secretary they had been transmitted to the House. The agent says that after summoning the council, he introduced his business, and found the interference of this man was such, that the people to whom he was delegated, would not listen to his propositions, while he was present. He then deposed him. It was nothing more than if an individual from the gallery were to come into the House, and, in a tone of authority, assume the right to direct our proceedings. It is true there is some difference as regards the Indians, as we profess to negotiate with them on the footing of independent nations.  But in point of fact the analogy is pretty complete. He admired the sympathy which gentlemen always exhibited for the poor Indians. But if any persons had ever reason to say, 'save me from my friends,' these Indians had. What had gone from this House had injured the Indians much more than all the acts of the Government, or of those who are considered the enemies of the Indians. Long since these Indians would have been quietly settled in a good land, but for the misguided zeal of gentleman in this House. It could be shown to any gentleman who would take the trouble to call at the War Department that our Indian Affairs had been lately conducted at a much less expense than at any former period. He concluded by renewing the motion to lay the resolution the table.
The motion was again negatived.
Mr. Marvin said, it if was true, that by the assistance of the Gentleman from Georgia, or any other person we could, by being conducted to the Department, find the important information, required by this resolution, he thought it a sufficient reason for the adoption of the resolution, in order that the information might be put in the possession of the House without going there. The gentleman from Ohio asks for information as to some communication between an agent of the Government and certain Indian tribe. Another gentleman from Ohio, and not usually acting with his colleague on questions relating to Indian affairs, had moved an amendment, which had been adopted. A gentleman from Pennsylvania moves another amendment, the purpose of which is to enlarge the inquiry, and this the mover of the resolution adopts as a modification of his resolution If any other gentleman wished to enlarge the sphere of inquiry, he was willing that is should be adopted. But when three gentlemen thus united for the purpose of making an inquiry, he was for the adoption of it. He was not particular as to the character of the inquiry. It was enough to know that it had relation to the Indian tribes. He viewed all measures of this character as growing out of the state of the nation, in consequence of the pre-existing contract with Georgia; although the just policy of the country in regard to these Indians is yet unsettled. The bill relative to the final disposal of the Indians has not yet been acted on.- Whatever had reference to past transactions with the Indians, he was glad to see inquired into, and he hoped the present resolution would be adopted.
Mr. Weems said that the object was purely to get information. He wished to obtain that information.- He desired to know if there had been negotiated a second McIntosh treaty; and also if any agent of the Government had taken on himself to put down an adviser of any of the tribes.  He thought it incumbent upon us to treat with the Indians fairly. We had paid dearly for the McIntosh treaty, and he wished to avoid another treaty of that kind. If this resolution was merely one of enquiry, and as he wished for light in order to act understandingly, he hoped the resolution would pass.
Mr. Bates of Missouri said he had not often troubled the House, 'he hoped he should now be indulged while he made a very few remarks. He thought the question one of much greater importance that it seemed to be at the first glance. Had it been a mere money matter, a question of dollars and cents, he might have been content to let it pass by, without observations on his part. It was said the person who was broken by the agent of the Government was a foreign interloper, a mere wen on the Indian body, a noxious excrescence; that he was an individual personally known to one gentleman, and was, not to be treated with. The agent had himself conveyed the knowledge which the House possessed on the subject in a very emphatic manner. three times he met the tribe, but he could not effect anything, until he had deposed this man.- He does not name the individual, but says that he was an unauthorized agent, having authority among the tribe. He says, 'assuming the responsibility, I broke him on the spot.' Broke him-from what? Some office, he presumed-some political situation.- The smile of the gentleman from Ga. was not borne out by fact.  He says, if a person comes from the gallery into the House to interfere with our proceedings cannot we break him.  If an envoy from a foreign court comes here, his place is on the floor, and not in the gallery, and he did not  see exactly on what ground the gentleman from Georgia could justify the taking of that privilege from him. Here was an envoy; we treat with these Indians, and the treaty becomes the supreme law of the land. He was himself one who was always ready to enter his protest against these Indian treaties, which he believed to be a complete mockery. But as it was the practice the Government, we are bound to carry it on according to the provisions of the Constitution; and while we treat, we must give to them all the advantages which belong to nations whose right to negotiate we recognize.  If we find a foreigner in office among the Indians, he knew not what right we had to take exception. We have ourselves had distinguished foreigners in our employ. No matter who the individual may be; whether Vann or Ridge, he could not tell that this made any difference. If any person had a right to break this man, it must be the Creeks themselves. Had the President himself been there, and exercised the right of breaking this individual, it would have been an act of usurpation.
He knew how much it was the fashion to cry down these Indian treaties as mere matters of bargain. But no treaty was ever considered valid until it had received all the customary sanctions of law. And are we called on to give our sanction to a proceeding which violates all the rights of the people with whom we negotiate?- He was himself acquainted with the circumstances under which these treaties were usually made. He had been present at some of them, he had heard much more respecting them, until he had convinced himself that the moral evidence which he had obtained, was equal to any judicial testimony.- He was convinced that nine out of ten of these treaties are not made in that free and open spirit in which the ought to be negotiated, but are dictated by us either with arms in our hands, or by another course equal destructive of independence.  We see in our statute books some items which no man can understand. We see sums put down for services performed by individuals, none of whom are known except by the agent who employed them.
Mr. Moore, of Alabama, here spoke to order, on the ground, that the discussion was taking too wide a range.
The Speaker decided that the gentleman from Missouri was giving too much latitude to his remarks.
Mr. Bates expressed his regret that he should have departed from the strict limits of debate. He repeated that the letter of Mr. McKenney, a clerk in the Department states that he assumed the authority, ' broke this individual. It was important, while we keep up this system of treaty making, that we also keep up those forms of courtesy which are preserved between independent nations.  If we are to use this strain power against the Creeks, what is to prevent us from doing the same towards other nations? The time may come, when some one of the nations of Europe may fall into this poor and feeble condition, in which we may think proper to exercise again this domineering disposition, when some envoy from this country may choose to turn out their Secretary of State, or discharge their Senate, in order to remove individuals who may stand in the way of his views. And though the power has been now exercised by so humble an individual, it may hereafter be usurped by someone more conspicuous, availing himself o this mischievous precedent.
Mr. Wickliffe said, that as an amendment had been adopted his morning, extending the inquiry into the expenditures for Indian treaties so far back as 1812, he wished to offer another amendment. he stated that the practice which originally prevailed in the negotiation of these treaties had been departed from. He was opposed to permitting the Head of a Department to send A. B. or C to spend a comfortable summer, in order to hold treaties with Indians. He did not wish any treaty to be made without an appropriation being first obtained from the Representatives of the people. To see how far we had proceeded, he moved to amend the resolution by adding the following words.
'In cases where specific appropriation has not been previously made by Congress to defray the expenses of such mission for the purpose of holding treaties.'
This amendment was agreed to.
Mr. Thompson, of Georgia, moved to amend the resolution by inserting, after the words 'among the Indians,' the following words;
'And if the person so dismissed was a Cherokee, whether he had not been previously to that time, ordered from the Creek nation by the authority of his own tribe.'
This amendment was agreed to.
Mr. Wilde said, so far as this resolution seeks an enquiry into a particular transaction, he was authorized to believe that all the information on that subject was easy of access by ordinary diligence. If that was the case, he was opposed to making any further addition, for this purpose, to the masses of printed documents with which the tables of members are overloaded. Mr. W. made some other observations, which owing to an interruption, we did not distinctly hear. He afterwards went on to ask, if these Indiana tribes are independent nations, why are they not represented by ministers near the United States? He adverted to a proposition made by the Cherokees to settle the dispute with Georgia, by making a cession of Florida to them. According to Mr. McKenney's letter this man who was deposed had only exercised an influence over the Indians. Are we to enquire what influence envoys have exercised in destroying any of the cabinets of Europe? He desired to know what facts could be disclosed as to this man, who was now elevated to the dignity of being made a subject of grave discussion in this House. What legislation could grow out of this enquiry? Was it intended to legislate the chief into office again Now that he has been unmade, do we propose to remake him? or to cast any censure on the President for the act of the agent?
Here the Speaker announced that the hour appropriated to resolutions had expired, and suspended the discussion. The bill was afterwards taken up and adopted.










New Echota:
Thursday April 17, 1828
TO CORRESPONDENTS
'A Friend' has been received and will be inserted in our next.
___________________________________
AS MISTAKE CORRECTED
We notice the following in the N. Y Advertiser. 'A second Indian newspaper, is stated in the Philadelphia Democratic Press, to be published under the patronage of the Cherokee Nation. It is to be printed at Columbus, on the Chatahouchee river in Georgia, under the title of the 'Columbus Enquirer.'
The above is altogether a mistake, which probably originated from the establishment of the Cherokee Phoenix, the only Indian paper, we believe, in existence.- At present, Georgia would be quite an unfavorable place for publishing an Indian paper.
______________________________________________
From what has taken place between the Cherokees and the State of Georgia, and the frequent hostile feelings expressed by the leading men of the latter, it cannot otherwise be expected but that there should be considerable prejudice and animosity of feeling existing on both sides.  It is even thought by some of our Citizens that a Georgian must necessarily be an enemy to Indians. This is a great mistake, which it is our wish to do away. It is true that the proceedings of the Legislature of the State towards us, have been far from being Christian and friendly, yet this does by no means shew [sic], that all the private citizens will deal with us in a similar manner.  There are many who are real friends to the Indian; many whose friendship we greatly prize.- Among this number we include the writer of a letter, (with whom we have no personal acquaintance) of which the following is an extract.
'I pray God that your laudable exertions may be blessed by civilizing and evangelizing all such of your tribe as are yet in a state of ignorance, and that the influence of your paper may reach every tribe on this Continent. I hope ere long to see the Redeemer's standard hoisted and planted in the heart of every tribe and kindred in America-when all commotions and angry feeling shall be buried in oblivion, and all become the family of God, and enjoy the blessed communion of our Great Redeemer, without any distinction of name or sect.'
We add our hearty amen to the above.
__________________________________________________
Among the frequent notices of the fatal effects of intemperance, we have had occasion to lay before our readers two instances of murder in the neighborhood of Sumach. We have the mortification of increasing our list with two others. One not far from Sumach, another in Pine Log.  The trial of one of them was to take place on the 12th inst. and the other was shot the day after the murder. We do not remember ever to have noticed so many instances of murder within so short a time. Such frequent cases speak a language, not to be misunderstood. to the dealers of ardent spirits.
______________________________________________
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Mr. BOUDINOTT: permit me, through the medium of your paper to suggest a plan for the edification of Cherokee congregations at mission stations, when no minister of the Gospel is present, or no interpreter.  It is this. Let the best reader of Cherokee be selected, ' let him be requested, by the conductor of the meeting to make himself familiar beforehand with the chapter of the Bible, which is published in the number of the Phoenix last received, and with the remarks which accompany it, and in meeting read them to the congregation. I make this suggestion on the supposition that you may continue, as you have begun, to publish one chapter in each of your numbers.
A MISSIONARY.










SENECA MISSION.
Extract of a letter from Rev. T. S. Harris, superintendent of the Seneca Mission, to the publisher of the Rochester Observer, dated. SENECA VILLAGE, Feb. 25, 1828.
You are already apprized that within the year past we enjoyed a little season of revival at the Seneca and Cataraugus stations:-the fruits of which are precious and still remain. It is, dear Brother, a consoling truth of the Bible, that 'with God all things are possible.' He is able to renew and purify the most degraded - and for the honor of the gospel and the glory of his own great name, he has sometimes done it to the no small joy of his servants and to the confusion and vast annoyance of infidel objectors.
The church at Seneca has increased from fourteen to thirty native members. A church has been formed at Cataraugus within the year consisting of nineteen adult native members, principally the fruits of this season of refreshing from the presence of God. A number more at both stations of both sexes and of all ages are still inquiring 'what must we do to be saved.'
The moral influence of the Gospel on the hearts and habits of this people, since its entrance amongst them, is in many respects most cheering. It has taught them to respect themselves, one another-the commands and institutions of God's word. It has promoted the peace of families;- cleanliness of person-an almost universal regard for the Sabbath, except where they are led astray b the remains of paganism, or the still more pernicious example of some of the whites, who are seen frequently coming from ___________on this most sacred day-either for the purpose of collecting accounts, making bargains in lumber, cattle, swine, or some other inconsistent or less laudable object of pursuit.- This same moral influence has done away an almost incalculable amount of wretchedness in the desertion of wives, children and parents. If it has not killed the Hydra-intemperance, it has given him many a wound, which I humbly and fervently pray will prove incurable. A few of the most influential chiefs of the Tribe, who have long been thought incurable drunkards, have refrained astonishingly for some time, and appear to be applying to the only effectual remedy, the help that comes from God only.
The people at this station have recently resolved on erecting by private subscription among themselves a neat little Chapel, to be finished the ensuing summer; which shall cost them when completed, $1700. One chief headed the subscription with $1100 in cash. 41000 in cash was pledged; the rest they agree to pay partly in lumber in one of the saw mills, and partly in cash from a few individuals who are expected generously to assist them in Canandaigua and vicinity. The house is to be 50 feet by 40.- well seated, painted-with tower, dome, bell, 'c. 'c.
There is at present a very interesting state of feelings amongst the Alleghenies, a branch of the Seneca family on the Allegheny River below Olean. Four of their number were received into the church at Seneca on their own application, better than a year since. These have been very useful in drawing the attention of a number of their countrymen  to the concerns of their souls, ' have in fact been their only spiritual guides. About a week since, in company with a delegation from the church at Seneca, I paid them another visit, and to our joy,- we found quite a number on their knees imploring the infinite Redeemer to enlighten their darkness and save their souls. About 30 appeared to be enquiring for Christ with tears. About 20 of both sexes confessed their sins in public conference, with such solemnity of manner and delicacy of sentiment, and tenderness of feeling, as must have penetrated the most obdurate. To see the trickling tear glisten on the cheek of the silver headed warrior, who has long since buried the hatchet beneath the 'tree of peace' as he sat reclining his head upon his staff, listening to the statements of his former companions in arms, or to the still more affecting language of the beloved youth of his tribe-was to me one of the most interesting scenes I could desire to see on this side of heaven. May it prove the indication of the godly sorrow which worketh repentance into life.
Eight were baptized on the Sabbath, who have some time been considered pious, and will be received into full communion with the church in Seneca in the spring, if they continue to be steadfast.
A goodly number of the people love songs of Zion, and it is one of our most delightful exercises on Sabbath evening, after the more public exercises of the day, to sit down surrounded by a group of these interesting children of nature-sometimes engaged with them in singing, and occasionally listening in tearful silence to their expressions of deep-toned affection and penitence.'










An Indian chief of the Nova Scotia Tribe, has in person, presented a petition to the Legislature of N. S. praying that the selling of RUM to the Indians might be prohibited.- Hampshire Sentinel


















COMMUNICATIONS,
CHEROKEE CONSTITUTION.
We stated in one of our last numbers, that the Principal Chiefs of this Nation were to meet the United State's Agent, at his residence, for the purpose of hearing a communication from the President in relation to the newly formed Cherokee Constitution. As many influential men of the adjoining States and elsewhere, particularly members of Congress, either from misapprehension, or settled determination to oppose every Indian Improvement, have raised the cry, that an 'Indian tribe in the heart of the Union has assumed an attitude of independence, by forming a constitution and ought to be opposed,' we were fearful that the Executive would make serious exceptions to some of the principles of our infant government. We are, however, happily disappointed. The words of the President contain no intimation that the Cherokees ought to be prohibited from forming a Constitution, but on the contrary, that this Constitution can be recognized by the General Government, if its provisions do not interfere with the relation existing between the United States and the Cherokees. It was never the intention of the framers of this Constitution, or their Constituents, to alter that connection. We believe the Cherokees are aware of the importance, particularly at this interesting crisis, when enemies abound, of holding the President's hand, or in other words the General Government, and paying a suitable regard to the existing treaties. But without multiplying our own remarks, we present to our readers the letter of the United State's Agent on this subject, and the reply of the two Principal Chiefs. We publish them verbatim ad titeratim.

______________________________________________

 COMMUNICATION TO THE CHIEFS OF THE CHEROKEE NATION 16 APRIL, 1828

 Friends ' Brothers.
 It was in obedience to Instructions from your Great Father, the President of the United States, That I sent for you- you have done well that you have come;- I thank you for it-

 I have little to Say to you, and what I have to say are his words-not mine.

 The subject of your having formed a Constitution, and Constitutional Government, has Raised a Considerable Clamour [sic], particularly in the adjoining States.-

 It has been brought before the Congress of the United States-and the President has been Officially notified of it----
And has directed me to 'Convene the Chiefs, and inform them, that he wishes them, destinctly [sic] to understand that this act of theirs, cannot be considered in any other light, then as Regulations of purely municipal Character--And which he wishes them distinctly to understand, will not be Recognized, and Changing any one of the Relations under which they stood to the General Government, prior to the adoption of said Constitution.'-
These are all words which he has directed me, to say to you-- They Contain but two sentences--both of which are delivered with Considerable emphesis [sic],---and both of which I wish you to understand, Take them and ponder them over, and over again--They are the words of your Father ' friend;-
To some of you it may be necessary, to explain what I understand by municiple [sic] Regulations.---I understand them to be such Ordinances, Rules, or By laws, as the Inhabitants of any City, Town, or other Body Corporate, are authorized by their several 'Acts of Incorporation, to pass for their own internal Regulation ' Government;
To make this more plain, I will give you an example-the people living in a Town, apply to the legislature of there [sic] State to be incorporated, and it is granted, A Law passes difining [sic] their Corporate boundarys [sic], and authorizing them to Elect conncillars [sic], to make such ordinances, or By Laws, as they deem necessary for the Govournment [sic], and well being of the people Residing within Their Corporate limits (provided those By Laws shall not be Contrary to the Laws of the State) and to Elect Officers to Execute those By Laws,-which when so made, have all the force of the state Laws over those people; But cannot prevent, and must not millitate [sic] against, or impede, the Regular administration of the Laws of the State,---over that same Teretory [sic] and people.
A word or two now as to the Relations, under which you stood to the General Govournment[sic], prior to the adoption of said Constitution,---when the United States took the Cherokees by the hand, and adopted them as children into the great american [sic] Family, certain stipulations were entered into; called a Treaty; By which both parties were bound; and neither can annul, without the Consent of the other.-- In which the Cherokees gave up to the General Government Certain Rights ' privalleges [sic], which they previously ' while in a savage state enjoyed.- and Received in Lieu thereof, what was believed by your Fathers, to be an Equivellent [sic],[sic]
You gave up to them, your Sovereign, Independence;-and the Right to Regulate all your Intercourse;-with Foreign nations, or Individual Foreigners, and with their Citizens.- And in Lieu thereof, Received their protection;-In life, liberty and property;-But in none of your Treatys [sic] with them, do I find that you gave to them,-the Right to Regulate your own Intercourse with each other, -or to punish your own people for any violation of your own Regulations;-Unless it is found in that Broad expression; in the latter part of the 9th Article of the Treaty at Hopewell; (viz) 'and to manage all their affairs in such manner as they think proper'-neither do I find in any of the Intercourse Laws passed by Congress the Right assumed to inforce [sic] a complyence [sic] with contracts made between two Indians,-nor to punish one Indian, for an Offence Committed against an other;-within the Indian Teretory [sic].--on the Contrary, I find in the 2nd section of an act passed the 3rd march [sic] 1817, Entitled an act, to provide for the punishment of crimes committed within the Indian Boundary; the following proviso, (viz), Provided that 'nothing in this act, shall be so construed, as to effect any Treaty now in force, between the United states [sic] ' any Indian nation;-or to extend to any offence committed by one Indian against another, within any Indian boundary.'
This Explains to my mind satisfactorily, what the President means in Reference to you; by 'Regulations of a purely municiple Character- (viz) to enforce by payment of debts owing by one Indian, to another, to prevent (or Remedy) wrongs done, by one Indian, to another, or punish one Indian for crimes or offences [sic] committed against another.---and to make such other Regulation as in your Judgement will promote good order in sosciety [sic] with a view to the Happiness ' prosperity of your people.---
But these Regulations, as in the example given; must not Contradict, prevent, millitate against, or impede, the Regular administration of the Laws made by the higher Powers or the Existing Treaties.  This in my opinion is, the Relation in which you stand to the General Govournment [sic]---
In conclusion give me leave to add a few words of my own; They are also the words of a friend;
This is an eventfull [sic] period in your existance [sic], as a people; every step you take is fraught with events.---
It is my advice, to you To view well the Path you mean to tread; Pursue it Carefully, and tread it cautiously.---
Hold your Great Father the President fast by the hand don't0 move a single step in any new path, without his Council, and advice.- a proper course taken at this time and pursued stadily [sic]; may (with Heavens Blessing) lead you to Greatness and Renown;- But one wrong step may be fatal and Remedeless [sic].--
Let your path be such as to secure the friendship and protection of the United States; ' cultivate the friendship of the surrounding states; Live in peace and friendship amongst yourselves;-and may the Great Spirit, direct your feet in the Right path, and throw his light around it.---I again thank you for your attendence [sic].
H. MONTGOMERY.
______________________________________________________________
Agency Cherokee Nation,
 April 16, 1828

To COL. H. MONTGOMERY, UNITED STATES AGENT.
BROTHER- Your communication in obedience to instructions from the President of the United States is this day received.--We regret to learn that the circumstance of our having established a Constitutional Government, has produced a clamour in the adjoining states, especially when there was no just cause for it, as is evidenced from the manner in which Congress disposed of the subject, when it was introduced before that Honorable body.
The President has thought proper to direct you to convene us on this occasion, for the purpose of informing us, that he wishes us distinctly to understand that this act of the Nation, cannot be viewed in any other light than as regulations purely of a municipal character, and which he wishes us 'distinctly to understand will not be recognized as changing any one of the relations under which the Nation stood to the General Government, prior to the adoption of our Constitution.'--These remarks you state contain all the words which you are directed to say to us.- We freely ' with pleasure coincide, with the Executive in the opinion, that our relation and connection with the General Government, is not changed, but remains the same as it was before the Cherokee Constitution was adopted. That instrument contains a special article, which states, that all lawful treaties between the United States and this Cherokee Nation shall be the supreme law of the land. This proves, the view of this Nation as to its connection with the General Government without any shadow of doubtful construction. Your explanation of 'Municipal Regulations,' however correct in regard, to the police or by laws of incorporated Towns and Cities is inapplicable to the true situation of this Nation that claims for itself and always maintained sovereign jurisdiction over its territorial limits--you say, that to make it more plain 'I will give you an example; The people living in a town, apply to the Legislature of their state to be incorporated and it is granted and a law passes defining 'c.' This Nation by its own Legislature authorized and recommended the adoption of a Republican Constitution, which has been done. It had no relation or connection to a State to ask of it, its consent being connected and related to the United States alone by treaty. And as this Nation never surrendered her right to self Government or the exercise of its internal and domestic regulation, it was needless to ask for it from the General Government, to whom, as a generous nation, our improved Legislation for ourselves could not possibly afford any misapprehension, or a subject of disapprobation.--As to your views of certain passages of our treaties with the United States, we do not deem it necessary at this time, to reply to them; and as the President of the United States respects all existing treaties with this Nation; we heartily join with him, heart and hand, in the opinion, that their stipulations are fixed and not to be changed, without the consent of both parties. It affords us pleasure, to have listened to your advice, for which you will accept of our sincere thanks, and please to accept the assurances of respect and esteem from your friends and Brothers
(Signed) WILLIAM HICKS
JOHN ROSS










FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
The execution of Sway Back a cherokee [sic] at Crawfish Court House for the murder of murphy [sic] under the sentence of Judge Brown, is an additional event of the strict prosecution to some of the Cherokee laws. The circumstances of this murder appears to have had its origin in a drinking frolick [sic], and committed during a state of extreme intoxication. The parties prior to this melanchaly [sic] catastrophy [sic] had been known to have maintained the common habits of friendship.  Hence no cause of malevolence is assigned to give the least countenance for the commission of this palpable homicide.  The weapon which he employed, was a large oak stick cut for the purpose of wife wood, on which had been left some pointed knots from trimming its boughs, with this instrument of considerable weight, the criminal advanced unobserved behind Murphy's back, who was seated near a fire, deliberately and forceably [sic] made a blow on the juncture of the neck and head, which nearly crushed to pieces the back part of the cranium, with this destructive blow death followed as an inevitable consequence.  There were other Cherokees indulging themselves in a similar intemperance at the same time and place, on discovering the murder, they secured the criminal with fetters around the legs and hands, and kept him in this confinement until the marshal took him in possession. But during this affecting occasion when the marshal was about to proceed with him towards the place of trial, he begged permission of the officer to speak the last words to his child of two or three years old, though delivered hastily, yet reflects much credit on the affection of a Cherokee. Permission being given, embraced his child, and observed, I am speaking the last words--I am on my way to my place of trial and death-if I die it will be at court and not before-but if I live, it will be after court when life shall have been continued and to me newly exist again--Farewell. How far his secret monitor of wright [sic] and wrong operated a punishment in consequence of his crime, may be learnt from the remarkable fact, that from the time he committed the offence until his trial, which was nearly two weeks, was not known to have shewn [sic] the least uneasiness of his crime or danger, a stranger to inquietude and unconcerned in regard to his approaching fate. During his trial on being asked if he had any objections to any of his jurors, he replied with calmness and apparently without solicitude, that there were none to whom he objected, for said he, I know nothing of my act.--After a short trial and painful as it is to relate, it is nevertheless true, that he was condemned to die, by the testimony of his own wife preponderating to the truth of the crime. But during the solemn and may be added to him an awful investigation, continued without confuse, but inspired by the poetical line, 'the sons of Alknomock will never complain.'
We are informed that the criminal was to be executed by hanging.










NEW ECHOTA
Thursday, April 24 1828
TO READERS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
Scipio's communication has been received, but it is too personal for insertion.
In consequence of the difficulties in procuring paper, we shall not be able to issue our 11th No. until week after next.  A few weeks hence we hope to have a large supply of good paper from the North.
Our readers may wish to know the reason why they do not receive their papers as soon as they might. All the papers that are sent by mail are regularly and punctually put into the post office in this place, but according to the present arrangement of the mails, they are obliged to lie at Springplace nearly a week.  Application has been made to the General Post Office to remedy this inconvenience; and we hope the application will be complied with. In future our paper will be issued on Wednesday instead of Thursday, in anticipation of such alteration.
_______________________________________
The Arkansas Cherokee Delegation now at Washington, appear to be disappointed, as they are likely not to effect the objects of their mission. They express some dissatisfaction.
________________________________________
One of the murderers, whose trial we noticed in our last, was condemned at Chickamauga Court House, and executed on the 19th inst. Intemperance has been the ruin of this man, as it has been with thousands of others.  We sincerely hope this instance of the evil effects of ardent spirits will prove a warning to our citizens, such as indulge themselves in the excessive use of it, and to such as deal in it for the purpose of gain.
____________________________________________
INDIAN EMIGRATION.
We had occasion, in the first number of our paper, to publish an extract of Col. M'Kenney's letter to the Secretary of War, on Indian emigration, together with some remarks of our's which we could not very well avoid, considering our situation, and our views on the subject.  An unknown advocate of this new system of emegration [sic] has sent us the communication published below, intended to explain and defend the policy and principles recommended by Col. M'Kenney in the above mentioned letter.- We are opposed, as our readers undoubtedly know, to the removal of the Cherokees; particularly under such principles. The objections to our removal we have not yet offered to the public, but which will probably, at some future time, be done thro' the medium of this paper. It may suffice for the present to observe, that it is a matter of great doubt with us, whether this policy or removing the Indians beyond the limits of any Sate [sic] is rearly [sic] founded upon true friendship, having for its sole and great end, the good of the aborigines of this country. This doubt becomes strengthened from the fact, that this policy is sustained by recommendations of a coercive nature, and heartily welcomed by persons, known to be decidedly opposed to every Indian improvement.
Is it reasonable to suppose, that those who would find fault with the General Government for instructing the Indians, will exercise true friendship towards them, by sending them a thousand miles, ' forcing them to undertake a project of the most uncertain kind? We make this remark without implicating, in the least, the motives of Col. M'Kenney, and many true friends who are on the same side of the question.
We are not ignorant of the fate of those tribes which 'A Friend' invites us to consider as examples of the fatal effects of our intercourse with the whites. We know very well that tribe after tribe have dwindled away, and that the remnants of some are greatly degraded, and bid far, without judicious measures for their recovery, to trod the foot-steps of their fore fathers.  The question, however, comes with great force; will a removal far to the West, remedy the evils which have followed us from the discovery of America? Will a residence west of Missouri, or elsewhere, beyond the limits of any state or territory, prevent the destroying effects of white population, and its concomitants [sic] evils? As regards the Cherokees this question is peculiarly interesting, and ought not to be answered without due consideration. It is now admitted by all, we believe, that we are an improving people; that we are on a constant and gradual march towards a civilized state; and that though we have to encounter many counteracting influences, yet, we are on the increase in numbers; and that the present appearances are favourable [sic] to our complete recovery from a savage state.- Now, is it a part of wisdom to leave our infant institutions, our houses, our farms, and go and unite ourselves with our brethren (many of whom are still savages) and try a system of civilization, uncertain ' unprecedented.  We hope we shall be pardoned when we answer in the negative. Such a course appears to us somewhat like (to use an old land common saying,) 'jumping out of the fryingpan [sic] into the fire.'
_________________________________________
MR. BOUDINOT EDITOR.
The first number of the Cherokee Phoenix has been received by the writer of this note-and he is gratified to find in it the evidence of so much intelligence. You, sir, will have only to follow the dictates of your own enlightened mind, and avoid personalities and coarse, and vulgar language, which unfortunately characterized too many of the press's [sic] of the states, to succeed.
In regard to some remarks on Col. M'Kenney's report to the Secretary of War, headed 'Indian Emigration,' the writer of this note would offer what to him appears to be their meaning-They are,
First- In the spirit of true Friendship; and in accordance with his known solicitude for the happiness of the Indian race.
Second- They (the remarks) do not look to a removal except upon the sure basis of elevating  the Indians in privileges and in prosperity.
On the first proposition it is only necessary to refer to his expressions of friendship for the Cherokees, as contained in the report copied in the Phoenix. Nothing can be more kind; and I am sure there are none who will doubt their sincerity. But Col. M'Kenney wrote amidst fears, lest the very improvements and plan of Government adopted by the Cherokees should prove their more sudden overthrow! He knew well the feelings of the states whose jurisdictions take hold of the Cherokee lands; he knew well how active the spirit was, and yet is, for the acquisition of those lands, and above all how fearful the question of states rights, and jurisdiction, were becoming, nay had become, and that out of all this, (as is the way of the world,) if not by a sudden blow yet by slow process, such as extending the laws of those states, (of which it is believed there are five,) over the Cherokees of whom he says in his report, 'They deserve to be respected and helped,' would waste away and be no more a people!  It was to avoid this sad result, and the past gives awful promonitions! [sic]) that Col. McKenney appears to have spoken in his report, as with the voice of warning- and he pointed to a place of refuge, and to this means of preservation.  It was to a country and a well furnished home, which were to be first chosen, and then secured in the future, against the dreadful consequences of the past! I enclose a copy of his reports-in which you will see more fully his object, as explained in his talk to the Chickasaws. There is no unkindness in all this towards the Indians. 
Time will test this. Col. McKenney knows well how buoyant are the hopes of the enlightened among the Cherokees; and he respects that feeling-but he knows also that like feelings and like  hopes, and like advances in improvement once distinguished the Indians of Martha's Vineyard and Elizabeth's Isles, 'c. and that NOO-NATOMAN, where their altars and firesides once blazed, and where the voice of praise, and the words of life were once spoken, and cheerful and innocent mirth were enjoyed; and those fields and workshops that bore witness to the advances of civilization exist now, only a mournful proof that whilst the Indians retain their present relations to us, which are those of the past also, they cannot survive, but must, by a power no less operative that a law of nature, perish! Go now to the East. Ask where are those flourishing and improved bands over whom Elliot and Mayhew and Kirkland and other watched with such paternal care?- The answer will be -they are no more! and yet they had to contend against none of those devouring influences, (rum only excepted) which are now destroying the remnants of those who remain.
There is little doubt but the Indians who remain may, for the honor of the Government, yet be saved--but it will hardly be expected that the laws of the social and relative states, and which have been so depressing and runinous [sic] to Indians, can operate in the future, otherwise than as they have operated in the past.
Better, far better, to come up to the privileges of the Republic, in a territory where equal laws and equal rights are secured, than to be contending against the powers that war upon you now, and the influences which must continue to depress and waste you away as a people.
It is this end Col. McKenney has in view; and your intelligence must accord with its truth and justice.
A FRIEND.
______________________________________
Removal of the Cherokees.- On this subject we confess we are not sorry to see the Cherokee Phoenix speak a decided language. To remove them would be to overthrow their incipient establishments, and to check their progress in those arts, institutions and habits, which give to civilized and Christian life, its charm-its dignity and worth. The attempt to do this- however great the bribe we may offer as the price of their degradation- seems to us most iniquitous.---Vermont Chronicle.










OBITUARY
We were in hopes of obtaining for the columns of our paper, a biographical notice of the late Rev. John Gambold, one of the first Missionaries to this Nation. At present, we merely give a Notice of his death, sent to us by a bereaved fellow laborer.- We take pleasure in inserting it, though at this late hour.
Departed from this life, November 7th 1827, at Moravian Missionary station at Oehgelogy among the Cherokees, the Rev. John Gambold, aged 67 years, 4 months and 21 days of a pectoral dropsy.
His faithfulness, humility, and zeal for the missionary cause, in behalf of which he sacrificed everything, his childlike confidence in the heavenly Father, which was never shaken, even in the most difficult and pressing circumstances, his philanthropic, collected, and highly circumspect behavior in word and deed, which was so peculiarly adapted to the character of the nation, among which he preached the Gospel, and by which he was esteemed and loved as a Father-all these qualities will insure to the dear deceased, a grateful and glorious tribute in the ranks of departed and illustrious missionaries.


















CHEROKEE LAWS
[Continued]
 New Town, Oct. 14, 1825.

 Resolved by the National committee and Council,  that the law requiring the several light horse companies to act as jurymen in the courts of their respective districts, is hereby repealed; and
It is further resolved, That the circuit judges shall have power to order the marshals, sheriffs or constables, to select and empanel five disinterested men of good character and judgment, to act as jurors in the courts of their respective districts, and in no case shall a marshal, sheriff, or constable, who may be interested in any cause, be competent to make a selection and impanel jurors to sit upon that particular case.
Be it further resolved, That each juror shall be entitled to receive seventy-five cents per day for services, upon presenting a certificate from the circuit ' district Judges, attested by the clerk of the district court.
By order,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
MAJ. RIDGE, Speaker of Coun.
Concurred in by the Council,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A.M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Council.
______________
For the better security of the common property of the Cherokee Nation and for the protection of the rights and privileges of the Cherokee people, WE THE UNDERSIGNED MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE AND COUNCIL, now in legislative council convened, have ESTABLISHED, and by these presents do hereby DECLARE, the following articles as a FIXED AND IRREVOCABLE PRINCIPLES, by which the Cherokee Nation shall be governed. These articles may be amended or modified, by concurrence of two-thirds of the members of the committee and Council, in legislative council convened.
ARTICLE 1st. The lands within the sovereign limits of the Cherokee Nation, as defined by treaties, are, and shall be, the common property of the nation. The improvements made thereon and in the possession of the citizens of the nation, are the exclusive and indefeasible property of the citizens respectively who made, or ma rightfully be in possession of them.
ARTICLE 2. The annuities arising from treaties with the United States, and the revenue arising out of the tax laws, shall be founded in the national treasury, and be the public property of the nation.
ARTICLE 3d. The legislative council of the nation shall alone possess the legal power to manage and dispose of, in any manner by law, the public property of the nation; Provided, nothing shall be construed in this article, so as to extend that right and power to dispossess or divest the citizens of the nation of their just rights to the houses, farms, and other improvements in their possession.
ARTICLE 4th. The principal chiefs of the nation shall in no wise hold any treaties, or dispose of the public property in any manner, without the express authority of the legislative council in session.
ARTICLE 5th. The members of Committee and Council, during the recess of the legislative council, shall possess no authority or power to convene councils in their respective districts, or to act officially on any matters of concern to the public affairs of the nation, excepting expressly authorized or delegated by the legislative council in session.
ARTICLE 6th. The citizens of the nation, possessing exclusive and indefeasible right to their respective improvements, as expressed in the first article, shall possess no right or power to dispose of their improvements to citizens of the United States, under such penalties, as may be prescribed by law in such cases.
ARTICLE 7th. The several courts of justice in the nation shall have no cognizance of any case transpiring previous to the organization of courts by law, and which case may have been acted upon by the chiefs in council, under the then existing custom and usage of the nation, excepting there may be an express law embracing the case.
ARTICLE 8th. The two principle chiefs of the nation, shall not, jointly or separately have the power of arresting the judgements of either of the courts or of the legal acts of the national Committee and Council, but that the judiciary of the nation shall be independent, and their decisions final and conclusive; Provided always, That they act in conformity to the foregoing principles or articles, and the acknowledged laws of the nation.
Done in legislative council, at New Town, this 15th day of June, 1825.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't. N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Com
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council.
_________________
New Town, Cot. 14, 1825.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council That the law requiring the district judges to act as jurors in the supreme court, from and after he adjournment of the present supreme court, is, and shall be, null and void, and that the four circuit judges alone shall hereafter comprise the supreme court, to review and decide upon all cases appealed from the district courts; and that each judge shall be incompetent to sit, act, or decide upon any cause appealed from their respective district courts.
By order the N. Committee,
JNO ROSS. Pres't. N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker,
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, National Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, C. Clk. Council.
New Town, Oct. 15, 1825

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the poll tax law is, and shall be, suspended for two years from the 1st of January next; Provided nothing shall be so construed in this suspension, as to discharge or release those who have not paid their taxes, from paying up all their arrearages; therefore,
BE it further resolved, That the collecting officers are hereby required to make collections, without delay, from all those who may be in arrears for poll taxes, including the present year.
By order,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't. N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk of N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Council.
_________________
New Town, Oct. 17, 1825
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the judges of the supreme court, during the session of the said court, shall have power to summons any of the marshals, sheriffs, or constables of the several districts, who may be at New Town, to perform their official duties during each term and in case any officer so summoned refuses or neglects to obey such summons, he or they shall pay a fine at the discretion of the court, not exceeding five dollars nor less than one dollar and fifty cents.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Committee
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS
A. M'COY, Clerk of the N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Coun.
________________
New Town, Oct. 18, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all contested claims, where there is no evidence of the claimant or claimants having demanded or set forth his, her, or their claim, within the term of two years after such claim or claims maybe alleged to have existed, then, in that case, such claim or claims shall be considered null and void, and be irrecoverable by law; Provided, nothing shall be construed in the foregoing resolution, so as to impair contracts, or bar any person or persons from recovering any note of hand, or liquidated accounts, at any period after the limitation here in specified.
By order of the National Com.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A.M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Council.
__________
New Town, Oct. 17, 1825.
The National Committee concur with the Council so far in remitting the fine imposed by the court on Samuel Henry as the nation is concerned, excepting the marshall's fee and the confiscation of the brandy; the proceeds arising from the sale of the brandy to revert to the informer agreeably to his consent; Provided that the said Samuel Henry also obligates himself under bond and security in future never to violate the laws of this nation, by the introduction of ardent spirits into the nation, under the penalty of making good the fine herein remitted, and also of being dealt with as the law directs.
By order,
JOHN ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Coun.
______________________
New Town, Oct. 31, 1825.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all gold, silver, lead, copper, or brass, which may be found within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, shall be the public property of the Cherokee Nation; and should the legislative council deem it profitable and expedient, to have such mine or mines worked, then, in that case, the discoverer or discoverers shall be entitled to receive one fourth of the net proceeds arising from such minerals.
By order,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't. N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS
A. M'COY, Clerk Nat. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Coun.
___________________
New Town, October 5, 1824

Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation be, and he is hereby, authorized to loan out on interest, at six per-cent per annum such surplus public money as maybe in the treasury, after amble appropriations have been made to meet he annual expenditures for the support of the government, to such citizen or citizens of the Cherokee Nation as may desire a loan; Provided such person or persons may be fully able, to repay the sum or sums so loaned, and also, to give bond and two good and sufficient securities to the nation; and Provided also that each loan shall not exceed five hundred dollars, and for a length of time not exceeding six months, excepting by paying up the interest and renewing the bond; then, in that case, the loan may be continued six months longer; and in case of failure to make payment or to renew the bond, then, in that case, the bond shall be put into the hands of some public officer for collection, and the defaulter's private property shall be levied upon, executed ad sold to the highest bidder, unless redeemed within the periods following; to wit; for all sums from one hundred dollars and under, ten days; for all sums above one hundred dollars and under two hundred and fifty dollars and upwards, thirty days. The officer's fees for collection and the necessary expenses incurred by keeping the property, shall also be deducted from the sale of the defaulter's property.
By order of the National Committee
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk. N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Council.










COMMUNICATIONS.
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
To the people of the Cherokee Nation.
FELLOW CITIZENS:
In about three months hence, you will be called upon by the constitution of your country, to exercise a privilege of great importance to yourselves, and to your country. Yes, a privilege which all free people should justly appreciate, ' on the exercise of which depends our future prosperity, under an enlightened form of government; such as one as we have lately adopted for our guide.
The welfare of our country should be the order of the day with all who have the interest of their native land at heart.  Our nation, as a political body, has reached an important crisis, and bids fair for rapid progress in the path of civilization, the arts and sciences; while at the same time we can say with no ordinary degree of exultation, that agriculture is gradually gaining an ascendancy amongst us equalled by no other Indian Tribe. But, after all, in comparing our past difficulties, the danger which our nation has escaped, with our present condition, we have many sources of true regret, which may yet prove detrimental, to our future prosperity. And it is but just to ourselves and to our country, to endeavor to maintain the eminence we have attained to. The course to be pursued should now attract the serious consideration of the people.  And may I take the liberty to suggest the course to be pursued for your consideration? As we have put our hands to the plough, and as the art of Legislation is little understood by a majority of this nation, great care should be taken, how we manage our political engine; lest we should be compelled to renounce forever, all hopes of ever enjoying the fruits of the promised land.
1st. On the first Monday in next August, will be our general election day, and on that day, you will have to put into action the prerogative vested in you, by the constitution, the exercise of which should be carefully and judiciously handled.
2d. In this duty, in which you will have to select persons to represent your wishes in the general Council of the nation, be careful that you choose men of unshaken firmness, good friends to their country, and judicious in all that may devolve on them to perform,
3d. The Committee should be composed of men of education, and good knowledge in the affairs of our nation; while the Council should be composed of full blooded Cherokees, known for love of their country, the land of their forefathers, and also celebrated for their good natural sense, justice, and firmness. If then, we be combined by one common interest, having one object, the preservation of ourselves as a free and sovereign people, observing strictly our relations with the United States, with whom alone we are connected by solemn treaties, (with but one exception) and as long as we remain just, and firm as a nation, we need not dread the threatning [sic] aspects of the time. By this judicious course in the regulation of our internal affairs, we may avert the fulfilment [sic] of the opinion of some, who have ventured to predict, that we will fall from our present condition, or in other words, that we cannot maintain our political situation, because, say they, we are overreaching ourselves in adopting an enlightened form of government. It is true we have made bold strides to attain to our present elevation,-an elevation no other Indian tribe ever enjoyed- an elevation, to maintain which, and preserve with dignity and honour [sic] to our Country, our utmost energy should be employed. Notwithstanding that we are surrounded with many difficulties of various kinds, it is a matter of great encouragement, amidst the evils which threaten our tranquility, we hear now and then a voice, advocating the claims of justice, humanity, and innocence.
The writer does not wish to be understood as arrogating to himself the right of dictating, but he claims only the privilege of suggesting to his fellow citizens, that they may be on the watch tower on the lookout. At the same time the writer is in hopes that by this feeble effort to call the attention of the people at large, some other person more able, may be induced to point our a more efficient course to be pursued. As a citizen, I must beg your indulgence for these lines, actuated as it is only by the zeal I feel for my country's welfare.
UTALETAH.
____________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday May 6, 1828
Volume 1 No. 11
Page 2 Col. 3b-4b
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
MR. EDITOR:- It is with some reluctance I appear a second time in the field of political controversy, from the consideration, that much has already been said to but little profit, either by myself, or 'A Cherokee.' I shall endeavor, in this communication to divest myself of 'categorical fire,' and 'annihilating sarcasms,' of which my opponent accuses me of being so 'plenary;' and to bring forth something, besides long laboured [sic] sentences and sharp acrimonies.
'A Cherokee' tells us, his re-appearance is by way of reinforcement of the position which he had taken; that is to say, the Council and their Treasurer had abandoned principles. In what does abandonment consist? In forsaking that which has real existence, and legal obligation over us. Now as the principles in the Constitution exist only in theory, there can be no abandonment, consequently his position is erroneous.
As the members of the Council of 1827 were acting under the then existing laws and usages, which were legally binding on them, they were perfectly justifiable in electing their former Treasuer [sic]. If the election of Jno. Martin Treasurer by an abandonment of principle, at which the Cherokee so much stickles, I should like to know, to what extent the late President of the Committee exerted his influence to prevent the election.- Did he with true patriotic spirit exclaim against the proceeding, and advise that another candidate should be substituted? Or was he asleep on the watch tower?
The members of the General Council who were in the Convention were in the ratio of (not more than) five to fifteen. Now is it not unreasonable to suppose, so small a minority could control, in an election, such an overwhelming majority.  But this minority voted for John Martin.  'A Cherokee' says.  Admitted. And if they had voted for his opponent the very same result is obvious, as he was president of the Committee. It will avail nothing to say, he resigned his office, for it is an indubitable fact, without any formal election thereafter he re-assumed the Presidency and continued there until the adjournment of the Council.
As there is no legal compulsion to concentrate the offices of the Government at New Echota, the whole drift of his arguments seems to converge to this point. I live at Echota. I am without an office, therefore elect me Treasurer.  If this is not an abandonment of principle, occasioned by emolument of office, is it not, to say the least, self elevation, and prostration of decorum? Truth cannot be offended by a definition; and those who tolerate to themselves the right of exposing to public censure, by careless declamation, the transactions of other men, should never be over-scrupulous of a like exposure.  'A Cherokee' has made the following quotation to prove the right of the Council to destroy the Constitution. 'The principles to be adopted by the Convention in the Constitution, shall not go to destroy the rights and liberties of the Cherokee people,'  But he has cunningly omitted the provision in the same resolution, viz: ' Nothing shall be so construed in this last clause, as to invalidate, not prevent the Constitution from going into effect, after the aforesaid next General Council.' By this provision the sovereignty of the Council, was vested in the Convention, for the purpose of establishing a Constitution, under restriction, that they should not adopt principles which would go to destroy the rights and liberties of the people. That the Convention originated in the Council, is a fact. But it was effected by the people. If they had not voted for members, there would have been no Convention: and by an election of members to a Convention, for the avowed purpose of establishing a Constitution, the people also transferred their sovereignty to that body, and a tacit implied compact bound the people to be governed by the principles adopted, which were to be valid to all intents and purposes; unless altered by their own regulations.
If the Council of 1827 could have assumed the right of rejecting the Constitution, those same members who composed that Council, will have the same right to come forward next October, turn the new members out of doors, and proceed to legislation.
I was informed a few days ago by a gentleman who ranks high in this country, for his acquirements, and who was in the Convention, and in the Committee, whose name however I feel too much delicacy to use here without permission, 'that the Constitution was read, and explained in Cherokee to the members of the General Council, and no right of rejecting was exercised, for they could assume none.' During the sitting of the Convention, I heard several intelligent members declare the sovereignty vested in that body, for the express purpose of establishing a constitution, to be higher than it would be in the Council following. Therefore my position is not a 'fangled chimera,' first bro't [sic] into existence, by me nor will it be found that I am its only supporter; and I presume, upon due reflection, my adversary will find something more in my reasoning, than mere 'sophistry.'-
Quotations were made in the first communication of 'A Cherokee to prove the Constitution was in operative force. But now he disclaims any farther maintenance of that point.
Why is this contrariety in faith so soon exhibited?  This spirit of retrograde? Does it not argue an instability of mind, or lordly disposition to establish certain principles which he himself did not fairly comprehend. I shall not pretend to notice, minutely all his turgid remarks, for I confess I am at a loss to find constructions for some of his phrases.
I am aware Mr. Editor, that ' A Cherokee's' favorite topic of discussion is becoming wearisome, and doubtless disgusting to some of your readers. I have therefore determined that the controversy on my part shall end with this communication.-But if he thinks the subject has not been handled with sufficient gravity, he has all the room given him in the world to handle it better.
MARSHALL
We earnestly request that this controversy may cease.- Ed.










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday, May 6, 1828
ERRATA
In our last Page second, column first, 19th line from the bottom, for verbatim ad literatim, read, et literatim.
Page third, column first, 9th line from the bottom, for, is nearly founded, read, is really founded.
Page third, column second, 17th line for, bid far, read bid fair.
______________________________
TO CHEROKEE CORRESPONDENTS.
Since the commencement of our labors, we have not been able to insert as much Cherokee matter, as might have been expected, and desired. It may be necessary to state, that we have devoted a good portion of our time to that part of our business, and that if any of our Cherokee readers think that we have slighted them, we can assure them that it has not been through neglect, or for want of attention. Those who know anything of the duties devolving upon us, will acknowledge that we have a heavy task, ' unless relieved by Cherokee Correspondents, a greater amount of Cherokee matter cannot be reasonably expected. We hope those of our correspondents, who take a lively interest in the diffusion of intelligence in their mother language, will lead us aid in this department, and by far the most arduous part, of our labors.
______________________________________________
CONGRESS
SENATE
REMOVAL OF INDIANS.
On motion of MR.BENTON,
The Senate proceeded to the consideration of a bill making appropriations to enable the President of the United States to defray the expenses of a delegation of the Choctaw and Chickasaw nations of Indians to explore the country west of the Mississippi.
MR. BENTON explained the object, and supported the policy of the measure. The States of Mississippi, Alabama, and others had, he said a numerous Indian population who, in all wars, whether foreign, civil, or servile, were ready to rise against those States. It was desirable that these Indians should be sent away. The measure was for the benefit of the Indians no less than of the States in which they now dwelt.
Mr. Cobb, said, that although the remarks made applied to the Creeks and Cherokees, he did not see that they were included in the bill. He moved to amend the bill by inserting, after the word Chickasaws, 'Creeks and Cherokees.'
Mr. ELLIS opposed the motion. It did not appear that the Creeks and Cherokees were desirous of removing. They had not asked to be removed. He hoped the amendment would not be pressed. Mr. Johnson of Kentucky said, the proposition authorizes the President to send agents, with three or four chief men of the Indian tribes, to explore the country west of the Mississippi, with a view of removal hereafter. No coercion was proposed. If they liked the lands which they saw, they might remove to them. The change of residence would greatly contribute to the happiness and independence of the Indians. He hoped the amendment would be adopted.
Mr COBB said he could not consent to withdraw the amendment. The government was bound by the obligations of a solemn compact, to remove the Indians from the State of Georgia. They had frequent opportunities, of removing them if they choose, but they had refused to do it. He could show four different occasions on which the Indians might have been removed, but on each occasion, the government, from policy, interest or other motive, neglected to do it.  Justice to Georgia required the United States an immense consideration for it, which made her poor. If the government does refuse to comply with the compact, it will show that the government is not very closely pinched by the obligations which it takes upon itself. He would place at the disposal of the President of the United States a large sum of money to enable him to hold treaties, send out exploring parties, and adopt all other proper means to induce the Indians to remove. If this could be done, he would include all the Indians. But he would not give a vote to remove a single Indian until the removal of those in Georgia had been provided for.-In Ohio, there were not more than 500 Indians.  From Indiana, Illinois, and Missouri, nearly all the Indians had been removed. These States came into the Union after the compact was entered into with Georgia; and still, the Georgia Indians were not removed. He knew not what impression these things made on the Senate, but he would assure gentlemen that they made deep impression on the people of Georgia. If he could get the consent of those who had the management of the bill, he would move it so as to authorize and enable the President to take measures to induce the Indians to remove.
Mr. BRANCH asked if an agent was not now employed in conducting an exploring party of the Creeks.
Mr. KING said he would not enter into an examination of the rights of Georgia as connected with the subject. He agreed that less had been done than might have been done towards the removal of the Georgia Indians. But this was not the proper time to discuss that matter. His object was to make a small appropriation to enable the chiefs to explore the country, and if they liked it, and determined to remove to it, it may be proper for the government to prepare for their removal.
In reply to the Senator from North Carolina he stated that an exploring party, under Col. Brearly, had gone out, and some of the Creeks had been removed. But they were of the M'Intosh party. The hostile party, who now wish to explore, will examine for themselves, rather than take the place chosen by their enemies. With respect to the Cherokees, he doubted whether they were willing to go.  It was not his wish to coerce any of them. He was sorry they had not been before removed. They might now have been placed in a comfortable situation. At present, they were almost in a state of starvation. 
They were compelled to subsist on roots. It was said that, in the woods they might lose their civilization and become wild. Mr. K. said that they had only contracted the vices of civilization. The wild man of the woods, he thought, had much more character than the drunken and thievish half-civilized Indians.
The above remarks of Mr. King, discover notorious ignorance of the Cherokees.- We should like to know where this honorable Senator obtained his knowledge of our wretched condition. The advocates  of the removal of the Indians seem to possess means of information inaccessible to others. We are the more opposed to this system when it is sustained by such palpable ignorance, we mean, of the condition of the Indians generally. Will it not be best for such men as Mr. King, to learn who these Indians are, ' what is their real condition, before they begin to legislate on their removal?
__________________________________
We are authorized to announce RICHARD FIELDS of Creek Path a Candidate for the Committee, for Chattooga District.










NOTICE
TAKEN up on Tarripin Creek, by Zachariah Simmons, on the 19th inst. a BAY HORSE, with a small white on his forehead, about six years old, and five feet and two inches high, and without any brand.
J. VANN.
April 20th, 1828


















CHEROKEE LAWS
[Continued]
New Town Nov., 8, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the law authorizing the appointment of light horse companies, passed at Brown's Town on the 11th day of September, 1808, be, and the same is hereby repealed, and that in lieu of light horse companies a marshal, sheriff, deputy sheriff, and two constables shall be chosen ' appointed for each district, in the following manner: to wit:
The marshals to be elected by the national Com. and the principal sheriffs to be elected by the people in their respective districts; and the two constables by the people within their particular bounds, for the term of two years. The marshals and sheriffs shall enter into bond and give two or more good and sufficient securities in a penal sum of not less than one thousand dollars. The sheriffs to appoint their own deputies and for whose conduct they shall also be held responsible and bound. The constables shall enter into bond and give two good securities in the penal sum of two hundred dollars. The duties of the marshals and sheriffs shall be to make collections of all just debts, such as notes of hand, liquidated accounts and judgements ' to arrest horse thieves and other rogues and murderers for trial, according to law.
The duties of the constables shall be the same as that of the marshals and sheriffs, but they shall be confined within their respective bounds in exercising their official duties; and each of the above named officers are hereby authorized when in pursuit of criminals, to summon as many men as may be necessary to arrest such criminals, and any person or persons refusing to obey, without any reasonable excuse such summons, he or they shall forfeit and pay a fine of twenty-five dollars for every such offence; to be recoverable in the same way and manner as all other debts and the fines so collected, shall be paid into the national treasury. The person or persons obeying such summons, upon presenting the officer's certificate before the national treasury, for the service so performed, shall e entitled to receive one dollar per day for the time so engaged from actual necessity. The constables when executing their duties in arresting ' conducting criminals to the place of trial shall also be entitled to one dollar per day for the time actually engaged. Each marshal shall be entitled to receive forty dollars, and each principal sheriff shall be entitled to receive thirty dollars per annum, for their services from the public funds, in addition to their fees of eight percent for collections The deputy sheriffs and constables shall also be entitled to receive eight percent for collections.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
Approved      his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A.M'COY, Clerk of N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Council.
_________________
New Town, Nov, 9, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all written wills bearing the signature of the testator and signed by one or two respectable witnesses and the same appearing to the satisfaction of the court of the district wherein the testator lived, or where most of is estate ma be situated that it is the last will ' testament of the deceased such will and testament shall be valid and binding to all intents and purposes.
Be it further resolved, That nothing shall be construed in the foregoing, so as to impair or destroy the validity of any will having no witnesses, which can be found among the valuable papers of the deceased, bearing his or her signature, which will and signature shall be satisfactorily proved to be the hand writing of t he deceased.
Be it further resolved, That nuncupative wills where witnesses are called and the testator, in the presence of two or three respectable persons at his or her last sickness make known his or her will, and one of the witnesses being a disinterested person, such nuncupative wills being committed to writing in ten days after the testators decease and the same appearing to the satisfaction of the district court to be agreeable to the testators last will and testament, such wills shall also be valid and binding.
Be it further resolved, That where a person possessing property and dies intestate, and having a wife and children, the property of the deceased shall be equally divided among his lawful and acknowledged children, allowing the widow a share with the children, after all just debts of the deceased shall have been paid by those obtaining letters of administration, agreeably to law, and in case the deceased leave a wife without children, then in that case, the widow shall be entitled to receive one fourth of the estate, after said estate shall have been freed from incumbrance of all just and lawful demands, and the residue of the estate to go to his nearest kin; and in case a woman claiming and having exclusive right to property, dies and leaves a husband and children, her property shall revert to her children and husband in the same manner as above stated and provided for.
By order of the National Com.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk, N. Council.
______________________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That any person or persons whatsoever, who shall lay violent hands upon any female, by forcibly attempting to ravish her chastity contrary to her consent, abusing her person, and committing a rape upon such female, he or they so offending, upon conviction before any of the district or circuit judges, for the first offence, shall be punished with fifty lashes upon the bare back and the left ear cropped off close to the head; for the second offence, one hundred lashes and the other ear cut off; for the third offence, death.
Be it further resolved, That any woman or women making evidence against any man; and falsely accusing him of having laid violent hands upon any woman, with the intent of committing a rape upon her person, and sufficient proof having been adduced in any of the district or circuit judges to refute the testimony of such woman or women, she or they so offending shall be punished with twenty-five stripes upon her or their bare back to be inflicted by any of the marshals, sheriffs or constables.
By order,
JOHN ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A..M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk, N. Coun.
____________________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825.
WHEREAS, it has been represented to the general council, that much injury is sustained by the inhabitants living on the boundary lines, from citizens of the United States, feeding and keeping their stock of property on Cherokee lands, whereby horses, cattle, hogs, 'c., belonging to the citizens of this nation, are exposed to be taken off by such persons, trespassing; therefore,
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the circuit judges are hereby authorized and directed, to appoint an assistant ranger in their respective districts which border on the boundary lines of the United States, whose residence shall be nearest to said boundary line, and whose duty it shall be, solely to pay strict attention to such trespasses herein complained of, ' to forewarn the frontier inhabitants of the United States in the adjoining counties against placing, keeping and feeding their horses, cattle, hogs, sheep or goats on Cherokee lands; and to take up, post, and dispose of, all such property which may be found within their respective bounds, agreeably to the laws respecting estrays, and any citizen or citizens of the United States reclaiming and proving away any such property, and be unable to produce satisfactory proof, that he, she, or they, did not wilfully place such property on Cherokee lands, to feed and graze thereon, the assistant ranger, in that case, is hereby authorized and required, to exact a fine of two dollars for every horse, gelding or mare, and one dollar for ever head of black cattle, and twenty-five cents for every head of swine, sheep or goats, so proven away. Such fines shall be in addition to the fees allowed by law to the rangers for their posting, keeping and selling estrays; but n case sufficient proof can be adduced to show that such property was not wilfully placed on Cherokee lands to feed or graze thereon, and that such property had merely strayed thereon unknown to the owner or owners; then in that case, the fine herein imposed, shall not be exacted; excepting the necessary expenses and fees allowed by law in such cases.
 Be it further resolved, That the assistant ranger is hereby required to observe and pay strict attention to the same rules and regulations required of rangers by law, and who shall also be entitled to the same fees of eight per cent on the amount collected for the fines herein imposed, the remainder for the benefit of the national treasury.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker,
PATH x KILLER
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Com
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk, N. Council










CORRESPONDENCE,
Between Gens. Gray, Davidson, and Cocke, late Commissioners of the United States, and Messrs. John Ross and Ridge, on the part of the Cherokee Nation.
CHEROKEE AGENCY,
AUGUST 27, 1827.
Sir:- Generals Gray and Davidson of North Carolina, and Gen. Cocke of Tennessee, are at this place under the instructions from the President of the United States to hold a Conference with the Cherokee Indians, on several subjects which are of interest to the Indians as well as the United States.
They have written circular letters and sent messengers to all the different parts of the Cherokee Country, inviting the attendance of the Headmen, Chiefs and Warriors, at the Cherokee Agency, on the 18th September next.
I have thought it my duty to ask your attention to this call on the Cherokees, and have enclosed you a copy of their circular, and have to request that you and all the members of the National Committee and Council will attend, and hear their Communications, and give them your deliberate, serious, and impartial consideration.
I am Sir, with sentiments of respect and esteem your ob't servant.
H. MONTGOMERY.
John Ross, President of the National Committee, Cherokee Nation.
____________________________________
TO THE CHIEFS, HEADMEN 7 WARRIORS OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
BROTHERS:- Our father the President of the United States has appointed the undersigned and directed them to hold Councils with you the present summer. To fulful [sic] his desire we are now at the Agency, the place appointed by your request to transact all business, and receive communications from the Government of the United States.
We invite your attendance at your Agency on the 18th day of September 1827, when we will fully explain in Gen. Council, the views of the Government on subjects calculated to promote your interest, and happiness and the welfare of the citizens of the United States.
We are your friends and Brothers,
ALEXANDER GRAY,
JOHN COCKE,
GEO. L. DAVIDSON.
Cherokee Agency, Aug. 23, 1823 [sic]
___________________________________________________
HEAD OF COOSA, CHEROKEE NATION,
SEPTEMBER 15, 1827
SIR:- On my return home from Chickamauga Court, I received your letter of the 27th of August last, informing me that Generals Gray and Davidson of North Carolina, and Gen. Cocke of Tennessee, were at the Agency, under instruction from the President of the United States to hold a conference with the Cherokee Indians, on several subjects of interest to the Indians, as well as to the U. States; and that they had written Circular letters, and sent messengers to all the different parts of the Cherokee country, inviting the attendance of the Chiefs, head men and Warriors, at the Cherokee Agency, on the 18th day of this month; and that you thought it your duty to ask my attention to this call on the Cherokees, and therefore enclosed me a copy of their circulars; and further, to request me and all the members of the National Committee and Council to attend and hear their communications, and give them our deliberate, serious and impartial consideration.
In reply, I have to state, that I have confered [sic] with some of the most influential members of Committee and Council on the subject, ' it is deemed by them to be inexpedient ' impracticable to convene the Gen. Council of the nation at the place and time invited; and the heavy expenses, which have been incured [sic] by the call session and the Convention in the Course of the summer, forbids the expediency of convening the General Council again, previous to the second Monday of October next, the time fixed on for the annual sessions at New Echota.  You will therefore discover the uselessness of urging the call on the present occasion, contrary to the convenience of the Nation. But should Generals Gray, Davidson and Cocke attend at New Echota on the 8th of October next, or at any time during the session of the General Council, the members would receive them with that respect and friendship which their commission and characters merit, and their communications would receive a candid consideration. You will therefore please to hand them the enclosed reply to their circular address.
I am Sir, very respectfully your obedient servant,
JNO. ROSS.
__________________________________________
TO GENERALS, GRAY, COCKE, AND DAVIDSON.
GENTLEMEN:- We have seen some of your circular addresses, which are distributed thro' [sic] the country by your messengers, to the Chiefs, Headmen, and Warriors of the Cherokee Nation informing them that you are appointed by the President of the United States to hold Councils with them during the summer, and inviting their attendance at the Agency on the 18th day of this month, in order that you may fully explain in General Council the views of the Government on subjects calculated to promote their interest and happiness, and the welfare of the citizens of the United States. We consider it our duty in behalf of the Nation to inform you, that this sudden and unexpected general invitation which you have thought proper to make for a General  Council on the occasion, cannot be accepted under the great inconvenience and expense which would attend the nation on such a meeting previous to the second Monday in October next, the time fixed on for the annual meeting of the General Council of the Nation, at New Echota the seat of Government for the Cherokee Nation. We would therefore respectfully invite your attendance at New Echota on the 8th day of October next, or at any time during the session of the General Council, when the representatives of the nation would give you the right hand of friendship, and be prepared to receive communications from you on all subjects entrusted by the President to your mission, and to give them that candid consideration which their importance may deserve. We would further assure you that the proper authorities of this nation are ever disposed to receive all the Public agents of the Government with that respect and attention due to their characters and in a manner to comport with Brotherly kindness.
With great respect, we are your friends and Brothers,
JNO. ROSS
his
MAJOR X   RIDGE
mark
Cherokee Nation, Sept. 15th 1827
[To Be Continued]
________________________________________________________










INDIAN EMIGRATION.
Mr Woods Speech.
The House being in Committee of the Whole on the bill making appropriations for the Indian Department; in which bill Mr. McDUFFIE  had on the previous day, moved the following amendment:
' For enabling the President of the United States to extinguish the title of the Cherokee Indians to any lands in the State of Georgia, when it can be done upon 'peaceable and reasonable terms,' and for aiding the said Cherokees, and such other Indians as may be so disposed to emigrate to places West of the Mississippi $50,000'
And the question immediately before the Committee being on a motion of Mr. Woods, of Ohio, to amend Mr. McDuffie's amendment, by striking out from it these words: 'And for aiding the said Cherokees, and such other Indians as may be so disposed, to emigrate to places West of the Mississippi.'-
Mr. WOODS, of Ohio, rose and said, that, having submitted the motion now before the Committee, he deemed it proper to present, for their consideration, the reasons which had induced him to offer the amendment.  I did not bring this question before the Committee, [said Mr. W.] It was brought forward by the honorable chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, sanctioned by the recommendation of the Committee on Indian Affairs. I did expect some notice, before this subject would have been taken up; and that, on the bill reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs, and now among the orders of the day, this question, in all its relations, would have been fully considered. Such is not, however, the course adopted by that Committee.
I have always thought, the ordinary appropriation bills should not be embarrassed by any new measures.- They should be confined to objects of appropriation required by existing laws. This bill, without the amendment proposed by the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. McDUFFIE] is similar to the one making appropriations for the Indian Department, which has, for several years, been regularly passed. I may ask, Sir, why we should, in this case depart from the usual mode of proceeding, and now bring forward this proposition, disconnected from the most important parts of the original measure? I do not complain or find fault with gentlemen for the course they have taken.  I am ready to meet the question, by my vote, as promptly, now, as at any other time. Indeed I am glad, Mr. Chairman, that this measure is thus brought forward; and that it stand before us in its proper form and nakedness, stripped of the pretence of disinterested humanity, which has been thrown around it.  It is now presented in its true character, as a measure not for the benefit of the Indians- not for their civilization and preservation- but for our interest, and only our interest.  This appropriation is asked, as the means to effect measures for the removal of the Indians out of the limits of our States and Territories, that they may, by our aid, trail their bodies into the wilderness, and die where our delicacy and our senses may not be offended by their unburied carcasses.
What was the proposition recommended by our late Executive Magistrate? It was for the establishment of a Territorial Government over the Indians, for their preservation and civilization- for their benefit, and not for ours. The bill reported at the first session of the last Congress, which I now have in my hand, provided for the location of the Indian tribes somewhere West of the Mississippi river [sic], and North or West of the State of Missouri..It proposed to create all the paraphernalia of a Government, not of the Indians themselves, in which their laws and manners were to prevail, but in which our laws were to be administered by our officers and enforced by our soldiers. Is the measure now submitted to us by the amendment of the gentleman from South Carolina [Mr. M'DUFFIE] the same which was thus recommended by the Executive, and sanctioned by the Committee on Indian Affairs, by whom it was brought before Congress, in the bill reported by them to this House? No, sir. That bill, which I supposed would be brought forward; and acted on, is now abandoned by its friends. The measure is stripped of its prominent features. The gentlemen who recommended it as a scheme for the benefit of the Indians, no longer place it on that ground. The amendment now offered by the gentleman from South Carolina goes farther than the bill and report from the Committee on Indian Affairs now among the orders of the day. That bill contains in its provisions, nothing which bears even a resemblance to the grand scheme formerly presented to us.- It has dwindled down almost to nothing.  It asks less than the sum required for the expenses of holding an ordinary Indian treaty. It only proposes to appropriate $15,000 to defray the expenses of making an examination of the country west of the Mississippi by the Indians.  But as this proposition now offered is to supersede that bill, and places the question upon broader grounds, involving the whole merits of the proposed measure, we may as well now discuss the question upon its general principles, which go to the foundation of all our Indian relations. So far as the State of Georgia is concerned, we have done forever with the difficulties between that State and the Creeks. It is now a matter of no more interest to Georgia than Ohio, whether the Indians shall be removed West of the Mississippi or driven into the Gulf of Mexico.  The Creeks have ceded to us the last acre of their land in Georgia, and the provision of the treaty, by which the United States were bound to aid them in removing West of the Mississippi, has already expired. I shall therefore consider this question on its broad and general principles.
We are told, Sir, that this is a measure necessary for the happiness and preservation of the Indians- that we must adopt it, or they will perish, and become extinct as a People. I do not believe this is the only way in which we can save the Indians, or promote their happiness. In my opinion, this measure would effect more rapidly their extinction.  Instead of being entitled 'An act for the preservation and civilization of the Indian tribes within the United States.' it should be call a scheme for their speedy extermination.  If the Indians cannot live on the rich and fertile lands which they now own, they can live no where. When gentlemen call upon us to sanction this as a measure of humanity, it may be proper to consider whether the sums necessary to carry into effect this plan, could not be more beneficially expended, by the adoption of a policy which would elevate and improve the Indians character, and secure their happiness, without removing them from their present possessions and homes.
Let us, Sir, for a moment, inquire where the Indians are to be removed. We are informed it is intended to plant them West of the Mississippi. This is a pretty extensive region, and we might as well at once send them West of the Rocky Mountains, to people the new territory proposed to be established, by an honorable gentleman from Virginia, [Mr. FLOYD]  They would there have one advantage, which gentlemen deem of great importance, they would not soon be intruded upon by our citizens, and settlements.- I am aware that I may be told that I know nothing about the Indians, or the system to be established for their government, or of the country to which they are to be sent. This may be true. I do not pretend to any great knowledge on the subject, but am willing to learn from others, and to obtain information from those who have brought this measure before us for our sanction. Let me ask these gentlemen if they have examined this country?- Do you know whether it is suitable to the circumstances and necessities, of the Indians? Their answer is, no; we know nothing about these matters but first adopt the scheme,-provide that the Indians must  remove West ;of the Mississippi- let us decide that we will  drive them from their lands which we want to occupy; and then, Sir, we will send our agents and commissioners with the Indians, to examine this country. Our agents can be instructed to pursue such measures as will obtain the consent of their Chiefs and head men of the tribes, who can be drilled into acquiescence with our plans. There will be no danger of the failure of the measures provided our commissioners have in their pockets a 'large amount of means, as an auxiliary aid.'
Such, sir, is substantially the language of this measure. Gentlemen who have talked so loudly of the expenditure of the 'contingencies,' and of the corrupting influence of the money and patronage of the Government should reflect on this subject. Here they may find a pertinent occasion for their scrutiny. We know that the lands now owned by the Indians are fertile and valuable. It is this which gives activity to our sympathies. But we know nothing of the Country to which we propose to remove them.- The Secretary of War was called on by a resolution of this House to give us the specific information possessed by the Department on the subject, and to state 'whether the Indians are acquainted with the nature and situation of the country to which they are to be removed; and to what particular district of Country West of the Mississippi they ought to be removed?' (See Journal of 1827-7, page 66.)- To these inquiries we received an answer, informing us that 'the Indians are not acquainted with the nature and situation of the country to which we propose to remove them;' and, 'that, as no examination had been made with a view to its occupancy by the tribes now in the States East of the Mississippi, it cannot be known what particular district of country West of the Mississippi they ought to occupy.'- (See Ex. doc. 28, of 1826-7.) Such, sir, is our ignorance upon this subject; such is the profound ignorance of those who have pressed this measure upon us. Yet we are zealously called upon by gentlemen to give it the sanction of our approbation.
[TO BE CONTINUED]










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday May 14, 1828
It has been frequently said, that the  treatment of the United States Commissioners of late, in this Nation, has been disrespectful and contemptuous.  We have always thought this an unwarrantable charge, originating from no other cause, but from the very fact of the failure of these Commissioners to attain their objects. From the correspondence, a part of which we publish today, our readers will judge whether the authorities of the Nation have treated the United States Commissioners with any degree of disrespect.  We are sure it is far from the wish of our Citizens to be disrespectful.
________________________
The Cherokee Constitution has produced a very mistaking idea in the minds of many persons, especially such as endeavor to take every advantage of the Indians.- To say that the Cherokees have declared themselves independent of the United States and violated, in their constitution, their connection with the General Government, would be doing them very great injustice: for the thought of such independence has never entered into their minds, as we already have had occasion to declare; and we hope a word to the wise and candid will be sufficient. This constitution was adopted for the good of the Cherokee People, as their condition made it evident that they could not improve otherwise in legislation. It did not originate in any desire of such independence as our treaties with the United States would not warrant. We do not claim rights which do not belong to us, much less are we so blinded as to suppose, that we can within ourselves change our relation with the General Government. Rights, however, we have, secured to us by treaties, and will the people of this enlightened land, emphatically called the land of freedom, deprive us of these few rights?
_________________________________________
The Editor of the Statesman ' Patriot
(a Georgia paper,) has the following article-'Though much has been said about the Cherokee civilization, we are of opinion that many strides must be taken before those Indians may with truth be termed a civilized people. The Phoenix of the 2d instant furnishes matter of ill omen as to the success of the new constitution. A system of thievery, by which property is run into the white settlement, is said to exist even around New Echota; and frequent murders are committed without the perpetrators being apprehended or brought to trial!'
This Editor, perhaps, is not aware that the instigators, leaders and principals, of this system of thievery are whitemen [sic], citizens of Georgia. He will inform us how many strides, these must take 'before they can with truth be termed a civilized people.'
We are told,( and we have no reason to dispute it) that our white neighbors, who have taken the place of our more honest neighbors Creeks, are continually trespassing on the rights of our citizens, by stealing every species of property, and they do it with impunity.  Some of these men it is said, are civil officers of the State of Georgia, the very same persons to whom the proclamation of his Excellency Gov. Forsythe is directed.
The same Editor, speaking upon what we had formerly said, respecting the right of the Cherokees to the lands now in their possession, on the ground of occupancy, observes, 'Strolling over a country is somewhat different from a permanent occupancy.' Query. What kind of occupancy have those, who have never even strolled over a country?
___________________________________________
Page 3 Col. 3b
Montgomery Ala. April 17.
Mr. Benjamm [sic] Hawkins, a half breed Creek Indian, has returned from the Arkansas, whither he went in company with the emigrating party. He reports, that the main body of the emigrants are much pleased with their location, they finding game in the greatest abundance, and the surrounding tribes of Indians perfectly friendly. Col. Brearly may be expected in a very few days; and we are induced to believe that the time is not far distant when the whole Creek nation will remove west of the Mississippi.
It is a fact not generally known, that the tribe of Creeks called the Alabamas actually speak the same tongue as the Osages, and that a large body of them emigrated about forty years ago, whose descendants now form a part of the Osage Indians.- How the Alabamas could have separated from the parent tribe, it is now matter of curiosity and conjecture.
While on the subject, we would notice that some disturbances have lately taken place in the nation.- Capt. William Walker, of whose abilities the government had availed themselves to induce emigration, lately erected a building for the purpose of storing the public property of the United States. A party of Indians, of about thirty professing to act by the directions of the present authorities of the nation, have burned this building and threaten to destroy all others which shall be put there. The whole affair has been properly represented to the government.
Journal
______________________________________________
Page 3 Col. 5b
 We are authorized to announce Messrs. Walter Adair and John Ridge as Candidates for the Committee for Coosewattee District. Also Major Ridge, Tesahdaski, and James Foster, as Candidates for the same District.

 We should like to receive the names of other Candidates.
____________________________________________________










INDIAN EMIGRATION.
Col. Thomas L. McKenney, late special Agent to the Southern Indians, in a letter to the Secretary of War, dated Choctaw Country, Oct. 10th 1828 [sic], makes an estimate of the probable expense of removing  the Chickasaw Indians. The utmost extent of cost is estimated at 494,750 dollars, including the cost of a visit to examine the country, the cost of their houses, mills, work shops, orchards, fences, and their stock of all kinds, all which are to be replaced by the United States. According to the foundation which Col. McKenney has laid down, we make the following estimate of the probable cost of the removal of the Cherokees, (if that were to be the case.)
The population of the Cherokee Nation, we will put down at 13,000, (which is below the actual number.) We will suppose (following Col. McKenney's suppositions) the families to average five souls, which will five 2,600 houses. These houses, we do not suppose can be built for less than an average cost of 200 dollars, which in our opinion is quite moderate. Most of these houses it is true, are poor, and may be built for a small amount, yet there are many which will require the double and triple of what we put down as an average cost.- Few of the best horses [sic] cannot be built for less sums than two, three, or four thousand dollars, including barns, cribs, 'c.- This part of the expense will then be $520,000.
The number of mills, grist, and saw, is fifty, which may be replaced for the sum of $25,000, supposing each mill to cost $500.
Their shops are sixty-two in number, and these estimated at $50 each will cost $3,000.
Their orchards perhaps may be replaced for $3,000.
The fences of the Chickasaws are estimated by Col. McKenney at $50,000, $200,000 will then be but a moderate estimate for this item of the expense attending the removal of the Cherokees.
There are in this Nation 7.683 horses, these at $40 per head, will cost $307,320.
22,531 black cattle at $10 per head will coast $224,310.
46,700 hogs owned by the Cherokees, at $3 per head, will cost $140,100.
The probable cost of a visit to examine the country, may be the same as estimated by Col. McKenney, $10,000, and of their removal to it, $350,000. This is by no means an extravagant estimate, for Col. McKenney puts down the cost of the removal of the Chickasaws, who are but four thousand in number, at $100,000.
The total amount of cost, then, for the foregoing items, will be $1,783,730. And supposing we add a fourth for the expense of the Government, the Schools, the military, and other items not enumerated, the whole amount of expense in removing the Cherokees beyond the limits of any State or Territory will be $2,229,662.
If this project is intended, as we are told by its advocates, for the good and civilization of the Cherokees and other Indians, cannot this sum be put to better use?- Supposing with this money, the United States begin to establish schools in every part of this Nation? With this money let their be a college founded, where every advantage of instruction may be enjoyed. Let books, tracts, 'c. be published in Cherokee and English, and distributed throughout the Nation and every possible effort be made to civilize us, let us at the same time be protected in our rights. What would be the consequence? If we fail to improve under such efforts, we will then agree to remove.


















CHEROKEE LAWS.
[Continued]
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the law imposing a tax upon citizen merchants of the Cherokee Nation be, and the same is hereby, suspended for the term of two years.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
PATH x  KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, N. Com
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Coun.
_______________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825.
 Resolved by the national Committee and Council, That the law prohibiting persons choosing to emigrate to the Arkansas country from selling their improvements, and all others from purchasing improvements from such persons under the penalty of one hundred and fifty dollars, passed on the 27th October, 1821, be and the same is hereby, repealed.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk. N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clr. N. Council.
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the children of Cherokee men and white women, living in the Cherokee Nation as man and wife, be, and they are hereby acknowledged to be equally entitled to all the immunities and privileges enjoyed by the citizens descending from the Cherokee race by the mother's side.
By order of the National committee,
JNO ROSS, Pres't N. Committee,
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk of the N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk, N. Coun.
__________________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That the section embraced in the law regulating marriages between white men and Cherokee women, and making it unlawful for white men to have more than one wife, and recommending all others also to have but one wife, be, and the same is hereby, amended so that it shall not be lawful hereafter, for any person or persons whatsoever, to hove more than one wife.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
Approved PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk, National Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clrk N. Council
____________________
 New Town Nov. 10, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That a fence of four inches crack between each rail, for two and a half feet up from the ground, shall be considered a lawful fence, and the hogs of any person or persons whatsoever, breaking into the field of a person having such a fence, the owner or owners of such property shall be responsible for all the damages  sustained, and the courts of the several districts shall have cognizance of such cases.
By order,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
Concurred in by the Council,
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker of Coun.
his
PATH x  KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Council.
____________________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825.
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all the duties required by the subsequent laws to be performed by light horsemen, shall be performed by the several officers superseding the light horse companies excepting so far as performing express services.
By order,
JNO ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker,
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk. N. Com.
___________________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation be required to enter into bond wit ten good and approved securities in the penal sum of fifty thousand dollars, for the faithful performance of his duties according to law, and that the bond and securities be renewed at the end of every two years.
Be it further resolved, That the salary of the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation shall be three hundred dollars per annum.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk of N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk, N. Coun.
______________
New Town, Nov. 10, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That all improvements which may be left by any person or persons removing to another place, and the improvements so left, remain unoccupied for the term of three years, such improvements shall be considered abandoned, and any other person or persons whatsoever, may take and go in possession of such improvements, in the same manner as if there were no improvements.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS, Pres't Nat. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk of N. Council.
_________________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1825
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all lawful contracts shall be binding, and whatever judgments shall have been obtained from any of the courts of justice in the Cherokee Nation, against any person or persons whatsoever, in a plea of debt, it shall be lawful for such judgment or judgments by giving bond with sufficient security within five days after such judgment shall have been issued; and the stay shall not exceed for all sums under ten dollars, twenty days; for all sums from ten and under thirty dollars, sixty days; for all sums from thirty and under fifty dollars, ninety days; for all sums from fifty dollars and under one hundred, six months; and for all sums over one hundred dollars, nine months; and in case the person or persons against whom judgment or judgments shall be issued fail to give bond and security as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the officer or officers in whose hands such judgment or judgments may be placed, to levy upon his, her, or their property, and advertise the same for public sale. For all sums from one to one hundred dollars, ten days; for all sums over one hundred and fifty, twenty days; for all sums over two hundred and fifty dollars, thirty days indulgence shall be given for the redemption of such property, and should the property so advertised for sale be not redeemed in the periods herein stated, it shall be sold at public vendue, to the highest bidder, for ready money. The property so sold shall become the rightful property of the purchaser or purchasers, and the lawful officers disposing of the same shall be and are hereby authorized to issue bills of sale for all such property sold, agreeably to their official authorities. All sums over the amount of the debt for which the property is sold after deducting officer's fees, shall be returned to the proper owner or owners.
Be it further resolved, That it shall not be lawful for any officer or officers to attach, and sell the following property of any person or persons on an account whatsoever, to wit; houses, farms, and other improvements; household and kitchen furniture, farming utensils; and also one cow and calf, one sow and pigs; and one gun, shall be reserved.
By order of the National Committee.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker,
Approved
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS
A. M'COY Clerk, N. Com
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Council.










CORRESPONDENCE,
Between Gens. Gray, Davidson, and Cocke, late Commissioners of the United States, and Messrs. John Ross and Ridge, on the part of the Cherokee Nation.
[Continued]
Cherokee Agency,
Sept. 24, 1827
Messrs. Jno. Ross ' Major Ridge.
Gentlemen:- The enclosed letter has just been handed me, with a request that I would forward it to you with as little delay as practicable.- Mr. William Cowan is therefore despatched with instructions to do so.
I again request your prompt attention to their call, and hope it will be treated with that respect and attention which is due to it.
Very Respectfully, your obedient servant,
H. MONTGOMERY
____________________________
Cherokee Agency
Sept. 23, 1827
Messrs. John Ross and Major Ridge.
Gentlemen:- The undersigned Commissioners of the United States acknowledge the receipt of your joint letter, bearing date the 15th instant, which reached them late on yesterday. We avail ourselves of the earliest moment to reply, and despatch a special messenger that no delay may occur in communicating to you our astonishment and regret at the contents of your letter. You speak of our invitation for a General Council of the Cherokee Nation as 'sudden and unexpected, and that the time and place was appointed without consulting the convenience of the members of the Committee and Council.  In reply to that part of your letter we take leave to remind you of facts within your recollection. Early in july [sic] last one of the undersigned, (to wit) Gen. Cocke, reached New Town, otherwise New Echota, and was introduced, together with his Secretary, to the Committee and Council then in session, by Major Ridge, the Speaker of the Nation.- In addressing them he informed that General Cocke and two others were appointed by the President of the United States to hold Councils with the Nation, and recommended to them the extension of the hand of friendship as a token of their respect for the General's character, and attachment to and confidence in the government of the United States. This occurred on the 4th of July, as you both must well recollect.  How than can it be 'sudden and unexpected?' On this visit to the Nation Gen. Cocke applied to Mr. M'Coy, the principal Secretary of the nation, for the names of the Committee and Council, which was promised; but was afterwards informed by the Secretary, that Mr. John Ross had directed him not to impart that information. Thus it became impossible to 'consult the convenience of the members of the Committee and Council' by the act of Mr. Ross, who the undersigned suppose to be the same person, whose signature is fixed to your joint letter. You then mention the great expence [sic] that would attend the nation in consequence of the proposed meeting. The undersigned with pleasure assure you that ample means have been afforded them by the President of the United States to defray every expence, and the necessary supplies are now provided. Should the invitation be disregarded, it cannot be considered by the government of which we are the representatives in any other character than as disrespectful and contemptuous.
Since the arrival of the undersigned at the Cherokee Agency they have been furnished with the written Constitution of your nation, establishing a separate Independent Government, not amenable nor subject to that of the United States. We take leave to enquire, is the present refusal to meet us in Council intended to shew [sic] that independence? or should the states, within whose limits the Cherokee Nation is located, extend their laws and jurisdiction to those limits, can the Cherokees expect the interference and aid of the government of the United States.
The undersigned address you as two Chiefs of the Cherokkee [sic] Nation. They are uninformed of the fact, nor have you, in your letter, stated whether you act in a public or private capacity not even by your signatures.
We again remark that the Agency is the place designated ' established as the place to transact all business between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, and located by the special request of the Cherokees; and where all treaties records and documents, in which the United States and the Nation are interested, are deposited. It is also the duty of the Agent to guard the interest of the Cherokees. Near his residence must be selected to enable him faithfully to discharge that trust.  The undersigned will remain, and attend daily at the Rattle Snake springs near the Agency; or at the Agency, which ever is most agreeable to the Nation, until all may have a sufficient time to attend, that think proper. They must then retire and report all the facts to their government. They renew their invitation to the Chiefs, Head men and Warriors of the Cherokee Nation to meet them for the purposes mentioned in their letter of the 23d of August last.
Alexander Gray,
John Cocke
Geo. L. Davidson.
_________________________________________
HEAD OF COOSA, CHEROKEE NATION,
September 26, 1827
Col. HUGH MONTGOMERY, SIR:
We have received your letter by Mr. Cowan enclosing a letter from Gens. John Cocke, Alexr. Gray and Geo. L. Davidson, and requesting our prompt attention to their call, and to treat it with that respect and attention due to it. We assure you that it is sincerely desired on our part to treat all the Public Agents of the General Government with proper respect and attention. As a manifestation of that disposition those Gentlemen were invited to attend the General Council of the Nation at New Echota on the 8th day of Oct. next; at which time and place it would afford us pleasure to see you also, and we hope that you will make it convenient to pay our council a visit.  We regret to find that the Commissioners persist in urging the General Council to be convened at a place, where it would be impracticable to get the assent of the members of the Committee and Council to meet them, as has before been stated. You will please to deliver them the accompanying Communication in reply to their letter.
JNO. ROSS
his
MAJOR x RIDGE
mark
___________________________________________
RIDGE'S FERRY, CHEROKEE NATION
Sept. 27, 1827
TO GENERALS, GRAY, COCKE, AND DAVIDSON
GENTLEMEN:- Your letter of the 23d in reply to ours of the 15 inst. was received by your special messenger on last evening, and we avail ourselves of the opportunity presented by his return in replying to your remarks. You express astonishment and regret at the Contents of our letters. We assure you that it was not intended to produce those feelings; but when facts are fairly and impartially scrutinized, we hope that no just cause will be found for your astonishment and regret. And in reply to a certain paragraph of our letter in which we remarked that your general invitation for a General Council of the Cherokee Nation was 'sudden and unexpected' as 'the convenience of the members of the committee and Council had not been consulted,' in fixing the time and place appointed by you- you observe that you will remind us of facts within our recollection, and then proceed to state that 'early in july [sic] last, General Cocke reached New Echota, and was introduced together with his Secretary, to the Committee and Council than in session by Major Ridge Speaker of the Nation; and in Addressing them [the Committee and Council] he [Major Ridge] informed that General Cocke and two others were appointed by the President of the United States to hold Councils with the nation, and recommended to them the extension of the hand of friendship, as a token of their respect for the General's character, and attachment to, and confidence in the Government of the United States;' and that 'this occurred on the 4th of July as [we] both must well recollect.' And you ask 'how then can it be sudden and unexpected?'  Here you will please permit us to reply, and to state facts attending General Cock's [sic] visit at New Echota in July last. The general arrived at New Echota on the 3d of July, in company with a Gentleman whom he introduced as Major Hyne, together with Messrs. Lewis Ross and Joseph Coody.  The General Council was then in session, and was expected to adjourn on the evening of that day; but, in consequence of its having been rumored from newspaper reports, that Gen. Cocke and two other gentlemen from North Carolina were appointed by the President of the United States to hold a conference with the Cherokee Nation, for a certain object, and as General Cocke had arrived, it was deemed proper that the Council should be prolonged, with a view of giving General Cocke an opportunity of communicating to the General Council the object of his visit, and to assertain [sic] if he had come in the capacity of a Commissioner from the United States.- Accordingly a resolution was passed to postpone the meeting of the Convention to the 5th of the month provided the business of the General Council should not be disposed of on the 4th. And when the Council was convened on the 4th, Gen. Cocke and Major Hyne appeared in front of the Council house where Major Ridge, (one of the undersigned;) speaker of the Council, an old acquaintance of the General's went forward, and took the General by the hand, and the General then introduced Major Ridge to Major Hyne, Major Ridge then Conducted them into the Council room, and introduced the Gen. to the members as an old acquaintance, who had commanded the East Tennessee Troops at Fort Armstrong in the First Campaign of the Creek War. He then conducted the General and Major Hyne up into the Committee room; and on entering the room Major Ridge observed to the members of that body. 'This is Gen. Cocke, a friend and an old acquaintance, who had served in the Creek War, and no doubt he is known to some of you; give him the hand of friendship.' At this introduction Mr. John Ross (one of the undersigned,) President of the Committee, and also an old acquaintance of the General's rose and took him by the hand, and was then introduced by the General to Major Hyne; and the members of the house, each in succession, rose and shook the hands of the General and Major Hyne, and their names were respectively imparted to General Cocke. After being seated a while, they retired, and the Council continued in session until towards the latter part of the day; and General Cocke having made no intimation of his appointment, nor Communicated the object of his visit, the General Council was then adjourned, and the members of the convention then met and organized themselves for business. Thus ended the Council in July last. And as General Cocke did not make himself known as a commissioner, nor suggested anything on the subject of his visit, or of your intention to appoint a place and time for the purpose of inviting a General Council of the Cherokee nation, previous to the session which is to take place at New Echota on the 8th day of next month, therefore we could not but have said that your invitation was 'sudden and unexpected.'
Further, you state that 'General Cocke applied to Mr. McCoy, the Principal Secretary of the Nation, for the names of the Committee and Council, which was promised, but was afterwards informed by the Secretary that Mr. John Ross had directed him not to impart that information, and thus it became impossible to 'consult the convenience of the members of the Committee and Council' by the act of Mr. Ross who you suppose to be the same person whose signature is fixed to our joint letter. Here again we beg leave to remark, that General Cocke remained several days after the rise of the General Council, and during the sitting of the Convention, in the course of which time it was understood, that the General had enquired of a private individual, if he could furnish him with a list of the names of the members of the Committee and Council. Being answered in the negative, the General then on the eve of leaving New Echota asked Mr. McCoy, clerk of the 'Committee, and who was then acting as secretary to the Convention for a list. Upon receiving this information the members of the Convention expressed a curiosity to know the object of the General for applying for the list in such a private manner, and he not having communicated to any person the object of his visit, they in order to draw from the General and idea of his visit, as well as his design for soliciting the list of names, requested Mr. Ross, then President of the Convention, to ask Mr. McCoy if Gen. Cocke had given him any reasons for making the request; this request of the members, as stated, was communicated to Mr. McCoy who said that the General had assigned no reasons for making the request; soon after this the General and Major Hyne left the place, without hearing any further respecting the list of names. You are not mistaken in supposing that Mr. Jno. Ross, referred to is the identical person who signed the joint letter you received from us.
Gentlemen, these statements are indisputable facts, and can be established by the members of the Committee and Council, and of the Convention, so far as came within their respective knowledge; and it is painful to us to be compelled to make statements in contradiction to your own understanding; altho' [sic] we cannot for a moment suppose that the Honorable Gentleman who communicated what you have stated, could have designedly misrepresented them, therefore we must believe that he has been misinformed in these particulars, thro' [sic] the medium of misinterpretations.- General Cocke being introduced to the members of the Committee and Council in session, we cannot see how it became 'impossible to consult their convenience' on the subject of appointing a place and time for a General Council. We believe it would have been uncourteous and impertinent for the members of the Committee and Council to have called upon General Cocke, or any other gentleman, for information respecting the object of his visit, and to have asked him his business. Therefore it was more properly the province of General Cocke to have introduced the subject of his visit; and his failing to do so ought not unjustly to cast blame on any other person.
You say that ample means have been afforded you by the President of the United States to defray every expense, and that the necessary supplies are now provided. There are various incidental expenses attending the meeting of the General Council of the Nation, independent of supplies of aliment, such as the employment of cooks, members' pay for services 'c. 'c. which we cannot suppose are contemplated to be embraced in the ample means afforded you by the President.
You further remark, 'should our invitation be disregarded, it cannot be considered by the General Government in any other character than disrespectful and contemptuous.' We would here assure you with profound sincerity, that nothing is more remote from the intention or wish of the representatives of this Nation, than to treat the Public Agents of the General Government with disrespect or contempt.
You have also thought proper to speak of the Constitution of the Nation, as establishing a seperate [sic] Independent Government, not amenable or subject to that of the United States; and you enquire if the present refusal to meet you in Council is intended to shew [sic] that independence; or should the States within whose limits the Cherokee Nation is located extend their laws and jurisdiction to those limits can the Cherokees expect the interference and aid of the Government of the United States?  It was adopted with no view to set up an independence unwarranted by the Treaties with the United States, therefore we have every just reason and confidence to expect the protection of the United States in good faith, in supporting such rights as are secured to the Cherokee Nation by our Treaties. And we hope, Gentlemen, after all the solicitudes which have been so laudably manifested by the greatest and best man, General Washington, for the civilization of the Cherokee Nation, and for an improvement in their civil Government, and which objects have been patronized by the succeeding Presidents, and now, when the Cherokees are beginning to embrace the comforts of civilization that you are not disposed, as Commissioners of the present administration, to find fault with our improvement in Governmental as well as in domestic affairs; by endeavoring to disorganize our system and complaining of our Constitution, even after one of you, General Cocke, having expressed his opinion voluntarily to Mr. John Ross, one of the undersigned, in Calhoun, that the constitution which the Conventioners [sic] made, is a good one.
We deny having refused to meet you in General Council, and contend that a respect is due to the convenience of the Nation in fixing a time and place for holding a General Council. And as it is well known that the Cherokee Nation for eight years past, have permanently established their seat of Government at New Echota, where every convenience for the accommodation of strangers, as well as for members of the Com. ' Council, are provided, it is the only place where you can in reason have a right to expect to be met in General Council of the Nation; and at which place we have invited your attendance on the day appointed for the meeting of the approaching session.  We can see no reason for your persistance [sic] in renewing your invitation at the Rattle Snake springs or Agency, where no preparation, for the accommodation of the members of the Committee and Council have been made, and where they would be exposed to the weather, as a congregated assemblage of rude People on a hunting expedition. If you will examine the public documents at the agency, you will no doubt find letters from the Chiefs to Col. Meigs, former Agent, by which you will discover that you are mistaken as to the Agency being located at a place designated by the special request of the Cherokee Nation.  And we are also convinced that you are not correct in supposing, that all business between the United States and the Cherokee Nation was intended to be transacted at the Agency, solely.
We admit that there are various business between the United States and the Nation, as well as between the individuals of the States and of the Nation, which are necessary to be transacted at the Agency, with and thro'[sic] the agent; but we cannot admit that Commissioners of the Unites States are justifiable in demanding a Convention of the Generel [sic] Council of the Nation at the Agency without consulting the convenience of the Chiefs, on the occasion especially when it is their object to communicate in General Council the views of the General Government on subjects calculated to promote the interest and happiness of the Cherokees, as well as the welfare of the citizens of the United States.
You appear to be at a loss to know whether we are acting in a private or public capacity. If you are not aware yourselves that we act under authority, and if you do not choose to be informed through the Agent of our official characters, and it should be forgotten by you that General Cocke was introduced by Major Ridge, Speaker of the Council, to the members of the General Council, and that Mr. John Ross presided over the Committee as President of that branch of the Legislature, we will inform you, that the undersigned are the presiding officers of the Committee and Council; and since the death of the two Principal Chiefs of the Nation; the corresponding department of the Nation has been entrusted to the President of the Committee, and the business of convening the General Council, devolves on both of us, and having consulted some of the most influential members of the Committee and Council on the subject of your circulars of the 23d of August last, we were advised to address you the letter which you acknowledge to have received.
We can only add, should you decline attending the General Council at New Echota, and think proper to transmit to the General Council communications on the subjects of your instructions from the President of the United States, they will be received with a proper respect by the Committee and Council, and a considerate reply will be made to them.
We are, Gentlemen, very respectfully, you ob't [sic] serv'ts [sic].
JNO. ROSS
his
MAJOR x  RIDGE
mark.










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday, May 21, 1828
TO PATRONS
As applications are continually made for the first numbers of the Phoenix we would state for the information of our readers, that we are not in a situation to meet with such applications. The first three numbers are disposed of, and the present force connected with the printing establishment renders us unable to have a second addition struck off.
__________________________________________
At the last Circuit Court held in Hightower, three persons were convicted for stealing horses out of Carrol [sic] Co. ' were sentenced to receive fifty lashes each. These persons, we are told, stole upon the principle of rendering evil for evil. How backward some of our neighboring whites may be to do justice to the Indians, we confess we feel a pleasure in noticing this instance of the impartiality of our courts. It would be well if the authorities of Carrol [sic] County (Gov. Forsythe's [sic] Ministers) will look about and punish their offending citizens. It would be a sweeping work if they were to begin. So much 'for the success of the new Constitution.'
__________________________________________
It is the prevailing opinion here, that Col. Thomas L. McKenney will be one of the Commissioners who will be sent by the General Government to extinguish the Cherokee title to lands within the Chartered limits of Georgia. A few years ago this Gentleman would have been welcomed into this Country on any business, as a friend of the Indians, but now, we take the liberty to say, a more unpopular Commissioner could not well be sent. What is the reason? We hope when he comes to have a talk with us, his illiberal recommendations will not be verified-'the presence of a few troops.'
_________________________________________________
For The Cherokee Phoenix
THE WEDDING.
Yesterday, being the last day of April, was a delightful day. Nature in a smile seemed to invite to a banquet of pleasing recreation; the birds mingled their charming melody with the breezes that gently agitated the leaves of the forest; and my soul glowed in harmony and rapture, as I surveyed the Oostanalee winding its silent course towards the South, apparently proud of its strength and value to man, who delights to live and labor on its refreshing banks. I was invited to a wedding on Amuchee creek [sic], six miles distant, which invitation I accepted, crossed the river, and, in company with a young lady, travelled in a path 12 inches wide through the wilderness. The spring had already exerted her power, and spread her rich carpet of green, white, red and yellow on the face of the earth. These blessings, are extended for the use and benefit of the Cherokee Indians, who for ages past have lived in ignorance and degradation, but now, no longer savages, are rising from ignorance to the standard of moral, intellectual, religious and political importance. We now can enjoy landscape scenery, and cherish the poetical effusions of Thompson as if he had addressed his 'seasons' to us:
'For you the roving spirit of the wind
Blows Spring abroad; for you the teeming clouds
Descend in gladsome plenty o're the world;
And the sun sheds his kindest rays for you,
Ye flow'r of human race. In these green-days
Reviving sickness lifts her languid head;
Life flows afresh; and youngeyed health exalts
The whole creation round.'
It was 12 o'clock when we reached the habitation of the Bride's parents, consisting of four log cabins, with a farm. Here were gathered a number of Cherokees, who, through my interpretation, heard an instructive discourse by the Rev. Greenberry Garrett of the Methodist  church, on the 24th chapter of Luke, 45th, 46th and 47th verses. 'Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures; and said unto then, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day: And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.' At the close of the sermon *The Spirit, a Cherokee who does not speak English, delivered an address in support of the sermon, in a masterly and eloquent style. I esteem him the best speaker in this nation. He is to his country, what Cicero was to Rome. Prayer and singing were wholly conducted in Cherokee, and the audience, being mostly full-blooded Cherokees, and of the humbler class in life, afforded a specimen of handsome talent in church dress, and unexceptionable in deportment.
After a short intermission, and dinner, the nuptials were solemnized by the minister, and the service was interpreted into Indian by me. They were united agreeably to rules prescribed by the Methodist Episcopal Church.
The Bride is a quarter white, possesses a fine figure, somewhat tall, beautiful complexion, with dark hair and eyes: her features bear the evidence of amiability and good nature; and on the whole she is an interesting woman. She is a member of the Methodist Church. The Bridegroom, a cousin of mine, is a full blooded Indian, of Aboriginal deep copper complexion, low in stature, fine figure, but does not possess a handsome face, though depicted upon it are the marks of honesty, fidelity and good nature.- He was dressed in a clean northern domestic suit, and his bride was in white cambric. After they were united, I congratulated them on the mode they had chosen to celebrate their nuptials- that it afforded me pleasure to reflect that we were advancing so rapidly in civil and religious improvement, as to banish our ignorant habits and customs, and that we were now adopting others which were more creditable ' decent, ' held in esteem by civilized nations;-that this wedding would be an example for others to improve to the world, that instead of being savages, we were enlightened.
I have been thus particular, to prove to your white readers, that, instead of the poorer class of our people being in servile chains and oppression, under the influence of Mitchel 'Nabobs,' they are in possession of religious and political freedom and rural happiness.
WATERHUNTER
___________________
*The English name given to this man at his baptism is John Huss. He has been for some time employed as an itinerant exhorter by the American Board of Missions. Ed.
____________________
Page 3 Col. 5b.
We are authorized to announce Richard Fields of Creek Path, a Candidate for the Committee, for Chattooga District.
We are authorized to announce Messrs. Walter Adair and John Ridge as Candidates for the Committee for Coosewattee District.  Also Major Ridge, Tesahdaski, and James Foster, as Candidates for the Council for the same District.
We should like to receive the names of other Candidates.
________________________________
NOTICE
I HEREBY forewarn all persons against crediting my wife, DELILAH McCONNELL, on my account, as she has absconded without my consent. I am therefore determined to pay none of her contracts.
WILLIAM McCONNELL
May 15, 1828
______________________________
NOTICE
TAKEN up on Tarripin Creek, by Zachariah Simmons, on the 19th inst. a BAY HORSE, with a small white on his forehead, about six years old, and five feet and two inches high, and without any brand.
J. VANN.
April 30th 1828










INDIAN EMIGRATION.
Speech of Mr. Woods.
[Continued]
I will now, Mr. Chairman, examine into the situation of the Country which the Indians now possess within the limits of the several States; and into the advantages which they enjoy in their present homes. The Indian lands lying within our borders is that portion of their original possessions, which they have never sold or transfered [sic] to us, or to any other Government. We are told by one of our sovereign States, while urging upon us her claims to the Indian Country within her limits,' it belongs to her, and that she must and she will have it; that we are bound, at all hazards and without regard to terms, to procure it.' (See doc. 102, page 12.) Sir, the same argument may be urged, or rather the same language may be used by all the other States, within the limits of which there is any Indian territory. It was by virtue of the same sovereign right, that the Pope, in the name of St. Peter, gave to Spain all the Countries which Columbus discovered. It is the right which power gives, and not justice. Shall we be told that Congress is to disregard the right of the Indians. That the lands on which they now reside shall be taken from them 'without regard to terms?' That it is the interest-the determination-the settled policy of the United States 'at all hazards,' to drive them from their Country and homes? I hope not, sir; for the honor of my country. I hope not. I may be told that I am unacquainted with the true interests of the Indians, and that they are in the most wretched and miserable situation where they now reside.  I will, Mr. Chairman, refer you to the information given to us by the Indian Department, and by the Agents of our Government. The facts stated by these Agents, and in the documents to which I will refer, have been frequently reiterated, ' if untrue, would long since have been fully disproved. The whole number of the four largest nations within the limits of the States is stated at more than fifty-four thousand. The Creeks, 20,000; the Cherokees 9,000; Choctaws, 21,000; and the Chickasaws, 3,625.
It appears, from more recent information, that the number is probably much greater, and is rapidly increasing.  These Indians enjoy all the advantages which our own citizens in our new States and settlements possess, except the political rights and privileges of which we deprive them. If they are degraded and wretched, I believe it is occasioned by our injustice and oppression. Let us, by extending to them political rights and privileges, and by the influence of education, remove the cause of their moral degradation, and they will soon stand on as high an elevation as occupied by ourselves. To prove that these Indians are not in the wretched and degraded situation which is stated by many, I will turn the attention of the committee to the document which accompanied the bill formerly reported by the committee on Indian affairs- In this document the Secretary of War informs us, that 'schools have been established, by the aid of private as well as public donations, for the instruction of their youths. They have been persuaded to abandon the chase-to locate themselves, and become cultivators of the soil. Implements of husbandry and domestic animals have been presented to them, and all of these things have been done, accompanied with professions of disinterested solicitude for their happiness. Yielding to these temptations, some of them have reclaimed the forest, planted orchards, and erected houses, not only for their abode, but for the administration of justice, and for religious worship. And when they have so done, you send your agent to tell them they must surrender their country to the white man, and recommit themselves to some new desert, and substitute, as the means of their subsistence, and precarious chase for the certainty of cultivation.' 'I will add' continues the Secretary of War, in another part of this communication, that 'the end proposed is the happiness of the Indians; the means of its accomplishment their progressive, and finally, their complete civilization. The obstacles to success are their ignorance, their prejudices, their repugnance to labor, their wandering propensities, and the uncertainties of the future. I would endeaver [sic] to overcome these by schools, by a distribution of land in the individual right, by a permanent social establishment which would require the performance of social duties.' (See Ex. Docs. of 1825-6, Doc. 102.) This, sir, is the language of the Secretary of War, (Mr. Barbour,) a language which does equal honor to the head and heart of that distinguished statesman.
Let me now, Mr. Chairman, turn the attention of the committee more directly to the present situation of the several tribes or nations to which I have before referred. What, sir, is the situation of the Cherokee Indians? We are told, in the same document to which I last referred, that, in the Cherokee country, 'horses are plenty and are used for servile purposes. *Numerous flocks of sheep, goats, and swine, cover the valleys and hills. On Tennessee and Ustanalla rivers, Cherokee commerce floats. The climate is delicious and healthy. In the plains and valleys the soil is rich, producing Indian corn, cotton, tobacco, wheat, oats, indigo, sweet and Irish potatoes. Apple and peach orchards are quite common. Butter and cheese are seen on Cherokee tables. There are many public roads in the nation and houses of entertainment are kept by the natives. Numerous and flourishing villages are seen in every part of the country. Industry and commercial enterprise are extending themselves in every part of the country. Nearly all the merchants in the country are native Cherokees.  Agricultural pursuits engage the chief attention of the People. The population is rapidly increasing. The census taken this year, (1825) shows that there are 13,563 native citizens; 147 white men and 76 white women are married into the nation; and they have 1,277 African slaves.' are not these People, sir, in the possession of all that we propose to give them-of all their warmest friends promise them, in the new home in which they wish to place the Indians? I ask gentlemen, why we should remove them from this situation? It is our interest and not theirs which prompts us to this measure, and warms our unasked benevolence into action. What is the situation of the Chickasaw tribe? I will turn gentlemen to the report of the Special Agent who has just visited this nation. He informs us, that 'the population of the Chickasaws may be put down at four thousand. They have increased about four hundred within the last five or six years.' He says,' I will suppose the families to average five souls, which will give eight hundred houses. The number of mills, it is believed, does not exceed ten.  The workshops, I do not think, exceed fifty. Their orchards are few and limited in extent. Their fences are estimated to cost fifty thousand dollars.' Their stock of all kinds, averaging two horses, two cows, and five hogs and a dozen poultry, to each family, this agent estimates at eighty-four thousand eight hundred dollars, (see Doc. 2 page 179.) It is to remove these People, who are thus increasing, in a ration as rapid as the most flourishing of the United States, from the homes in which they already enjoy so many comforts and advantages, to some happy Elysian fields, that gentlemen have seen their imagination, but which exist no where else, that we are so earnestly solicited to make this appropriation.
The present situation of the Indians, as proved by the documents to which I have referred, is not worse, in regard to the means which they possess of obtaining subsistence, and the ordinary comforts of domestic life, than that of thousands of our hardy and independent yeomen, who are the pioneers of a more dense population. Among our citizens in the new States, we will not find in a population of four thousand; more than eight hundred houses, ten mills, and fifty workshops.  Yet, Sir, with all this evidence before, gentlemen insist that these Indians are a wretched and miserable People, who can be preserved in no other way, than by removing them into the wilderness, to seek their subsistence by pursuing the game of the forest. In my opinion, sir, nothing more is necessary to make them prosperous and happy, than to extend to them the rights of a free People.- Make them a portion of the great American family.
Sir, I am in favor of the policy proposed and pursued by the late Secretary of War, (Mr. Calhoun.) The system which he first proposed to Congress, and to the nation, and which had long before been sanctioned by the recommendation of several of our wisest and greatest statesmen, was to extend to them the advantages of civilization, not by driving them from their land into the wilds of the untrodden forest, but by a system of education, which would teach the Indian, ' particularly his children, the pursuits and habits of civilized man, and thus make his present home more valuable to him. In urging this subject upon the consideration of Congress, Mr. Calhoun says,' it will require the enlightened co-operation of the General Government, and of the States within which the Indians may reside. With zealous and enlightened co-operation, it is, however, believed, that all difficulties may be surmounted, and this wretched, but, in many respects, noble race, be ultimately brought within the pale of civilization. Preparatory to so radical a change in our relations towards them, the system of education which has been adopted ought to be put into extensive and active operation. This is the foundation of all our improvements. It ought gradually to be followed by a plain and simple form of government such as have been adopted by the Cherokees. A proper compression of their settlements, and a division of their landed property. By introducing gradually and judiciously these improvements, they will ultimately attain such a state of intelligence, industry, and civilization, as to prepare the way for a complete extension of our laws and authority over them.' (Ex. Docs. of 1821-'2 vol 4, Doc. 59.)
Sir, this is the language and the recommendations of the statesman who lately presided over the War Department with so much distinction. He did not dream of proposing the scheme which is now urged with so much zeal. He wished to provoke no angry collisions in this work of humanity, of justice. Let us banish from our councils the narrow feelings of self-interest, and give to the Indians a right to the soil which they possess- or rather, let us have the magnanimity to acknowledge that they have not that right. Let the Indians be the owners of the soil in fee-let the right of individual property be extended to them-let the strong passion awakened in the human bosom of self-interest, be called into action, and they will no longer be a degraded People. They will stand upon the proud eminence of Americans. They will feel no shame on account of their origin. No, Sir, it will be to them a source of conscious pride. I might support these views by the opinion of many gentlemen well acquainted with the subject. I will refer to one. Mr. Merriwether, of Georgia, formerly a member of this House, remarked to me, that ' the only way to elevate the Indian, is to give him property.'  He said, 'give an Indian a slave, and he at once becomes a man.' I say give him property much more valuable- give him the rights of a freeholder and a citizen.
But, sir, we are told that the Indians are oppressed by the encroachments of the white population which surrounds them; that they are trampled on and oppressed by our own citizens. This, sir, is a poor encomium on our People- a wretched compliment to the nation. While we are talking about our justice, our generosity-our feelings of humanity for the Indians- in the same breath we say, that our citizens- that the American People- with ruthless violence and injustice, are trampling the weak remnant of these once powerful nations into the dust. If we cannot protect them within the limits of our State Governments, insight of our courts of justice, and within reach of the arm of the laws, we cannot protect them when placed beyond the reach of our laws, and our of the limits of any organized civil government. Sir, this system, spun of wild theories, is all a dream- it is an Utopian scheme. If you cannot here stay the oppressing hand of avarice, where will you remove them to be beyond its grasp? Where you propose to plant them, will not our soldiers be placed over them? will not our People surround them there? Those who now prey upon them as vultures, will follow them to their new abode. There is no place fit for the residence of any civilized People, East of the Rocky Mountains, which has not been visited by the American citizens. A few years ago, had the proposition been made to plant the Indian tribes in a remote colony, the spot most likely to have been selected would have been Northwest of Ohio River, or, perhaps, just West of the Allegany [sic] Mountains. I ask gentlemen to reflect of the consequences of this measure. It appears to me to be a scheme by which the extension of our settlements and States is to be limited and restrained, unless you leave the Indians exposed to all the uncertainty, to all the evils, of which you now complain. Their situation will be worse than it now is. In proportion to the distance to which you remove your territorial Government from the seat of the General Government, and from the supervising care, you necessarily increase the abuses to which it will be liable.- You may hide the oppression of these People from the nation by this measure, but you will not thereby relieve the poor Indians from its weight and consequences.
It is said, sir, that the Indians while in our vicinity, learn only our vices, and that they cannot be civilized here. I ask gentlemen what they will gain by removing them, when the evil is not in the Territory which they inhabit-not in their local situation-but in the relation in which they stand to us? Their condition cannot be improved by the establishment of a military despotism over them. If man can rise to a high state of improvement under these circumstances, where he is taken from half cultivated fields and where he had become partially civilized, and placed in a wilderness, I confess, sir, that I do not understand the human character. Instead of rising in civilization, he will sink beneath the despotism which make him little less than your slave, or he will return again to the chase, and take refuge from your power and oppression in the more remote depths of the forest.- I do not, sir, wish to preserve the Indian race in distinct tribes, or as a separate People. I would as soon propose to plant in our country a colony from the Highlands of Scotland, and to provide that they should always continue to wear the Tartan plaid, and to speak the Highland dialect, as to preserve the Indians among us a distinct People.
Mr. Chairman, this is the only step necessary for the consummation of that system of fraud and insincerity- of treachery and baseness-which have characterized our treaties and intercourse with the Indians.  I speak fearlessly sir; this is the consummation of the vile policy which we have hitherto pursued. Whatever faithless promises we have made-whatever  guaranties we have given-they have been, for the promotion of our interest, all broken and disregarded. I will not trespass upon the feelings of this committee by travelling into the evidence contained in this volume of treaties, to prove the truth of my assertions. We may talk with all the sympathies of humanity about providing a home- 'a permanent home' for the poor wandering Indian. Yes, sir, it will be 'a last home' and one from which, when he shall reach its bourne, we will no longer be troubled with his complaints. The sensibility of gentlemen will be no more wounded by the tales of Indian suffering and misery, or their benevolence taxed by the claims of justice and humanity urged in behalf of these People.
*        The two sentences which immediately follow and the one which declares, that 'numerous and flourishing villages are seen in every part of the Country' cannot be considered strictly correct. They were written by a young Cherokee who had been absent from his Country for a few years.- On his return the astonishing progress of his Countrymen in the arts of civilized life made such an impression on his mind, as to lead him to the commission of extravagant expressions.
Ed.
______________________________________
CHEROKEE ALPHABET
Neatly printed and for sale at this Office.


















CHEROKEE LAWS
[Continued]
New Town, Nov. 12, 1825.

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That mechanics of the several branches of trade, of good character and sobriety, and well skilled in their respective professions are hereby privileged and admitted to come into the Cherokee Nation for the term of four or five years under the request ' superintendence of such respectable individuals as are interested in the improvement of the youths of this country, who shall obtain from the proper authority a permit for them. Such mechanics when brought into the nation, shall be bound to set up a shop and carry on their trade regularly, for the time permitted, and shall further be bound to take under their care for instruction as many apprentices as practicable, and to learn them their respective crafts; and
Be it further resolved, That the district courts be, and they are, hereby authorized to bind out such youths with the consent and approbation of their parents or guardians as may apply for admission as apprentices to any of the aforesaid mechanics, such mechanics entering into bond and giving such person or persons introducing them into the nation as securities, that they will honestly and faithfully instruct such apprentices as maybe bound under them, in their trade; and the mechanics and securities are authorized to call upon, and it shall be the duty of any public officer to arrest and return any apprentice, that may runaway; and further, the various mechanics introduced, under this law, shall be amenable to the authorities and laws of this nation, for any offence they may commit.
By order of the National Committee
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
PATH x KILLER
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk of the N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Coun.
________________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1825.

 Resolved by the National committee and Council, That all persons who may be subpoenaed by the clerk of any of the courts, to appear before any of the courts as evidence in any case, and such person or persons refusing to appear and bear evidence, and he, she, or they being unable to make any reasonable or lawful excuse for not appearing, such person or persons, upon conviction, shall pay a fine of twenty dollars for ever such offence, to be collected for the benefit of the person or persons non-suited, or cast in consequence of the want of that person or persons' testimony; and
 Be it further resolved, That such witnesses, attending agreeably to the summons, he, she, or they shall be entitled to receive seventy -five cents per day for each day's attendance including the time for going and returning, and to be levied off the person or persons against whom judgments may be issued.  These resolutions to be considered as amendments to the law passed Nov. 12th 1824; and to supersede the section embracing similar cases.
By order of the National Committee,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk, N. Council,
___________________
New Town, Nov. 12, 1824
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That one hundred town lots of one acre square, be laid off on the Oosteuallah River, commencing below the mouth of the creek, nearly opposite to the mouth of Caunausauga River. The public square to embrace two acres of ground, which town shall be known and called Echota; there shall be a main street of sixty feet and the other streets shall be fifty feet wide.
Be it further resolved, That the lots when laid off, be sold to the highest bidder.  The purchasers right shall merely be occupancy, and transferable only to lawful citizens of the Cherokee Nation, and the proceeds arising from the sales of the lots shall be appropriated for the benefit of the public buildings in said town; and
Be it further resolved, That three commissioners be appointed to superintend the laying off the aforesaid lots marking and numbering the same, and to act as chain-carriers and a surveyor be employed to run off the lots and streets according to the plan prescribed. The lots to be commenced running off on the second Monday in February next, and all the ground lying within the following bounds, not embraced by the lots shall remain vacant as commons for the convenience of the town; viz; beginning at the mouth of the creek, opposite the mouth of Caunausauga, ' up said creek to the mouth of the dry branch, on which George Hicks lives, up said branch to the point of the ridges and thence in a circle round along said ridges, by the place occupied by Crying Wolf, thence to the river.
By order of the N. Committee.
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
Approved- PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk National Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Council.










CORRESPONDENCE,
Between Gens. Gray, Davidson and Cocke, late Commissioners of the United States, and Messrs. John Ross and Ridge, on the part of the Cherokee Nation.
[Concluded]
CHEROKEE AGENCY,
Oct. 4 1827.
MESSRS. JOHN ROSS AND MAJOR RIDGE.
GENTLEMEN:- On yesterday your letter in answer to a reply made by the undersigned to your of the 15th ult. was received, and we must express our surprise and regret, that every point by us laid down in that letter, is by you considered either erroneous, or not founded in fact: and that even the statements made by General Gocke [sic] respecting what took place on his visit at New Echota in July last, should be pointedly contradicted. The General is not versed in your language, and if he has not given the words made use of by Major Ridge, on his introduction to the Committee and Council, he avers he has given the words as explained to him by your interpreter.
You have the candour [sic] to acknowledge, that you were informed by newspaper reports, that Gen. Cocke and two others from North Carolina were appointed by the President of the United States to hold Councils with the Cherokee tribe of Indians, and that the session of your Council was continued for the day under an expectation that the General would make some communication to you on the subject of his mission; and as he did not, you thought proper to direct your Clerk not to furnish him with a list of the names of the Committee and Council.  You could not suppose, or expect, that the General, without the consent or approbation of the other Commissioners, would attempt to open a negotiation with you, or explain the objects his government was desirous to effect by a treaty with the Nation: it would have been in direct opposition to the authority vested in him by his government, and disrespectful to those associated with him in commission.
Gen. Cocke also avers it is not a fact that the application made to Mr. McCoy was on the eve of his departure from Echota; but that it was made some days before, by his Secretary Major Hyndes [sic], and afterwards by himself; and not until the eve of his departure was the information refused.
In our former letter we assured you that ample means had been afforded us by the President to defray EVERY EXPENSE, and that the supplies were provided. We use the term every expense with the design to include every possible expense; nor should we have hesitated to employ cooks, or to have paid the members for their services fully as much as they receive for attending at New Echota in General Council, including the 'c. 'c. to which you refer in your letter of the 27th of September. You 'assure us with profound sincerity,' that nothing is more remote from the intention or wish of the Representatives of the Nation, than to treat the public agents of the General Government with disrespect or contempt.' Compare this assurance with your refusal to attend the call and invitation of that government; with the language of your letters to her Representatives and Agents.  Recollect the treatment of Gov. McMinn, and the Georgia Commissioners, when they attended your Council at or near New Echota. You inform us that the Cherokee Nation for eight years past have permanently established their seat of Government at New Echota, where every convenience for the accommodation of strangers and the Members of Committee and Council are provided, and conclude, should you meet at the place named in our invitation, you 'would be exposed to the weather as a congregated assemblage of rude people on a hunting expedition.' In this you are certainly mistaken. It is true there is no palace for the reception of a King or Emperor; but there are four taverns in the vicinity of the Agency, and one at it, where all the Committee and Council can be well accommodated, and their expenses paid by us.
We take leave to call your attention to that part of our letter of the 23d of September, where we mention your establishment of an independent government. No expression was intended to find fault with your Constitution, or deprive your Nation of the benefit of social intercourse in civilized life. On the contrary we expect ere long to see you incorporated with the American Family, enjoying the benefit arising from a well regulated government. Your construction of our remarks is not supported, when you seem to suppose we are disposed to find fault with your government.
It is useless longer to refrain from disclosing our knowledge of the object of your invitation to meet at New Echota.  We are correctly informed that Mr. John Ross has used all of his influence with the Nation to thwart the views of the United States, and has been mainly instrumental in preventing their meeting agreeably to our invitation of the 23d of August. You remark you have invited our attendance on the day appointed for the meeting of the approaching session of the General Council. Can you expect this subterfuge will avail, when you know that you have predetermined to reject every proposition that we are authorized to make to the Cherokee Nation? Why have you interposed to prevent their meeting us? It is necessary to keep the Nation in ignorance of their true interest? What object could we expect to attain? It has also been communicated to us, that Mr. Ross contemplates a trip to Washington City the ensuing winter, and this failure to hold Councils with the Commissioners of the United States is to be the ostensible cause of that enterprise.
Should our views be incorrect that the Cherokee Agency is the place proper to transact all business in which the United States are concerned with the Cherokee Nation, for what purpose are agents employed, and near five thousand dollars annually expended by the United States in defraying the expense of that Agency? The Secretary of War transacts all business with your Nation at that place. We are not advised that your seat of Government is established for any other purpose, than a place to regulate your own internal affairs. In this opinion we are confident we shall be supported by the Department of War.
Respectfully your ob't. serv'ts.
JOHN COCKE,
GEO. L. DAVIDSON,
ALEXANDER GRAY.
___________________________________________
NEW ECHOTA, CHEROKEE NATION
October 11, 1827.
TO GENERALS, JOHN COCKE GEO. L. DAVIDSON ' ALEX. GRAY.
GENTLEMEN:- We acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th inst. We do not deem it essentially necessary to go over all the different points on which you have written; therefore we must be brief.
You wish us to recollect the treatment which Gov. McMinn and the Georgia Commissioners received from our Council at this place, we assure you that it is well recollected that they were treated with civility and politeness by the members of Committee and Council.
And you also state the 'there is no palace for the reception of a King or Emperor at the Rattle Snake springs [sic] but that there are four taverns in the vicinity of the Agency.' We do not understand the idea you intend to convey, in reference to a palace for the reception of a King or Emperor, as the Cherokee Nation are governed by neither, and we were not informed that you had anticipated the arrival of any of the Crowned Heads from abroad. As to the four taverns spoken of we assure you that they are unknown to us, and that we were informed that the Rattle Snake Springs  are situated in the wilderness, four miles off from the Agency.
You also state that you are correctly informed that 'Mr. Jno. Ross had used all of his influence with the nation to thwart the views of the United States, and has been mainly instrumental in preventing their meeting agreeably to your invitation of the 23d August; and further that Mr. Ross contemplates a trip to Washington City the ensuing winter, and this failure to hold Councils with the Commissioners is to be the ostensible cause of that enterprise;' but you have not thought proper to state who gave you the information. We must therefore inform you that you have been intruded upon by those who were so expert in fabricating these misrepresentations, and we are sorry to discover that you are ready to believe every unfavorable report respecting us.
Very respectfully, Gentlemen, we are your ob't serv'ts.
JNO. ROSS
his
MAJOR x RIDGE
_________________________________________
CHEROKEE AGENCY,
4th Oct. 1827
TO THE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE AND COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION ASSEMBLED AT NEW ECHOTA.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:- The President of the United States, on the 13th of March 1827, appointed the undersigned Commissioners to hold Councils with the Cherokee Indians. A copy of our letter of appointment we lay before you, which will shew [sic] you the desire of our father the President of the United States; and also the object of Congress in making an appropriation of ten thousand dollars to defray the expence [sic] only that should attend the holding of the Council directed. We now make the propositions to you in accordance with the desire expressed by Congress and the President; and have sent our Secretary, Mr. James R. Cocke, with directions to lay them before you, and receive your determination. We request your early attention and reply, to enable us to report the result to the Secretary of War by the meeting of Congress.  We have been long detained with a desire to have met our friends the Cherokees, but without success, not occasioned, as we believe, by the act of the Nation, but through the influence of individuals.
Respectfully your friends and Brothers.
JOHN COCKE,
GEO. L. DAVIDSON
ALEXANDER GRAY
__________________________________________
DEPARTMENT OF WAR,
13th March, 1827
TO GENERALS JOHN COCKE, G. L. DAVIDSON, AND ALEXANDER GRAY, COMMISSIONERS, 'c.
GENTLEMEN:- An appropriation of ten thousand dollars having been made by the late Congress to defray the expense of holding Councils with the Cherokee Indians, for the two fold purpose of procuring and extinguishment of their claims to lands held by them within the limits of the State of North Carolina, and for extinguishing their claim to as much land as will be necessary for a canal to connect the Hiwassee and Conasaga with each other- the President has appointed you joint commissioners to carry the objects of said appropriation into effect. No special instructions are esteemed to be necessary. The mode and preparations are left to your discretion. It is desirable that you act under this commission as early as you conveniently can, and report your negotiations and their result to the Department by the meeting of the next session of Congress.
I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, very respectfully your ob't serv't.
JAMES BARBOUR.
______________________________________________
By virtue of the foregoing full power, Major General John Cocke of the State of Tennessee, Brigadier [sic] General George Lee Davidson and Brigadier [sic] General Alexander Gray, both of the State of North Carolina, propose to purchase, on behalf of the United States of America, from the Chiefs and Headmen of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, and extinguish their claim to all that tract or parcel of land lying and being within the chartered limits of the State of North Carolina, one of the United States of America, containing by estimation about five hundred and four thousand acres, bounded on the North and West by the State of Tennessee,---------agreeable to a line run and marked by Commissioners of both States- and South by the State of Georgia.  The above named Commissioners like wise propose to purchase and extinguish the claim of the Cherokee Nation to so much land as will be necessary for a Canal to connect the Hiwassee and Conasaga with each other. To hold Councils with the Cherokee Indians for the two fold purpose above stated the said John Cocke, George Lee Davidson and Alexander Gray, request the proper authorities of the Cherokee Nation to appoint Agents of said Nation to meet them without delay at the Cherokee Agency, where all Treaties and Documents are deposited.
JOHN COCKE,
GEO. L. DAVIDSON
ALEXANDER GRAY.
_____________________________________________________
NEW ECHOTA, CHEROKEE NATION,
October 11, 1827
In General Council Convened.
TO GENERALS JOHN COCKE, GEO. L. DAVIDSON AND ALEXANDER GRAY.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS:- Your communication of the 4th Inst. together with a copy of a letter from the Secretary of War shewing [sic] the objects of your appointment, and also your propositions to purchase from us a tract of land, containing about five hundred ' four thousand acres, bordering on the state of North Carolina, for the use and benefit of that state; and likewise as much land as would be necessary for a canal to connect the Hiwassee and Connasaga with each other were received the 9th inst. through your Secretary Mr. James R. Cocke; and in compliance with your request, we have bestowed our early attention to the subject, and return you this reply; that the representatives of this nation, in concluding the treaty of 1819, surveyed the past and present condition of their Nation and, with a deliberate and serious consideration, looked to its future destiny, and solemly [sic] pledged themselves in General Council that they would never dispose of one foot more of land again. This sentiment and determination have been repeatedly declared to the Agents and Commissioners of the United States, as well as to our Political Father the President of the United States; but it appears that our brethren of the bordering states would not willingly believe that the determination was made in soberness, and that the sentiment has been expressed with an unchangeable sincerity of heart, or why should they have so often and so urgently applied to the President and Congress for appropriations to hold Treaties with us on the subject?  Surely our white brethren of the states who surround our small Territory possess too much magnanimity and charity of heart to disregard our unwillingness to part with our homes, the land of our birth, in order that their own aggrandizement may be raised upon the ruin and destruction of ourselves and our posterity?- The Cherokee Nation with great liberality have made cession after cession for the accommodation and extension of your states, and we had flattered ourselves that they, with the principle of liberality, would now have been silent on the subject of procuring further cessions from us.
We will now repeat again to you what has often been told to other Commissioners of the United States, that the Cherokee Nation has no more land to dispose of, and that we cannot accede to your propositions.- Therefore we do not deem it necessary to appoint Agents for the purpose of negotiating a Treaty with you on the subject, for the two-fold object proposed. In giving you this definitive reply, we do it with consideration and respect, uninfluenced by any Individual, but solely with the view of maintaining the interest of our nation.
With great respect, we are politically your friends and Brethren.
Members of the Committee
John Ross, President N. Com.
Richard Taylor,
Joseph Vann
George Lowrey,
John Baldridge,
Hair Conrad,
Sleeping Rabbit,
George Chambers,
John Beamer,
Thomas Pettit,
Chuwalukee,
A. M'Coy, Clk. N. Committee.
Members of the Council.
Major Ridge, Speaker of N. Coun.
Going Snake,
William Hicks
Tesateskee,
Kelechulee,
Tunateehee,
The Feather,
Walking Stick,
Old Turkey,
Dick,
Rising Fawn Lee,
The Bark,
Little Turtle,
The Beau,
Chickasawteehee,
Three Killer
Sicketawee,
Chunoyikee,
Tsquie,
Oowanookee,
Poor Bear,
Skalola,
Slim Fellow,
Tahquoh,
Ahclosenee,
Kunusenee,
The Hog
Charles
Ooclunotah,
Suwakee,
Kaahteehee.
E. Boudinott, Clk. N. Council.










COMMUNICATIONS,
Mr. Editor.- I have noticed in your paper accounts of missionary operations, therefore, without intrusion, permit me to solicit in the columns of the Phoenix a place for an authentic and true statement of the Cherokee Missions under the superintendence of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
There are four missionary stations, located as follows; Creekpath, Chattooga Courthouse, Oochgelogy and Pinelog. At each of these stations a school is taught, and the children are instructed in spelling, reading, writing, arithmetick [sic] and English Grammar. In these several branches of education, they are advancing with considerable facility.  The aggregate number of scholars is about one hundred. The teachers of these schools are preachers, and employ themselves during the week in the business of instruction, and on the Sabbath administer the word of life.  None of the stations are permanently fixed, but subjected to be continued or discontinued as may be deemed expedient.
Itinerating [sic] schools of this character are, in my opinion, the best possible means to improve and enlighten, and effectually civilize and christianize the rising generation; for they may embrace every family and neighborhood, and in the mean time not possess national identity with us; and when the whole nation shall have progressed so far in the arts and sciences as to supersede benevolent and charitable auxiliaries, the instructors may withdraw from the field of labor without leaving antiquated permanent establishments with their concomitant appendages. It is not my design in this remark to reflect upon the well meant exertions of other denominations, who have been successful in doing much good among the Cherokees, for I am very conscious there may be correctness of design and error in method.*
There are three large circuits embracing about sixty preaching places, upon two of which the gospel is regularly preached in English, and on the other in Cherokee. These circuits are superintended by the Rev. James I. Trott, the Rev. Greenburry Garret, and Turtle Fields, the last of whom is well known to be a Cherokee. Under the labor of these pious and devotedly zealous men, the prospects of doing much good appear invitingly encouraging. May their labors be abundantly blessed by the great Head of the Church.
There are + seven hundred members of Society.  Some of whom are leading men of the nation, and many families of first respectability. These united exert a happy influence over their relatives, friends, neighbor's and nation generally.
The whole work is under the general superintendence of the Rev. William M'Mahan, Presiding Elder of the Huntsville district, Tennessee Annual Conference, and a representative to the General Conference of Methodist Episcopal Church in the United States of America; a Minister of known character, and a man of exalted talents.
Thus I have given you a specific account of our stations and schools, and shall conclude by observing that, with the visible effects of christianity presented to our view on all sides round, it is time that the enemies of Missionaries, should hush their objections and throw down their oppositions, that the gospel might have universal prevalency, and that its benign, salutary and heavenly influence might be diffused through all our social, political and religious institutions.
This is a day of events with us, we are merging from darkness to light.- Those clouds that have so long hovered over us, and shrouded us in ignorance, are about to be dispersed forever. May the sun of science in full orbed splendor shine upon our intellectual firmament, and may his piercing and meridian beems [sic] chase away the darkness of that night that has so long hung around our minds.  While I contemplate the rapid improvement making among the Cherokees, from the apex of their present condition, I roll back the curtain of futurity, and cast mine eyes down the stream of time.- I perceive that it is at least within the range of possibility, that ere long, from our infant institutions, will go forth orators with flaming eloquence, defending their countrymen from the cupidity, chicanery, and deep laid ruin of their enemies; that men will be raised up to bear the good news, the glad tidings of salvation to other heathen nations, to carry the rays of the sun of righteousness to the dark caverns of ignorance, superstition, and idolatry, and to preach the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ in all its grandeur, and in the demonstration of the spirit and power of God. May Satan's Kingdom fall like lightning from the skies; and may the commissioned angels soon proclaim that the Cherokees have been subjects of saving grace and heirs of Glory.
N.D.SCALES.
____________________
*We are inclined to think that the writer is here incorrect, or at least, this assertion is not supported by facts or experience. It is not from Schools of this nature that an ignorant child will derive the greatest permanent benefit. In 'itinerating School,' children may be taught to speak the English language, ( in neighborhoods where the Cherokee only is spoken even this will hardly be acquired,) they may learn to read and write, and perhaps acquire the rudiments of Grammar and Arithmetic, yet all this will but poorly qualify them as instructors to others; for the complete civilization of this people must depend in a great measure, upon the instrumentality of their own Citizens. It can hardly be expected that Missionaries will overrun this Country in order to civilize us-it must be done by preparing our own kindred for the work, whose labours [sic] will be by far more efficient, when properly and judiciously conducted. Itinerating preaching we consider an excellent method of diffusing the knowledge of religion. A preacher ought, however, always to be accompanied by an intelligent interpreter, (whenever such can be obtained,) for those who are ignorant of the English language will derive but little benefit from sermons which they do not understand.- We hope the exertions of benevolence, by means of the different Missionaries in this Nation, will particularly be directed to this, by far, the largest portion of our population.
+ The writer does not mean, we apprehend, by 'Members of Society,' Church Members in regular standing, but such as have intimated a desire to receive instruction.
Ed.
___________________________________________
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Mr. Boudinott:- Perhaps the communication of Mr. Huss, (The Spirit,) contained in your paper of May 14, including the last words of the man who was executed for murder near Chickamauga Court House, may not be uninteresting to your English readers. I have, (with assistance,) prepared a translation, which I offer for insertion. W.
TRANSLATION.
I here transcribe the addresses of the man who was executed at Crawfish-town a few days since. The first address, which I give below, he requested me to write for him, when he was about to be executed. In the morning, while the sun was yet low, I penned it for him, on the same day on which he was to be hung at noon, April 18, 1828.
These are his words: 'This day I address you, my Uncles, that you may abandon the practice of drunkenness. Forsake all evil, ye whom I leave behind. I desire you to believe that the practice of drunkenness which you follow is evil. Follow that which is good. Abandon drunkenness. If you believe, we shall meet again. I have relinquished my sins to God, who only, I believe, is able to save me.- Do ye also the same. Truly drunkenness is exceedingly evil, for you see before you the end of my life; my intemperance is the cause of it. Therefore it is that I request you to forsake it. Do not fail to regard what I say, now that I am delivering to you my last words; for this day I shall leave my present life.
To you also, my brothers, I say, follow that which is good. Regard my words. This also I say to you respecting our aged parents,-still provide for their support.  Do not injure them, for I had promised to support them, and this is my end; forsake them not, but support our parents as long as they live.
Let this be all my address.'
The following address also he made when he was just about to be executed.
' I have thought I will speak this day--let them remember my last words. My prayers only are present to my mind [literally cleave fast to me,] I cannot put them away. I endeavor only after that which was spoken to us yesterday.*  There is nothing in my heart which does not accord with that place of destination of which they speak. Should that be my destination, we shall meet again, if you believe. Now we are met for the last time. Truly the drunkenness which prevails is a great evil. Forsake it. Follow that which is good. Keep in mind such things as these.
I have also made a request to those who are left behind [my relatives] to forsake the evil of drunkenness. I wish they may regard it. But here is one standing by-he see us.- This is all- I can now say no more.'
Friends, Brethren; Let us read and meditate upon the addresses delivered at Crawfishtown, which are here printed. In his first address, made to his relations, his object evidently is to persuade them to forsake the evil of drunkenness and to regard the commands of our maker. And again in his second address he exhorts us all to forsake the evil of drunkenness. Thus it is that when God directs his mercy towards any individual, he is then desirous of forsaking sin, and such is the language which he uses. For it is manifest, that he must forsake sin who would obtain the mercy of God; for God has said in his word. For the language of the beloved Son of God is such as this; 'Forsake your sins, and I will give you eternal life and peace.'  But all the unbelieving our Maker will banish into hell. When we read, let us remember what God has said, that if we believe it will be well with us.
This also let us remember, that in truth drunkenness is exceedingly evil:- that which he [the criminal] especially exhorts us to forsake. For it is manifest that the great prevalence of drunkenness amongst us is the source of multiplied evils. For this man, who was executed, explicitly states that his intemperance was the cause.  And it may easily be perceived, that, as drunkenness increases in our country so the instances multiply in which men do injury to each other. This is our greatest enemy. Manifold are the evils of which drunkenness is the source.  I also, therefore, entreat you to forsake this creator of mischief.
JOHN HUSS.
May 3, 1828.
_________________
*I suppose Mr. Huss had made an address, after the trial on the preceding day










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday May 28, 1828
We publish to day, the closing part of the correspondence with the late United States' Commissioners. We appeal now to every intelligent reader whether there is anything in the conduct of the Cherokees, which may be construed as offering contempt to the United States. The letter from the Council, which closes the correspondence, is dignified, yet respectful, and affords a specimen of the feelings of our Citizens at large as regards their country. It will be seen that the propositions of the honorable Commissioners were unanimously rejected, and this is what they might have expected.
We are rather at a loss to know why these Gentlemen in their circulars, thought proper to address themselves to 'Warriors,' when they might have known that we have no more such characters amongst us, and if there are a few such men who may consider such an appellation applicable to them, they have no voice in our Councils, and are therefore not the proper persons to treat with. We hope the Savage appellation which we have determined to cast behind us, will no more be thrown upon us.
______________________________________
We mention some time since that Bear's Paw, who committed murder at Sumach, was permitted to run at large.- We understand that he has lately given himself up to the Marshal of Chickamauga District and was to be tried on last Saturday. The pernicious effect of intemperance, which prevails to an alarming extent in the Country and elsewhere, stand in their naked order, divested of all palliating circumstances, when instances similar to the case of the above person, are considered. We announced not long since,- the execution of one, who publicly declared that intemperance was his ruin. Ere this probably, another has been condemned to suffer the demands of justice. Can the people of this country look at the prevalence of such an evil with indifference?  Will the Patriots of the Cherokee Nation see one victim after another falling before that pernicious vice and not exert themselves to avert its progress? It is high time that every individual well wisher to his country should employ his influence to discountenance the use of intoxicating liquors.  Let the intemperate beware, ' the dealer in spirits reflect and see whether they have not been fostering an evil of no ordinary magnitude.










INDIAN EMIGRATION.
Speech of Mr. Woods
[Concluded]
I must claim the indulgence of gentlemen for a moment, while I refer to the documents now in my hand, for the purpose of holding up to their reprobation, and the reprobation, the practice of our government in its intercourse with the Indians. It is time, sir, to arrest this policy, if ever it is done.  Procastination [sic] in our decision will put it out of our power to remedy the evil. Look, sir, through this diplomacy. Look at the practice which is here avowed, or but too slightly concealed, and ask yourself-ask American People-whether they will, for one moment longer, tolerate this vile treachery? We have arrived at a point from which we cannot go forward in this course, without the most glaring light to the nation, and to the world. Sir, need I turn to the irresistible evidence which these oppressed People have given of their unwillingness to leave the country in which they live-the homes of their ancestors; and the masterly arguments by which they have defended their rights, and covered our agents and commissioners with disgrace, by exposing our insincerity and injustice?  Read, Sir, the Choctaws and Chickasaws to our Commissioners, in 1826, who had in their hands 'the large amount of means as an auxiliary aid,' and answer whether there is nothing in these negotiations deserving the reprobation of the American People.  If one set of Commissioners have not money enough, they are followed by others with more. Agents are employed, and sent to prepare the minds of the Indians for the operations of the Commissioners. They are sent from house to house, to buy off the allegiance of these sons of the forest, who are induced, by your arts and money, to sell their countrymen and brethren.
Sir, we have been told by the gentleman at the head of the Indian bureau, who has lately visited several of the tribes, that he was 'aware of the settled dislike of the People to anything in the shape of a direct proposition for their country, and that recent negotiations, though conducted by three distinguished citizens chosen no less on account of intelligence, than for their admitted knowledge of the Indian character, had totally failed, and that the large amount of means placed at their disposal as an auxiliary aid, had been equally inoperative.' Yet, Sir, this gentleman is sent as a special agent to these very nations, to effect, in some way, the very same object which the Commissioners, with all their intelligence and great knowledge of the Indian character, and the auxiliary aid in their hands, had totally failed to accomplish. Sir, what does this mean? Is this the open frank, and manly policy of a great and magnanimous nation towards these weak, scattered, and dependent tribes? Oh no, sir; I repeat it, our policy towards the Indians has been marked by fraud, and insincerity, and treachery, and baseness.
The commissioners who were sent to treat with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and proposed directly to purchase their country, and to give them, West of the Mississippi, acre for acre, were met by a prompt, decided and manly negative to all their propositions, not only from the Chiefs, but by the Indian People, to whom they appealed. But if, by the management of our Agents, the Chiefs and leading men can be prevailed on, by any means, to sell their Country and Nation, retaining to themselves; within the States, reservations, our object and wishes would be effected. Such a conditional agreement, it appears, has been made with one of the Nations. But with all the diplomatic skill and ingenuity of this gentleman, no way, not even a solitary avenue could be found, by which he could approach the Choctaws, with any proposition, for the sale of their country.  Yet, from motives of pure and disinterested friendship, he proposed to enable six of their Chiefs to take a tour of pleasure, and at the expense of the United States, with a suite of our Agents at their heels to travel by the way of the Missouri, and the Northwestern Territory, to see their friends and brothers in the Arkansas, Territory! 'The Chiefs' and representatives of the Nation 'were bound to reject openly any proposition to sell their Country, or bring upon themselves the rebuke, if not the chastisement of the Nation.': Yet, sir, 'under cover of this pretext, ground is to be broken!!' We are by this appropriation unblushingly to sanction the secret agreement or understanding, by which the Chiefs, 'under cover of this pretext,' are to take measures for selling to us their country.  Look,m sir, at the report of the Commissioners, sent during last year, to the Cherokees and Choctaws, one of whom was formerly a member of this House, and at the head of the Committee on Indian affairs, [Mr. Cocke.] The proposition was openly made these Nations to sell only a small part of their country, and every possible argument used to induce them to do so; but our Commissioners met a prompt and decided refusal from the Indians. These Nations are not 'governed by a few white men and half breeds,' of whose intelligence and influence we have heard a great complaint, by the friends of this project, but by the Indian People themselves, who exercise the elective franchise, and have turned out and disgraced the Chiefs whom we had corrupted by our Agents and base instruments.- Yes, sir, we have been told by the proper representatives of the Indian People, that they will not sell their country-their homes- the graves of their fathers. Yet, in spite of all this, gentlemen urge us to adopt this system, and appropriate one hundred thousand dollars (the sum asked by the amendment now offered by the gentleman from South Carolina) to purchase the country of these very Nations.  To me the bold and daring course of violence, which openly avows its object, is preferable far preferable, to the false, deceitful, insidious policy, by which we degrade the Indians and disgrace ourselves. We have even heard loud complaints because one of these Nations has formed a Government ' written a Constitution for themselves upon free and liberal principles. This Constitution is itself a full triumphant refutation of the assertion that these Indians are in a wretched and degraded situation, and can be saved by removing them.  It proves that, if we do justice, and cease to oppress them, they will be a free and happy People.
While the Indians in the most positive manner, refused to sell their country, and spurned all the kind, humane, and disinterested propositions which have been made to them, and have 'strange as it appeared' to our Commissioners, refused even to look at the proffered 'last home,' though we propose to pay them well for their trouble, there is one plan which they have not refused to sanction and adopt, and which experience has proved to be the only one which will save them from extinction.  The Indians have not refused to permit you to establish schools in their country, to educate their children. They have not refused to permit you to send farmers and mechanics among them, to teach them husbandry and the mechanical arts.  They have sanctioned and approved of the system commenced by the annual appropriation of $10,000 for these objects.  This is, in my opinion the only correct system which we can pursue. The sums expended under the act of 1819, for the civilization of the Indians, have been productive of more beneficial effects that the whole sum of $250,000 paid to them in annuities. The expenditure of this small sum is more honorable to the nation than five times the amount paid for the support of your Military Academy, and many other objects of appropriations. Sir, by this expenditure more than one thousand two hundred Indian children are taught whatever is valuable, or necessary to be learned by the common classes in society. They are taught to read and write, to plow and reap, and all the branches of business necessary for the prosperity of a new country.- The females are taught all the domestic duties which belong to their station. The advantages derived from this small appropriation have been much enhanced by the 'auxiliary aid' of the Missionary Establishments existing in the Indian country. By a proper increase of this fund, and 'with proper and vigorous efforts, under the system of education which has been adopted, and which ought to be put into extensive and active operation, the Indians may receive an education equal to that of the laboring portion of our own community.' (Docs. of 1821-2, vol. 4. Doc. 59.)
This, Sir, is the sytem [sic] adopted, and put into active operation, (so far as the limited appropriation would admit,) by the gentleman then at the head of the War Department [Mr. Calhoun.] It is the system in which I most cordially concur. I am willing to appropriate whatever sum may be necessary to give complete success to the benevolent and liberal views and wishes of the American People , in behalf of the original lords of this Continent. Two or three years ago, the Committee on Indian Affairs were directed to inquire into the expediency of repealing the law making the annual appropriation to which I have alluded. And what, sir, was the report on the subject presented, I believe, by my friend and colleague [Mr. M'Lean] who is now at the head of that committee? In that report, we are told that 'it requires but little research to convince every candid mind, that the prospect of civilizing the Indians was never so promising as at this time; never were means for the accomplishment of this object so judiciously devised, and faithfully applied, as provided in the above act, and the aids which it has encouraged.'  The committee are assured 'that the continuation of the appropriation, seconded by the liberal and increasing aids which are afforded by volutary [sic] contribution, will, gradually and most effectually, extend the benefit of the law to the remotest tribes who inhabit our extensive domain.' The progress of this work may be more rapid than any person can now venture to anticipate. No one will be bold enough to denounce him as a visionary enthusiast who, under such auspices, will look with great confidence to the entire accomplishment of the object.' This, Sir, is the deliberate opinion of the committee, expressed with great force and propriety, after a full examination of the subject. It is to me an irresistible argument against the scheme now proposed.
Mr. Chairman, I wish to turn the attention of the Committee to the expense which will attend this measure. If adopted, whether successful or not, the expense must be incurred. This experiment is to be made at the hazard of human life. The happiness, may, Sir, the existence of one hundred thousand People, depends upon the doubtful success of this untried project. But, if all the arguments and reasons opposed to the scheme and its practicability can be successfully answered, still it may be proper to examine the subject in relation to its demands upon the Treasury, and our disposition to meet these demands. I will present to the Committee the estimates which are made by the friends and advocates of this scheme, ' will then ask gentlemen whether they are prepared to go forward. I will not take into consideration the expenditure necessary to purchase the Indian title to the lands which they still held in Georgia. This matter has been pressed upon the Committee, but I will not stop to examine it. I am ready and willing to fulfil all our obligations to Georgia, so far as we can do in justice to others, and without the violation of other rights. If, sir, I agree with my neighbor to convey to him a clear title, in fee, for your farm, and you should obstinately refuse to sell your land to me, what am I do? Have I a right to turn you off your land, and out of your house, and to seize upon your property? No. Sir; I become responsible to my neighbor for the damage he may have sustained. I will forfeit the penalty of my obligation; but your title remains good.- I am ready to pay Georgia the penalty of our obligation, if we have violated it. But I will not do flagrant injustice to the Indians, even to gratify a sovereign State.
The estimate now presented to us of the expense of removing the Chickasaw Nation of 4000 persons, amounts to nearly half a million.  This embraces the sum proposed to be paid for their houses, farms, shops, horses, and other articles of personal property; and if we calculate that the farms, houses, ' property, of other tribes is as valuable, in proportion to their numbers, as that of the Chickasaws, it will require more than six millions of dollars for this part of the expense. The estimate made for the subsistence of the emigrating Creeks, is twenty cents per day, or $73 per annum for each individual . The amount of this item of the expense would be about four millions of dollars. Thus we have the sum of more than ten millions of dollars as a commencement; without including 'contingencies;' and the whole expense of supporting the Government to be created in this new territory; and the army to be sustained for its defence; without adding the sum necessary for the establishment of schools and other means of education. This is not my calculation. It is furnished to us by the Indian Bureau; by the friends of this scheme-as the foundation or data upon which we are to make this appropriation.  I refer gentlemen, who wish to examine this subject in detail, to the report of the Commissioners sent to  treat with the Chickasaws and Choctaws in 1826, printed by the Senate, pages 13 and 14; and to the documents accompanying the President's message, page 177; also, to document 44, page 6.  I ask in behalf of the Indians only for a pittance of these enormous sums, to be expended in establishing schools among the Indians, in teaching them the pursuits of agriculture and the mechanical arts, and in establishing proper regulation for their government, and for the distribution and security of their property. Sir, in the language of the late Secretary of War, let 'the system which has been adopted, be put into extensive and active operation,' and the result will be infinitely more honorable to us; the prosperity and happiness of the Indians will be more effectually promoted and secured, than by any new invention for their benefit.
Before we carry the eighty thousand Indians, now on this side of the Mississippi over that river, I conjure gentlemen to look at the situation of the two hundred thousand which are already there. I ask the friends of this measure to prove the correctness of their theory; by organizing these tribes under their new system of Government, by teaching them to respect your laws, and by learning them to pursue the occupations, and adopt the laws and habits of civilized man.  Let gentlemen do this, and come with the evidence of their success, and I will then believe in their theory; I will then vote for this measure. But, Sir, while I know and have the evidence before me, to prove that the most powerful of the Indian nations, now West of the Mississippi, living upon the very territory to which these are to be removed, are still more miserable and destitute than the most degraded of those for whose benefit gentlemen are urging us to adopt this measure, I will not consent to drive the eighty thousand now among us, enjoying the comforts of their homes and native land, into the country, where they can meet nothing but death, either by the hand of their enemies or by the lingering sufferings of famine. Our utmost efforts could not preserve them in this wilderness; which is already filled with all the horrors of Indian wretchedness. The Indians already in that region are enjoying the fruits of our benevolence and humanity, by an accumulation of misery and suffering beyond a parallel. Sir, I draw no imaginary picture. I cannot portray, in language sufficiently strong, the wretchedness of these People, now West of the Mississippi, where we promise their brethren 'a last home,' where they may flourish in peace and happiness! I will read to the Committee an extract of a letter from Gov. Clark, superintendent of the Indians West of the Mississippi. He says, 'the situation of the Indians West of the Mississippi is the most pitiable that can be imagined. During several seasons in every year they are distressed by famine, of which many die for want of food, and during which the living child is often buried with the dead mother, because none can spare it as much food as would sustain it thro' its helpless infancy. This description applies to the Sioux, Osages, and many others; but I mention these, because they are powerful tribes, and live near our borders; and my official station enables me to know the exact truth. It is in vain to talk to people in this situation about learning and religion. They want a regular supply; and, until this is obtained, the operations of the mind must take the instinct of mere animals, and be confined to warding off hunger and cold.'
I have now, Mr. Chairman, in a disconnected and imperfect manner, urged the reasons which induce me to oppose this measure.  I have endeavored to prove that the evils to which the Indians are now exposed would be increased by their removal; and that we may, by justice on our part, and the establishment of a liberal policy towards them, secure their prosperity. I have not failed, Sir, to express, in decided terms, my opinion of the conduct which our Government and its agents has pursued towards these people.  I have Shawn [sic], that the execution of this scheme, if at all practicable, would involve us in a most prodigal expenditure of millions of the public treasure; and I have proved the wretchedness and want of the Indians already inhabiting the country West of the Mississippi.- Firmly convinced of the correctness of the views and arguments which I have presented to the Committee, I cannot vote for this measure; I cannot agree to send the remnant of our Indians to share the fate of those beyond the Mississippi. Sir, let us rather do them justice; let us allow them a part, not of what we have already taken from them-no, Sir, but of the little they have yet left. Our interests, the appeals of the States, the 'settled policy,' of the Government, may be urged in favor of the measure here, but not at the bar of justice, or before the world. If we sanction this measure, the blood of these People, reduced by us to the condition of wretchedness and horror, in which 'the living child is buried with the dead mother,' will be upon our heads.










More Troup-ism.- Governor Forsyth, the successor of Governor Troup, has isued [sic] a proclamation calling upon the constituted powers of the state of Georgia to resist the operations of the Cherokee Indians, who have made themselves a constitution of government, and have thence assumed an attitude of independence.-
Tuscaloosa.


















LAWS
OF THE CHEROKEE NATION
[continued]
New Town, Nov. 14, 1825

 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That a memorial be drawn up and presented through the United States Agent for this nation, to the Congress of the United States, claiming, ' respectfully soliciting the allowance of interest on the twenty years annual instalment of one thousand dollars per annum, arising from the Treaty of Tellico, 24th October, 1804, which has recently been ratified on the part of the United States; and that the proper papers showing, that this nation had heretofore demanded of the United States' government the fulfillment of the treaty, with interest, also to accompany the memorial.
Be it further resolved, That a communication be addressed to the United States' Agent for this nation, touching the non-compliance, on the part of the Unicoy Turnpike Company, to make the annual payments, promised under the articles of agreement, granting the opening said road, and to request that measures may be taken to coerce the said Unicoy Turnpike Company to comply with the articles of agreement which have been ratified by the treaty of 1818.
By order of the N. Committee,
JNO. ROSS. Pres't Nat. Com.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk. of N. Council.
___________
Creek Nation, at General William M'Intoshes [sic], in council between the Creeks and Cherokees have this day made a Treaty about their boundary line; viz;
Article 1. A line we do hereby acknowledge, shall be run from the Buzzard Roost, on the Chattahoochee River, a direct line so as to strike the Coosa River, opposite the mouth on Will's Creek, thence down the bank of said river opposite to Fort Strother, on said river; all north of said line is the Cherokee lands, all south of said line is the Creek lands.
Article 2. WE THE COMMISSIONERS, do further agree that all the Creeks that are north of said line above mentioned shall become subjects to the Cherokee Nation.
Article 3. All Cherokees that are south of the said line shall become subjects of the Creek Nation.
Article 4. If any chief or chiefs of the Cherokees, should fall within the Creek Nation, such chief shall be continued as chief of said nation.
Article 5. If any chief or chiefs of the Creeks, should fall within the Cherokees, that is, north of said line, they shall be continued as chiefs of said nation.
Article 6. If any subject of the Cherokee Nation, should commit murder and run into the Creek Nation, the Cherokees will make application to the Creeks to have the murderer killed, and when done; the Cherokee Nation will give the man who killed the murderer, $200.
Article 7. If any subject of the Creek Nation, should commit murder and run to the Cherokees, the Creeks will make application to the Cherokees to have the murderer killed, and when done the Creek Nation will give the man who killed the murderer $200.
Article 8. If any Cherokees should come over the line and commit murder or theft on the Creeks, the Creeks will make a demand of the Cherokees for satisfaction.
Article 9. If any Creeks should come over the line and commit murder or theft on the Cherokees, the Cherokees will make a demand of the Creeks for satisfaction.
Article 10. All claims of theft from the time of the meeting held at Hickory ground, Cosa River, near Fort Jackson, with the Four Nations at the time Bools was taken, up to this date, it is agreed by the commissioners of both nations that they shall be foreclosed by this treaty.
Article 11. All individual debts the creditors will look to their debtors.
Article 12. The Commissioners of both nations do agree the lines described in the foregoing treaty shall be ratified, when the heads of both nations sign the treaty.
WE, THE COMMISSIONERS, do hereby set our hands and seals this eleventh day of December, 1822.
The above treaty of boundary run by Gen. Wm. M'Intosh and Samuel Hawkins, commissioners duly authorized by their nation, and Thomas Petitt and John Beamer, authorized commissioners of the Cherokee Nation, is forever hereafter acknowledged by both nations to be permanent.
CHEROKEE NAMES.
Chuliowah, {Seal}
Old Turkey {Seal}
Ta,car,sut,tah, {Seal}
Walking Stick {Seal}
Thos. Woodward, {Seal}
Ta,car,sen,na {Seal}
Oo,ta,le,tah {Seal}
Will Interpreter {Seal}
The Boot {Seal}
Small Wood, {Seal
Approved
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
CREEK NAMES.
Gen. Wm. M'Intosh, {Seal}
Es,tun,e,tus,tun,e,gee, {Seal}
Ts,us,he,hou,lock, {Seal}
Tuskinhou, {Seal}
Tus,tin,e,gee, {Seal}
Na,han,lockopy, {Seal}
Chau,the,se,tus,tin,e,gee, {Seal}
Is,po,go,mico {Seal}
Dick, Interpreter {Seal}
Ha.be,he,lus,tin,ne,gee, {Seal}
Tus,ten,ne,cho,poy {Seal}
Ha,poy,e,han,gee, {Seal}
Tus,ke,he,now, {Seal}
John Stedhouse, {Seal}
William Hambly, {Seal}
his
Big x Warrior   {Seal}
mark
WITNESSES.
Major Ridge
Dan'l Griffin.
A. M'COY Clerk N. Com.
Jos. Vann, Cl'k to the Commissioners.
Be it remembered,  That this day, that I have approved of the treaty of boundary, concluded on by the Cherokees, east of the Mississippi, and the Creek Nation of Indians, on the eleventh day of December, 1821, and with the modifications proposed by the committee and council, on the 28th day of March, in the current year. Given under my hand and seal at Fortville, this 16th day of May, 1822.
CHARLES R. HICKS. {Seal}
Witness,
LEONARD HICKS.
________________
WHEREAS, The treaty concluded between the Cherokees and Creeks by commissioners duly authorized by the chiefs of their respective nations, at General Wm. M'Intosh's on the eleventh day of December, (A.D.) one thousand eight hundred and twenty-one, establishing the boundary line between the two nations, has this day been laid before the members of the national committee, by the head chiefs and members of council of the Cherokee Nation, and Sam'l Hawkins, Sah,naw,wee, Ninue,ho,mot,tee, and In,des,le,af,kee, chiefs duly appointed and authorized by the head chiefs of the Creek Nation, for a friendly explanation ' full understanding of the constructions to be placed on the different articles contained in the aforesaid treaty, and to make such alterations as may be conceived necessary for the peace and harmony and friendship existing between the two nations; there, WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, in behalf of our respective nations, do hereby enter into the following agreement; viz;
The first Article of the aforesaid treaty, establishing the boundary between the two nations from Buzzard Roost, on the Chattahoochee River, in a direct line to Coosa River, opposite to the mouth of Wills Creek, thence down said river opposite to Fort Strother, is hereby acknowledged and shall forever be permanent.
And 2d and 3d articles, making provision for the citizens of both nations, who may fall within the limits of the other, after running the line, to become subjects thereof shall not be construed so as to compel the individuals falling within the limits of the other to become subjects of that nation, but it shall be left entirely to their choice.
The 4th and 5th articles providing for the chiefs of both nations who may fall within the limits of the other, and choose to become subjects thereof, shall not be construed so as to compel either nation to keep such chief of chiefs in the authorities of their respective councils, but the two nations, shall exercise their own authorities in the selection and appointments of their own chiefs.
The 6th and 7th articles are hereby repealed and made void and the following agreement substituted; viz; In case a citizen of either nation, committing murder in their own nations, and escaping to the nation of the other party for refuge and the chiefs of the nation from whence the murderer or murderers so absconded, should in their council, issue a proclamation offering a reward for the apprehension of such murderer or murderers, the chiefs of the contracting nations agree to use ever measure in their power to have the offender or offenders apprehended and delivered over to the chiefs of the nation from whence such murder or murders may have escaped.
The 8th and 9th articles, so far as related to crossing the line and committing murder on the subjects of the other, is approved and adopted; but respecting thefts, it is hereby agreed that the following rule be substituted, and adopted; viz; Should the subjects of either nation go over the line and commit theft, and he, she, or they be apprehended, they shall be tried and dealt with as the laws of that nation direct, but should the person or persons so offending, make their escape and return to his, her or their nation, then, the person or persons so aggrieved, shall make application to the proper authorities of that nation for redress, and justice shall be rendered as far as practicable, agreeably to proof and law, but in no case shall either nation be accountable.
The 10th article is approved and adopted, and all claims for thefts considered closed by the treaty as stipulated in that article.
The 11th article is approved and adopted, and it is agreed further, the contracting nations will extend their respective laws with equal justice towards the citizens of the other in regard to collecting debts due by the individuals of their nation to those of the other.
The 12th article is fully approved and confirmed.  We do hereby further agree to allow those individuals who have fell [sic] within the limits of the other, twelve months from the date thereof, to determine whether they will remove into their respective nations, or continue and become subjects of that nation; and it is also agreed that in case the citizens of either nation, who may choose to remove into the nation of the other and become subjects, such person or persons shall be required to produce testimonials of their good character from the councils of their respective nations and present the same before the councils of the other nation; ' should the chiefs thereof then think proper to receive and admit them, it may so be done.
In behalf of our respective nations, WE DO HEREBY ADOPT, the above modifications and explanations of the several articles of the treaty establishing the boundary line between the two nations, and also, the additional agreement now made, shall hereafter be considered the basis on which our respective citizens shall be governed.  In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and seals, this 30th day of October, 1823.
John Ross, President N. Com
George Lowrey
Richard Taylor
Thomas Foreman,
Thomas Pettit,
Hair Conrad,
John Baldridge
Sleeping Rabbit
John Beamer,
John Downing
Kelechulah,
Cabbin Smith
Chu,wal,loo,kee,
Approved
his
Path x Killer
mark
Going Snake
Chickasawteehee,
Maj'r Ridge, Speaker,
Creek Commissioners,
Sam'l Hawkins,
In,de,le,af,kee,
Sah,now,wee
Nin,ne,ho,mot,tee,
Elijah Hicks, Clerk, N. Coun.
A. M'Coy, Clk. N. Com.










COMMUNICATIONS
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Mr. EDITOR:- In the debate in Congress the 20th March on the resolution of Mr. Woods of Ohio, I see the remarks of Mr. Mitchell of Tennessee; and in opposing the resolution, he has been pleased to notice and bring into the debate the 'abject and destitute condition' of the Cherokee Indians, as a fit weapon to bear down all opposition that might be in his way. But in this he has failed. If however his pitiful description of my country can be of any service in his hands to illustrate his argument, he is more than welcome to it. But he has certainly exaggerated the miseries that we are compelled to suffer at the instance of our 'chief and Nabobs.'  Mr. M. is 'unfortunately our neighbour [sic], and is guilty of a two fold crime, because he professes to have a correct knowledge of our condition, when indeed, from reading his speech, I must believe that he labours [sic] under a 'total ignorance of the true state of facts,' in regard to the Cherokee Indians. Whereas, if he had known correctly our condition, he certainly could not have so palpably misrepresented our situation. But perhaps he is 'acting from excitement, and from a misconception of facts,'- Where are the facts that have been so strangely perverted and misconstrued? Has not Mr. M. himself, 'Nabob' like, endeavoured [sic] to shut every avenue of common sense, that he might create and diffuse 'wrong impressions' on the public mind in relation to this nation? And has he not assumed false positions, the 'only tendency' of which 'must be to excite unnecessary debate, to terminate at last in odium and disgust' and that upon his own head? He cannot expect anything else, and it is a source of real regret to 'hear and read such extravagant statements,' made in the House of Representatives, and that by one who professes to have a correct knowledge of the whole subject. But upon reading his speech 'carefully,' we see upon the very face of it  nothing but evidence of a 'total ignorance of the true state of facts.'
Mr. M. says, in respect to particular tribes, some gentlemen may be under the impression that they are rising to the 'highest point of moral and intellectual improvement.' 'I am aware (says he) that some gentlemen here very honestly entertain such an opinion with respect to the Cherokees.'  As to the 'moral and intellectual improvement,' and there are few nations who can claim these high sounding epithets; and we do not wish to make any such impression on any nation or individual. But we certainly have a claim on Mr. M's candour [sic], and to have said the least of us as a nation would have been that the Cherokee Indians were rapidly progressing in the arts and sciences, and ere long they would occupy an important station among the nations of the earth.* 'I know (says he) the chiefs personally and am acquainted with the condition of the Tribe.' This statement, as to the former part, may be true; but as to his acquaintance with our condition as a nation, I must be permitted still to believe that he labours [sic] under a 'total ignorance of the true state of facts.' 'while the chiefs (says he) are Nabobs, living luxuriously, and exercising despotic power, the mass of the nation are in the most abject and destitute condition.' Now I would ask Mr. Mitchell if his information is not founded on ' a misconception of facts.'- Where did he ever see a 'chief or a Nabob living luxuriously' in the Cherokee Nation and exercising and acknowleding [sic]  no law but that of his own will; and dealing away the lives of the 'mass' just as Mr. M. does his words under a 'misconception of facts?' The truth is that we only have a principal and assistant chief, nor do we feel or acknowledge any 'Nabob' or 'despotic power' in our government. 'And in saying this I intend no reflection' ;on the veracity of Mr. Mitchell. Our 'Chiefs' or 'Nabobs' no more dare attempt to exercise 'despotic power' over the 'destitute mass,' than one of the lowest grade of Russian 'boors' dare insult his Emperor.  Our chiefs exercise no authority but what is created by law, and if Mr. M. wishes to store his mind with 'correct information' about our nation, I would advise him to take a ride to the interior of it, and seek an interview with our 'Chiefs' or 'Nabobs,' I think that he would 'find' them 'as frank and as communicative as he could desire,' by doing so he would no longer perhaps labour [sic] under that 'ignorance,' which he so much attributes to other gentlemen. Mr. M. is certainly attempting to sport with the good sense of the house of which he has the honor to be a member,- and whenever he addresses the house, they cannot but expect some specimen of his ingenuity in wiping away the foul stain of 'misconception' from the house. 'Yes more wretched and abject (says he) than the lowest hordes of Russian boors.' In this delineation of horrid wretchedness, which he wishes to convey as applicable to the Cherokees, I can but say that I would not exchange my 'abject and destitute condition,' for his 'high point of moral and intellectual improvement.'- He may be an excellent model, but I for one do not envy his talents or his situation, and no doubt if the recommendations of Mr. M. were carried into effect, we would sooner or later experience the slavish state of the Russian 'boors' in all its horrors, and 'abject' wretchedness, and ere long be driven in 'hordes' to the wilds of the Mississippi. And so long as Mr. M. 'continues' to labor under such 'ignorance,' 'the practical effect of which goes only to make false impression through the country,' it is to be feared that the condition of the Indians will never be bettered.
I always thought that it was better to advance the truth at all times, no matter how desperate the cause is upon which we plead; and if Mr. Mitchell had taken truth for his guide, he would have saved himself from much odium and disgust.' He does not wish to oppress us, no, not he, good 'neighbour [sic],' like, but would rather come forward and 'adopt some plan which would improve' our 'condition instead of riveting our chains, and suffering a few chiefs and head men to trample down the rest into the dust.' Mr. Mitchell need not trouble himself about this, because if the Indians saw cause to tie up every day one of the 'mass' and 'give him a hundred lashes, it is only a matter in which the Indians alone are concerned,' and Mr. M. 'for one' has 'no business to interfere.'
A bad excuse is better than none, and I suppose that his condescending friendship to unrivet our 'chains and improve our conditions,' is only to obtain our lands; but he never can make us believe that we are so 'abject and destitute' as to be unworthy to remain and occupy our present homes. Yes, as long as the Cherokees remain just and peaceable in their intercourse with their 'unfortunate' 'neighbors' and retain a true sense of the value of their situation, so long will they continue to occupy the lands of their forefathers; but as soon as they become over burdened with 'moral and intellectual improvement,' so as to be 'under total ignorance of the true state of facts' it is then to be feared that their dissolution is nigh, and that they will experience the 'practical effects' of Mr. Mitchell's recommendation. I fear that Mr. M. has experienced the debilitating effects of disease, for I think the powers of his intellect have grown weaker, and that his conceptive powers are about to take their flight. I hope the 'conduct' of Mr. M. 'proceeds from right motives and good feelings.'-
But I say that he is 'ignorant of the true state of facts,' and in saying this I intend no reflection. I do not charge this ignorance as a reproach, it is mere absence of correct information, 'and this' I am sure 'implies no reflection on the powers of Mr. M's mind, or the feeling of his heart.' And as Mr. M. is a gentleman of fine 'taste' and feels a delicacy 'to attempt to draw a dark picture, even of a savage,' I would conclude that he did not intend his remarks as applicable to the Cherokees, and upon the whole, in all probability, he is not serious in his manner of communicating his ideas. I conclude by wishing him a speedy reformation; for this is not the first time, he has been charged with inconsistency about our situation, and I am induced to believe that the remarks of _______________are from Alpha to Omega entirely destitute of any foundation in ______________. I hope he will excuse me for quoting so much of his language, but I am so much under the impression that he was 'acting from excitement,' and that too under the influence of 'ignorance' that I could not forbear to take his own weapon to lash him in return. He certainly deserves severe handling, but being of the opinion that it is more becoming to spare my 'unfortunate neighbor' than to triumph over his ruin, thinking, too, that his conscience is sufficiently mortified, and that it will hereafter act as a silent monitor to guide him in the path of rectitude, I am
ONE OF 'THE MASS.'
______________
*Provided however, the strong arm of the United States protect us in our rights, and not disorganize us by recommending projects of emigration, when it is contrary to our wish. We do not expect ever to be a great nation, in the common sense of the word, for our population is too trifling to entitle us to that appellation. We may, nevertheless, by our improvement in the various departments of life, gain the respect and esteem of other nations. Or, should we blended with the United States, (which perhaps may be the case,) we shall enjoy the privileges of her citizens, and receive in common, the regard due to her from abroad. Ed.
_______________________________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday, June 4, 1828
Volume 1 no. 15
Page 2 Col. 4b-Page 3 Col. 1a
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
I am informed by your eleventh number that Marshal has appeared again, in support of his former position in that the council and their treasurer did not abandon their principles.- The reluctance with which he appears to be so prudently possest [sic] in the onset of his canto, in coming before the public, a second time, I am sorry has had so small an influence on the manner in which he has shivered his lance against the late President of the committee. If Marshal's known prudence had been endangered, by my accidental introduction of his name to the public, he would then had a happy right to have maintained any questions without his visible perplexity. If Marshal had been actuated by an honorable zeal in the efforts made, for the restoration of his principles to their radical situation, I would have remained silent, to the adequacy of my last piece to have given me all the support due my position. The mildness with which he has endeavored to canvass the questions, compared with his former storm, should be highly creditable for entering upon the duties of his political hyperbole in a propitious temper, to trace and establish the charter line to the great touch stone which he has so acutely detected to be removing, but the materials which he has employed in the performance of that work, is better adapted to the productions of mistakes and fruitless arguments, than to produce conviction of the correctness of his cause. As he has introduced some certainly unfounded charges against the late President in not availing an opportunity to preserve the principles alledged [sic] to be violated I have a right to appear again.  Permit me then to respond particularly to some of his prominent flounces, and other opinions, to which I cannot subscribe. I do contend that principles can be abandoned when they exist in theory. When they become in this situation they commence the government of the individual posseser [sic] in his civil proceedure [sic]. For what purposes are principles imbibed? I presume for the express object of substituting such for his future guide, in the usage of which, all others to the contrary, should be subsequently obsolete.  And then to decline to carry into effect the substituted principles, and resume those ones into practice antecedently decided unfit, I fearlessly pronounce such a course a departure from principle. An instance may be found in the United States when persons high in the road to preferment have been censured for abandoning principles; if I am correctly informed, transpired where they existed in theory alone.- For when principles are in lawful existence ' a collision arise against them, or an appointment of an officer is made against the standard that is to govern, it is then a violation or an unconstitutional appointment.  These principles which I consider revolutionized had their origin in a convention after every member was duly qualified before the mighty Omniscient. After discovering inveterate practices existing of one person holding a plurality of offices to be unadvisable, and the custom should be discontinued, and continue an extravagant surrender of many offices in one person, is a circumstance calculated to prove, a disposition, reluctant to conform to the proclaimed principles. When there was existing every inducement to bring into exemplary use, their solemly [sic] adopted principles. It undoubtedly was easier for the council and their treasurer to have brought into practice their principles which then existed in proper form, than recede to the extreme in the use of the old customs existing almost in an indescribable confused mass, for I know there was nothing that would arrest them from such a course of consistence. The aspirations of marshal to know to what extent the President of the committee, exerted his patriotic influence as preventative, to the abuse of my favorite principles, can be informed to his satisfaction if it be in the bounds of possibility to place him in that desirable condition. As to the quantum of patriotism that he might have been possest[sic] at the time will be a little difficult to define. But it will suffice if it can be shewn [sic] that he had at least as much as would have been a contravention to the judge's election.  When this distinguished individual was announced a candidate for the treasurer, the President call the attention of the Committee to the case, and observed to them that the judge had come out a candidate for the treasury Department, and holding other offices as he did appeared to him a course exceptionable, besides the constitution was about to take its force from that council appeared to him to be setting aside principles. The committee did not examine the question, because no doubt they saw through their imagination that New Echota was the unsafest [sic] place for the treasury.  What more could the president have done with propriety in support of principle than he did, I wish also to be informed. He was not asleep on the watch tower during the contest, but was seated on an old pine bench in the chamber of the National Committee. Likewise I am disposed to dissent from the probability that the President's office was in analogy to the judge's This offer happened in the latter part of the session. The President had to serve but a few days longer, and then his office was legally out of existence. His offer was in anticipation of taking the department when the council adjourned, which was close at hand, and which will be confirmed from the circumstance that the treasurer had of necessity to serve until the rise of Council. Admitting he had been elected treasurer, he should have exercised the duties of but one office, the former treasurer could not surrender the treasury until his settlement with the Commissioners had closed, which lasted to the eve of the session, this act appears to be plainly accepting an office after another one had legally ceased. Common capacity will fall short of understanding this case to be a resemblance of the Judg's [sic] exercising the duties of four different offices, and the keenest discrimination in the investigation of this subject, would arrive at its weakness to step on the side of marshal's scale of justice to make a judicious decision.
Another Ponderous charge again, against the late President, appears to arise from his local situation at N Echota as the principle by which he has aspired to seek for the treasury Department, but if magnanimity was the only tribunal requisite to pronounce his offer, a public condemnation in order to benefit his position, I hope the same cannot view less culpable the language of marshal at the same time and place. I am at Echota out of office, elect me clerk of the supreme court.  In regard to the past right of the Council of 1827 to destroy the Constitution, is a matter possessing at this time but little instruction. But tell me not that the council had no right to destroy that instrument. The National Council of 1827 composed the great body politick of the Cherokee nation; this was in full and lawful existence. That Council was the first cause of the convention, and considering  the natural position of politicks, and the safest course they had to take, those in a constitution must be approved by the great sovereign before it could take effect. There must of necessity be a tribunal some where [sic] existing either in form or implied to correct errors, for it is fallacious to say that it is impossible for a convention of men not to err in the formation of a new government when man is liable to error in the exercise of his best judgement. Suppose there  had appeared an article in this complicated instrument, derogating from the known rights of the Cherokees, would marshal prefer it to go into practical force at a time when a competent authority existed to have it rectified. If there had an unsuitable article appeared in the constitution at the time it came before the Council, this secret implied and tacit bargain of the people with the convention to establish a paramount constitution, that marshall [sic] is so well knowing, would have been divulged in that powerless Council, but in a mighty objection sufficient to arrest any wrong. In the event there had been a wrong principle accidentally inserted, the past convention could not alter it for it must be an evident fact when they adjourned their authority was virtually out of existence. It could have been only altered by the Council or under its authority, the great concentrated power must see the constitution and consent to be governed by it, before it could operate, consequently a constitution must be right in every respect before it can take effect, and happily this came out in that situation, accounts for the manner in which the council give their tacit principle, one of all the most effectual it is the basis of common law in all countries. I shall prove the right of the council to do anything they choose by an act of the U. S. breaking the Creek treaty, this was a stronger principle to be annulled than the one in question; the treaty was proclaimed the supreme law of the land and on its erroneous appearance, a superseding treaty was substituted in lieu of the former. If then a legislature is able to put the supreme laws of two nations out of force, it must be a qualified fact the Council could object to the constitution if found wrong, which the competitor views its existence only in theory. Hence, I am compelled to view the other side of the question an unsafe one; calculated to defeat itself nine times out of ten cases.
The concession to me of all the room in the world to handle the subject better, in certain cases, would have been a more laudable act of marshal, if I had been altogether destitute of that right than the manner in which he has assailed the late President for questions support in due time, arising from a right of legislation. These questions have had their origin from his official capacity.  Marshal's are from the uncontrolled passions of the human mind.
It is with reluctance that I am compelled to close this part of the question, it being an intermineable [sic] on my side, its magnitude cannot well admit of further discussion. But on the other hand I shall maintain further, notwithstanding marshals position, and those of whom he has referred to be also of his opinions, that if the old govt. be yet in existence, as the head body politic of the Cherokee Nation they can yet, and up to the first monday [sic] in August next destroy the constitution, if any of its articles should appear erroneous.
A CHEROKEE










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, June 4, 1828
We addressed a word, some time since, to our 'Cherokee Correspondents,' requesting the favor of their assistance.  Our list of Cherokee subscribers is increasing, and we take the liberty of renewing our request. It is our desire that the Phoenix should contain more Cherokee matter than we have been able to present to our readers; our desire cannot however be realized, if everything is to depend upon us, for we have now more than we can do with justice to our health. Cherokee Correspondents would greatly relieve us, and we hope all those who can write will assist us with their pens. We tender our thanks to those who have already favored us.
__________________________________________
EXPLANATION.
By 'principal men of the Nation,' we do not mean the head chiefs, that is to say, William Hicks and John Ross, but our leading men, or in other words, the members of the National Committee ' Council. These men we do not believe, can alter the Constitution in any way, except that which is prescribed in the last article of that instrument.
____________________________________________
Our readers will see on the second page, a communication of 'One of the mass.'- Sometime since we published another of a similar character, written by a different correspondent. It may be necessary, as an apology for admitting these pieces into our columns, to state, that we have, in the course of our observation, noticed with much regret, misrepresentations of the character, habits, and situation of Indians. Frequently these misrepresentations are made through false information, and as often they are studied. We are opposed to every species of exaggeration, and as one of the objects of our paper is to correct misstatements, in regard to the Cherokees, we feel ourselves bound to give room to such correspondents as we think deserve a place in our columns, by their temperance, and regard to truth. We do not wish to encourage unnecessary attack upon any individual of our neighboring states, particularly upon a person possessing a seat in the national Legislature of the Union, to which frequently we are forced to look for protection. The individual who is the subject of the 2 communications above alluded to, has nevertheless, by his course in regard to us in the house of representatives, given us sufficient cause of animadversion. When we saw his speeches, we thought that truth was perverted, and when we considered the opportunities he possessed to acquire a correct knowledge of our condition, (he being 'unfortunately our neighbour [sic]') we could not keep ourselves from the belief that this perversion of truth was studied and intended to create false impressions in the minds of the Representatives of the Union. So thought, we presume, our correspondents; and how far they have reason to complain, our readers would easily discover by considering the expressions of Mr. M. which we believe are correctly quoted by our correspondents. Those expressions are indefensible; and we fearlessly challenge every liberal man to come and see whether such things are correct. Instead of finding the Cherokees on the point of starvation, and 'subsisting upon roots' (as a grave Senator lately expressed himself,) they would be cheered with the sight of an Indian nation, (to be sure, not a civilized people, in every sense of the word,) progressing in every department of improvement, with a speed which ought to secure a better treatment from Mr. M. and others.
____________________________________
In our 11th number, we earnestly requested that the controversy between 'A Cherokee' and 'Marshal' might be put to an end. We made this request for two reasons. 1st. Some of our readers had considered the discussion a useless one, and desired that it might be brought to a close. 2d. Our feelings accorded with those of our readers. We made the request at that time, because we thought neither of the parties could complain, the last communication being by way of reply. We had flattered ourselves that our request would be regarded, and that our readers would no more be taxed with this unpopular topic, 'Money and principles.' 'A Cherokee' has however thought himself entitled to another hearing, and therefore has sent us a long communication, which we reluctantly publish. We do it more by way of compliance to his earnest request to give him a place in our columns, that from a conviction of the usefulness of his piece. We should have been thankful if he had regarded our request and dropt [sic] his favorite subject of discussion. Such a course would have been the best, for we cannot see, ) as far as we understand him,) wherein he has meaded [sic] the matter.  We see no new light cast upon the subject. 'A Cherokee' perhaps thinks that we have not done him sufficient justice. If he is under such an impression, he labours [sic] under a mistake. We have endeavored to do him justice, by publishing ' correcting his pieces, tho' at the same time we considered him in an error.  When he is aware that we are averse to the continuation of the controversy, he cannot reasonable expect us to correct his long communication, which we therefore send to the press, as it was handed to us.
N.B. Since writing the above we have received a line from 'A Cherokee' wishing to recall his communication, provided we intend to encumber it with our 'editorial poke-stick.' We are sorry that his request did not reach us in time, as we should have done ourselves the pleasure of complying with it.  When his note was handed to us, a column of his communication was already in type, and we were told by our printers that other matter could not be set in its stead without being one week later in meeting the mails. We hope this explanation will be satisfactory to 'A Cherokee.' It is not our wish to have anything to do with this 'political controversy.' Whatever our opinions might have been on the subject, what they are now will be easily known from our short remarks, on the communication of 'A Friend' published in our third number.
________________________________________
At a sacramental meeting held on last Sabbath, at Hawies, one of the Missionary Stations of the American Board, we were gratified to see a large assembly of people, most of whom were, what are commonly called, full Cherokees. A meeting of 150 to 200 persons is considered large in this country, ' it is so in truth, when our scattered population is considered. Many had come from the distance of 10 and 20 miles to hear the word of God proclaimed to them. An interesting discourse was delivered by the Rev. Mr. Chamberlain, a Missionary at Wills Town. Immediately after sermon, ten came forward as candidates for the holy ordinance of baptism, who were accordingly baptized in the name of the Father, the Son and of the Holy Ghost. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was then administered to about forty communicants, most of whom were members of the Church at Hawies, some belonged to the Methodist Episcopal Church, and we saw a few who were members of the Moravian Church.  It was a pleasing sight to behold professing Christians of different denominations uniting in celebrating the dying love of their common Redeemer. At candle light we attended a Cherokee meeting, conducted by John Huss ( or Spirit,) who is an uncommonly interesting man. He understands his native language only. His exhortations are heard with pleasure, as they are always fraught with good sense and energy. As a speaker he has, perhaps, few equals. His knowledge of the Bible we thought remarkable, considering his limited means of information. He is now in the service of the American Board.
We cannot but consider the Church at Hawies in an interesting state. God has evidently blessed it with his own hands. Its increase has been gradual, and we trust it will continue to increase and have a happy influence on the surrounding people.- It is now composed of thirty members, exclusive of the ten who were baptized. As respects those who are admitted into Church membership in this nation, it becomes us to speak in a very cautious manner, for it is not to be expected that all those who unite themselves with the people of God will continue steadfast to the end. It is therefore no wonder, particularly in this country, where the people are comparatively ignorant of the doctrines and duties enjoined in the religion of Jesus Christ, that some of those who make a public profession, should go back to the world.  All that a Minister of the Gospel can do, before receiving persons as Church members, is to use necessary and Scriptural precautions, and to receive none but such as appear to give evidence of a change of heart. We are happy to say that such precautions have been used by the Missionaries of the Board.










DESCRIPTION OF A BARK CANOE.
Sault de St. Marie,
July 8, 1826.
The Governor has just inquired how I will proceed, in a barge or in a bark canoe-adding, that he had selected the barge.  I chose the canoe, when it was arranged that Mr. Schoolcraft, and I, and Ben, would be the passengers for it. The canoe is upwards of a year old, but is newly gummed, and has some five or six new ribs put in to strengthen her. The voyagers are engaged, and on the spot, each with a red feather in his hat, and two others, in possession of the steersmen, one for the bow, and the other for the stern of the canoe. These plumes in the canoe are intended to indicate that she has been tried, and found worthy. We shall be guarded from the action of the sun's rays by an awning.  This however, must come down when the wind blows, but then it will not be needed.
I have been examining this canoe, with the view of describing it-but the thing is so new to me in all respects, that I am doubtful where to begin with it. Its length is thirty feet, and its breadth across the widest part, about four feet.  It is about two feet and a half deep in the center, but only about two feet near the bow and stern. Its bottom is rounded, and has no keel.
The materials of which this canoe is built, are birch bark, and red cedar, the whole fastened together with wat-tap and gum, without a nail; or bit of iron of any sort to confine the parts.- The entire outside is bark-the bark of the birch tree-and where the edges join at the bottom, or along the sides, they are sewn with this wattap, and then along the line of the seam, is gummed. Next to the bark are pieces of cedar, shaven thin, not thicker than the blade of a knife-these run horizontally, and are pressed against the bark b means of these ribs of cedar, which fit the shape of the canoe, bottom and sides, and coming up to the edges, are pointed, and let into a rim of cedar, of about an inch and a half wide, and an inch thick, that forms the gunwale of the canoe, and to which, by means of the wattap, the bark ' the ribs are all sewed; the wattap being wrapped over the gunwale, and passed thro' the bark ' ribs. Across the canoe are bars, some five or six, that keep the canoe in shape. These are fastened by bringing their ends against the gunwale, or edge, and fastening them to it with wattap.- The seats of the voyagers are alongside of, but below the bars, and are of plank, some four inches wide, which are swung, by means of two pieces of rope passed through each end from the gunwale.
*                 * *                  *
Our baggage and store, and the provisions for voyagers, and our tents, 'c., are estimated to weigh at least five hundred weight; and then there will be eleven of us (including Ben, who will not weigh short of fifteen hundred weight)- so the canoe of bark is destined to carry not less than two thousand pounds! The paddles are of red cedar, and are very light.- The blade is not over three inches wide, except the steersman's that is perhaps, five.
*                   * *                       *
Wattap, are the roots of the spruce, or cedar; and gum is the resinous substance extracted from the pine, and boiled-when it becomes hard.
McKenney's Tour


















CORRESPONDENCE
Between Commissioners on the part of the United States, and the Council of the Cherokee Nation, in the year 1823.
In our late numbers we published a Correspondence with Commissioners Gray, Davidson, and Cocke. We now commence upon another, which we copy from the Journal of the Secretary of the United States Commissioners, and which was printed by order of the House of Representatives.
CHEROKEE NATION,
Newtown, 4th Oct. 1823
The commissioners on the part of the United States, commissioned to hold a treaty with the Cherokee Nation of Indians, arrived at this place, where they found the National Council in session. The board organized, but found it impracticable to proceed to business without first making some improvements for their accommodation, which they determined to do with as little delay as possible.
____________________________
Monday, 6th Oct. 1823
On this day, the board were notified by the agent of the nation, that the Grand Council were disposed to receive and be introduced to the board, according to t he 'customs and ceremonial' of the nation. Whereupon, the board, accompanied by the agent, and state commissioners, attended at the Council House, and were presented to the King, Council, and Committee. The Speaker, Major Ridge, addressed the board in terms of congratulation and friendship, and was answered by one of the board, Mr. Campbell, in like terms.
The board addressed to the agent, Governor M'Minn, the following note.
Sir: we take this, the earliest convenient occasion which has offered since our arrival, to inform you, that we have proceeded hither for the purpose of submitting to the Cherokee Nation subjects of interest to the General Government.
The commissions under which [we] propose to act, and the instructions subjoined by the War Department, we deem proper to be submitted to you, having been led to expect your co-operation in all matters relating to our mission. Permit us to request, that you will designate an hour most convenient for yourself, for us to submit our commissions and instructions to your perusal.
The absence of our Secretary at present, we hope will be accepted as an apology for not furnishing you copies.
With sentiments of consideration and esteem, we are, your obedient servants.
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL
JAMES MERIWETHER
United State Commissioners.
JOSEPH M'MINN, Esq. Agent, 'c.
_______________________
The Agent's reply.
NEWTOWN,
7th Oct. 1823
GENTLEMEN: Your polite note of yesterday morning is before me, and would have been answered without loss of time, had not the ceremonies of yesterday occupied public attention. I will do myself the honor to attend at my office at any time after early candle light.
With sentiments of great esteem, 'c. Your obedient servant,
JOS. M'MINN.
Hon. D. G. Canpbell [sic] and
James Meriwether,
United States Commissioners.
__________________________________
Governor M'Minn to the Board, 8th October, 1823
GENTLEMEN:- I enclose you the copy of an order from the National Committee agreeable to request.
Your obedient servant,
JOSEPH M'MINN
Committee Chamber, 8th Oct. 1823
SIR: I am directed by the Committee and Council to request you to inform the United States' Commissioners, that the General Council, when convened tomorrow morning, will be in readiness to receive the Commissioners touching the objects of their mission hither under instructions from the President of the United States. It is desired that the communications should embrace fully all the instructions they may have received from the President relative thereto.
I am, sir, respectfully,
JOHN ROSS,
Joseph M'Minn, and ,'c.
____________________________________________
The Board's reply to the Council, 8th October, 1823
The undersigned Commissioners on the part of the United States, have received, through the Agent, a communication by which they are notified, 'that the General Council, when convened to-morrow morning, will be in readiness to receive their (the Commissioners) communications, touching the object of their mission,' to which we reply that we will do ourselves the pleasure to appear before the General Council to-morrow morning, at 10 o;clock, for the purpose of exhibiting the commission under which we propose to commence negotiations. The want of suitable accommodations since our arrival, will place it beyond our power to submit a communication as early as suggested by the Committee and Council in their note to the Agent.
With sentiments of due consideration, we are yours, 'c. 'c.
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL.
JAMES MERIWETHER.
To the National Council.
______________________________________
9th October, 1823
The Board attended the Council pursuant to appointment, and submitted their commission, which was read and interpreted, and they then retired.
10th October.
The Board convened and notified the Council that they would lay a communication before them to-day, at 2 o'clock.
The following is a copy of the communication:
To the Grand Council of the Cherokee Nation.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: By the commission which we laid before you yesterday, under the hand of your father, the President, you discover that we have authority to hold conferences with you and concerning all matters interesting to the United States and the Cherokee nation. From the powers conveyed to us, it becomes our duty to bring to your notice the Commissioners on the part of the state of Georgia. These gentlemen have accompanied us to day for the purpose of shewing [sic] their credentials. They are commissioned by the Governor of Georgia, but their business has been made known to our father, the President, and he has directed us to cooperate with them, and give them our aid. In some of the writings which have passed between us, we are sorry to discover that the business of these Commissioners is treated lightly, and but little attention given to the subject. For the sake of good understanding and justice, we ask you to listen with patience to what these Commissioners may have to say. After taking a deliberate view of all the treaties heretofore made, you will be able to make up a decision. It is better they should be closed in one way or another. As soon as this part of our joint business is settled and adjusted, the United States' Commissioners will take occasion to submit matters of interest and importance to the Government and to the nation.
We renew our wishes, that all our negotiations may be calm and friendly.
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL
JAMES MERIWETHER
United States' Commissioners.

 Ordered. That a copy of the foregoing be handed to the Georgia Commissioners, and that they be requested to attend this Board this day at 2 o'clock, for the purpose of appearing before the Council jointly.
13 October, 1823
The Board accompanied the state Commissioners to the Council House, when a talk was delivered to the Council by that Board, setting forth the grounds of the Georgia claims, as arising under the different treaties with this nation.
14th October, 1823
On this day the Council returned an answer to the communication of yesterday, and the Board were called on by the state Commissioners to cooperate with them in pursuing the negotiation, and did so in the preparation of a further address.
15th October, 1823
The Board again accompanied the Georgia Commissioners to the Council, where a talk was delivered.
16th October, 1823
The following note was received from the Council:
NEWTOWN,
Oct. 16th, 1823
IN GENERAL COUNCIL.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: The General Council now embrace the opportunity of informing you that their correspondence with the Commissioners on the part of Georgia, is brought to a close, and that the General Council, now convened, is ready to receive y our communications on all subjects relating to your instructions from the President of the United States.
With consideration of respect and esteem, we take you by the right hand as friends and brothers.
his
PATH x  KILLER, Prin. Chief
mark
MAJ. RIDGE, Speak. of the Coun.
JOHN ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
A. M'Coy, Clerk N. Com.
Elijah Hicks, Clerk N. Coun.
_____________________________________

 Copy of a note received by the Georgia Commissioners.

 NEWTOWN 16th Oct. 1823.
GENTLEMEN: We have this moment received a communication from the National Council of the Cherokee nation, in answer to ours to them of yesterday's date; a copy of their communication to us of this day's date; you herewith receive. We solicit a conference with you upon this subject, as soon as it may comport with your convenience.
We remain Gentlemen, with great respect and esteem, your obedient servants.
JOHNSON WELLBORN,
JAMES BLAIR,
Georgia Commissioners.
____________________
Reply to the Georgia Commissioners.
NEWTOWN, 16th Oct. 1823
GENTLEMEN: In reply to your note of this day's date, we answer that we will be prepared to have and interview with you this evening, at candle light, for the purpose of having a conference upon the subject of the communication received this day by you from the Cherokee Chiefs.
With sentiments of esteem and respect, we are your obedient servants,
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL,
JAMES MERIWETHER.
To Messrs. Welborn [sic] ' Blair,
Georgia Commissioners.
[To Be Continued]










CORNPLANT'S SPEECH TO WASHINGTON, IN 1790
Father, when your army entered the country of the Six Nations, we called you the Town Destroyer, and to this day, when your name is heard, our women look behind them and turn pale; our children cling close to the necks of their mothers; but our counsellors and warriors, being men, cannot be afraid. But their hearts are grieved by the fears of our women and children; and the desire that the hatchet may be buried so deep as to be heard no more.
Father, we will not conceal from you that the Great Spirit and not man has preserved Cornplant from the hands of his own nation.  For they ask continually, where is the land which our children and their children are to lie down upon?
You told us, say they, that a line drawn from Pennsylvania to Lake Ontario would mark it forever on the east; and a line running from Beaver Creek to Pennsylvania would mark it on the west.  But we see that it is not so. For first one comes then another comes and takes it away by order of that people who you told us promise to secure it to us forever. Cornplant is silent, for he has nothing to answer.
When the sun goes down, Cornplant opens his heart before the Great Spirit; and earlier than the sun appears again upon the hills, he gives thanks for his protection during the night; for he feels that among men, become desperate by the injuries they sustain, it is God only that can preserve him.- Cornplant loves peace, all he had in store he has given to those who have been robbed by your people, lest they should plunder the innocent to repay themselves.
The whole season, which others have employed in providing for their families, Cornplant has spent in endeavors to preserve peace; and at this moment his wife and children are lying on the ground, and in want of food. His heart is in pain for them; but he perceives that the Great Spirit will try his firmness in doing what is right.
Father! innocent men of our nation are killed one after another, though of our best families; but none of your people who have committed these murders have been punished. We recollect that you did promise to punish those who should kill our people; and we ask, was it intended that your people should kill the Senecas, and not only remain unpunished, but be protected from the next of kin?
Fathers! these to us are great things. We know that you are very strong. We have heard that you are wise; but we shall wait to hear your answer to this, that we may know that you are just'.---Dr. Boudinot.










INDIAN EMIGRATION.
We publish the following letter to show under what terms the Chickasaws have agreed to remove to the west of the Mississippi.
COUNCIL ROOM, Oct. 9 1827.
CHICKASAW NATION,
Brother: we have opened our ears wide to your talk; we have not lost a word of it.  We came together to meet you as an old friend, and to shake hands with you. We were happy, and our hearts grew big, when we heard you had come to our country.  We have always thought of you as our friend; we have confidence in our; we have listened more close, because we think so much of you. We know well you would not deceive us, and we believe you know what is best for us and for our children.
Brother: Do not you forsake us- Our friends, as you told us, are few; we have none to spare; we know that. Brother, you think it will be better for us to take your advice. It has truly make deep impressions on our hearts. Without making a long talk, as you are to leave us in the morning, we will state our terms for an exchange of country. We have no objection to our country; if we could be let alone, we might do well; but we are great sufferers; everything seems against us, and we will agree to almost anything that can make our condition better. We believe if the Government of the United States is honest towards us, and wish us to be a people, and not outcasts always; that we may yet do better. We will now tell you what we will do.
Brother: You would not wish us to move away, and into a country where we could not live, and as well as we live here.  Then, as you have pointed us out a country on the north of the State of Missouri, and between the Missouri and Mississippi rivers, and speak well of it, we agree, first and foremost, to go and look at it, and any other country that we may choose. When twelve of our people, three from each district, have examined it, assisted by a scientific doctor, to see to our health, and by three good white men, to be selected by ourselves, and three of your men of science from Washington, or elsewhere; we say, when we have examined it, if we like it, if its soil is good and well wooded, if water is plenty and good, we will agree to exchange, acre for acre: provided you, on your part, will mark out the country, and divide it into counties, and leave a place in the centre [sic] for a seat of Government; and then drive everybody off of it, and  guaranty [sic] it to us forever, and as soon as may be, divide it for us into farms, and give us a parchment for them to be recorded, with a right to sell to our brothers, with the consent of our Father the President of the United States, and provided, also that, in addition, you examine our houses, and mills, and fences, and our workshops here, also our orchards, and build and put up and plant as good there, at such places within the territory as we may choose; also, provided, you count our stocks here, and put an equal number, and of each kind, within their respective owner's limits there; also provided, you establish schools in all the counties, sufficient for the education of our children, and to teach our girls how to spin and manage household affairs; and provided, also you send a sufficient force there to ensure our protection, and organize our people into companies like your militia, to be commissioned by our Father, the President of the United States; and provided, that you establish a government over us in all respects like one of your Territories, Michigan, for example, and give the right of suffrage to our people, as they shall be prepared, by education to vote and act; and allow us, after the Territory is organized a Delegate, like your Territories enjoy, in Congress; and provided, there be allowed so some of our people, reservations, not exceeding twenty, to be surveyed and given to them on parchment, to sell if they please, like the white man.
Brother: Grant us these terms, better our condition as a people, give us the privileges of men, and if the country you point us to, or any other we may find, turns out to be acceptable to us, we will treat for exchange upon the above basis.  We ask, also for a millright [sic], and three blacksmiths; they will be needed by us.
Brother: We are willing to go, next May, in steam boats, from Memphis to St. Louis, and thence over the line, and examine the country thoroughly, and on the following Spring, then we shall know all the seasons, and how the climate is.  Should you think proper to take us at our offer, provide the means, and let us know in time, by the first of April next. The cost is to be yours, and everything, and each of our people who may go, must have a fine rifle, and horn, and powder, and lead, and plenty of things for an outfit, in provisioons [sic] and tobacco, and blankets, and the like.
Brother: Should our offer not be accepted, then we are done. We hope to be let alone where we are, and that your people will be made to treat us like men and Christians, and not like dogs.  We tell you now, we want to make our children men and women, and to raise them high as yours in privileges.  We will have inducements then to do so -now, we have not. Brother, understand nothing is done, unless the country we go to look at suits, and not then, unless all we require is agreed to on your part.
Brother: we shake hands with you, and our hearts go with you.
Tisho Mingo, his x mark
Wm. M'Gilvery, his x mark
Levi Colbert his x mark
Committee of the Nation
Stimoluet, his x mark
Pus-ta-la-tubbee his x mark
Ma-taash-to his x mark
Witness, PITMAN, COLBERT, Sec'y.
to Col. Tho. L. M'Kenney.
____________________________________________
The following is a letter from the Choctaw Chiefs, to Col. Thos. L. M'Kenney.
Choctaw Agency,
October 17, 1827
BELOVED BROTHER: We rejoice to have taken you by the hand, and that the Great Spirit above has given you health and strength to perform a long and tedious road. Our hearts are proud: we have attentively listened to your talk, and, after much thinking and consultation, we are sorry we cannot agree to your proposition of yesterday. It was the talk of a friend. We are thankful for your advice, but more than sorry that we have been unanimous in declining to accept it.-- It always gives us pain to disagree to a friend's talk. We are poor and blind people, and need much advice and indulgence. You gave us much good advice. If you had the power to do everything, and it had not to go into other hands, it might be different.- We have confidence in you. We hope to part friends, as we met friends; and, although we do not agree to your proposition for an exchange of country, we would have no objection, if our Great Father would permit, although not with any view to exchange our country, to let six of our people go with our older brothers, the Chickasaws, and return home by the way of the Arkansas. We make this proposal because you suggested it in council.
We now wish you a plain straight path home, and that health and happiness may attend you.
Your friends and brothers,
David Folsom,
Tapena Homme, his x mark
Greenwood Leflore, 'c 'c










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday June 11, 1828
We learn from a letter addressed to a Gentleman of this place, by Mr. D. Brown who acted as Secretary to the Arkansas Cherokee Delegation, that a treaty of exchange of lands with the United States, was likely to take place. The United States proposes to give the Arkansas Cherokees ( we suppose for the lands now in their possession) seven millions of acres beyond the limits of Arkansas, and furthermore; offers inducements for the Cherokees in Georgia, to join their brethren in the West.
______________________________________
We are correctly informed that Bear's Paw's notice of whose trial we gave in one of our late numbers, has been acquited [sic].
________________________________________
Congress has ere this risen, and after carious motions and amendments offered in both houses, relating to the Indians, it appears nothing more has been done, than to appropriate money for the purpose of holding treaties with some of the tribes. Our readers know that the Cherokees are included. We may then expect to see Commissioners sent by our father the President of the United States. What their propositions will be appears evident to us, and the answer to those propositions cannot be mistaken by those who have properly learnt the feelings of our people on the subject of emigration. We calculate on a unanimous refusal of the Cherokees to accede to the proposals of the United States Commissioners. We care not, for ourselves, how often applications of removal are made to us, if at the same time we are left at liberty to choose for ourselves and to decide according to our best judgment. But it is very common that whenever Indians refuse to accept of the propositions of Commissioners, they are denounced as obstinate, and as offering contempt to their great Father.- We hope our Chiefs, in their next negotiations, will be permitted to act according to the dictates of their consciences, and to make such a decision as the good of the Cherokees may require.










INDIANS IN NEW YORK.
Extract from a letter of Mr. Harris to the Corresponding Secretary.
The letter, from which these extracts are made, is dated 'Seneca, February 6, 1828.'
Cataraugus.- The Lords Super was administered to the little church at Cataraugus, on the 1st Sab. in Jan. when seven adults were admitted to full communion.  One other would have been received, had she not been prevented from attending by sickness.- It is the mother of the little blind boy, of whom mention was made in a former communication, (vol. xxiii, p. 385) That boy has since gone into eternity. A little before his death, he called his father and all his friends around his bed, and told them he should soon leave them.  'But,' said he, 'weep not for me I go to my heavenly Father's house, my Savior's arms;-there I hope to see you. But of one thing I am certain, that if you do not continue to repent of sin and follow the commands of the Lord Jesus Christ, this separation, which will soon take place, will be forever.'
The church at that station consists in all of twenty-one members. Mr. Thayer has opened his school with considerable embarrassment, owing to the inadequacy of the promised supplies from the Indians. The parents of some have been compelled to withdraw their children, as they are unable to support them. The school contains at present twenty scholars.
Seneca.- There is one circumstance of recent occurrence at this station, which is not a little gratifying to us, and the friends of the mission hers, and, we doubt not, will be equally so you.  The chiefs and people have resolved on building a small but commodious and neat chapel for the worship of Jehovah, which will cost them, when finished, 1,700 dollars. This is done altogether by subscription among themselves. The contract has been already made with the mechanics, who engage to finish it by the first September next. The house is to be 41 feet by 51, one story high, with an arched ceiling, a vestibule, a small tower, cupola, bell, 'c. It is also to be well painted within and without, and will contain 400 persons. They pay a thousand dollars in cash, and the rest in lumber from one of the mills.
We devoutly thank the God of missions, that his people are disposed to contribute thus willingly to the erection of a house of worship, although of humble structure, to which, we sincerely hope, they and their children, to the last of their race, will be disposed to repair, as did Israel of old 'to the place which the Lord chose to set his name there.' The chapel is to be situated within a few rods of the mission house.
The school contains near sixty scholars-all apparently happy and contented.-  Mis. Her.










INDIANS OF THE U. STATES
The following piece is from a series of numbers published some time since in the Boston Recorder and Telegraph.
Account of what the U. S. Government have done for their benefit.
Mr. Jefferson during his administration felt a deep interest in the subject of civilization, and since his time Congress have adopted various measures calculated as was supposed to promote it. They established an agency for the purpose of trading with the Indians, and of protecting them against the cheating tricks of dishonest whites; but this not answering the desire object was in 1823 abandoned. They have granted money to the several charitable societies, who have established schools and education families among the Indians, to assist them in carrying their benevolent designs into effect. By an Act of March 3, 1819, a fund for the promotion  of Indian civilization was placed at the disposal of the President which yields somewhat more than $11,000 annually, Government have purchased lands of the Indians and paid them in money partly down, and partly in annual payments; and they have often made them presents of various necessary articles and supplied them with instruments of agriculture, Mills, 'c. A statement of the annuities payable for lands is as follows:
Limited Annuities,
 which expire
 in 1828 $1,000 in 1832 $3,300
 ' '26 25,000 ' '34  2,000
' '28 20,000 Total 74,250
' '29 12,000 Cap'l 1,597,500
' '30 300
Permanent Annuities
$80,325
Capital, 1,338,750
Total an. 154,575
Total cap. 2,876,250
There are also granted to different tribes of Indians annually 20 bushels of salt, valued at Fort Wayne, where it is delivered, at  $2,50 cents per bushel, making an additional annual expense of $525. The grants recently made to the Creeks for the Georgia lands are not included in this statement.
Besides these payments, Congress have frequently made gratuitous grants to those tribes who have missionary stations within their limits to assist them in carrying forward their plans of improvement. To the Chickasaws at the station near Chickasaw Agency they granted $5000 for buildings, to the Great Osages at Harmony station $1000 for the same purpose. Out of the fund mentioned above, the following annual remittances have been made, viz.
To the Cornwall School, Conn. $1,438
Senecas and Onondagas, Buffalo
New York                                            350
Tuscaroras, Lewistown, N.Y. 350
Miamies, Fort Wayne, Ind.                              417
Cherokees, Spring Place,                                 250
do. Brainerd 1000
do. Valley Towns 500
Choctaws Eliot,                                               1000
Indians at the Great Crossings, 400
Ken.
________
Total 5,355
The exact sum paid by the Treasury of the United States for the promotion of Indian civilization in 1823 was $11,135,32.
At first view it may appear very generous in our government to do so much for the Indians; but it should be remembered that Government has always purchased their lands at its own price, and sold them again to its own citizens for 2 dollars per acre. Up to 1820 the United States had purchased of the Indians 191,778,536 acres of land, for payment of which Congress appropriated $2,542,916.- Previously to Oct. 1819, Government had sold 18,500,000 acres for $44,000,000. Should the remainder of these lands be disposed of at the same advantageous rate, there will be placed in the U. S. treasury after having paid the Indians all they are ever to receive a net gain of $500,000,000. This statement reaches only to 1820, but Government has bought large tracts of land since, at about the same rate.
Now making all reasonable deduction for waste lands, failure of public creditors, expenses of surveying 'c. there must still remain an immense pecuniary profit to our Government from its trade with the Indians, besides the political importance of the country acquired, and the vast accession of national strength, arising from its being settled by our own citizens. Cannot government afford then to do something for the Indians?
KATAHDIN.










The following are Candidates for the General Council of the Cherokee Nation to represent the District of Coosewatee
For the Committee.
Walter Adair,
John Ridge
For the Council
Major Ridge
Te-Sa-Daski
James Foster
John Fields, Jr.
The following are Candidates for the ensuing Legislature of the Cherokee Nation to represent the District of Chattooga.
For the Committee
Richard Fields
Thomas Wilson
Daniel Griffin, Jr.
Little Turtle
Edward Gunter
Andrew Ross
For the Council
Bark
Ahchilla Smith,
Head Thrower
John Ratcliff
Laugh at Mush
Archibald Campbell
Sah-ke-ah
Scraper
The following are Candidates for the ensuing General Council of the Cherokee Nation, to represent the District of Chickamauga.
For the Committee
Daniel McCoy
Richard Taylor
John F. Baldridge
For the Council
Nathan Hicks
Charles Reece
Cun-ne-quoh-yo-ge
Sleeping Rabbit,
Thomas Manon
Tsu-nu-ge
The following are Candidates for the General Council of the Cherokee Nation to represent the District of Ahmoe.
Thomas Foreman
Geo. Fields
John Miller
Young Wolf
John Watts
Crawling Snake
De-squah-ne
Deer in the Water.










From the Visitor and Telegraph.
THE CONVERTED CHOCTAW.
The following interesting account of the power of the gospel on the heart and life of an Indian residing near Mayhew, we received a few days since from the Rev. Mr. Butler, who has been laboring during the past year as a Missionary in the Western part of the Mississippi.
My Dear Brother.- I am anxious to tell you something about our old friend Tun-up-in-chuff-a, whom we call Abraham. I think he more and more deserves that name 'being partaker of his faith.'  I just now called upon him, and as I approached the house, I heard music, not an Indian pow-wow-no-thanks to our Saviour [sic]- one of Zion's songs, in the language of the Choctaws.  When he had finished we had a precious interview. It was now 10 or 11 o'clock, and he had spent most of the morning in prayer and praise.  The language of his heart seemed to flow from his tongue to this effect-'come and hear all ye that fear the Lord, and I will declare, what he hath done for my soul.'- 'Heaven,' said he, in his own language, 'is near-it is not far off--I know it is near! I feel it!' And again 'My mind has been dark; but light has shone upon me from on High; I rejoice.' 'I have been going in the way of sin, but the blessed Spirit of the Lord has taught me, and put me in the bright path, and washed my filthy heart as with hot water.' Much did this regenerated red man say with peculiar earnestness; it was good to hear him, ' fervently did I wish that all the friends of Missions could have been partakers with me in the spiritual repast.  After singing he offered an in-wrought prayer at the throne of grace. One of his striking figurative expressions was -'May we be bound to Christ in love as with a strong chain of iron.' Another,' may we with our fingers and hands take hold of Christ.'
Abraham, like the Patriarch of old, is regular in bringing his morning and evening sacrifices to the family altar. Sometimes there are many present, but company does not furnish him with an excuse for omitting family prayer. Is it not animating to hear such things of a poor old Choctaw? He is about 50 years old- was firmly rivetted to the practices of his nation but for nearly a year has given evidence of a deep work of grace in his heart. He has often recommended the Religion of Jesus to his heathen relatives and neighbors, and often too the finger of scorn has been pointed at him. He speaks and prays in public meetings and can use no language but the Choctaw.'


















STATISTICAL TABLES
Of the several Districts composing the Cherokee Nation,
In 1824 a resolution was passed by the Legislature of the Cherokee Nation, appointing and authorising [sic] eight persons to take the census of the Nation, and to prepare correct statistical tables of each District. The general result has been laid before the public. Our object in inserting the following tables which we copy from a pamphlet is to show that, if possessions can be considered as indicating the progress of civilization, some of the Districts are considerably farther advanced in improvement than others.
COOSEWAYTEE, DISTRICT.
Population.
Males under 18 years of age                            529
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 515
Males over 59 years of age 67
Total number of males 1111
Females under 15 years of age                         476
Females from 15 to 40 years 174
Females over 40 years of age 539
Total number of females 1205
Total of males and females 2316
Male slaves 168}
Female slaves 127} Total                             195
____
Whole Population 2,611
N.B. These numbers do not add up correctly, however, that is as printed.
In this District, there are twenty-seven white men married to Cherokee women, and twenty Cherokees married to white women.
There are in this District, 2,944 black cattle, 1,207 horses, 4,965 swine, 369 sheep, ninety one goats, 113 looms, 397 spinning wheels, thirty-three wagons, 461 ploughs, five saw-mills, ten blacksmith shops, two Missionary Schools in operation, in which are twenty one scholars of both sexes.
TAHQUOA DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 357
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 301
Males over 59 years of age 35
Total number of males 693
Females under 15 years of age 301
Females from 15 to 40 years 328
Females over 40 years of age 37
Total number of females  666
Total number of males and females 1359
Male negroes 7}
Female negroes 17} Total 24
Whole population _____
1,383
There are in this District, eight white men married to Cherokee women, and one Cherokee man married to a white woman.
There are in this District, 211 spinning wheels, one grist mill, one blacksmith shop, 308 ploughs, fifty-three looms, 323 sheep, 2,419 swine, 1,506 black cattle, 554 horses.
CHICKAMAUGA DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 484
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 396
Males over 59 years of age 45
Total number of males ___ 923
Females under 15 years of age 298
Females from 15 to 40 years 374
Females over 40 years of age 131
Total number of females ___ 803
Total number of males and females 1726
Male negroes 90}
Female negroes 97} Total 187
____
Whole population 1,913
N.B. These numbers do not add up correctly, however, that is as printed.
There are in this District, fifteen white men married to Cherokee women, and four Cherokee men married to white women.
There are in this District four Schools and seventy-two scholars of both sexes, a grist-mill, two saw-mills, one cotton gin, 121 looms, 368 spinning wheels-eighteen wagons, 354 ploughs, 1,175 horses, 1,505 black cattle, 8,900 swine, 111 goats, eleven blacksmith shops, five ferries, four stores, and 397 sheep.
HICKORY LOG DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 397
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 300
Males over 59 years of age 42
Total number of males ____ 739
Females under 15 years of age 345
Females from 15 to 40 years 336
Females over 40 years of age 113
Total number of females ____ 794
Total of males and females 1533
Male slaves }
Female slaves }
Whole population ____
1533
There are in this District, twenty Cherokees married to white women, and forty white men married to Cherokee women.
There are in this District, five blacksmith shops, thirty-two wagons, one cotton gin, one saw-mill, two stores, 187 head of sheep, twenty-four goats, 3,178 swine, 1733 black cattle, 520 horses, 232 spinning wheels, 76 looms, and farming utensils in proportion, of all descriptions.
AQUOHEE DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 561
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 607
Males over 59 years of age 77
Total number of males ____ 1245
Females under 15 years of age 699
Females from 15 to 40 years 522
Females over 40 years of age 98
Total number of females ____ 1319
Total of males and females 2564
Male negroes 10}
Female negroes 9} Total 19
_____
Whole population 2583
There are in this District, one Missionary School of fifty scholars, 1,191 horses, 1799 black cattle, 5,544 swine, 765 sheep, thirty-seven goats, one saw-mill, one grist-mill, 446 ploughs, 145 looms, 346 spinning wheels, five blacksmith shops, seven wagons.
AHMOHEE DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 386
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 300
Males over 59 years of age 31
Total number of males ____ 717
Females under 15 years of age 338
Females from 15 to 40 years 299
Females over 40 years of age 58
Total number of Females ____ 695
Total of males and females 1,412
Male slaves 73}
Female slaves 69} Total 142
______
Total Population 1,554
There are in this District, eleven Cherokees married to white women, and twenty eight white men married to Cherokee women.
There are in this District, five Schools and twenty seven scholars of both sexes, seven blacksmith shops, one turnpike, five ferries, six public roads, one threshing machine, one store, ninety-three goats, 243 sheep, 6,080 swine, 1730 cattle, 845 horses, 372 ploughs, seventy looms, 327 spinning wheels, twenty-nine wagons, three saw-mills, six grist mills, two cotton gins.
CHATTOOGA DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 420
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 400
Males over 59 years of age 30
Total number of males ____ 850
Females under 15 years of age 339
Females from 15 to 40 years 365
Females over 40 years of age 95
Total number of females ____ 799
Total number of males and females 1,649
Male negroes 122}
Female negroes 170} Total                 292
_____
Total Population 1,941
There are in this District, eighteen white men married to Cherokee women, and three Cherokee men married to white women.
There are in this District, 6 schools in which are ninety two scholars of both sexes; and 1,318 horses, 7,018 cattle, 4,654 swine, 335 sheep, fifteen goats, 124 looms, 307 wheels, 446 ploughs, eleven blacksmith shops, five grist mills, two cotton gins, one saw-mill, and two stores.
HIGH TOWER DISTRICT.
Males under 18 years of age 347
Males from 18 to 59 years of age 325
Males over 59 years of age 26
Total number of males ____ 698
Females under 15 years of age 300
Females from 15 to 40 years of age 306
Females over 40 years of age 71
Total number of females ____ 677
Total of males and females 1,375
Male negroes 43}
Female negroes 36} Total 79
______
Total Population 1,454
In this District, there are four white men married to Cherokee women, and two Cherokee men married to white women.
There is in this District one School, in which are twenty scholars of both sexes; and 818 horses, 3,170 cattle, 3,777 swine, 298 sheep, 67 goats, 67 looms, 65 ploughs, five blacksmith shops, two mills, 240 wheels, and eleven wagons.










[Continued]
CORRESPONDENCE
Between Commissioners on the part of the United States, and the Council of the Cherokee Nation, in the year 1823.
 The following communication was this day made to the Council of the Cherokee nation:

NEWTOWN 16th Oct. 1823.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: We are happy that a short time has been consumed in the correspondence between you and the State Commissioners.
This has afforded us an opportunity of becoming partially acquainted with several members of this Council.- For the whole body we entertain a high respect, and we trust, that, with some of you we have contracted individual friendships. In saying this, we do not violence to our own feelings, neither do we lower the elevated character of the United States. People who have never seen you, know but little of your progress in the arts of civilized life, and of the regular and becoming manner in which your affairs are conducted.
Your improvement reflects the greatest credit upon yourselves and upon the Government by which you have been preserved and fostered.- Other Governments would have triumphed in your downfall, and held you down by cruelty and oppression.- Such has not been the conduct of the United States. She has set an example which the whole civilized world ought to feel proud to follow.  It has been your unhappy lot to be shut out from the advantages which many others enjoy. It has been the constant study and exertion of the Government to relieve you from your unfortunate condition. The struggle has been long, but not in vain. What was promised you by your first Father, Washington, has been fully performed by these great friends of mankind who have followed him. Under the kind protection of these earthly fathers, you have been taught that you have a  Father above in whom you are accountable. It should be your pride which exists between you and the United States.  If the President practices towards you the kind treatment of father, it becomes your duty to return the obedience and gratitude of children. You have received this kindness from Government from the close of the Revolutionary War, up to the present time.
The President acknowledges that you deserved it by the steadiness of your fidelity. Your conduct as a nation has been peaceable and harmless, although some of your citizens have been, at times, restless and troublesome.
We doubt not but that some of our citizens are liable to the same charge. You have embraced the only opportunity which has occurred of shewing [sic] that you are warriors, and that you are faithful to the country.
In the last war you were found bravely fighting by the side of the white man, your brother, against the enemies of liberty.  These enemies would have seduced you if they could, and after making you traitors to your father, the President, they would have become traitors to you. Here would have followed a scene of desolation, at which every good man and Christian would weep. It was your fidelity which prevented it, and the hands of the red man and the white man were not raised against each other. The red man and the white man now are brothers, and long may they so continue.
Brothers, these remarks, we now proceed to lay before you the subject of our mission. We know that it is one which you have anticipated, and upon which you have already expressed yourselves with some earnestness. We must ask you to suspend any conclusion, until we have carried the matter through a calm and deliberate discussion; the whole of the authorities of the nation are now around their great council fire, with power to do any act they may think proper. The authority of the United States is also present. Any contract, which may be now concluded, will be binding on both parties.
We propose to purchase of the Cherokee nation, the whole or a part of the territory,  now occupied by them, and lying with the chartered limits of the state of Georgia. We do not confine ourselves to Georgia limits because we are Georgians, but, because the President has appointed us, at the instance of Georgia, and instructed us accordingly. We will give you the reasons why a purchase is pressed, by the General Government, for the use of Georgia. Previous to the 24th of April, 1802, Georgia held the right of sovereignty over an immense space of country, extending even out to the Mississippi River. The General Government seeing that the territory was too large, to be contained within the limits of one state, made application to Georgia for the purchase of a part of it. This was for the purpose of organizing new states, and having them settled, and populated, for the better defence of the country in case of war.- Georgia listened to the application of her father, the President, and sold all the land which now lies in the state of Mississippi, and Alabama; this happened on the day above stated. At the same time, in consideration of this sale, the United States bound herself, 'at her own expense, to extinguish for the use of Georgia, as early as the same could be peaceably obtained on reasonable terms, the Indian title to all lands within the state of Georgia.' The limits of Georgia are known to you, and the amount of territory occupied by you, within those limits, is also known to you.
For greater certainty, however, concerning those limits, and the obligations of the United States, to the state of Georgia, we refer you to the articles of agreement and cession, entered into on the day and year aforesaid, between James Jackson, Abraham Baldwin, and John Milledge, on the part of the state of Georgia, and James Madison, Albert Gallatin, and Levi Lincoln, on the part of the United States. (see Laws of the United States, vol. 1, page 488.)
By these articles you discover the rights of Georgia, and the obligations of the United States. That these rights may be fulfilled, and these obligations discharged, is the important object of the present mission. The sovereignty of the country which you occupy, is in the United States alone; no state, or foreign power, can enter into a treaty or compact with you.- These priviliges [sic] have passed away, and your intercourse is restricted exclusively to the United States. In matters of cession, or territory, you are recognized as a contracting party.
The United States possessing the sovereignty,
 and the Cherokee Nation being in possession, your consent is asked for the extinction of your title to the soil within Georgia lines. We concede that the terms must be 'peaceable' and 'reasonable.'- Our offer to purchase, establishes the first, and the consideration which may be agreed on, we trust, will be satisfactory as to the second.
Beyond the Mississippi, the United States possesses large domains of unsettled territory, embracing great variety of soil and climate. A portion of this nation is already there. If those with whom we are now treating are disposed to emigrate, then we offer territory in exchange, of such extent, and accompanied by such other advantages, as may be agreed on.- If this offer is not acceptable, then we submit another, equally 'peaceable' and equally 'reasonable.' It is, that you cede to the United States, for the use of Georgia, such part of the territory within her limits as can be easily spared. Many reasons might be given, which have induced Georgia to urge her claim for land upon the Gen. Gov. The reasons have appeared satisfactory to the Legislature, and Governor of Georgia, and to the President and Congress of the United States.- Some of these reasons grow out of the political connection of the states, and others, out of the crowded settlements of the people.
It is not necessary to detail the first, they are urgent, and must at some time, have their weight. The last are plain to the view of every one who travels through that part of the President's dominions. His white people are becoming so much crowded, that they are driven from friends and connexions [sic] to foreign lands. Others are confined to a scanty piece of soil, without timber for fencing or fuel. To prove these statements, we need only refer to the amount of our population, and the repidity [sic] of its increase. In the county in which one of us resides, there are 1800 inhabitants. The state of Geo. in 1810, contained 252,433 inhabitants.  In 1820, 344,773, shewing [sic] an increase, in ten years, of 92,340; and yet, the present settlements of Georgia do not very greatly exceed the Cherokee Nation, in extent, which contains about 12,000 inhabitants. This difference is too great ever to be intended by the Great Father of the Universe, who must have given the earth, equally, to be the inheritance of his white and red children.
Whether you dispose of all we ask for by exchange, or of a part of sale, still you have enough, and to spare. For each man, woman, and child, of the nation, a large allowance will be left, even enough for thousands yet unborn. Surely under this view of the subject, when so much good is to result on our side, and so little, in fact no evil, to the other, you will yield to our application.
BROTHERS: We have thus made known to you the subject of  our mission, and some of the reasons in support of it. In a matter of so much consequence to the United States, it certainly becomes you to deliberate, to look well to this matter in all its bearings; to do unto us as you would have us do to you, under like circumstances. In such time as will best suit your convenience, we shall expect an answer. We believe that we shall receive one which shall comport with the calmness and friendly disposition of the Council. It is not to be supposed that an affair which involves so much weight and importance is easily to be disposed of.  We shall therefore beg leave to reserve to ourselves the privilege of reply as often as we may consider it necessary.
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL,
JAMES MERIWETHER,
United States Commissioners.
_________________________________
The following is an answer from the Cherokee Council.
NEWTOWN, 20th October, 1823.
IN GENERAL COUNCIL.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: The very friendly manner in which you have expressed yourselves towards the members of Council, and those of them with whom you have contracted individual friendships, and the liberal view which you have taken of the progress of improvement in the arts of civilized life, and the regular and becoming manner in which the affairs of the nation are conducted, are respectfully flattering; and we return you our grateful acknowledgements for the compliment. The many favors which have been bestowed on us by the fostering hands of our father the President, are always fresh in our recollection, and we are ever ready to acknowledge our gratitude. The co-operation of the red man and the white man, in subduing the common enemy, during the late war, and the blood which have been lost on that occasion at Tallasehatchie, Talledega, Hillabees, Enotichopea, Emucsaws, and Tehophah, (Horse Shoe) we conceive to be no more than what might have been expected from our hands as children and true friends to our father the President.  Those acts we performed are a demonstrative proof of the sincerity of our affections and fidelity, and shew [sic] the firm hold by which the hand of our father is grasped, more forcibly than volumes of promises.
Brothers: We have fully deliberated your communication. The application which you have made, under the authority of your mission from the President of the United States, for the extinguishment of the Cherokee title to the whole  or a part of the lands now occupied by them, and lying within the chartered limits of Georgia, either by exchange for lands west of the Mississippi River, or by purchase--we have to state, that the unfortunate part of our nation, who have emigrated to the west, have suffered severely since the separation from this nation and settlement in their new country.  Sickness, wars, and other fatality, have visited them, and lessened their numbers, and many of them no doubt, would willingly return to the land of their nativity, if it was practicable for them to do so, without undergoing various difficulties, which would amost [sic] be insurmountable in so fatiguing and so long a journey, by men , women, and children, without friends and without money to perform. When we call to recollection the period which separated our countrymen, acquaintances, friends, and relatives, from us, and look to the circumstances, and means which caused our separation, we are grieved; the tears flow in our eyes, and we weep. Had it been the desire of the remaining part of this nation to have left this country, they would have embraced the opportunity, and emigrated with their fellow countrymen; but this was not their desire. They loved the soil which gave them birth, and they have continued thereon. The limits of this nation are small, and embrace mountains, hills, and poor lands, which can never be settled. The Cherokees once possessed an extensive country, and have made cession after cession to our father, the President, to gratify the wishes of our neighboring brethren, until our limits have become circumscribed; and it appears, from the eager desire of our brethren to obtain our land, that it would be unreasonable for us to presume that a small cession, at any time, would ever satisfy them.
Brothers: The improving situation of this nation is visible, and has been acknowledged, and it would be reproachful and degrading to our character did we not look to its interest, prosperity, and future happiness.-
You give us one reason why a cession is urged: that is, 'from crowded settlements of the people of Georgia.' We presume that, if Georgia were in possession of the whole extent of her chartered limits, it would not remedy the inconvenience complained of.
Brothers: From the comparative view which you have taken of the population of Georgia, ' the Cherokee Nation, you say 'that the difference is too great ever to have been intended by the Great Father of the Universe, who must have given the Earth equally as the inheritance of his white and red children.' We do not know the intention of the Supreme Father in this particular, but it is evident that this principle has never been observed or respected by nations or by individuals. If your assertion be a correct idea of His intention, why do the laws of civilized ' enlightened nations allow a man to monopolize more land than he can cultivate, to the exclusion of others?
Brothers: We cannot accede to your application for a cessions. It is the fixed and unalterable determination of this nation, never again to cede one foot
 of land.
We will make known to you, as coming from our father the President, that the boundary line from the Unicoy Turnpike, on the Blue Ridge, to the source of the Chestatee, has not been run by the United States' Surveyor, agreeably to the stipulation or intention of the treaty of 1819;but it has been run so as to include a larger tract of land than admitted by said treaty, to the great inconvenience and injury of this nation, particularly to those of our citizens who lived in that quarter, and have been compelled to remove. As this fact has been reported to the President we trust that he has given you some instructions relative to the investigation of the subject.
With the brightness of the sun, we renew our assurances of respect and brotherly friendship.
his
PATH x KILLER, Principle Chief.
mark
his
MAJOR x RIDGE, Sp'kr. of Coun.
mark
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council.










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday, June 18, 1828
We discover that the statistical table of Coosewaytee district, inserted in our first page, is incorrect, but we have not the means of correcting it.
__________________________________________
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We have been somewhat mortified to notice, that we have already brought upon ourselves the displeasure of some of our correspondents; whether deservedly or not, we do not undertake to say. The editor of this paper has acknowledged to the public his ignorance of many things, particularly of the rules which regulate other editors, and their correspondents, and it cannot otherwise be expected of him, as he undertook the management of this paper with no kind of experience, nor has he had an opportunity of consulting those who have.  If the communications of some of his correspondents, which appears to be the ostensible ground of the complaints, sufficient allowance is not made for him. But has he erred? We have noticed other editors adding remarks to the communications of their correspondents- we considered it lawful so to do, and accordingly followed the example whenever the interest of our paper and the people in whose cause we have embarked, required. It is our sincere desire to do what is right, yet we will by no means guaranty [sic] our correctness, and we hope our correspondents will exercise the same feelings.
These remarks are occasioned by a letter which now lies before us, sent to us by mail, [postage not paid] of which the following is an extract. 'I wish you to inform me if, by your opposition to some sentiments on my communication, and false and strange apprehensions of other parts, you mean to avail yourself of advantages as Editor, ungenerous; or do you design to grant me equal privileges with yourself, as an opponent.' It may be proper to inform this Gentleman, that we do not court controversy with any man, and that he might have saved himself from sending such queries. One word more. According to the terms of our paper, we expect all communications post paid, excepting letters on business where the interest of the paper is concerned, and we hope all those who think best to send us a line, will be 'generous' enough to comply with this very reasonable demand.
____________________________________
TO READERS
Some of our subscribers have complained that they do not receive their papers regularly. The cause of this irregularity; we gave in one of our former numbers. Since then the mails have been so arranged by the politeness of the Post Master General, that our papers, we hope, will reach our subscribers without any delay.
Another complaint has also reached us, and that is, our papers are not done up in a substantial manner. There we acknowledge the complaint is reasonable, but the fault is not designed, but altogether from necessity. Our readers probably know that we live in a wilderness, and of course cannot obtain paper without considerable expense. As soon as may be, we intend to supply ourselves with good wrapping paper.










INTEMPERANCE.
We are gratified to notice that the pernicious effects of intemperance are beginning to open the eyes of some of our citizens, as will be seen in the following letters which we translate from the original inserted above. We cannot but entertain the hope that the example of these men, in expressing, so decidedly, their disapprobation of the prevailing vice of the country, will be universally followed, by the aged, the influential, and the patriotic of this Nation, until the progress of this great evil shall be arrested.
__________________________________________
Page 2 Col. 5b-
Page 3 Col. 1a
ETOWA,[Hightower,]
June 4, 1828
To the newly appointed chiefs, William Hicks and John Ross.
A few days since we held court at Etowa.  The penalty of the law was executed upon some of our young men, who had transgressed it. But you have not been deaf respecting it, for you have heard of it.  We know what the laws require,   But they are not obeyed here: For whatever our young men are assembled together, whiskey is not wanting. The principal  cause of this is, that the women, they by whom we are nurtured, treat us thus. Whenever the time of my* assembling in Council arrives, whiskey is uniformly assembled  by the women, and there the young men drink. Then when they have consumed their little property, they begin to think by what means they shall replace it; and those means they find in stealing horses.- Accordingly they steal, and are convicted, and thus punished. also when they have been dancing all night, in the morning they commence fighting.  Sometimes they nearly kill each other.  I see them covered with blood.  Whiskey is the cause of these doings of our young men towards each other. I cannot give them up. For I remember that you said last Summer, 'If any one thinks, `This is the source of my trouble,' laws can be enacted [respecting it.'] Now these are my tho'ts [sic]. As it respects dancing after the fiddle, let every person, in whose house the dancing is, be fined the sum of five dollars. I am however told, by the people of Cedar-creek, that this cannot be done. Nevertheless I ask your decision. Let the word come from you. But, let your answer be sent to be me in a letter. I wish to hear speedily. Whenever your letter arrives, I shall assemble all the young men.
ALEX. GARVICK,
JOHN BEAMER,
WA-LA-NE-TUH,
SI-KA-WEE,
CHAS. MOORE,
OLD FIELD,
___ LEE,
TAH-NU-WY,
TE-NA-QUOO-LAW-SUH,
_____
*My assembling. The singular for the plural. The same idiom will be observed in other sentences. Ed.
____________________________________________
Page 3 Col. 1a-2a
The following is the answer of the principal Chiefs to the preceding letter.
FORK, CHEROKEE NATION,
June 10, 1828.
FRIENDS:- We have received your letter, and we are sorry to hear, that some of the young people of your Town were convicted before the late court in your district, for stealing, and been punished according to law; and that the commission of this abominable crime is attributed to intemperance brought upon them by certain women trafficking whisky to them on all public occasions. It is sincerely to be hoped that this practice will not be continued.- If those women who engage in this business would seriously reflect upon the evil and disgrace which they are instrumental in bringing upon the young men, and if they possess any of the natural affections which mothers feel towards their offspring, they cannot but drop a tear of sympathy, and abandon the practice of dealing in whiskey.
For your better information, we will tell you that there is a law in existence, passed nearly six years ago, which prohibits any person or persons from bringing ardent spirits within three miles of the General Council house, or to any of the court houses within the several districts, during the General Council or the sitting of the Courts, under the penalty of forfeiting the whisky, (which is to be destroyed) for disposing of the same so as to intoxicate any person whatsoever. And about four years ago there was an amendment made to the above law, which we will also tell you. It prohibits all persons whatsoever, from disposing of in any manner ardent spirits at ball plays, all night dances and other public gatherings,  under the penalty of having all their spirits wasted;  and it is made the special duty of the marshals, sheriffs, deputy sheriffs,  and constables to take cognizance of such offences [sic] and to execute this law; and any of these officers failing or neglecting to take cognizance of any violation of this law, after being put in full possession of the fact of such violation, any of the courts, are liable to pay a fine to be imposed at the discretion of the court, one half for the benefit of the informer and the other half for the benefit of the National Treasury, and the officer subjected to be removed from office by the National Council. From these laws you will see that if they are strictly observed and enforced, the evil complained of, would in a great degree be diminished. As we believe you have a copy of the public laws in your town, we do not think it necessary to quote any more passages from them, but we will earnestly recommend to you, on all proper occasions, to have the laws read in public, for the information of the people, and at the same time advise and admonish them to refrain from all evil practices. By this course you may succeed in reclaiming some of the evil disposed young People.  As a good example set on the part of the aged, cannot fail to command respect, we hope that they will distinguish themselves by a circumspect deportment. Should it be thought necessary and expedient that some amendments, or new laws should be made for the better regulation of the Nation, on any particular subject, the new members who will be elected to the next General Council ought to be instructed on the subject; and if you were to submit a memorial before the General Council, it would claim the particular attention of your immediate representatives, and if the majority of the members of the General Council approves the recommendation, a law would be passed to embrace the object. You will discover from this that, the General Council alone possess the sole power of making public laws. Consequently we have no power to impose a fine of five dollars on those who indulge in dancing after the fiddle, agreeably to your suggestion. Before we close this letter, we will again entreat you earnestly to admonish the young people of your town from engaging in all evil associations, and especially to shun the company of white men who are known for their bad characters in the adjoining states, as such men may lead them in the path to trouble, shame and disgrace,  through the craftiness of their wicked designs.
We are respectfully, your friends and fellow countrymen.
WILLIAM HICKS,
JOHN ROSS.
TO MESSRS, ALEX GARVICK, JOHN BEAMER, WAL-EH-NETAH, CE-KAH-WE, TE-SAH-TA-SKEE, CLAW-KEY-SE-KAH-YEH-LEE, OO-NE-QUO-NOO, TAH-NOO-WEE, and TVH,NA-QUOO-LAW-SEH.
Etowa Town, Cherokee Nation.










Mint.- the coinage of the United States mint last year, was $3,022,675.32 cents, viz. 131,565 00 of gold, 2,869,200 of silver, and 21,910 32 of copper. The total amount coined since the establishment of the mint, is 30,525,138 28 of which probably not ten millions remain in the country, the residue having been forced abroad, by the substitution of bank paper as a circulating medium.
The net amount chargeable to the mint, since its establishment; including the cost of lands building, and machinery, is only $523,470 49.


















LAWS
OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, that the Principal Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation, the members of the National committee, the members of council, the judges of the several courts, and all other officers of the Nation, likewise the Jurymen before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, shall take an oath before some authorized person to serve and discharge their duties faithfully and impartially to the best of their abilities.
New Echota, Oct. 13, 1826.
JNO ROSS, Pres't Nat. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved,
CHARLES R. HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Council,
_________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That no person who disbelieves in the existence of the Creator, and of rewards and punishments after death shall be eligible to hold any office under the Government of the Cherokee Nation or be allowed the privilege of their testimony in any Court of Justice.
 New Echota, Oct. 13, 1826
JOHN ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved-CHARLES HICKS.
A.M'COY. Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk of N. Council.
______________________
Resolved by the National Committee and council, That Mr. Charles R. Hicks, one of the principal Chiefs be and he is hereby authorized to administer the oath of office to the members of the National Committee, the members of Council, and the several Circuit Judges of the Nation, and that the President of the National Committee be and he is hereby authorized to administer the oath of office to the two principal Chiefs; and the circuit Judges to administer the oath of office to all other officers within their respective districts.
New Echota, Oct. 14, 1826.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved-CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk of the N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Com.
_____________________
 Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That a child under the age of twelve years, whose tender age renders it improbable that he or she should be impressed with a proper sense of moral obligation or of sufficient capacity, deliberately to have committed an offence, shall not be considered, or found guilty of any crime or misdemeanor; nor a lunatic or a person insane without lucid intervals, shall be found guilty of any crime with which he or she may be charged; Provided the act so charged as criminal shall have been committed in the condition of such lunacy or insanity; Be it further resolved that an idiot shall not be found guilty or punished for any crime or misdemeanor with which he or she may be charged; Be it also further resolved that any person counseling, advising, or encouraging a child under the age of twelve years, or a lunatic, of an idiot to commit an offence, shall be prosecuted for such offence when committed as principal, and if found guilty shall suffer the same punishment as would have been inflicted on said child, lunatic or idiot, if he or she had possessed discretion, and had been guilty.
New Echota, Oct. 14, 1826.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved-CHARLES R,. HICKS.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Coun.










CORRESPONDENCE
Between commissioners on the part of the United States, and the Council of the Cherokee Nation, in the year 1823.
[Continued]
The following is a reply from the commissioners to the Council.
NEWTOWN, October 21, 1823
Friends and Brothers: Your communication of yesterday was handed us by your messenger.  We feel constrained by duty and instruction to reply, and to reserve to ourselves the privilege of reply, as often as we may consider it necessary.  In doing this, we violate no sentiment which we have heretofore expressed, with regard to this nation.  Nothing would give us a deeper regret, than to find that our confidence has been misplaced, and our encomiums improperly bestowed. Of this we have no apprehension at present, and shall pursue the negotiation under the hope, that it will yet be closed in a manner which shall comport with the just expectations of the Government.
Brothers: The relation which this nation stands to the Government of the United States, is somewhat peculiar. The original title of this soil is acknowledged to have been in you.
There was a time, when most of the territory now composing the United States, belonged to the various tribes of Indians.  The people of Europe were the first white men who landed upon these shores. As soon as they established colonies, they claimed the sovereignty of the soil by the right of discovery.  For a long period of time this sovereignty was exercised without resistance. At length, the colonies grew to a size which enabled them to take management of their own affairs. A war ensued, which lasted seven years, and then ended in a complete success of the Colonies. What Europe claimed by discovery, was then vested in the people of the Colonies by conquest. All the country which was conquered fell to the conquerors. The Cherokees, the Creeks, and almost every Indian tribe, powerful and numerous as they were, took sides against us. All shared the same fate. All became subject to the government afterwards established, under the title of 'United States of America.'
This subordination and loss of power, would have followed conquest as a matter of course; but, in order that it might be reduced to a certainty, and made plain, and recorded, treaties were entered into, in every instance, with the Indian tribes, who were parties to the war.
The Delaware surrendered their sovereignty at the treaty of Fort Pitt; the Six Nations at Fort Stanwix; the Creeks at New York; the Chickasaws at Hopewell; and the Cherokees at Hopewell in the year 1785, and so on. By these, and by great many other nations, a complete surrender is made, and protection claimed. The language of the United States, in the treaty of Hopewell, gives peace to the Cherokees and receives them into favor and protection. The language of the Cherokees is submissive, and accepts the offer. So complete was the authority acquired by these memorable operations, that the territory of all those tribes, was made the subject of 'allotment.' All the lands which they now hold, has been 'allotted' to them. Their original title is forever gone. First, by discovery. Secondly by conquest. And, thirdly, by treaty. But the surrenders which have been made from time to time by the Cherokees, go still further, and authorize the United States to 'manage the trade of the Cherokees as they may think proper.'
Brothers: We have reference to these matters of history and compact, not to shew [sic] your humility, but to shew [sic] your dependance. On the contrary, it does not degrade you to give you the evidence of your dependance; it is a matter of distinction, to be connected with, and dependant upon, the Government of the United States.- There are twenty-four states and three territories, which are found to acknowledge this connection and dependance. The advantage is mutual. The United States give laws, give stability, and protection, to the states, and the states give obedience, support, and taxes, to the Government. By this union, the Government becomes powerful- by a division, it would be feeble.  As relating to the different tribes of Indians who have settlements within the states, the Government is prepared to speak with candor and decision.  If they cherish the idea of independence and self government, the sooner they are corrected, the better. The United States will not permit the existence of separate, distinct, ' independent government within her limits.  All the people on her soil must be hers, and her laws must, sooner or later, pervade the whole. To qualify you for citizenship, the Government has, within the last twenty years, expended upon you upwards of half a million of dollars.  You have been told that you are the President's favorite children. You are indeed so. He seeks not to destroy, but to preserve you. There is nothing annihilating in his scheme. When he qualifies you as citizens, you must become so. The process of qualification will follow you wherever you go, and as fast as you become citizens you become subject to our laws.  Whether this subjection to our laws is to be individually or collectively depends in a great degree upon yourselves. As long ago as the treaty of Hopewell, in 1785, the idea is suggested of your becoming a territory of the United States, with the right of representation in the Congress. If this nation would preserve a compact form, not within the limits of the states, no obstacle would remain to the organization of a territorial government composed of themselves. While they are within the limits of the states the state sovereignty must prevail and they must become merged in the white population, and take the standing of individual citizens.
Brothers: Let your choice be as it may, your condition will be bettered. The government which you have lately formed for  ourselves, although it is greatly to your credit, yet is objectionable to many of its important features. A territorial organization under the United States would be greatly preferable. Such changes are common among nations, and often to the advantage of both parties. But, if this scheme is not yet sufficiently matured to meet your acceptance, then a cession of a part will quiet the solicitude of Georgia and of the United States, for the present, and give time for further deliberation. The cession of a part need not affect the wishes or interest of any individual, with respect to citizenship. If those who live the part ceded are not disposed to become citizens, they can be indemnified for their losses in removing, and retire within your lines. If they are disposed to become members of the states they can be secured in a residence; and let into all privileges of ordinary citizens.
Brothers: We have thus laid before you some new topics for discussion. These involve considerations of vast importance to yourselves and to posterity. Listen to them, and answer with calmness and deliberation.
You are not engaged in light disputes or trifling considerations. Nations are parties to this correspondence. If we know our Government and ourselves, we design you no harm. Our object is the good of the whole American family.
We shall now proceed to notice some of the remarks in your communication of yesterday, and close for the present.
The picture which you have drawn of the separation of friends and relatives at the emigration to Arkansas, is honorable to the sympathies of your hearts. But the heart often bleeds at what the judgement approves. Among ourselves, these separations occur almost daily.  You advert with some emphasis to the 'circumstances and means which caused the separation.'
Brothers: We understand that it was wholly voluntary, and that your citizens projected the scheme themselves, as long ago as 1808. At that time the President was aware that the season was unpropitious for so serious an operation. His land beyond the Mississippi had not been explored. The distresses of the people and government were great, and the prospect of a war was in view. The President acted as a great and good father to you and advised you not to go.-- Since that time it has been ascertained that the country admits of eligible settlement and organization, and the most advantageous terms have been allowed for your removal. In all this, we discover nothing but the characteristic magnanimity of the American Government.
Brothers: You state that you 'once possessed an extensive country, but that you have made cession after cession, until your limits have been circumscribed.' Would you, if you could, repossess yourselves of all the soil which you once held, and allow it to be peopled only by yourselves? Would you demolish temples raised to science and dedicated to God, that beasts might have a wider range, or game a broader play? Would you lay waste a city, that a wigwam might rise upon its ruins? No, brothers: you are now drinking of the streams of civilizations, and leaving far behind you the little and vulgar prejudices of untutored barbarism.
These are giving place to just and liberal conceptions of the rights of man and the bounty of man's creator.
You suggest that the eagerness of your neighboring brethren to obtain lands is so strong, that a small cession would not satisfy them. It is true that self-interest is a strong principle of action, and in its operations often requires restraint. In this case, however, this eagerness is considered reasonable, and your father the President gives it his sanction.
We assure you that a small cession will have a much greater quieting influence, than no cession at all. It is not altogether fair to set bounds to eagerness when it is founded upon rights.
Your allusion to the subject of the line, run under the treaty of 1819, will receive due attention before we close our correspondence.
With great respect for the council, and increasing regard for its members, we again subscribe ourselves,
Your friends and brothers,
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL
JAMES MERIWETHER.
To the Council of the Cherokee Nation.










The Council to the Commissioners.
NEWTOWN, CHEROKEE NATION
October 24th, 1823.
IN GENERAL COUNCIL.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: Your communication of the 21st inst. has been deliberated by the General Council, and it seems that you anticipate a hope that our application for a cession might yet be granted. We assure you, in the strongest terms that our rejection is founded upon a mature and deliberate determination, which cannot be changed. The title of the Cherokees to the lands in their possession, is indisputable; and the United States, by the treaty of Holston, in 1791, in the 7th article, fully declares it to be so, by solemnly guarantying it to them.
Brothers: We are fully sensible that we are dependent upon the Government of the United States for protection, and have ever manifested a disposition to conduct ourselves in such a manner as to comport with our duty in that respect; and we are surprised, and at a loss to know what has given grounds to harbor a contrary opinion of our disposition in that respect. There must be a source from whence a misrepresentation of our disposition has been communicated to our father the President. The remark that we made, 'that the Cherokees once possessed an extensive country, and they made cession after cession, to our father, the President, to gratify the wishes of our neighboring brethren, until our limits had become circumscribed,' was not intended to mean that we would wish to repossess what we had surrendered, (as would seem from your eloquent remarks on that point) but to show that, if we continued to yield to our father's application in behalf of our neighboring brethren, as we had heretofore done, that the whole of our lands would be gone. It is not our swish to 'demolish temples raised to science, and dedicated to God, so that beasts might have a wider range, or game a broader play,' nor to 'lay waste a city, that a wigwam might rise upon its ruins.' But it is our desire that monuments of science may be raised, by our hands on the dust of our progenitors, from which the beasts of the field have receded, and the wigwams tottering into ruins.
The bow and the quiver are laid aside, and the pursuits of the chase are forgotten. The axe, the hoe, the blow, and the shuttle, are introduced, and progressing like a consuming fire, and it is hoped that a mist will not arise to dampen its progress. You suggest an idea, that, if this nation would preserve a compact form of a territorial government of the United States, not within the limits of the states, no obstacle would remain to the organization; but, while they are within the limits of the states, the state sovereignty must prevail, and they must become merged in the white population, and take the standing of individual citizens. And you further remark, that, in case of a cession of a part, that all those who do not choose to become citizens, would be indemnified for their losses, and those that chose to become members of the states can be secured in a residence, and let into all the privileges of ordinary citizens.  Brothers; the suggestion of the organization of a territorial government, is a subject of too great weight for the nation to take up in their present situation, therefore the suggestion cannot met our acceptation. As respects being secured, with indemnification and residence, and privileges of citizenship in the states, we beg leave to ask you to look to the treaty of 1819. What was the provision made for the Cherokees in the second article of that treaty? And what has been the course pursued by the states of Tennessee and Georgia, and some of their citizens, relative to the sacred obligations contained in that article?  We find that opposition; fraud, and every species of injustice, were raised against the interests of the poor inexperienced Cherokees by them; and before the aid and assistance of the magnanimous hand of the General Government could be extended to their relief, an entire ruin and loss of property have been sustained by many of them; and many of them who are entitled to compensation for improvements under that treaty, have never received one cent-a very small portion of the improvements left have been valued and paid for.
Brother: We cannot curtail the present limits, which has been reserved to this nation in the treaty of 1819. The prosperity and future happiness of our posterity cannot be lost sight of, when their destiny is placed in our hands; and should we act as an hones father, and preserve their interest and their right, they will rejoice and be happy in commemorating our names, when we are no more. Under these circumstances, our brethren of Georgia cannot, or ought not, to desire us to destroy ourselves, so that they may aggrandize  themselves, and raise temples upon our ruin. Their state is respectable in wealth and in population, as well as in liberal sentiments of honorable men, and the extent of its bounds not small, but considerably larger than many of the other states in the Union.
Brothers: We beg leave to present this communication as a positive and unchangeable refusal to dispose of one foot more of land; so that no further application or anticipation of success may be encouraged on your part, and that a final close of the correspondence on this subject should herewith take place, as the Council will very soon rise, having already continued four days over the time allowed by the authorities of the nation for its sitting.
With calmness and cordiality, we subscribe ourselves as friends and brothers,
his
PATH x  KILLER, Principal Chief
mark
his
MAJOR x RIDGE, Sp'kr. of Coun.
mark
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
ELIJAH HICKS, Clerk N. Council.










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday June 15, 1828
The length of Mr. Ridge's communication excludes from our paper articles of intelligence and other matter. We could not well divide it elsewhere. We have already given our opinion upon this unpleasant affair. As a particular account of the proceedings of Col. McKenney in the Creek Nation has been given to the public by himself, it is nothing but just that the defendant should have the liberty of a reply.
___________________________
We understand that Col. Williams, Sub Agent, and Mr. John Miller, United States' interpreter, have lately been engaged, under the authority of the General Government, in burning houses and destroying corn of the intruders who had moved, in defiance of the existing treaties, into the Nation from the frontier of Georgia. We are pleased with this new instance of the kind disposition of our 'Great Father the President.'
____________________________________
LOOK OUT FOR ROGUES.
We understand that some person broke into the store of Mr. Elijah Hicks last night, and helped himself to a number of articles, such as pocket knives, shoes, boots, sugar, whiskey 'c. It appears that the thief became so intoxicated before leaving the store as to forget his own shoes.
____________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday June 25, 1828
Volume 1 No. 18
Page 2 col. 2b-5b
Page 3, col. 1a-3a
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
The purpose of this communication is to expose the evasion of Col. T. L. McKenney in his report to the Secretary of War, in relation to his conduct as Commissioner of the U. S. in the fall of 1827, in the Creek Nation. In one of his letters, he says that, 'it was not until I had met the Creeks in a third Council, I could succeed with them, nor then until in their midst, I demonstrated the cupidity and bad counsels of one of these interfering Agents, and assuming the responsibility broke him on the spot, (Query, of what?) by announcing in the name of the President of the United States, that for the reasons then assigned, no communication of any sort would be received by the President from the Creek Nation, if that man had any agency in it. This broke the spell of their opposition and the agreement [treaty] was made'  But as my name was not mentioned and as more than one of 'interfering Agents' was intimated I was willing he should enjoy the benefit of his qualified misstatements.  The House of Representatives thought proper to inquire of the Secretary of War, the reasons that governed Col. McKenney in his conduct, and he was accordingly called upon to make an explanation, which he has done; but not with proper regard to facts, for he has brought the 'foulest charges' and crimination against my motives and conduct in the Creek Country, all of which have no other foundation, according to his report, than the 'baseless fabric' of 'vague testimony.' This Gentleman has passed currently with laurels of friendship and benevolent considerations towards the Indians, and it now becomes my duty to pluck the unmerited crown from his head and place, him exposed in his won colors. I owe my birth to the Cherokee Nation, and to that only my character is bestowed for their safe keeping. My Education I owe to the American Board of Missions, a class of worthy citizens, who at all times acting from correct motives, may be the last to suspect Col. McKenney for duplicity and cunning. For their information the task of self defence has been undertaken.
In the first place I shall state the proceedings of the Council to which Col. McKenney has alluded, his conduct and mine, therein, and his defeat.
'Secondly, I shall notice his charges on 'vague testimony.'
And thirdly, I shall prove that the treaty was not made with the Council, now at the place reported by him, but at Fort Mitchell, about sixty miles distant.
In the month of Nov. 1827, the Chiefs of the upper towns of the Creek Nation, who were yet unapprised of Col. McKenney's coming, appointed a time for a Council for the purpose of transacting business in relation to the collection of taxes, and the counting of it previously to the disposition of it in their Treasury for that year. I was invited by letter to attend this Council. I set out for the Creek Country in company with Mr. David Vann, and having joined the Chiefs of Cheyahha and Telladega, who were waiting for us, moved on towards Tuckaubatchee. At a little village of Creeks called Foosochhatchee, or Hatchet Creek, two days journey from Tuckaubatchee, we for the first time heard of the expected arrival of 'Land Buyers,' accompanied by the Chiefs of the 'Lower Towns.' We reached the town after Col. McKenney, and took lodgings with Opothleholo, unconscious of the impression our arrival had occasioned in the breast of McKenney, as our visit was of a private nature. The next morning the chiefs met in Council, ' I was invited by them to attend and take a seat among them which was near their most distinguished chiefs, when a speech was delivered, announcing our arrival agreeable to their invitation. The Council composed of the Upper and Lower towns rose, and individually took me by the hand and expressed their pleasure at my arrival. After this, the Chiefs were in consultation, which resulted in the despatch of an invitation to Col. McKenney and Crowell, to come to the Council, of which I was informed after the messenger had started. They came. Opothlehohlo ordered seats for them just before him and the principal Chiefs, Little Prince, excepted, who was prevented by his conjurer from entering the square while he was sick and under his care. But the Council was full and had power to do any business they thought proper.- Col McKenney in a friendly manner shook hands with me and Mr. Vann, but Col. Crowell did not and seemed to avoid an interview. Opothleholo then told McKenney, that the Council, being called for private business, had made no provision for the subsistence of a Grand Council any length of time, and as he had come on the business of the President, he wished to know whether he would supply the Council in provisions. Col. McKenney replied that he had but a short time to stay, his business being but small and required despatch and could be effected in two days, and for that period he would furnish the Council in beef.- Expressing at the same time his readiness to make known his business then, or any other time the Chiefs should direct. He was told that when the Council was prepared they would send for him on the next day. He agreed to it and in company with Col. Crowell and Mr. Compere, a Baptist Preacher and Missionary, left the Council. But Mr. Compere soon after returned and invited us to his house, where Cols. McKenney and Crowell had taken quarters, and said that he had no doubt but the Colonel would be glad to see us there. We accepted the invitation, ' in the evening reached Compere's mission house, in the porch of which were seated a number of Creeks and white men, and among them Col. Crowell, I shook hands with all, except Crowell who refused my hand. Col. McKenney soon after appeared, and we sat down in another part of the porch from where Crowell sat, and commenced a conversation, or rather listened to Col. McKenney, who as usual gave us a pompous description of his travels and interviews with the Indians. Notwithstanding the polite attentions of Mr. Compere's family, the time passed away very unpleasantly with me, in consequence of having given Crowell an opportunity of refusing my hand, of which I could hardly forgive myself. Mr. Vann during this conversation told Mr. McKenney that we had received his letter at the instance of the Secretary of War in regard to our claim against the Creek Nation for $10,000, and wished to know of him whether he would have any objection to give a verbal statement to the Creeks, of the origin of this claim. McKenney said, he would cheerfully do it, and he would devote a day to it, and make the Creeks sensible of its justice.- 'But let me ( said he) pass over my mountain first and then I will attend to yours.' The letter, marked A will explain itself.  The Delegation at Washington in order to obtain the annulment of the base treaty, saw the necessity of baiting the Lion, the U. States, with a large piece of Land, to induce it to do justice.  And as this Land was about to pass away from under their feet, they wished us as friends to procure us reservations of 460 acres each in fee simple, and directed us to negotiate for them.- We did so and succeeded so far as to obtain the Secretary's promise to us for $5,000 each in lieu of the reservations, which would be less objectionable to Georgia, on who had formerly complained of reservations being given to Indians. This sum was accordingly added to the consideration money of the new treaty. The Creek Nation paid us for our services as secretaries to their Delegation, but the commutation money, in lieu of the reservations was withheld, as we were informed, by misrepresentations of our arch enemy, Col. Crowell.
At a late hour we started to our lodgings in the night, Col. McKenney having attended us to our horses and politely wished us 'good night.' In the evening of the next day, the Chiefs having assembled in Council sent word to Col. McKenney that they were ready to hear his talk. McKenney came and delivered a speech to them, no doubt in style and manner, practised [sic] among the Chippeways, Kickapoos, Menominees, Sioux, 'c. That the Great father told him to go and visit his red Children to the cold country at the lakes, then to his children who live where the Sun sleeps, then those who live in the warm country, and by all means his Creek children. He obeyed and went in stages and travelled far- then got into a great canoe that carries fire in its bottom and sends its smoke to heaven, and travelled to the great lakes, where the winds live and where cold dwells and makes the waters to freeze hard so men and cattle can pass over dry shod. He left the big canoe, and entered in a bark canoe and went up a river whose rapids were like the falls of the Tallapoosa, and found Indians.- They were sitting in darkness and had not heard their father's talk for a great while. Their paths were choked up with briers and their feet were bleeding. He gave them their father's talk, and with it the light, and cleaned their paths of briers, and cured their bleeding feet- The Indians were glad, but said when you go away the briers will grow again, and again our feet will bleed- he asked them why? Because, said they, we have bad birds among us and they make the briers to grow.  Then he drove away those bad birds from their country, and left a mouth with them, and told them they must listen to that mouth alone, it would talk the voice of wisdom from Washington, and if the bad birds come back again to listen to them no more. They promised him they would do as he told them, and then shook hands with them and went to another river to which he had his canoe carried- went down that river to the great father of rivers, the Mississippi.  His subsequent speeches, in this Indian inspection summer travel, were all similar to the above, among all of whom after clearing the briers from their paths and healing their bleeding feet, he left 'a mouth to speak the voice of wisdom from Washington.' He arrived at last among the Chickasaws and Choctaws- they knew him and were glad to see him- their hearts grew so warm and big within them, that they could scarcely breath, they felt so rejoiced, because they had seen him at Washington near their Great Father, and because they knew that he always carried a sweet thing under his tongue for the Indians.  He said, the Chickasaws had received his talk and because they had drunk from the pure water that flowed from the spring at Washington, the Chickasaws would become a great Nation, mark it,  they would live to see it. Now he wanted the Creeks to listen to what he was going to say. It was the talk of the Great Father. If he made a good talk to put it in their hearts, if a bad one put it under their feet.
There was a small strip of land in their country which the treaty of Washington did not embrace, and the Georgians wanted it, ' as the Delegation promised, if the treaty lines did not reach it, that they would throw it in, he wished them to carry their promise into effect, and give up the land and he would pay them well for it. He understood that some people regretted that this strip was not included in the new treaty; for his part he was glad of it, as now the Creeks would enjoy from it an additional consideration in money. This was about the substance of his talk in regard to this strip of land, or as the Creeks call it, E-kan-nah-silk-ee. The greatest part of his talk was irrelevant to the subject matter of his object, consisting in gross Indian and disgusting flattery.  He wished an answer immediately.  He wished to be gone soon, as he was afraid the President might shake himself before he heard from them, he however had written on to him from Fort Mitchel, and had told him to be still and not shake himself for ten days longer, as he would vouch for the Creeks they would do what was right and comply with their father's wishes. The Chiefs, by their speaker, replied that tomorrow they would give him an answer. He wished it then it was a plain talk like his walking stick; he did not ask them to count the leaves of a tree, pointing to it, or to pick burs from a horse's tail.  The speaker said, the council was composed of several hundred, among whom were a great many that had but little sense and could not understand a plain subject, in so short a time, and they must think on his talk until tomorrow.- M'Kenney had to acquiesce in this determination I said he would wait their time, and hoped their consultation would result in the adoption of his talk, which he knew was for the good.  The time allowed for the consideration of Col. M'Kenney's talk was spent, and he was called upon to listen to the reply of the Council by Opothleholo, in substance as follows.  ' We have bestowed attention to your talk of yesterday, and have determined to give you an answer. When our Delegation were at Washington it was their purpose to get justice of the United States in annulment of the base M'Intosh treaty, which was not granted, however, without an immense sacrifice on our part of our lands, so fast were we held in difficulties, ' so unmerciful were those who wanted our lands. In this treaty of Washington, the limits of our country were specific and designated, and guarantied to us by the General Government. We have but little land left and only sufficient to raise our children upon.- We had hoped a remission of your earnestness for our lands after having obtained so much from us. The verbal promise you spoke of yesterday was not made in the recollection of the Delegation.  If such had been the understanding, the whole chartered limits of Georgia would have been surrendered in the treaty, but it is not here so written. This is all we have to say on the subject.' Col. M'Kenney then referred to me as having made this verbal promise, 'that if the treaty lines did not comprehend the whole of the Georgia limits, the nation would throw it in.' The Creeks requested me to make a statement to Col. M'Kenney in regard to it, which I did by telling him, that in conversation Col. M'Kenney said if it should happen that those treaty lines came close to take in the Georgia limits, would the Creeks give it up? Not acting officially at the time, and not authorised [sic] to make a promise, being a subject of incidental conversation, I said that if the lines should come short of a small strip, such as a mile or two, I did not presume the Creeks would object to their extension. I told the Creeks this was all I recollected of the subject. Col. M'Kenney, then insisted that I was their secretary and had made the promise, and they were bound to fulfil [sic] it.  He spoke at some length to persuade them to yield this strip of land, which would settle all difficulties and troubles, 'c. Opothleholo, apparently tired of the harangue, told him, 'yes you have heard our talk and we have no other. If you were to talk as you do now for ten days, the Council could nor would not give you another answer.' This was strong language and could not be misunderstood and dried up to its source, the 'sweet thing for Indians.' He would now have denounced the Creeks with an awful prophecy of their impending ruin, but checked by a spark of conscience, he stood with an expression of countenance indicating a sense of disappointment. All was lost. How could he appear at Washington, when his pompous chain of successful Indian treaties was broken. I felt for the Gentleman. He spoke- he was sorry they had made choice of such a talk for their father--he would take it with him as he must know everything that was said by his children; and was about to take leave, when Mr. Vann reminded him of his promise to devote a day to our claim. He stopped and said he would now attend to it, and asked for the letter to be produced, which was done. He acknowledged the correctness of the letter to the Council; at this instant a person whispered something in his ear. It was the whisper of Col. Crowell.-- The closing part of Col. McKenney's devotion of the day to the letter, therefore, was ambiguous and filled with insinuations calculated to forestall opinion, and to prejudice the minds of the Creeks against the claim. I therefore procured Col. McKenney's permission to speak, and told the Chiefs, 'that claim was for money in lieu of reservations that had been granted us by the Delegation, and all we wanted was Col. McKenney's recognition of the letter in their presence, which he had done, but it was a matter of regret to me that he had not made out his statement without listening to the whisper of Crowell, which they had seen.' Col. Crowell said he did not whisper anything but what was correct. Col. McKenney told the Council that if any man whispered bad things in his ear, either by a red or white man, he would knock him down. He said so because it had been insinuated that he had been wrongfully whispered to. This closed our Council for that day. Col. McKenney started as he told us for Washington City, and we to our lodgings.  In the afternoon of the next day, after Col. McKenney was far advanced on his journey, the Council was called on to convene at an our shed a few hundred yards from the square, where Little Prince with his Chiefs of the lower towns wished to meet the Principal Chiefs of the upper towns. I was asked by the latter to attend it, and there heard, Col. McKenney, instead of pursuing his journey, had halted on the other bank of the Tallapoosa from us, and had sent the lower towns to meet the Chiefs of the upper towns on the subject of the 'verbal promise.'  Division was visible now in their countenances, but the upper towns possessed the prepondering [sic] weight of talent and influence, and above all, the love of native land, so dear to all Nations, who yet are unshackled from the influence of base submission or corrupting gold. The lower town Chiefs placed a great deal of emphasis on the verbal promise.  Opothleholo told them the verbal promise was nothing. It was like a note without a signature--it was not in the treaty, it was not binding.  'But, said Little Prince, the Great man says you did make the promise.' Selocta, the son of Chinnubbee and who was in the last war a favorite warrior of General Jackson, a Chief of undaunted courage, here opened his mouth and spoke as follows. ' I was sent by you to Washington to break McIntosh's bad treaty. We did so and we secured to ourselves some land yet, that is scarcely large enough for our people to stand upon. I don't know anything of the promise this man is talking about. Our friends John Ridge and David Vann don't know anything about it. We the upper towns love our native land that has been under us, from our youthful days, and will not sell it. But I have heard strange reports about you Little Prince ' the Lower Town Chiefs. It is that you wish to sell land. I heard this at home, from the McIntosh party and from news heard of white people. Is it so? or is it not?' Little Prince could not have been more electrified, if a clap of thunder had struck off the shed of our Council House, than he experienced from this speech. He denied the charge and said the report was luckscha or false and was followed by his whole party in this denial. It was then decided that Col. McKenney should be called in Council, ' that the Delegation should individually tell him, that they knew nothing of this verbal promise. In the mean time Mr. Vann had been met by Mr. Compere, who delivered a message from Col. McKenney, that if he would use his influence to induce the Creeks to accede to his proposition, he would see that his claim on them should be paid. After this, Judge Blake told Mr. Vann that he had been sent by Col. McKenney to request him to go in and talk with the Council.  All of which we had informed the chiefs previous to the arrival of Col. McKenney. This was the third interview of the Council and Col. McK. and from what had passed on the proceeding day, I deemed it prudent to be furnished with a pipe tomahawk in the act of smoking, and to be ready to make effectual resistance, in case of assault from the white men, should they be instigated to it by Col. Crowell. My position here again was near the Principal Chiefs. Cols. McKenney and Crowell came and listened to the Delegation, individually denying their knowledge of the verbal promise of throwing in the Georgia limits, if the lines should not reach them. Col. McKenney said he believed these chiefs, but the promise was made; and at Washington the most and all important business was transacted by Opothleholo, John Ridge, and David Vann- these three usually came to the War office and spoke for the Delegation. He did not know why, but thought the Delegation had confidence in them for sense and honesty, and in the light the Secretary of War transacted business with them.  To prejudice the council against us appeared to be his object, but Opothleholo was ready to face him in any ground or argument. He told Col. M'Kenney, that 'the Delegation were present and could tell the council, whether any business had been transacted without their knowledge or consent at Washington. The treaty was in existence and the names of the Delegation were to it, and if it had any benefits in favor of the Creeks, the council knew it. Facts do not sustain your talk. You charge the two Cherokees and myself for having transacted all important business. I speak my own language only, and they do not understand mine, how could we understand each other to transact important business?' Col. M'Kenney said, an Interpreter was not considered an official person ' therefore he did not mention him. Opothleholo proceeded, 'you talk a great deal of the verbal promise, which is not recollected. I can also tell you, that you have not always fulfiled [sic] your words or your promises.  Look at the Blackburn and Houston claim against us for upwards of $5000, for whiskey confiscated by us at the order of our former agent, Col. Hawkins. This claim was brought here and was rejected. It was carried to Washington and rejected by the former Secretary of War (J. C. Calhoun) and so written down in the books of your office.  This claim was again brought forward by Gen. Cocke at Washington, and you wished us to pay it, and we refused.  We scarcely had turned our backs for our nation when you paid this claim, without our knowledge and consent.   (See letters marked B and C the only correspondence on the subjects. Col. M'Kenney said 'do you deny the acknowledgement of that claim?' The chief said he did. 'Now said, M'Kenney, I will prove before this council and these white men, that you did acknowledge it and what you say is false. Ridge, was not this claim acknowledged?' 'No: but was positively refused,' was my answer. I now felt indignant at the insolence and assurance of this gentlemen, attempting to prove a falsehood by me. He turned to Vann and said, he  would tell the truth, and asked him the same question. Mr. Vann said, he knew that they had refused to pay the claim, and that he did not know anything about the acknowledgement of it. Col. M'Kenney was now awkwardly situated; in the attempt to disgrace an Indian chief, the reaction fell upon himself. He said that he had it in black and white at Washington, and could prove that he was right. The President had not sent a boy to be contradicted in council, but had sent a man- he would expose Mr. Vann and myself in this matter, and that his proofs were at home- these Cherokees could not on the bible [sic] support their statements on oath. 'As my veracity was questioned, I told the Creeks, I was willing to be qualified on a stack of bibles [sic] sky high in support of my statement. The chiefs laughed and said they knew I was a man of truth. Col. M'Kenney then made a disconnected speech, destitute of any reason, apparently the effect of anger and disappointment. Opothleholo told him that he talked too much, and if he talked this way for ten days it would not alter the determination of the council.  Col. M'Kenney said he was the judge of the length of his own speeches and would talk as much as he pleased; and told the Council, to respect John Ridge as much as they pleased, but no attention would be paid to their letters, if he had any agency in it.- He was a bad Bird-had written charges against the Creek agent which were all black 'c.' then departed without taking leave or waiting for a reply, abruptly, more in the humor of a Termagant than in the dignity of a Commissioner of the United States.
'My doubts, says Col. M'Kenney, as to the success of my mission became strong, for I knew by one of their laws, to succeed, the answer to the proposition must be unanimous; a single negative given, in what they call their deliberate Councils, would bring out by the mouth of their speaker in the public square a refusal, although there should be four hundred and ninety and nine of the five hundred in favor of the proposition.'  The absurdity of this doctrine is too obvious to require refutation. One vote in five hundred controlling the will of a Nation, in a free Government?- Where is the law, and who knows anything about it excepting Col. McKenney? The treaty of the Indian Springs, well known to all for its baseness, was made by a minority in opposition to the protest of a majority, who warned their countrymen of the terrible consequences of their error, and who notwithstanding concluded the treaty, which destroyed their leaders, and cost the United States so much.- Could anyone at Washington believe this story when the scenes that had disgusted their feelings in consequence of that treaty were still fresh in his recollection?
I have therefore first stated the proceedings of the Council, 'c.
JOHN RIDGE
[To Be Concluded]










[A]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS, 25 Jan. 1827.
TO JOHN RIDGE, ' DAVID VANN,
Friends ' Brothers--Your letter of the 14th ult. to Col. R. M. Johnson, on the subject of your claim for the sum of five thousand dollars, each, in lieu of reservations 'c. has been submitted by him to the Secretary of War.
The Secretary directs me to state that he well remembers the proposition that was made for a reservation of land for each of you; and that he answered, it could not be complied with, but to a commutation in money there could, he presumed, be no objection. He also remembers that five thousand dollars to each was named in lieu of the reservations referr'd [sic] to; and he has no doubt but the consideration money in the Treaty was increased by this much, and he had no reason to doubt but the Delegation who arranged this with you, having full powers from their Nation, would see to the application of the money thus provided.
You will at once perceive that the only point which connected the proposition with the Secretary, and on which he acted, was that of rejecting the proposition for reservations; and that his agency in what happened afterwards, was only an agency of acquiescence,(as he had no control over it, any way,) in what you, and the Delegation agreed upon- which was, as the Secretary understood it, that ten thousand Dollars more were to be added to the consideration money, as the terms of the purchase, and which the Delegation, it was understood, intended for you.
It appears from your letter that the distribution was made without regard to this obligation on the part of the Chiefs.  Whilst the Secretary would be gratified that your views should be answered all round in regard to that transaction, he nevertheless has no power to interfere and require it of the Chiefs to make good that obligation. All that he could do, he has done. The price that was required for the cession was accepted, and the whole of it was included in the appropriation, and remitted. If this particular sum you claim were added, and formed part of it, the time of paying out the consideration money as provided for in the Treaty, was the time for the Delegation to have come forward, and made known that ten thousand Dollars had been included on their demand, for you, and for you to have received it.
Your good sense will satisfy you that your claim is on the Creek Nation, on a contract entered into between you and its Delegation, and not on the Government of the United States. If the Secretary could serve you in any way he would be happy to do so; but he does not see how it is possible for him to interfere in the matter which you have submitted through Col. Johnson, it being one which relates wholly to yourselves and the Creek Nation.
I am Respectfully, your friend and Brother.
THOS. L. McKENNEY.
[B]
DEPARTMENT OF WAR, OFFICE INDIAN AFFAIRS
Dec. 19th 1825.
TO OPOTHLE-YOHOLO, 'c. 'c. 'c.
DELEGATES FROM THE CREEK NATION,
FRIENDS ' BROTHERS- A letter has been addressed to the Secretary of War, calling his attention to a claim against your nation in favor of Houston ' Blackburn.
I am directed by the Secretary to call your attention to it, and to request such information in regard to it as you may be able to furnish. It is stated that Mad Wolf has some knowledge of the transaction in which the claim originated.
I am your friend and brother.
THOS. L. McKENNY.
[C]
WASHINGTON, 19th Dec. 1825
Thos. L. McKenney, Esq.
Sir- Your note of this day's date, calling our attention to a certain claim in favor of Houston ' Blackburn, has been received.  This claim has been presented to our Nation and has been rejected. We believe that it has met the same fate from the Cherokee Nation. It is more than the Delegation believes, 14 years ago, a boat loaded with spirituous or intoxicating liquor descended the Coosa River.  The Chiefs of the Cherokees objected to its passage without effect, and the Creek Nation made similar objections, ' informed their Agent Col. Hawkins, who ordered that it should be confiscated, as he was certain it was in violation of the Intercourse Law of the United States. When our citizens attempted to confiscate the whiskey agreeable to their laws, the owners of it opposed them by exhibiting a license, which they said had been given by our Agent, Col. Hawkins. This having been produced was submitted to the Agent who pronounced it spurious and issued an order to confiscate the property. The Big Warrior was supposed to be in possession of the order and search was made, but could not be found after the said claim was presented. Not expecting a claim would be made, the order of course was not much attended to. To explain the cause of the transfer of the claim from the Cherokees to our Nation we state this property was confiscated by the Creeks on the land now in the Cherokee Nation. At that time a boundary was not established between the two Nations, but the Cherokees and Creeks permitted promiscuous settlements to be made, in that quarter where the whiskey was taken. It or part of it was retailed to Creek Indians, and when it was taken, Mad Wolf being in company, the amount of the property was this, viz. 54 barrels whiskey-2 kegs of powder and the boat, nothing more.
You will be better able to determine whether it ought to be admitted, having in view the restrictions of the Intercourse laws of the United States imposed on the Introduction of property without license among the Indians, particularly whiskey, the loss of which is complained of; and if the claim is just, a legal claim authorised [sic] from the Agent, ought to be submitted with the account by the claimants, which we believe will be hard for them to do.
I am your friend and brother, in behalf of the Delegation,
OPOTHLEYOHOLO.
By order of the Creek Delegation,
John Ridge, Sec'y










Steam Boat Explosion.- The Wheeling Gazette of the 24th ult. says: 'At the Canadian Reach, about 600 miles below Louisville, sometime last week, the boiler of the steam boat Car of Commerce, bursted [sic] and fifty-seven persons were killed and wounded.'


















LAWS
OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.,
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That in case of all contracts of debts payable in property, when the contracting parties have not specified any fixed period for payment,it shall be the duty of the creditor or agent to give the debtor ten days notice of a certain place of delivery to make payment according to contract, and if such notification be not complied with, it shall then be lawful for the proper officer to proceed, as the law directs, in levying upon, and disposing of at public sale to the highest bidder, the property of such debtor or debtors. This to be an amendment to the act of 12th of Nov. 1825.
New Echota, Oct. 28, 1826.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE,Speaker.
Approved CHARLES R. HICKS.
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY,Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Coun.
___________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all improvements which may be left by any person or persons and removing to another place, and the same shall remain unoccupied for the term of one year, shall be considered abandoned, and any other person or persons whatsoever may take and go in possession of such improvements in the same manner as if there were no improvements. This act to be an amendment to the one passed 10th Nov. 1825, and to take effect from the present date.
New Echota, Oct. 14, 1826.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't. N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE,Speaker.
Approved- CHARLES HICKS.
A.M'COY, Clerk of the N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clk. N. Coun.
_______________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That in case the rightful owner or owners of any property, which may be sold under the stray laws, shall discover their property and produce good and sufficient proof before the National Treasurer, within the period of eighteen months after the money has been paid into the National Treasury, in such cases the owner or owners of such property shall be entitled to receive the net proceeds derived from the sales of his, her, or their property; and this law shall be an amendment to that passed on the 25th October 1825, providing for the appointment of Rangers, and to take effect from the date of the amendment.
New Echota, Oct. 28., 1826.
JNO. ROSS, Pres't. N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved-CHARLES HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk of N. Council.










CORRESPONDENCE.
Between Commissioners on the part of the United States, and the Council of the Cherokee Nation, in the year 1823.
[CONCLUDED]
The following is a reply from the Commissioners to the Council.
NEWTOWN, 25th October  1823.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: Your communication of yesterday has been under consideration, and we regret to see the very wide difference which exists between us, as to the material point of negotiation.
The anticipation of success which we had indulged, were found upon confidence in your judgment. We believed that we were in the right, and hoped that we should succeed in convincing you. Your rejection of our application does not at all impair our views of the propriety of what we have laid before you. We have endeavored, by a reference to the history of this nation, to satisfy you of the nature of your title to the soil which you occupy. The doctrine, to be sure, is not very consoling, but is nevertheless true. You attempt to rebut it, by an article in the treaty of Holston, in 1791. It is true, that the 7th article 'guaranties to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands not thereby ceded.' And what does this guarantee amount to? You greatly mistake yourselves, if you construe it into a conveyance, or even quit claim on the part of the United States. Notice the terms used in the fourth article of the same treaty, which conveys the lands ceded at that time.- It is there said, 'that the chiefs and  warriors, for themselves and the whole Cherokee Nation, their heirs and descendants, release, quit claim, relinquish, and  cede' the lands therein described. If the word 'guaranty' would have expressed all this, then that word would have been used. Your title under this treaty of Holston, is no better than under the treaty of Hopewell, and under neither, does it amount to any thing more than  possession at the will of the United States. You acknowledge, that you are 'dependent upon the United States for protection.' Brothers, such acknowledgement is very empty, unless accompanied by some signs that you feel the obligation. Your father, the President has asked you, in terms the most peaceable and reasonable, for what he might have demanded; you might have granted the application, without injury or inconvenience to yourselves.- It will rest with him to judge whether your conduct will  comport with your duty. You state, that it is your desire to raise monuments of science with your own hands, upon the soil of your 'progenitors.' No lover of the human race would controvert the sentiment. No friend of mankind would bring into use the 'bow and quiver,' which you say have been laid aside. The 'axe, the hoe, plough, and shuttle,' were given by the President, and he will never withdraw them.- But it is his desire, and it ought to be your pride, to forward the general interest of all the American people.- This never can be done, by your monopoly of such extent of territory.
Brothers: It would seem from your pointed and determined rejection of what we have asked, that it would be wholly unnecessary to pursue the investigation further. We commenced with a simple proposition, to purchase your claim to the whole or part of the of the [sic] soil within the limits of Georgia. In the course of the correspondence, we evidenced the grounds of negotiation, and discussed topics, interesting to the Government, and to you.  If no good results to either, we must be content with the consciousness of having done our duty.- Your allusion to the proceedings under the treaty of 1819, does not require a detailed answer.  Our knowledge upon that subject would not, we presume, reserve the Tennesseeans or Georgians from the aspersions which you have thrown upon them. We take leave, however, to observe, that, wherever the laws have been appealed to, they have been righteously enforced, and that vast profits have realized by the persons named in that treaty. As messengers of the United States, it does not become us to indulge local feelings. The General Government is bound to Georgia, and we doubt not but that she will fulful [sic] her engagements.
Brothers: We will not detain the Council, if they are impatient, and wish to rise. We understand that they have sat much longer, upon business of less importance, heretofore.- This is the third visit we have made to the country, and we had a right to expect a patient hearing.  We shall say but little more.  Justice to our Government, and good wishes to you require that we should add a few words more; we ask you to receive them as they are intended, in feelings free from excitement.
According to the usage of many years, we exercised the right of appointing the place of meeting you. We selected your agency, and invited you to attend last January, and you refused. We selected another place more central, and a time more genial, and invited you to come, and you refused.  You were then indulged in appointing time and place yourselves,- We attended, and you did not. We have now come to your own time and your own place, and you have rejected a reasonable application. We told you on our arrival, that we were directed to co-operate with the Georgia Commissioners in negotiation the settlement of long standing claims.- We have stood by, and seen you reject a settlement of claims which occurred at a time, and under circumstances, powerfully imposing. When treaties lose their obligation, what shall bind nations? We stood by, also, and witnessed a correspondence, of serious import, between yourselves and your agent. We have seen his application rejected, and heard his dissatisfaction expressed. Our appointments to meet you were under the President's authority. Where is the virtue of calling the President 'Father,' of acknowledging 'his protection,' and then refusing obedience to his wishes?  We might go further, and remind you of the uniform disposition of the government to attend to your requests, and redress your grievances. Even at this moment, while these things are passing before us, troops are on their march, with the sword, and torch, removing intruders from your limits, and burning their dwellings.
Brothers: Ingratitude approaches to crime; a grateful return for a favor is the best evidence that the favor is felt. You cannot suppose that all these things, taken together, are to pass away, and produce no effect.- What the effect may be, we are not exactly prepared to say. Time will disclose it.
Brothers: We had rather see and feel a different prospect. In the sincerity of our hearts, we wish this nation well. We should be happy to see the ties, which bind you to the Government, drawn closer. We should like to see the chain grow brighter and stronger. We fear that the very reverse is the fact. The ties are loosening, and the chain is becoming weaker. There is a danger of your losing connection with the Government, and having the agency abolished. We might enumerate other consequences which are not improbable, but which should be prevented if possible. The course is plain by which the evils may be averted.  It is no mark of manliness and magnanimity to persist, merely for the sake of consistency, after the judgement is convinced.- It is often better to yield, than to re-resist [sic] even a doubtful right.
Brothers: We shall now close.- We are not conscious of having said anything, not warranted by the authority of our Government, and the rules of fair and open negotiation. We cannot take leave without submitting a further and distinct proposition. So well are we satisfied of its healing tendency, that it would be criminal in us to withhold it. We submit the following:
The United States proposes to purchase of the Cherokee Nation, their claim to all the land east and north of the following boundaries: beginning at a marked corner, at the head of Chestatee; thence along the ridge, to the mouth of Long Swamp Creek; thence, down the Etowah River, to the line which is to be run between Alabama and Georgia; thence, with said line, to the dividing line between the Creek ' Cherokees; thence, with said line, to the Chatahoochee. In consideration of said cession, the United States will pay to the Cherokee Nation the sum of two hundred thousand dollars, in suitable installments, and will also indemnify the Nation against the Georgia claims; and as a gratuity to the Nation, the Commissioners will pay into their Treasury, at this time, for the use of the Nation, the further sum of ten thousand dollars.
We are, as usual, your friends and brothers.
DUNCAN G. CAMPBELL
JAMES MERIWETHER.
United States Commissioners.
____________________________________

The Council to the Commissioners.
NEWTOWN, CHEROKEE NATION,
October 27th,1823
IN GENERAL COUNCIL.
FRIENDS AND BROTHERS: You say that your anticipation of success was founded upon confidence in our judgement, and that you believed and hoped you would have succeeded in convincing us that you were right, and would also satisfy us of the nature of our title to the soil which we now occupy. The doctrine which you have laid for a foundation, can never convince our judgment that you are correct. We did not refer to the 7th article of Holston treaty, 1791, as a foundation  to our title
to the soil upon which we stand. Our title has emanated from a supreme source, which cannot be impaired by the mere circumstance of discovery by foreigners; neither has this title been impaired by conquest or by treaty.  If it was intended that our original title should be forever lost, why, did not the treaties of peace declare it in plain terms, and why should the United States purchase, time after time, by treaties, lands to which you would wish to convince us we have not title?  And when such purchases were made, why did they require such a right and title of conveyance as given in the 4th article of Holston treaty, 1791, to which you have had occasion to refer? We had noticed the 7th article of the treaty, to shew [sic] that the United States do acknowledge our right and title, and have guarantied  to respect the same. This being the case, and the Cherokees possessing the right and title, it would have been superfluous and useless for the United States to convey to the Cherokees a right and title which a [sic] was already vested in the Cherokees themselves, and not in the United States. You say our possession is at the will of the United States, and that our rejections to the propositions which have been made, cannot be expected to pass away and produce no effect,  and that the ties  which bind us with the United States are loosening, and the chain is becoming weaker.- What, Brothers, do you wish to impair the high confidence which we entertain of the magnanimity of your Government? and to harbor an opinion that, because the United States are great  and powerful, and the Cherokees small, and dependant  upon her for protection, that she will trample justice under foot, and compel us to yield what we have peaceable and respectfully refused to let the United States have, for the benefit of the state of Georgia? Have you not told us that the President has the same love towards us as his white children; and would not such a treatment of us, as you seem to be apprehensive of, be partial and wrong? Brothers, we have rejected you propositions because we love our lands and have none to dispose of. We rejected the claims of Georgia, because we know that the nation owes her nothing under the treaties cited. We rejected the proposition of the Agent, because we think that it is not expedient to grant it, inasmuch as we have given him all the privileges granted him by treaty, and are ever disposed to support his authority as an Agent, so far as our citizens may be implicated with transgressions.- Thus far we have not acted with ingratitude towards the General Government, in rejecting these several propositions; it is a privilege and a right which belongs to us, to use our pleasure in complying or rejecting.  Therefore, your charge of ingratitude, we conceive, is not consistent with liberality. Your propositions for a special cession of a tract of land, cannot be acceded to. The offer of money is not a consideration which can effect to alter the rejection which has already been made.  You have been told, in positive terms, that one foot of land  cannot be sold. You state that you are informed that the Council had, on former occasions, set much longer than the present session. Your informant is mistaken. Twenty-five days is the longest session we ever had at this place, and the present session has now entered the twenty-seventh day. You have no grounds to complain of a sudden close of our negotiations; the subject has been fully discussed. We now consider this a final close of our negotiation, and beg leave to take you by the right hand, as we met, in brotherly friendship, and as such we may ever continue.
PATH x KILLER, Principal Chief.
his
MAJOR x RIDGE, Sp'kr of Coun.
mark
JNO. ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com
To. D. G. CAMPBELL '
JAMES MERRIWETHER, Esqs.
United States' Commissioners
_________________________________
October, 1823
The Board, after deliberation, determined that any further communication to the Council, at this time, was unnecessary, and therefore adjourned sine die.
Attest, WM. F. HAY, Secretary.










COMMUNICATIONS.
[CONCLUDED]
Secondly, I shall notice his charges of 'vague testimony.'
First, I am accused of having originated the charge against at chief, who on account of it had been deposed. 2d. At my recommendation two other Indians had been created chiefs in his stead. 3d. I had a wish to be made a treasurer of the Creek Nation. 4th To have the power to decide upon all claims arising under the Intercourse law. 5th Of making charges of the foulest kind against the Creek Agent. 6th Of stealing and imposing on the Creeks for their marks to these charges. 7th Influencing two Indians to implicate their Agent of passing on them counterfeit [sic] money, and for being apparently pleased  by the expression of my countenance in this open attack of these instruments on their agent, and for interfering in the concerns of the Creek Nation. Having made the above charges, he is compelled to say something more to make them important, and what a terrible, dangerous and wicked creature must be he, who is the subject of these charges; 'The overthrow of a chief, the peace and harmony of the Creeks, the starvation of hundreds of them, the continuation of the controversy with Georgia, the ruin of the agent's character, and contempt of the government and policy of the United States, all appeared to be cheap sacrifices in the view of this interfering agent, in the attainment of this great end of having a treasury 'c.' - it is the part of Col. McKenney to prove his charges and not mine. But instead of doing this he evades the necessity of calling to his aid, proof, and substitutes for it, a lecture on his charity and mercy. He says, 'It is always painful to form opinions on vague testimony, when those opinions implicate character. I would make it a matter of principle to avoid doing so, and would apply the same rule to Indians with the addition of pity.' The word vague, means according to Walker, who is our English Standard, wandering, vagrant, vagabond, unfixed, unsettled, undetermined. Col, McKenney would 'make it a matter of principle to avoid the implication of character. How kind and Benevolent! What a 'sweet thing' he carries under his tongue for the afflicted children of the forest! They are objects of his peculiar regard and he would fondly in such cases, 'add pity' in consequence of their ignorance of 'moral and intellectual lights.' Notwithstanding this smooth doctrine, his practice, and his profession do not go hand in hand. He implicates my character on 'vague testimony.' Who deserves most pity, Col. McKenney with his intellectual and moral lights convicted of acting contrary to his 'matter of principle,' or the Indian destitute of such lights who adheres both to truth and principle?
'Who steals my purse, steals trash, 'tis
something-nothing.
'Twas mine,'tis his, and has been slave
to thousands.
But he that flinches from me my good
name,
Robs me of that, which not enriches
him.'
The foul charges against the agent were written in the Creek Nation, without my knowledge, by Mr. Vann and Eli Jacobs, and two sets of charges were brought to me by a deputation of Creeks to transcribe, with a request to affix their marks and names to the transcripts as they were in the original and forward them to Washington. These charges were indeed foul, but who is to blame? That man who commits foul things and occasions the charge, or those who are compelled to make them? It is and was not manly in Col. McKenney to have investigated these charges in my absence. He says he did it in council, it may be so, but it was not done in Tuckuabocchee, where the Creeks and Col. McKenney ought to have moved upon me and demonstrated my villany [sic] for forgery, and disgraced me then!!- No sir, that would not do in tenderness for Crowell's character; it was safer to do it in secret and publish it at Washington. The legislature of Georgia and the Executive thereof made charges previous to the Creeks if possible 'more foul,' but as they were interested in the success of Col. McKenney their Representatives in Congress have united with others in condemning my conduct. Crowell stands charged for mal-practice in his agency, and so long as the executive send their special agents to him for explanations, he will be always acquitted. The only movement the Executive ever made on him to ask him to resign; but he answered the Secretary of War, in a plaintive tone of letter of refusal expressing that his only hope for safety and protection from the persecutions of his enemies was in the Executive. This took place at Washington.
Thirdly. The treaty was not effected at Tuckaubachee or in Council, as Col. McKenney has reported, but at Broken Arrow, or Fort Mitchel, as the date of that instrument will prove; and then not with four hundred and ninety and nine chiefs, but with five only, subject to a future ratification of it by the Senate of the U. S. and an Indian Council, the first treaty that ever was required to undergo the formalities of ratification by an Indian Council, which proves that Col. McKenney had not concluded it with the proper authority.
The Indians according to McKenney were starving and compelled to subsist on roots and berries, but when he paid them the advance consideration, it was in goods and not bread.- Query. How could the Indians subsist on berries out of their season, and not to be had in the latter part of November?
I am accused for creating division among the Creeks, when they have been known always a divided people into the Upper and Lower Towns, to History and Geography. I am accused for interfering in their concerns, when at their invitation and not without it, I have attended their Councils. I am charged for contempt of the United States and its policy; and what is that policy? It is the removal of the Indians from the Lands of their fathers, from their comfortable firesides, and plantations and in respect to the Cherokees, from the means of education and privileges of Religion, to the barren wilderness of the Rocky Mountains, west of the Mississippi.- It is to unnationalize [sic] them here and nationalize them with the deer and buffaloe [sic], with them to perish.- To this policy I declare myself opposed and the charge of contempt to the United States I positively deny.
JOHN RIDGE.










For the amusement of our English readers, the following translations of our Cherokee Correspondence inserted above are presented to the public.-They will convey to the reader pretty good idea of Cherokee composition. One thing we are pleased to notice in one of these pieces, ' we hope our white readers will consider the sentiments here advanced not only the sentiments of an individual, but of a majority of the Cherokees. We allude to the remarks of [in Cherokee] on that class of our citizens who have disgraced us by shooting arrows and begging money. We have stated in a former number that [in Cherokee] [John Huss] does not speak a word of English.
June 19, 1828
My friends, in the twelfth number of the Cherokee Phoenix a writer over the signature of [in Cherokee] [a lover of the Cherokees] has this remark.- 'It will be well that the National Committee should be composed of men acquainted with letters, and the Council of full Indians.' For my part I am not of the same opinion. I apprehend that the writer made his remark rather inconsiderately. Such a state of things would not be right. It would be well that they should be mixed. It is true indeed that learned men are wise. Those ignorant of letters cannot bear comparison with them. But not all. There is a diversity among them, as well as among the unlearned. A part only are wise; and are excelled in wisdom by such as are entirely ignorant of letters.
But chiefly on this ground I dissent from the opinion of 'A lover of the Cherokees,' that the General Council should be so divided, as that those who are acquainted with letters should constitute one body, and those ignorant of letters the other. It would be a great evil, for it would appear like creating a division among the people and we know the remark often made by the unlettered, that those who talk English are overbearing. Dissensions will soon follow if such a course is pursued. It would be well that they should be mixed.  For, moreover, according to the Constitution, each body has a negative on the other.- They ought to be on equal footing.- For it is the power which they possess of rejecting or amending each other's acts which causes differences between them.
My Friends, let us be considerate when the time of election for the General Council arrives. Every man ought to give his vote with deliberation. The Council is not to be chosen inconsiderately.  When the time of election arrives, then be deliberate. This is a correct saying. 'When you see a man who you think will labor well for the good of us Cherokees, then vote for him.' It would be dangerous to elect members of Council hastily. For it is evident what thoughts the people of Georgia have respecting us, wishing to obtain our lands. This should be a motive to deliberation in the election of Councillors [sic]. Let us do it carefully, with the best of our powers.
Our Chiefs and Legislators have made for us a Constitution. If we be of one mind in the support of this Constitution, the inhabitant of Georgia will not take away our land. But if we be divided into parties we shall be liable to lose our territory. Let us then be careful to preserve unanimity in attachment to our country and the Constitution. It is well that we have a Constitution, for that is our support. For wherever there is a community destitute of a regular system of laws, that community is weak. But whereever [sic] a people preserve a regular system of government, that community is firmly established. So let it be with us Cherokees. Someone, however, may perhaps find fault with out present Constitution.  But let him well reconsider, and he will  perceive the excellency of that which we now have. Once it was not so in our country. They did not adhere firmly to laws. They had but few. For that reason the affairs of the nation were easily involved in difficulties.  What has happened in to our country is manifest. We look towards the setting sun.- there are those who sprang from our country. They are like lost persons; they have left their relations, their fathers, their mothers, their brothers, their friends, the land of their birth. This has happened for want of a regular system of government. To all this we are exposed if we be destitute of a constitution.  But under our constitution we shall live in peace, if we truly regard it, and if our Councillors and Chiefs are good men, and true lovers of our soil, ' such as truly wish to increase the prosperity of our country. If such be the character of those who direct the affairs of the Cherokee Nation, no evil will happen to us.
There is another subject which I have been contemplating. I sometimes hear of Cherokees from our country going about in cities of the United States with bows and arrows, shooting about, and expecting to obtain a little money. I have never seen it but I believe what I hear. It is not good that men who go about shooting in the cities in the United States should be members of the Council. But I will state the reasons which lead me to think it is not good that such men should be Councilors.
In the first place I see the evil of having shooters for councillors, because when one is seen shooting about with his arrows in the United States, it is exceedingly disgraceful; and if they go about with the hope of receiving a little money, we are all supposed to be of the same character; and by that means the confident expectation of obtaining our lands is created in the minds of the people of Georgia.- For they will say, 'They hold land to no purpose, for this is what they are!'
In the second place, shooters of this description cannot know what are the true interests of our country. For their ignorance may easily be seen from their conduct.
In the third place, such a man cannot see the importance of agriculture.
Fourthly, such a man cannot be a true lover of the country. For he would prefer to be without a home and without land. For it is plainly to be perceived that a man who conducts thus must be both ignorant, and destitute of true affection for his country. We possess good land, and of great use; but he conducts like one who has no land and no home. By this it may be seen that he is likely to regard our territory as a trifle.
My friends, this is the reason that it is disgraceful for one who lays claim to wisdom to be thus shooting about with arrows among the whites. And if he is the leader of any young men, he is instructing them in evil, and leading them into disgrace. A worthy man would not teach in this manner those of whom he is the leader.- He will point them to what is truly good, and not disgraceful for them to do. I wish that all would abandon this practice of going about shooting arrows in the territory of the whites. While they continue it we are regarded among the white people as monopolizing territory to no purpose.- therefore it is that we are perpetually teazed [sic] to part with it. Let them in our country attend to business, make themselves food houses, and farms, and attend well to the raising of cattle. If we all pursue this course we shall be firmly established, and those who ask of us our land will be discouraged. And if we labor well, we shall live well; for our land is very valuable. This is the way the whites have done; they have all labored well, and pursued their business with great effort. If we pursue the the [sic] same course, we shall prosper.- But they who are lazy will always be poor.
A friend to you all,
JOHN HUSS
_________________________________________
RIDGE'S FERRY, June 24, 1828
Some time since we learnt that an appropriation of $50,000 had been made by Congress to defray the expense of holding a treaty with us for the purchase of land. Commissioners will probably be here at the time of the next Fall Council.  But I have my fears respecting the conduct of you young men. I know that you are decided friends of this our native country. On the Oostanallee and Connasaugee and towards the mountains we have never heard of the people's selling land; but only of their attachment to it. Only a position of those living near the [Tennessee] River have been disposed to sell.  But now the high water has subsided; now all is peace; now I believe that all the men in that section are true to their country.- Our principal chief also I honor. I have never discovered in him the least thing out of the way, anything in the least degree suspicious. Now the time of our Coosewaytee election is at hand. Three places, Ooyugelogee, Coosewaytee and Elejoy, are appointed to hold meetings for the election of members of the Committee and Council. You will do an excellent thing if you attend; for we shall have to elect those who will be the promoters of our national interests. It will be extremely well if good men are chosen and if they attend the Council; for the negotiation will be with them. It is their part also to make laws for us. And to elect hastily such men as will be too speedy imitators of white people would not be well. For many are yet without knowledge. They do not understand. Many are still unacquainted with our laws. It is not right to proceed hastily, and form laws which the people do not understand. If a child just beginning to walk attempts to run, he soon falls, and cries.  And if a man working in the field does not perform his work thoroughly he goes over much ground indeed, but the field which he has passed over is still full of weeds. So it will be in regard to our national laws if we proceed hastily.
We have also heard that some of the chiefs from Arkansas went to the seat of Government. Some of them have returned. They have made a treaty. They have exchanged lands. A country lying about four days journey to the west of their present habitation has become theirs, with the consideration of $50,000. This also the Government has included in the treaty; that if any citizen of the Cherokee nation residing here, who is the head of a family, shall wish to remove thither, on signing his name to that effect, he shall receive a rifle, a blanket, a brass kettle, and five pounds of tobacco.- Thus has it happened to the Cherokees of Arkansas, to whom a beautiful talk was given, promising peace and happiness, and now scarcely ten years are passed, and they have become weary of them. But those to whom this delusive promise was first made, do not now remember it.- Glass and Tutsalah now sleep. I pity  those Cherokees who have gone from us.  Our wandering blood will be extinguished far away from us. But let us learn. Let us hold fast to the country which we yet retain. Let us direct our efforts to agriculture, and to the increase of wealth, and to the promotion of knowledge. With many of you I, who address you, have no personal acquaintance.
Your friend,
THE SPEAKER.










AN IMITATION INDIAN.- A person made his appearance in the city on Thursday last, dressed in the costume of an Indian, and calling himself 'Gen. William Ross,' which is engraved upon an apparently silver breast plate. He says his father is Daniel Ross, who is the Chief of the Cherokee Indians, and that he is an authorized agent of the nation. He states a number of particulars, concerning the Cherokees, and says he was educated at Wilmington, N.C.  He speaks the English language fluently, especially when he forgets himself-says he knows a little French, is perfectly familiar with the Cherokee, ' can converse some in Choctaw. His dress is, red inexpressibles of some thin material, with shoes, a gown of wide-stripped calico, a red ribbon and a considerable quantity of wax beads round his neck-handkerchief, a kind of open worked vandyke, a wig of black, coarse hair, an ordinary hat trimmed fantastically, and tin bracelets round his wrists. He is rather a small man, but with nothing of the true Indian in his form or gait.- Bunker Hill Aurora.










Communicated for the Miss. Her. by Rev. Alfred Wright.
CHOCTAWS
Their Traditions respecting the Creation of the World and of Men.
The Choctaws state that, at a remote period, the earth was a vast plain, destitute of hills, and a mere quagmire. The word, which they use to express this primitive state, is applied to clotted blood, jelly, 'c. which will serve to explain what their ideas were. the earth in this chaotic state, some of them suppose, was produced by the immediate power of the Creator; but others, indeed the majority with whom I have conversed relative to this subject, have no knowledge how the earth was produced in this state; nor do they appear ever to have extended their thoughts so far as to make a single inquiry with respect to it.
While the earth was in this situation, a superior being, who is represented to have been in appearance as a red man, came down from above, and alighting near the center of the Choctaw Nation, threw up a large mound, or hill, called in their language Nunih waiya,* 'stooping or sloping hill.' When this was done, he caused the red people to come out of it, and when he supposed that a sufficient number had come out, he stamped on the ground with his foot. when this signal of his power was given some were partly formed, others were just raising their heads above the mud, emerging into light and struggling into life, all of whom perished. The red people being thus formed from the earth, and seated on the area of the hill, their Creator told them that they should live forever. But not understanding him, they inquired what he said, upon which he took away the grant he had given them of immortality, and told them they would become subject to death.
After the formation of man from the ground, the hills were formed, the earth indurated, and fitted to become a habitation for man. The hills they suppose, were formed by the agitation of the waters.  While the earth was in its chaotic state, the waters are represented as having been thrown into a state of great agitation, like that of a boiling liquid, and being driven by violent winds, the soft mud was carried in various directions, and being deposited in different places, formed the mountains and hills which now appear on the face of the earth.
When the Creator had formed the red people from the ground, and fitted the earth for their residence, he told them the earth would bring forth spontaneously the chestnut, hickory nut, and acorn for their subsistence. Accordingly, the Choctaws state, that in ancient times, they lived principally upon these productions of the earth. And they suppose it was not till sometime after they had been a people, that the corn, which how forms no inconsiderable part of their food, was discovered by means of a crow.
They state, that at their first creation, both males and females went entirely naked. After some time, though from what cause they do not know, they began to use some covering. At first the long moss, which abounds in southern climates, tied round their waists, formed their only covering. At some pater period, after the invention of the bow and arrow, when they had acquired skill in hunting wild beasts, they began to use the skins of animals for clothing.
_______
* Nunih waiya. I am not able to give a description of this place, having never seen it. I regret that I am not. It is said to have the appearance of being the work of art. Its summit is level, containing an area of several acres. Near the center if a hole, whose depth has never been ascertained. Out of this hole, according to their ancient traditions, the Choctaws originally came.


















LAWS
OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That all persons who may be found lurking about from place to place in the Cherokee Nation, and who are not lawful citizens of this country, nor remaining under a lawful permit, shall be viewed and considered as intruders, and it shall be the duty of the several officers to notice whether such persons are to be found in their respective districts, and to give them ten days notice to remove out of the Cherokee Nation; and in case of their not complying with the notification, it shall be the duty of the officers to arrest such persons, and to deliver them over to the United States' agent for this Nation to be proceeded against as the laws of the United States direct.
New Echota, Nov. 16, 1826.
JNO ROSS, Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
Approved CHARLES R. HICKS,
his
PATH x KILLER
mark
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT. Clerk. N. Coun.
_________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council,  That the Treasurer be, and he is hereby directed not to receive into the Treasury from the agents of the United States on account of the annual stipends, which are to be paid by them to the Cherokee Nation any other description of money that Specie, Treasury or Notes of the United States Bank.
New Echota, Nov. 16, 1826.
JNO ROSS. Pres't Nat. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker
his
Approved-PATH x KILLER
mark
A.M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Council.
_____________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That no person shall be allowed to erect or establish a billiard table in the Cherokee Nation, without first obtaining a license from the Treasurer of the Nation, and paying into the Treasury the sum of two hundred dollars as a tax per annum, and such license shall not be given for a longer period than one year at a time; and any person or persons who shall erect or establish a billiard table without first obtaining a license as herein required shall, upon conviction, pay a fine of four hundred dollars, for the benefit of the Cherokee Nation.
New Echota, Nov. 16, 1826.
JNO. ROSS. Pres't N. Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Speaker.
his
Approved-PATH x KILLER
mark
CHARLES HICKS.
A. M;COY, Clerk Of the N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT. Clk. N. Coun.
_________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the resolutions passed Oct. 15th 1825, suspending the poll tax law, and the law imposing a tax on citizen merchants of the Cherokee Nation be, and the same are hereby prolonged one year longer.- By order of the National Committee.
 New Echota, Oct. 24, 1827.
MAJOR RIDGE, Spk'r Coun.
ELIJAH HICKS Pres't N. Com.
Approved- WILLIAM HICKS,
JOHN ROSS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk of N. Council.
_____________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, That the resolution passed Nov, 13th 1822, reducing the tax on peddlers of eighty dollars to fifty dollars, be, and the same is hereby reduced to twelve dollars, so as to make it equal to the tax imposed on citizen merchants.
New Echota, Nov. 18, 1827.
ELIJAH HICKS, Pres't Com.
MAJOR RIDGE, Spr'k Coun.
Approved- WILLIAM HICKS.
A. M'COY, Clerk N. Com.
E. BOUDINOTT, Clerk N. Coun.










NEW ECHOTA;
Wednesday, July 9, 1828
We think it necessary to inform our readers, that one of our hands has left us to see a parent who is dangerously ill, and perhaps we shall not be able to issue our next number until week after next.  Our patrons will please to remember, that the location of our paper renders such failures unavoidable, as it is not in our power, in cases like the above, to procure substitutes. But as our subscribers are entitled to fifty-two numbers, we hope there will be but little cause of complaint.
______________________________
In our 18th number we noticed that a thief had entered the store of Mr. E. Hicks of this place, and taken various articles. A certain individual who has been known to do the like before, was immediately suspected- a pursuit ensued, but it proved ineffectual. Most of the stolen articles have since been returned, and there is now but little doubt left that the suspicion was correct. We are even told, that during the night of the robbery, he was riding a stolen horse. That our citizens may beware of this fellow, and that he may soon be overtaken by justice, we will give his name and request the officers of this District to bring him to deserved punishment. His name is TSU-SO-LUNG-TAH [ in Cherokee] He is a notorious thief. It will not do to permit him to run at large much longer.
________________________________
Our election day will be on the first Monday of next month. We hope there will be a general attendance of our citizens in each of the precincts.  For the information of those who have not received the first numbers of the Phoenix, we republish in Cherokee the third article of the constitution, which will guide them, at that time, in the exercise of those rights, secured to them by that instrument.
___________________________________
In another part of to-day's paper is inserted a notice of the annual examination of the Mission School at Brainard. We heartily wish that there maybe a good attendance on that occasion. We think it important that the friends of this institution should go and gratify themselves, and by their presence encourage the children and their Teachers.  It would also be for the interest of the other Schools to have, in like manner, annual examinations.
____________________________________
A report seems to be prevailing, that the Missionaries of this Nation have publicly expressed themselves favorable to Indian emigration. As a report of this nature may work against these good people, we think it proper to state ( and we do it upon good authority,) that their views on this subject have never been made known by them in a public manner.
______________________________________
We would take the liberty to repeat what we stated in our first number, that the existence of this paper must depend on the measure of support received from abroad. We never supposed that it could be supported at home, and though our little tribe has afforded as many subscribers as we could have reasonably expected, yet our subscription list must be greatly augmented in order to continue our labors without embarrassment. We commenced our work with but few subscribers (little rising of one hundred,) under the expectation that ample support would be freely given by the friends of Indians, at least for the sake of charity, if for no other reason. Our expectation bade fair to be fully realized for a while, but now we feel apprehensive that we were mistaken in our calculations.- The last mail brought us but one solitary subscriber, and for a few weeks past the number has been rapidly diminishing, and as yet we have but a trifling list, by no means adequate to keep our Phoenix alive. Must it droop and die for want of sustenance? We hope not. We hope our distant friends to whom we would now particularly make our appeal, will remember us. Let them remember, that though by subscribing, they may not receive any benefit, yet they may be the means of affording incalculable blessings to the Cherokees.
We take pleasure in tendering our thanks to those who have exerted themselves in procuring us subscribers. Their success makes it evident to our mind, that with proper exertions of our friends, our paper can be supported. We will give two instances, in order that the example may be followed in other places. In Mobile (Ala.) by means of an individual friend who, with commendable zeal, has taken an interest in the prosperity of the Phoenix, we have been enabled to receive between thirty and forty subscribers. In Troy, (N. Y.) by the recommendation of a number of friends to Indians, our subscription list has been augmented with an equal number of names, while in other places, where we had supposed success most probable, we have not even a solitary subscriber. If our labour [sic] is deserving of patronage, we hope it will be freely given.
_______________________________________
A NEW TREATY.
The last, the preceding, and the present year have been remarkable for Indian treaties. To the number already existing is added another, with the Cherokees of the west of the Mississippi, lately made at Washington City. We have not seen the treaty. What we now publish is copied from a Georgia paper. We have not as yet understood who made the offer for an exchange of countries, the United States, or the Cherokee Delegation. If our brethren suppose that a removal further west will promote their interest and happiness, they certainly have a right to make the experiment. But to us, the case of these Cherokees afford one proof of the uselessness of this emigrating scheme. How many years have passed away when the territory of Arkansas was pointed to us as a suitable country for the Indians? a country abounding with game, and free from the intrusion of the whites. Our brethren had not been there long when they fell into difficulties-they were at war with the Osages - they complained of intrusions, and of the want of sufficient regard of the United States to their treaty stipulation.- What substantial reason is there that all these will not be renewed in their new country?  We wish well to our brethren, and whatever their situation may be, we sincerely hope they will become completely civilized, of which we have no reason to question, if they are once permanently settled. In regard to the inducements for emigration held out, in the following article, to the Cherokees east of the Mississippi, particularly those within the chartered limits of Georgia, we have but one opinion, and that is, those inducements will not procure a single emigrant. They are insufficient we has almost said trifling, and do not well become the dignity of the United States. A blanket has lost its former value with us, so has the rifle and the kettle, and the mention of five pounds of tobacco in a treaty, where the interest of a nation of Indians is supposed to be concerned, looks to us, too much like jesting.
Art. 8. The Cherokee Nation, West of the Mississippi having by this agreement, freed themselves from the harrassing [sic] and ruinous effects consequent upon a location amidst a white population, and secured to themselves and their posterity, under the solemn sanction of the guarantee of the United States, as contained in this agreement, a large extent of unembarrassed country; and that their Brothers yet remaining in the States may be induced to join them and enjoy the repose and blessings of such a state in future, it is further; agreed on the part of the United States, that to each Head of a Cherokee family now residing within the Chartered limits of Georgia, or of either of the States, East of the Mississippi, who may desire to remove West, shall be given on enrolling himself for emigration, a good Rifle, a Blanket, and Kettle, and five pounds of Tobacco (and to each member of his family one Blanket,) also, a just compensation for the property he may abandon, to be assessed by persons to be appointed by the President of the United States. The cost of the emigration of all such shall also be borne by the United States, and good and suitable ways opened, and provisions procured for their comfort, accommodation, and support, by the way, and provisions for twelve months after their arrival at the Agency; and to each person, or head of a family, if he take along with him four persons, shall be paid immediately on his arriving at the Agency and reporting himself and his family; or followers, as emigrants and permanent settlers, in addition to the above, provided he and they shall have emigrated from within the Chartered limits of the State of Georgia,  the sum of Fifty Dollars, and this sum in proportion to any greater or less number that may accompany him from within the aforesaid Chartered limits of the State of Georgia.
Proviso by  the Senate
'Provided, nevertheless, that the said Convention shall not be so construed as to extend the Northern Boundary, of the `Perpetual Outlet West,' provided for and guaranteed in the second article of said Convention, North of the thirty-sixth degree of North latitude, or so as to interfere with the lands assigned, or to be assigned, West of the Mississippi River, to the Creek Indians who have emigrated or may emigrate from the State of Georgia and Alabama, under the provisions of any Treaty or Treaties heretofore concluded between the United States and the Creek tribe of Indians; and provided further, That nothing in the said Convention shall be construed to cede or assign to the Cherokees any lands heretofore ceded or assigned to any tribe or tribes of Indians, by any Treaty now existing and in force, with any such tribe or tribes.'
In the above article, the new country, to which the Cherokees are to remove, is guarantied to them nearly in the same language as that used in the 7th article of the treaty of Holston, viz: 'The United States solemnly Guarantie [sic] to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands not hereby ceded.'- This, the United States Commissioners, D. G. Campbell and J. Merriwether, in their correspondence with the General Council of this Nation, published in our late numbers, took the occasion to say, amounted to nothing. What is then the security in this new, and permanent home  of our brethren?
___________________________________________
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
A REVERY
_________The wasting arm of war destroys
The well-told tale of great events, while
Kings,
And Kingdoms fall, and prouder empires
rise.
How uncertain are the events of tomorrow.  When thoughts turn on the scenes of other years, a sigh bursts in secret. Time was when the aborigines were the exclusive lords of this vast continent. O'er its fertile meadows they wandered at pleasure, or basked upon its flowing rivers without any to molest or make afraid. In conscious pride of independence did the warrior stride through the primeval fields of nature in pursuit of the bison. There, and in the limped streams were his treasures, for his wants were few. Peace and plenty smiled around whilst unconscious of the commotions and changes which time was hurrying onward. Great sires and chiefs would be surrounded by their youths, relate the traditions of their fathers, recount their own exploits, and lead off the dance.  Harmonious and joyful were the days of our ancestors, smooth as the gently flowing waters of the proud Savannah winding its course towards the Atlantic, along whose shores was seen the blue curling smoke ascending towards the heavens from the habitations of peace.  The thought that ere a few more moons should pass away than the destroyer would have begun his ravages, entered not their peaceful minds. Columbus dreamed not of the awful fate which hover'd o'er the Nations he discovered.  Little did he think that time so soon would have swept some away, without a remaining vestige, like a cloud driven before the wind. But so, even so, has it been. The barks of Albion with expanded sails rose on the waves and rushed through the foam of the deep. But the clouds gathered in the west, the skies lowered, the storm arose, the thunders bellowed, the lightnings played in awful grandeur. Thus was the ocean convulsed, for on her bosom rolled the death of thousands, and yet it was but a prelude to the furies of a distant day. At length the shores of America burst upon the crew, like a flood of light that rises in the East to the view of a traveller when he is sad in a dismal night, ' in a land unknown. Then was the civilized man a stranger here. But a full tide of emigration succeeded, and has since flowed from a foreign source, until, not only wigwams, villages, and towns, have been demolished, but many powerful Tribes have been driven back and diminished to a handful, while others have become extinct. Such has been the result of their acquaintance with the civilized man.  With him came the glittering steel, the thunders of the cannon, and horrid devastations of warfare. There were seen the children of America retiring into the deep forest, while grief saddened around for fallen son's [sic] and brothers. With a sigh  did they leave their loved shores where they were wont to behold in peace and rapture, surge after surge break against the rocks and receded into the fathomless deep. How truly unfortunate has your fate been, Oh! children of nature. America threw open her loving bosom and welcomed you to her flowery meads and fragrant groves, from the persecution and tyranny of the East, but your retreat has been discovered, at an hour when you were regaling on the sweets of liberty, and as the gale of quiet repose gently fanned you, the work of destruction was commenced! Oh! how much to be regretted that the hand of avarice, injustice, and oppression, has been employed. If it had been otherwise, over this extensive region the flash of a carabine [sic] would have never been seen, and the blood of innocence would never have moistened the earth. Confidence has been forfeited, and embittered prejudices planted. Years succeeded years, while conflicting circumstances only added fuel to the flame. Centuries have since rolled into the bosom of eternity. Powerful states, and splendid cities, have grown up where our primitive fathers once kindled their council fires, yet how often our thoughts travel through ages past and awaken the sympathies of our souls. I fancy that I see a venerable chief, his locks silvered o'er with the frosts of many winters, with a calumet of peace in his hand, seated on some river, wrapped in deep and pensive thought upon the misfortunes of his once powerful tribe, but now on the threshold of extinction. Depressed with sorrow, he throws back his thoughts to what he once was with the curses of his gods upon those who deprived him of the rights which he inherited from the God of nature.- With wild despair he is ready to plunge into the mighty waters and at once be no more, when lo! a voice in the melting accents of friendship sounds behind him, 'come hither! unfortunate brother, your afflictions are but momentary, although forlorn and forsaken, yet despair not, you have a friend who descended from the Heaven of Heavens to interpose in your behalf.' He looks, but behold it is the figure of a white man! with whom he has ever been taught to associate sentiments the most unfriendly. But hail! thou blessed messenger of light; after years of untiring zeal ' labour[sic] confidence is returning, and the genial influence of friendship has again swelled the breeze. An intellectual and moral sun-beam has pierced the wilderness with its resplendent rays and continues to shine with increasing effulgence.  Ignorance has fallen prostrate at the shrine of instruction. Warriors have been humbled and christianized, while hunters have learned to delight in agriculture. The philanthropist cannot but smile when he looks around and sees the laudable efforts and success of the Cherokees in improvement, and contrasts their present condition with that of the dark and superstitious ages of our ancestors.  With what accelerating strides are we approximating our neighbours [sic] both in a social and civil point of view.  How pleasing it is to see aboriginal sons and daughters climbing together the hill of science. And thus may we proceed, step by step, in the path pointed to our view, by the illustrious Washington and Jefferson, until we arrive to a high summit of respectability and refinement, and prove the folly and weakness of those who cherish prejudices inimical to our situation, and make known to the world that the mind of a native child is highly susceptible of culture and improvement.
Sages and patriots have not thought it beneath their dignity to extend a hand of friendship, and raise the languid head of despair, while the fervent petitions of the good people of every denomination have been perpetually ascending to the courts above for our prosperity and welfare.  And although our political sun has arisen in obscurity, may it go down with the blazing lustre of noon day; and may our Phoenix plume its feathers on the majestic Oostenahlee until the wilderness shall blossom as the rose, and the sons of the forest shall pluck their harps from the willows.
YOUNG BEAVER.










CIRCULAR TO POSTMASTERS.
POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT.
June 10, 1828
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL has lately received, with regret, frequent complaints of the miscarriage of newspapers forwarded in the mail. In many instances, the cause of those complaints are believed to exist in the printing offices- the papers have not been carefully put up and plainly directed.  But it is feared, that, at some of the Post offices, there may have been remissness in not having put new envelopes on newspaper packets, where the old ones had become much worn and defaced, and sometimes in having failed to give the proper direction to the packets. To delay the delivery of the newspapers is made a serious offence by the Post Office law. Too much attention cannot be paid to the provision; by a neglect of it, any Postmaster will lose the confidence of the Public and of the Department.
When failures are complained of, the Postmaster, at whose office the packets are mailed, is requested to obtain a statement from the printer, of the different packets forwarded by mail, and the number of papers in each. Occasionally the packets deposited may be compared with this statement and any omission detected.
Postmasters who fail to adopt this suggestion, may be justly chargeable with negligence, and held responsible for all failures.
Packets badly secured, or not plainly directed, should always be returned to the printing office. Where the packet is large, twine should be used, and the direction should be endorsed on one or more of the papers enclosed.
Where the papers are not taken out of the Office by the persons to whom they are directed, immediate notice should be given to the Printer, and on his failing to pay the postage, the papers maybe sold for it, as provided in the Post Office law. On some publications it may be difficult to determine whether newspaper or pamphlet postage should be charged. Some newspapers are published in the pamphlet form, as 'Niles Register;' others in the quarto form, as the 'merican Farmer.' Where a paper is published periodically, on a large sheet, in the common form of a newspaper, it should be so considered. Where the form is different the subject matter must determine its character. If it contains leading articles of intelligence, a summary of political events, or what is generally termed news, and is published weekly, or oftener, it should be called a newspaper. Advertisements are generally contained in newspapers, though seldom, if ever in pamphlets.
In cases where strong doubt remains what character to give the publication, it would be well to charge the most favorable postage, until the decision of the Postmaster General shall be obtained.
When a greater weight is franked than the law authorizes, postage should be charged for the excess.- If the packet contains handbills, or other articles, which cannot be called newspapers or pamphlets, the excess should be charged by the ounce, as for letter postage. But, if the excess consists of newspapers or pamphlets, they should be charged as such.
Everything sent in the mail which does not come under the denomination of newspaper of pamphlets, is subject by law to letter postage.
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL enjoins the utmost vigilance and impartiality on all Postmasters, in the performance of these duties. And he hopes to witness the beneficial result of their zealous efforts in the public confidence reposed in the safety of the mail, and the fidelity of its agents.










Little Rock, Ark. June 1- Fatal Recounter [sic].- The fortifying and painful duty again devolves upon us, of recording the fact, that our unlucky and ill fated little town (already too notorious at home and abroad for such occurrences) has unfortunately been the scene of another homicide. It took place on Saturday evening last, soon after the execution of the wretched Strickland, in the store of Messrs. Wilson and Stuart, between Gen. Edmund Hogan and Andrew Scott, Esq. late Judge of the superior court of this territory, and resulted in the almost instant death of the former. Having felt it a duty which we owe to the public, to notice the result of the unfortunate and melancholy occurrence, justice to the living perhaps demands that we should relate some of the circumstances under which it happened. They are briefly these:
Gen. Hogan and Judge Scott met at the above store, in company with a number of other persons, all apparently in good humor.  They had been competitors for a seat in the Legislative Council, at the lst August election, and the conversation turned on some of the events of that canvass, which produced a few warm words between them. Gen. Hogan anserted [sic] some thing, which was denied by judge Scott, on which H. repeated the assertion, and remarked that he could prove it. Judge S. replied, in substance, that the assertion was untrue, that it could not be proved, and that the person who made it was a liar!- This reply was followed by a blow from H. which felled S. to the floor, who, in rising, drew the spear from his cane, and gave H. four stabs in the breast and sides, three of which were mortal. Hogan walked to the door, commenced vomiting blood, and was a corpse in less than ten minutes.










NOTICE
THE annual Examination of the Mission School at Brainerd will take place on the last Monday in this month.- All persons interested in the welfare of the rising generation are respectfully invited to attend.
JOHN C. ELSWORTH,
JULY 9, 1828
__________________
The Examination of the School at Creek Path; under the superintendence of the Rev. William Potter, will take place on the Friday preceding the second Sabbath in August.
___________
NOTICE
TAKEN up on Tarripin Creek by Zachariah Simmons, on the 19th inst. a BAY HORSE, with a small white on his forehead, about six years old, and five feet and two inches high, and without any brand.
J. VANN.
April 30, 1828


















CHEROKEE TREATY.
Articles of A Convention, concluded at the City of Washington, this sixth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight, between James Barbour, Secretary of War being especially authorized therefore by the President of the United States, and the undersigned, Chiefs and Head men of the Cherokee Nation of Indians West of Mississippi, they being duly authorized and empowered by their Nation.
Whereas it being the anxious desire of the Government of the United States to secure to the Cherokee Nation of Indians, as well those now living within the limits of the Territory of Arkansas, as those of their friends and brothers who reside in states East of the Mississippi, and who may wish to join their brothers of the west, a permanent home, and which shall, under the solemn guarantee of the United States, be, and remain, theirs forever, a home that shall never in all future times, be embarrassed by having extended around it the lines, or placed over it the jurisdiction of a Territory or State, nor be pressed upon by the extension, in any way, of any of the limits of any existing Territory or State; and whereas, the present location of the Cherokees in Arkansas being unfavorable to their present repose and tending, as the past demonstrates, to their future degradation and misery; and the Cherokees being anxious to avoid such consequences, and yet not questioning their right to their lands in Arkansas as secured to them by treaty, and resting also upon the pledge given them by the President of the United States, and the Secretary of War of March, 1818, and 8th October 1821, in regard to the outlet to the west, and as may be seen on referring to the records of the War Department, still being anxious to secure a permanent home, and to free themselves, and their posterity, from an embarrassing connection with the Territory of Arkansas, and guard themselves from such connections in future; and whereas, it being important, not to the Cherokees only, but also to the Choctaws, and in regard to the question which may be agitated in future respecting the location of the latter, as well as the former, within the limits of the Territory or State of Arkansas, as the case may be, and their removal therefrom; and to avoid the cost which may attend negotiations to rid the Territory or State of Arkansas whenever it may become a State, of either, or both of those Tribes, the parties hereto do hereby conclude the following Articles, viz;
Art. 1. The Western boundary of Arkansas shall be, and the same is, hereby defined, viz: A line shall be run, commencing on Red River, at the point where the eastern Choctaw line strikes said river, and run due north and said line to the River Arkansas, thence in a direct line to the South West Corner of Missouri.
Art. 2. The United States agree to possess the Cherokees, and guaranty it to them forever, and that guaranty is hereby solemnly pledged, of seven millions of acres of land to be bounded as follows, viz: Commencing at that point on Arkansas River, where the eastern Choctaw boundary line strikes said river, and running thence with the western line of Arkansas, as defined in the foregoing Article, to the southwest corner of Missouri, and thence with the western boundary line of Missouri, till it crosses the waters of Neasho, generally called Grand River, thence due west to a point from which a due South course will strike the present north west corner of Arkansas Territory, thence continuing due South, on and with the present western boundary line of the Territory to the main branch of Arkansas River, thence down said River to its junction with the Canadian River, and thence up and between the said rivers Arkansas and Canadian, to a point at which a line running North and South from River to River will give the aforesaid seven millions of acres. In addition to the seven millions of acres thus provided for, and bounded, the United States further guaranty to the Cherokee Nation a perpetual outlet west, and a free and unmolested use of all the country lying west of the western boundary of the above described limits, and as far west as the sovereignty of the United States and their right of soil extend.
Art. 3. The United States agree to have the lines of the above cession run without delay, say not later than the first of October next, and to remove, immediately after the running of the Eastern line from the Arkansas River to the southwest corner of Missouri, all white persons from the west to the east of said line, and also others should there be any there, who may be unacceptable to the Cherokees, so that no obstacles arising out of the presence of a white population, or a population of any other sort, shall exist to annoy the Cherokees,-and also to keep all such from the west of said line in future.
Art. 4. The United States moreover agree to appoint suitable persons, whose duty it shall be in conjunction with the Agent, to value all such improvements as the Cherokees may abandon in their removal from their present homes to the District or Country as ceded in the second Article of this agreement, and to pay for the same immediately after the assessment is made, and the amount ascertained. It is further agreed, that the property and improvements connected with the Agency, shall be sold under the direction of the agent, and the proceeds of the same applied to aid in the erection in the country to which the Cherokees are going, of a grist and saw mill, for their use. The aforesaid property and improvements are thus defined: commencing at the Arkansas River opposite William Stinnetts, ' running due north one mile, thence due east to a point from which a due south line to the Arkansas River would include the Chalybeate, or mineral spring, attached to, or near the present residence of the agent, and thence up said river (Arkansas) to the place of beginning.
Art. 5. It is further agreed, that the United States, in consideration of the inconvenience and trouble attending the removal, and on account of the reduced value of a great portion of the lands herein ceded to the Cherokees, as compared with that of those in Arkansas which were made theirs by the Treaty of 1817, and convention of 1819, will pay to the Cherokees, immediately after their removal which shall be within fourteen months of the date of this agreement, the sum of fifty thousand dollars; also an annuity, for three years, of two thousand dollars, towards defraying the cost and trouble which may attend upon going after and recovering their stock which may stray into the territory in quest of the pastures from which they may be driven-also, eight thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars, (for spoilations committed on them- the Cherokees) which sum will be in full of all demands of the kind up to this date, as well those against the Osages, as those against the citizens of the United States-this being the amount of the claims for said spoilations, as rendered by the Cherokees, and which are believed to be correctly and fairly stated. Also, one thousand two hundred dollars for the use of Thomas Graves, a Cherokee Chief, for losses sustained in his property, and for personal suffering endured by him, when confined as prisoner, on a criminal, but false accusation; also five hundred dollars for the use of George Guess, another Cherokee, for the great benefit he has conferred upon the Cherokee people, in the beneficial results which they are now experiencing from the use of the alphabet discovered by him, to whom also, in consideration of his relinquishing a valuable saline, the privilege is hereby given to locate and occupy another saline on Lee's Creek. It is further agreed by the United States to pay two thousand dollars, annually, to the Cherokees, for ten years, to be expended under the direction of the President of the United States in the education of their children, in their own country in letters and mechanic arts; also, one thousand dollars towards the purchase of a printing press and types, to aid the Cherokees in the progress of education to benefit, and enlighten them as a people, in their own and our language. It is agreed further, that the expense incurred other than that paid by the United States in the erection of the buildings and improvements, so far as that may have been paid by the benevolent society who have been, and yet are engaged in instructing the Cherokee children, shall be paid to the society, it being the understanding that the amount shall be expended in the erection of other buildings and improvements, for like purposes in the country herein ceded to the Cherokees. The United States relinquish their claim due by the Cherokees to the late United States' Factory, provided the same does not exceed three thousand five hundred dollars.
Art. 6. It is moreover agreed, by the United States, whenever the Cherokees may desire it, to give them a set of plain laws, suitable to their condition-also, when they may wish to lay off their lands, and own them individually, a surveyor shall be sent to make the surveys at the cost of the United States.
Art. 7. The Chiefs and Head men of the Cherokee Nation, aforesaid for and in consideration of the foregoing stipulations and provisions, do hereby agree, in the name and behalf of their Nation, to give up and they do hereby surrender to the United States, and agree to leave the same within fourteen months, as herein before stipulated, all the lands to which they are entitled in Arkansas, and which were secured to them by the Treaty of 8th January 1827, and the convention of the 27th February, 1829. [sic]
Art. 8. The Cherokee Nation West of the Mississippi having by this agreement, freed themselves from the harassing and ruinous effects consequent upon a location amidst a white population, and secured to themselves and their posterity, under the solemn sanction of the guarantee of the United States, as contained in this agreement, a large extent of unembarrassed country; and that their Brothers yet remaining in the States may be induced to join them and enjoy the repose and blessings of such a state in future, it is further agreed, on the part of the United States, that to each Head of a Cherokee family now residing within the chartered limits of Georgia, or if either of the states, east of the Mississippi, who may desire to remove west, shall be given on enrolling himself for emigration, a good rifle, a blanket, and kettle, and five pounds of tobacco; (and to each member of his family one blanket) also, a just compensation for the property he may abandon, to be assessed by persons to be appointed by the President of the United States. The cost of the emigration of all such shall be borne by the United States, and good and suitable ways opened, and provisions procured for their comfort, accommodation, and support, by the way, and provisions for twelve months after their arrival at the Agency; and to each person, or head of a family, if he take along with him four persons, shall be paid immediately on his arriving at the agency   and reporting himself and his family, or followers, as emigrants ' permanent settlers, in addition to the above, provided he and they shall have emigrated from within the Chartered limits of the State of Georgia the sum of fifty dollars, and this sum in proportion to any greater of less number that may accompany him from within the aforesaid chartered limits of the State of Georgia.
Art. 9, It is understood and agreed by the parties to this Convention, that a tract of land, two miles wide and six miles long, shall be, and the same is hereby, reserved for the use and benefit of the United States, for the accommodation of the military force which is now, or which may hereafter be stationed at Fort Gibson, on the Neasho, or Grand River, to commence on said river half a mile below the aforesaid fort, and to run thence a due east two miles, thence northwardly six miles, to a point which shall be two miles distant from the river aforesaid, thence due west to the said river, and down it to the place of beginning. And the Cherokees agree that the United States shall have and possess the right of establishing a road through their country for the purpose of having a free and unmolested way to and from said fort.
Art. 10. It is agreed that Captain Rogers, in consideration of his having lost a horse in the service of the United States, and for services rendered by him to the United States, shall be paid in full for the above, and all other claims for losses and services, the sum of five hundred dollars.
Art. 11. This treaty to be binding on the contracting parties, so soon as it is ratified by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Done at the place, and on the day and year above written.
JAMES BARBOUR. (L.S.)
CHIEFS OF THE DELEGATION.
BLACK FOX (L.S.)
THOMAS GRAVES, (L.S.)
GEORGE GUESS, (L.S.)
TOMAS MAW (L.S.)
GEORGE MARVIS, (L.S.)
JOHN LOONY (L.S.)
JOHN ROGERS,(L.S.)
J. W. FLOWEV., (L.S.)
WITNESSES,
Thos. L. M'Kenney,
James Rogers, Interpreter
D. Kurtz
Thomas Murray
D. Brown, Secy. Ch. Del.
Pierye Pierya,
F. W. Duval, U. S. Agent.










AN ADDRESS TO THE CITIZENS OF COOSEWATEE DISTRICT.
When a few nights more shall have closed the lights of our days, then the first Monday in August will have  approached. This is the August day fixed by our new Constitution, on which the election of members to the General Council is to take place.- The forms of our old government, which existed in a dubious form, will in this interesting event be forever abrogated. A free government will have come into operation, placing the political rights of every Cherokee on an equality marking out the road leading to happiness and to our national emminence [sic]. We have great reason to exult in the success of our intellectual and moral improvements, embracing every other valuable attainment, since we have laid aside our primitive mantle, for a transition from that state, to the shining edifice of literature. The commencement of the Cherokee civilization may be dated about the year 1800 or twenty eight years ago, about the period of my recollection. The white man when was a stranger in our circles, with but few exceptions, and the Indian in the garb of the white man, was then subject to ridicule and scoff of the Indian. Such was the prejudice and independence of the Cherokees at so early a date that it is wonderful in the highest degree to see the changes that we have undergone since that period. But what pictures can be exhibited to convey a just idea of our change from the one state to the other?- When the mighty God commanded the dry land to appear out of the watery deep, the conscious earth sprang forth, into being and assumed a station for which it was ordained. When the United States of America called the sons of Path Killer [ in Cherokee] from the howling wilderness, the songsters of the grove, and the ravages of war, we have obeyed, converted our tomahawks to the woodmans [sic] axe and opened the sublime elysian vales, for the still sublimely ample fields. Our population is now a complete variety, one part Indian, another half Breeds, and a third whitemen [sic]; education is of far greater importance at this time, that the tuition of youth was to the hunter state, prior to the year 1800.
Friendship on the conquest of prejudice, intermarriages has followed, education flourished, and a republican form of government organised [sic] for benefit of our future posterity. But as the mind of man seldom rises above its circumstances, let us not halt for one moment in our present point if information in prosecuting similar strides of improvement, that has so distinguished our past success.  It may be said, much has been done to enable the Cherokees, to become a civilized people, yet it is obvious that too much good cannot be done in the instruction of the Cherokees in every branch of useful information. In the period of our struggle between light and darkness, in order to reach the ever shining day of civilization, the U. States, under whose guardianship we are placed, has notwithstanding its fostering care, created many difficulties, at times impeding our literary progress. Look to the setting sun you see the untutored warrior traversing the western wilds on track of his enemy or in pursuit of game, and his forlorn wife and child, retained at some lonely cavern excluded from the reach of civilization . Thus is the fruits of the United States policy of colonizing the original inhabitants of America.
Again, the United States sets forth a claim to our territory by virtue of European charters for the same, and supreme jurisdiction to be paramount to our right. But as I cannot repress my admiration of the sentiments of an eminent politician of this nation, in support of our rights, the balance will be visible when it is contrasted with this regal claim and supercede [sic] the necessity of an investigation. 'The United States boasts of supreme jurisdiction and the rights of the states, but what is it when it is compared with original possession, and an inheritance from the King of Kings.' A mere quibble? such are only a few among the many difficulties, that have not a little retarded our intellectual growth. But notwithstanding these momentary interferences we have surmounted all obstacles and we yet stand strong on the soil of our forefathers. In the ensuing election of members to the General Council, under the provisions of the new constitution, I have to take this method of making known to the respectable citizens of Coosewatee District, my offer as a Candidate for that branch of the Council styled Nat. Committee. It is a duty which I owe myself and to those persons composing the district, that in case your suffrages should be confered [sic] on me, so as to result in my election to that portion of the Council stated, I propose faithfully, to devote the duties of my promotion to the interest of the nation, on the following subjects.
First, that portion of the constitution which authorizes the election of three persons to compose the Council of the two Principal Chiefs, I propose to expunge out of the Constitution. If the Cherokee Nation was sinking under its own weight, like that of Rome, then it would be necessary to have such an immense court attached to the deliberations of the two Chiefs, to enable them to direct affairs with more wisdom. Our government is small, which can be comprehended by the Principal Chiefs at any time, and performing all the duties, the interests of the country may require. This arrangement will curtail several hundred dollars, of the expences [sic] that will be incurred by the creation of these officers under the new government.
Second, I shall also propose an amendment to that article of the Constitution which fixes the salaries of the members of Council, fifty cents less than that of the Committee, so as to make it all equal.
Third, I shall propose to expunge from the Constitution, for electing a national marshall. I presume the creation of this great officer was intended to execute the orders of the Supreme Court which meets once a year. A sheriff in every district will be elected who are a species of officers not having sufficient employment, can be easily authorised [sic] to do all the duties of the contemplated marshal.
Fourth, among other important questions the missionary system of education will occupy a portion of my time. This system must be viewed with a generous spirit and not to suffer the least prejudice to have any influence in deciding their continuence [sic] in the Cherokee country. Let us recur to the year 1817 and we will find but one missionary station. Pass through the country at present we will find twelve stations of missions for the purpose of educating Cherokee youths gratuitously, at the expence [sic] of the respective societies from whom they were sent.  This charity cannot altogether be the invention of finite man. It is argued that their labors are pursuant to the commands of the omnipotent God.  Who is to oppose his Creators will, I presume none will dare? But the system is grown to such a magnitude that we behold permanent and may be considered splendid establishment located on the choicest lands. The proficiency of learning in these seminaries ( with but two or three exceptions) are all on the decline. A few small children are taken at some stations, but their advance in learning is calculated to excite but little interest. We have permitted them to settle on our lands without a special understanding of the duration of time for their continuance. A question here arises, are they to be considered as identified with the Cherokee family? or are they to be considered as other transient teachers are, removeable[sic] at the pleasure of the individuals by whom they are employed. Let us suppose the latter case and what will be the moral aspect- Suppose the council were to decide on examination of the Missions that the station at Oougillogee was no longer necessary, and its discontinuance was expedient? Judging from circumstances, and only those within the range of probability it will justify and assertion that a desire on the part of the Council to discontinue some Missions, would in every point of view meet the disapprobation of the Missionaries, their respectable members of the Church would rise to its protection; admiting [sic] there was not a single scholar to the station, they would advocate the utility of the Mission than permit a dissolution of the church.
In investigating this case, we disturb the tranquility of the connected parties, and involves insurmountable difficulties in effecting their removal. Let us then pass from one station to another, and see how the question will stand there.  There is a missionary station at Willstown composed of members having all the advantages to enable them to labor in the sacred cause. Here again a school has not had the salutary effect that would be expected from such competent tutors. The scattered population of this part of the country is a principal cause operating against the success of these missionaries. If we then proceed to decide that the population surrounding this station is sufficiently enlightened to help themselves, and that the good resulting from their school was no more in addition, than a drop into the bucket, we will here again see the distinguished members of that Church rise to its protection. The result of this investigation will be applicable to all other missionary stations whenever their removal shall be contemplated by the Council. However much needed they may be, the plan of some missionary schools in my opinion cannot be viewed otherwise that nominal schools, when they are placed in comparison to those where instruction is regularly given. The system then resolves itself into a question, are they to be identified and merged into our population as Cherokee people? It is feared that we are preparing them approximating that event.  But in the event we should conclude to arrest this missionary system, the tender voice of humanity must not be absent in treating them according to justice. I am therefore disposed to continue those only who are engaged at the stations of the largest schools, but if we continue all, we shall have to fling a new impulse into the system by legislation, before they can act with energy again.
Fifth, I shall support strennously [sic] the election of a Principal Chief who shall be a learned man in order that the affairs of the Nation may be transacted with more facility and advantage. Experience has demonstrated how fallacious it is to elect a person without letters to the executive office. The past custom of placing an unlearned person in that department has been the consequence of discharging his duties under a humiliating circumstance, than a consciousness of competency to perform all the business connected with the office. It has invariably been dependent on other officers next in dignity, for advice and the inditing of all communications and other instruments of writing devolving on the executive. If it is our object to place useful men in our offices, the precedent will be found unsafe if talents is continued unnoticed in making selections of public officers. I have no doubt all will agree, that our advanced situation, requires a learned man at the head of our government than a man of ordinary abilities.  Let then our choice of merit consist in honesty, experience and talents. Should the subjects with which I have endeavored the address you, be deserving of your notice, as well as that of the Council, I respectfully submit them all to the inspection of your wisdom.
ELIJAH HICKS.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday July 23, 1828 (notice difference in the date)
IMPORTANT TO CANDIDATES.
As the expenses of our printing establishment are considerable, and cannot be paid, with our present list of subscribers, without requiring the customary fees of newspapers, the editor has come to the conclusion, to charge (as we believe it is common with other printers) for all pieces intended for electioneering  purposes.  We are not in favor of publication of such pieces in newspapers, for they are of no interest to most subscribers, and only keep out matter of more importance. If candidates think that the circulation of their principles will be favourable [sic] to their election, they had better resort to handbills. We hope their [sic] will be as little electioneering as possible.
________________________________________
We have heard of late, in many of the Southern papers, the degraded state of our neighbors Creeks, and their rapid decline.  This may be true, but we protest against associating the Cherokees with them under the general name of 'Southern Indians,' as we have noticed in some of the northern prints. We know that in the late session of Congress, we were denounced by some of our neighbors, as miserable and degraded, as the Creeks are now, but the public have been told that all was misrepresentation, intended merely to electioneer us out of our present homes. We repeat again that the Cherokees are not on the decline in numbers and improvement, and we hope we shall for this once be believed, and that the advocates of Indian emigration will urge the necessity of our removal upon some other reason than that of our degraded condition.
_____________________________
In our last we published the 8th Article of the new treaty between the Unites States and the Arkansas Cherokees. We have since had access to the entire treaty which we insert in our first page. We are glad to see that the United States are anxious for the improvement of our brethren, and that provisions are made for the purchase of a printing press, and the support of Schools. The reader however will plainly see the ultimate object of the treaty, which is to effect the emigration of the Cherokees east of the Mississippi. If our emigration is to be effected, we had rather that a treaty was made with us directly, that with our Arkansas brethren, who have no connexion [sic] with us except in language and relationship.
___________________________
We copied into our paper, sometime since, an account of an imposter who pretended to be a Cherokee, and a son of Daniel Ross, the writer of the letter inserted below. This imposter seems to have known that there was such a man as Daniel Ross in the Cherokee Nation, though he was mistaken in suppposing that he was a Chief.  Mr. R. is not a Chief, but a respectable white citizen. We hope the public will beware of such impositions.
LOOK OUT MOUNTAIN,
July 8th, 1826.
Mr. Boudinott:- In the last number of the Phoenix I noticed an extract, taken from Bunker Hill Aurora, describing a fellow, who pretends to be a son of mine. The same vagrant has had the impudence to address me two or three letters, at different times, signed 'Gen. Wm. Ross, his mark,' one, postmarked Chillicothe, stated 'he had been imprisoned at Circleville on charge of being a slave' and pretended 'he wanted money to enable him to carry on a suit at law,' and another letter dated Cincinnati, stated, 'he was released by the act of insolvency,' one other from Wheeling, which I have not opened. The fellow's design in getting these letters written for him, must have been with the view of covering his knavery. I have lately learned, the same person has been seen in New York, and while there was committed to jail. Should this imposter gain credence with the credulous, so that they become loseres by his acquaintance, I can have no sort of objection (by way of atonement) to the hanging of this 'Gen. W. Ross,' if merited. I have no knowledge who this vile wretch can be, and I believe he has no connexion [sic] whatever with the Cherokees, and certainly not with me, or family.
I am respectfully your ob't serv't.
DANIEL ROSS.










NOTICE
In accordance with the resolution of the National Committee and Council, passed October 24th 1827, requiring the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation to call in all the money loaned out under the provisions of a pervious act, on or before the first Monday of October next, I hereby give notice to all such as are indebted to the Treasury, to come and redeem their bonds by paying principal and interest, on the day that they become due, as such bonds cannot be renewed after the first Monday of October next. No indulgence will be given, and those who do not comply with the above requisition must expect to find their bonds in the hands of Officers.
John Martin,
Treas. of the Ch. Nat.
New Echota, July 23, 1828.
_____________










WHEN IS MAN RICH ENOUGH
When a lad an old gentleman took the trouble to teach me some knowledge of the world. With this view, I remember he one day asked me, When is man rich enough? I replied; when he has a thousand pounds.  He said, No., Two thousand? No. Ten thousand? No. Twenty thousand? No.- A hundred thousand? which I thought would settle the business; but he still continued to say No. I gave it up and confessed I could not tell, but begged he would inform me.  He gravely said, when he has a little more than he has, and that is -never! If he acquires one thousand, he wishes to have two thousand; then five, then ten, then twenty, then fifty; from that his riches would amount to an hundred thousand, and so on, till he had grasped the whole world; after which he would look about him, like Alexander, for other worlds to possess.
Many a proof have I had of the truth of this old gentleman's remarks, since he made them to me, and I am happy to say that I have discovered the reason. Full enjoyment-full satisfaction to the mind of man, can only be found in possessing God, with all his infinite perfections. It is only the Creator, not the creature, that can satisfy.
______________________________________
A waggoner [sic], who passed through Athens, Geo. sometime since, on being asked, 'where he was from?' gave the following answer:
'I am from Cow-born hill at Ox-feed ford of Yearling branch, which runs through Calf meadow, and empties into Heifer prong of Steer Creek, near Bullsborough in COWETA County, Georgia. My name is Stock-ton- was born on Elk River-brought up in Cattlebury, Kentucky: and I can yoke an ox, break a bull, or chase a buffaloe [sic] equal to a Prairie hunter, and skin any man opposed to Jackson.'
___________________________________________
Reputation- The way, according to Socrates, to obtain a good reputation, is to endeavor to be what you desire to appear.  'Men' observes Shakespeare also, 'should be what they seem.'
_______________________________
The Osages who left this country last year, were at Frankfort, on the Main, where the public were admitted to them for a sum equal to about half-a-crown. From Frankfort they were to proceed to Dresden and Berlin.
_______________________________










The Osages who left this country last year, were at Frankfort, on the Main, where the public were admitted to them for a sum equal to about half-a-crown. From Frankfort they were to proceed to Dresden and Berlin.


















CORRESPONDENCE.
From Major Francis W. Armstrong to William Hicks and John Ross, Principal Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation.
RIDGES FERRY 19 July 1828
TO THE TWO PRINCIPAL CHIEFS OR THE CHEROKEE NATION, WILLIAM HICKS AND JOHN ROSS.
GENTLEMEN: I am instructed by the Sec'y for War, as you have been apprized by your Agent Col. Montgomery, to visit your Nation for the purpose of ascertaining, as far as practicable at this time, the disposition of the Cherokee Nation, to cede to the United States, a strip of land sufficient to make a Canal or the Rail road on, ( as the case may be,) so as to unite the waters of Tennessee with those of Ala. at some point on the Conasauga. It is proper that I should state, that I have no contracting powers of any kind whatever, my instructions are to converse freely upon this very important subject, with such of the leading men of the Nation as I could meet with. This I have had the pleasure of doing today, with yourselves and Major Ridge-Upon my report-If necessary-Commissioners will be appointed to meet the Nation at such time and place as may be agreed on by the parties, for the purposes herein stated.
I flatter myself from the conversation which we have had this morning, that your answer to this communication will be such as to authorize me to make a report, expressive of your willingness to confer with Commissioners when appointed.
With great respect and esteem, I have the Honour [sic] to be Your Obt. Servant,
F. W. ARMSTRONG.
Headmen Wm. Hicks '
John Ross, Present.
______________________________
From William Hicks and John Ross, Principal Chiefs 'c. to Major Francis W. Armstrong.

RIDGES FERRY C. N. JULY 19, 1828
MAJOR FRANCIS W. ARMSTRONG,
Sir,- We have had the honor to receive your communication of this date, informing us that 'you are instructed by the Secretary of War to visit the Cherokee Nation for the purpose of ascertaining, as far as practicable, at this time, the disposition of the Nation to cede to the United States a strip of land sufficient to make a Canal or rail road on, (as the case may be) so as to unite the waters of Tennessee with those of Alabama, at some point on the Canasauga.' In reply to this part of your communication, we will inform you, that the sentiments of the Nation remains the same, as has been made known to the former authorized agents of the United States, who had been instructed to negotiate with us on this subject-that is, the Cherokee Nation objects making further cessions of lands to the United (States is omitted) for any purpose whatsoever. Therefore being so deeply sensible of the unchangeable disposition of the Nation on this point, we cannot in the sleightest [sic] degree flatter you to make a report that will induce the General Government to appoint Commissioners for the purpose of renewing the subject for negotiation. In presenting you with this candid expression of the sentiments of the Nation, we hope Sir, you will not be disposed to impute this objection to any unfriendly feelings of the Nation towards the States interested on this occasion, nor view their decisions emanating from a gross ignorance of the great importance and the utility of internal improvements; especially when you reflect that some of your own enlightened States have cherished a jealousy towards the United States exercising the powers of merely making internal improvements within the limits of the States without infringing upon the sovereign Jurisdiction of the States--But Sir, what would be the situation of the Nation, were they to make a cession of land for a canal or rail road through it? However small or insignificant the cession may appear to be, so soon as it is made to the United States, the right of sovereign jurisdiction passes through the U. States to the State within whose charter it may fall.  Here then would necessarily be a narrow strip in the heart of the Nation, over which the State must exercise its laws. Under such circumstances much embarrassments and litigations would arise between the Cherokees and the Citizens of the States. And from the improving condition of the Nation, we cannot but flatter ourselves that the Nation will be prepared with better roads across the portage of those rivers, at least by the time the United States, or the State of Alabama shall have completed removing the obstructions in the Coosa River up to the Ten Islands.
With great respect and esteem, we are Sir, your Obt. Servants.
WILLIAM HICKS,
JNO. ROSS.
MAJOR FRANCIS W. ARMSTRONG
Present.










COMMUNICATIONS.
PHILADELPHIA, April 5, 1828,
EDITOR OF THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX..
DEAR SIR:- I have seen by chance the first number of the Cherokee Phoenix, in the hands of Mr. Duponceau President of the American Philosophical Society, who is going to send it to a learned society in France as a great curiosity!
I am a great friend of the native Tribes of America, whose history I have investigated more deeply than anyone else, and particularly of the Tsa-la-gi or Cherokees, the remains of a very ancient and powerful nation, now coming to glory again. I am writing a general history of the American Nations, and my history of the Tsa-la-gi Nation will be very interesting; it might be still more so if I could procure from you some fragments of the ancient traditions preserved in the nation. As some new facts may be evolved in the pages of the Cherokee Phoenix, I wish to procure that journal from the beginning. If you could send me two copies of the Cherokee Phoenix, I would send one to Europe, where it will be preserved as a rarity.  I understand that a Library and Museum is forming by the Cherokee Nation; I wish to offer them 25 volumes as a present, and also some articles of natural history, when you will inform me how they may be sent safely.
I send you this letter and also the Prospectus of my History of America, through Mr. Ross Post-Master of Rossville, to insure its reception, as I do not know if you have a Post office at New Echota. I send you also here annexed two series of questions on the language and history of the Cherokees, which I beg you will insert in your journal, in order that they may be answered by the best informed Cherokees. You may probably answer yourself those on the language. I wish to study the Cherokee Alphabet and am perplexed by the difficulties that I state. I understand the French, Latin, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese languages, and a little the Hebrew, Arabic, Sanskrit and twenty others. I wish to compare the Tsalagi with all these; I have a small vocabulary already and I think that I can trace some of its affinities to the Sanskrit, Etruscan and Atalantes.- And in America with the Tala (or Tarasca) of West Mexico, Otolum, Muhiscas 'c., This will be confirmed or disproved by your answers.- The main point to be ascertained is, whether all our 85 syllables have each a meaning in the Tsalagi language; if they have, it will be an important philological fact.
Respecting your ancient history as a Nation, let me suggest the propriety to rescue it from oblivion. Now is the time, since education enables you to write your ancient traditions before they become totally lost. An example has just been given by David Cusick a Tuscarora chief, who has lately published in English the ancient history or traditions of the six nations, going 2500 years back.
I wish with all my heart, success to your attempt to become a permanent nation. Act with firmness and propriety and you may overcome all opposition; right and justice, law and treaties, with all good men are on your side. But you must not shut the eyes to your situation, you will not be allowed to remain independent! the stronger you become the greater the danger in case of war will be said by the southern states, and your toleration of slavery lessens the sympathies of the northern states. You will be removed at last by force to some equivalent place, far off now, and again from thence within 50 years. There is only one way to avert this fate; it is by respectfully, but repeatedly asking to form a kind of Territorial government, annexed to the Federal Union, so as to become an independent acknowledged Federal Territory, with a delegate in Congress, and the privilege to become a state when your population will allow it. This is the kind advice of a true friend of your nation.
C. S. Rafinesque.
Professor of History and botany, in Philadelphia.
P. S. Pray are there any Botanists in your Nation, or anyone able to preserve and press plants in herbals? I should with much to procure the plants of your country and mountains, particularly the medical ones. I have published a first volume of the Medical Flora of the United States, and am now writing the second volume. What is the Tsalagi name of Guess, inventer of the alphabet? It is a pity so many letters are so near alike.
QUESTIONS ON THE TSALAGI LANGUAGE,
By Professor Rafinesque.
1. Why is there such a difference between the alphabet published by the United States in Indian treaties, and that given in no 1. of your journal of Guess and W. alphabets? I do not mean in the order or pronunciation, but in the forms, terms, and notations?
2. What means the 3 letters all 3 pro. un (French) [Cherokee symbols] of Guess, ' what is become of them? what is become also of Claugh (Cherokee symbol) Cleegh
(Cherokee symbol) Clah, (Cherokee symbol), Clegh (Cherokee symbol) Cloh (Cherokee Symbol) and the nasal Gnaugh (Cherokee symbol)? 3. Why is the name of the nation (Cherokee Symbols) pronounced by Guess Tsah-lah-keeh and by W. Tsa-la-gi? Are the sounds G and K interchangeable and also Cl and Ti?
4. Is really the Tsalagi Language totally deficient of the sounds B, D, F, J. P, R, V, X, Z, Th, ' all nasal sounds An, En, In, On Un? and how are those sounds changed in writing foreign words? how would our write my name Rafinesque, for instance, perhaps Lahineska? how Washington, Jefferson, Europe, Phoenix, Boston? 'c.
5. Has not every syllable of the Tsalagi a proper meaning or import in the language when standing alone? if they have, give the meaning of each, this is very important!
6. Art there not several dialects of the language yet spoken or is the uniformity complete? what is become of the Ayrati dialect which changed L into R, and called the Mountain Cherokis Otari instead of Otali, and the whole Nation Chiroki whence your English name of Cherokees.  Are they all gone to Arkansas?
7. What is the meaning of the following historical names and words in Tsalagi, translated into English
Otali, Cherokee symbols Tsalagi,
Alate, Cherokee symbols Teomi
Olata, Cherokee symbols Melilo
Teliquo, Tanassi Amana,
Talasi Cusa Matika
Alega Satula Olaimi
Atsala Talomeco Utina
Awalatsi Timuaca Mayla
Hitanatsi Yamasi Atsora
Quowatsi Aquowaka Hemalini
8. Try to give literal translations of the Lord's Prayer and some other fragments,
word for word in opposition to each other, so far as to offer at once a view of words and syntax; but the words must each be separated and distinguished either in two perpendicular lines or double lines, one word Tsalagi and one word English annexed to each other and separated from all others!
9. What numerals are used by the Tsalagi, give the names of numbers to 10, in letters, and the ciphers? Do they count decimally or how?
10. I send you a short vocabulary of the language spoken by Apalachi, Timuaca or Yamasi in 1640 please to compare the words with the Tsalagi, and point out those which have a resemblance, or give the corresponding Tsalagi words.
Man Viro, cara, hua
Woman Nia
Father Iti
Mother Isa
Child Chirico, kie, ule,
Brother Niha, hiasa
Sister Yachamiso
Do Amita
Do. Yachacamina
River Achi
King Cusi, Cuhe
Queen Qui,
Emperor Paracusi
Earth Gua, Aga
Great Ma, mi
Holy Hari
Priest Iaohua
Fine Hitana
Valiant hiba
1 one minecota
2 two naincha
3 three nahapu
Fish Baza, Wasa
yes haha
maize hazez naarimi
Mountain aimi
house maste, bohio
God Yao, Que, Tec, Io
Spirits Inama, Teka
City Meli
Council Ilo
Sun Ol, huga, tona
Bird Tsuli
Lake Tseo
Gold Sierapira, Silahila
my na
thine ye
his, her mima
our mile
your yaya
theirs lama C.S. R.
QUESTIONS UPON THE HISTORY OF THE TSALAGI OR CHEROKEE NATION
By Professor Rafinesque, author of the General History of America, Philadelphia, April 1828.
1. I have formed the following table of all the great rulers of the Tsalagi mentioned in history and fragments printed. I wish to know whether anything to the contrary is known by tradition or otherwise, and whether the names mentioned have a meaning in Tsalagi?
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE.
Towards 2200 years before Columbus, the Emperor of Gold City of Melilo  (Cherokee symbols) ruled over all the nation from the Great Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. The nations were called Talegahi  (Cherokee symbols), and divided into 2 tribes of the mountains and plains, Otali (Cherokee symbols), and Olata (Cherokee symbols)- (Cusick, Bridstock, 'c., 'c.)
Towards the year 400 of Christ or 1100 before Columbus the Otali sent a large colony to Mexico where they are called Tlatuytsi (Cherokee symbols) (Bridstock).
Towards 500, The Dynasty of the Teltlahim (perhaps Telatlahimi (Cherokee symbols))ruled over the empire of Apalacha (perhaps Awalatsa (Cherokee symbols)) extending from latitude 33 to 37, this dynasty still ruling in 1640- (Br.)
In 1540 at the invasion of Soto, Queen Cofaciqui or Qouwatsiqui (Cherokee symbols) ruled over the Tsilaki.
In 1565 the Emperor was Olatautina (Cherokee symbols)
In 1643, the king of Atsalaka was yet dependant on the Empire of Apalacha.
In 1700, Litsi was king of the Tsalagi, but a revolution takes place, he is driven south in 1716.
In 1717 Chamascula or Tsamasgula is king of Tsalagi.
In 1736 Moytoy was Emperor of Teliquo and Tsalagi.
In 1751 Ostenaco was king of Echota and Tsalagi.
In 1770 Oconestota was king and Atagula great General.
In 1785 Koatohi king of Toquo, makes peace with United States.
In 1791 Tsilioha was great chief of Tsalagi.
In 1798 Tskagua was the great chief at the first treaty of Teliquo.
In 1804 Molutuski was great chief at the second Do.
In 1805 Enoli was great chief at the third treaty of Teliquo.
In 1816 Nenohutuhe or Pathkiller is the great chief.
2d. Question- Give the names of all the great supreme chiefs of the nation, as far back as memory or traditions go, and try to fix their successive order and time?
3d. Question-What is the substance of the oldest traditions as yet preserved? how far back do they go? do they not point to a connection with the Nations Apalacha, Timuacas, Amana, Matica, Sehama, Meraco, 'c. all parts of the ancient Empire of Talegawy? which must be Tsalagi.
4th Quest. What have been the ancient wars of the Tsalagi? what nations did they deem foes? and which friends and allies? what nations have been incorporated or adopted?
5th Quest. What were the causes of the separation of the Tsalagi from the Apalacha towards 1716, or 112 years ago? was it not their alliance with the Spaniards, while the Tsalagi became allies of the English of Carolina?
6th Quest. Where about were the holy mountains of Olaimi the capital Melilo, and the Lake Tseomi mentioned in 1643 as yet seen by Bridgstock? Where was Talomeco capital and temple seen in 1540 by Soto? Was it Teliquo?
7th Quest.- What traditions or fables exist concerning the origin of the nation, the monuments they have built anciently, 'c.? Are no migrations and changes of places remembered? In 1540 the Tsalagi extended all over Carolina part of Georgia and as far as the Ohio; but where did the dwell before? have they no memory of having crossed the sea? to have come from the south? what places were deemed most holy, as first seats of ancestors?
8th Quest.- Have no traditions been preserved of other migrations or colonies besides those of the Tlahuitsi, Matica, and the last to Arkansas? sent off by Tsalagi?
C. S. Rafinesque, Pr.
P. S. What names do the Tsalagi give to the United States and to each State known to them? also to each Indian Nation known to them? and to the largest river in the United States? and to their own mountains?










New Echota:
Wednesday July 30, 1828
We publish today Professor R's letter and two series of questions on the language and history of the Tsalagi Nation. Those on the language can be easily answered, and we hope to receive satisfactory communication on the subject from some one of our correspondents. In regard to traditions, we feel doubtful whether any can be collected which will shed any new light on our dark history, particularly as far back as 1000 years. Traditions are becoming unpopular, and there are now but few aged persons amongst us who regard them as our forefathers did. We have been desirous of obtaining them for the columns of our paper-if they do not afford any new light, they may afford some amusement. We will be thankful to our correspondents if they will send us any for insertion. Direct answers to Pro. R's questions on the history of the Tsalagi Nation will be thankfully received.
___________________________
It has been extremely warm of late, and the crops which a few days ago appeared so very promising, are now suffering for want of rain.
________________________________
We are happy to learn that there is every prospect of punctual and general attendance at each of the precincts in this District, on our election day, which is to be next Monday. Preparatory meetings have been held in Coosewaytee, Pine-log, and other places. This augurs well for the 'success of our new Constitution.'
________________________________
There appears to be a want of public spirit in some of our leading and wealthy citizens. Though they possess the means of doing much good, by encouraging education, and the general improvement of the Nation they seem to stand aloof.  This is our failing as a people, and we are sorry to say that some of the offices of our government have been and are filled by persons of this description.  From such leaders, who pay more regard to the acquisition of wealth, that the good and interest of their country, we have no reason to expect any solid and permanent advantage. Is not our remark correct when it is considered that many (and some who were members of the Legislative body which established the press) possessing all requisite means, will not subscribe for the Cherokee Phoenix, which costs only two dollars and fifty cents a year. Who will encourage and uphold us, when our own citizens and patrons (they ill deserve the name) will not give us a helping hand?
While we complain of the coldness and inactive patriotism of some, we take pleasure in rendering to a larger portion of our leading men, their proper and well merited due. Under the direction of such men, education will flourish, our (Cherokee words are here) will not be permitted to languish and our infant institutions will be protected.  Through their exertions we hope to see established in this place, a National School, where our youths will enjoy greater advantages than in the common Schools-where our future chiefs-our judges, and the guardians of our religious, moral and political interests will be reared.- Such an institution is greatly needed, and were it not that the public funds of the Nation are so small, necessary buildings would ere this have been commenced. We invite the attention of our citizens to this important subject. Now is the time when judicious efforts for the improvement of the Cherokees cannot go unrewarded, and pass away without any desirable effects.










NOTICE
In accordance with the resolution of the National Committee and Council, pasted October 24th, 1827, requiring the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation to call in all the money loaned our under the provisions of a previous act, on or before the first Monday of October next, I hereby give notice to all such as are indebted to the Treasury, to come and redeem their bonds by paying principal and interest, on the day that they become due, as such bonds cannot be renewed after the first Monday of October next.  No indulgence will be given, and those who do not comply with the above requisition must expect to find their bonds in the hands of Officers.
JOHN MARTIN
Treas. of the Ch. Nat.
New Echota, July 23, 1828
_________________________________
The examination of the School at Creek Path, under the superintendence of the Rev. William Potter, will take place on the Friday preceding the second Sabbath in August.










POETRY
MOTHER WHAT IS DEATH?
'Mother, how still the baby lies-
I cannot hear its breath:
'I cannot see his laughing eyes-
They tell me this is death.
My little work I thought to bring,
And set down by his bed,
And pleasantly I tried to sing?
They hushed me-he is dead.
They say that he again will rise,
More beautiful than now;
That God will bless him in the skies,
O mother, tell me how?'
'Daughter, do you remember dear,
The cold dark thing you brought,
And laid upon the casement here,
A wither'd worm, you thought?
I told you that Almighty power
Could break the withered shell,
And show you in a future hour
Something would please you well.
Look at the chrysalis, my love,
An empty shell it lies?
Now raise your wandering glance above,
To where yon insect flies!'
'Oh; yes, mamma! how very gay
Its wings of starry gold-
And see! it lightly flies away
Beyond my gentle hold!
Oh, mother, now I know full well-
If God that worm can change,
And draw it from his broken cell,
On golden wings to range.
How beautiful will brother be,
When God shall give him wings,
Above this dying world to flee,
And live with heavenly things.'


















COMMUNICATIONS
CHEROKEE LANGUAGE
ANSWER TO PROFESSOR RAFINESQUE'S QUESTIONS.
Mr. Boudinott: I have read in the 22d number of your paper a communication from Professor Rafinesque of Philadelphia, containing a series of questions on the language and history of the Cherokees. To those which relate to the language I will attempt to answer.
Question 1. 'Why is there such a difference between the alphabet published by the United States in Indian treaties, and that given in No 1 of your Journal, or Guess and W. alphabets? I do not mean in the order of pronunciation, but in the forms, terms, and nutations?' [notations? mutations?]
Ans. In regard to the forms of the letters, it is to be expected that the handwriting of different persons will vary; and especially that there will be a difference between ordinary handwriting, and a copy prepared as a pattern for types, or the printed characters. The printed letter is sufficiently like the original to be at once recognized, I believe, by ever Cherokee reader.
As to the manner of expressing the sounds by English characters, Professor R. is doubtless aware, that English letters have each so many sounds, that any syllable may be spelt in several different ways. This accounts in part for the circumstance of the same sounds being expressed in different ways in my communications and in the alphabet published at Washington.  Besides this, I suppose that whoever communicated the alphabet to the War Department at Washington, was not perhaps entirely familiar with it, and may have made two or three mistakes.
Question 2. 'What mean the three letters all three pronounced un (French) (Cherokee symbols) of Guess, and what is become of them? What is become also of Claugh, (Cherokee symbol), Cleeh (Cherokee symbol), Clah (Cherokee symbol), Clegh (Cherokee symbol), Cloh (Cherokee symbol), and the nasal Gnaugh (Cherokee symbol)?'
Ans. Only one of the three letters in question, viz (Cherokee symbol), has simply the sound of un French. The other two are aspirated, and differ from each other only in that the sound of (Cherokee symbol) is more open than that of (Cherokee symbol). This distinction has been regarded as of so little consequence, particularly by Maj Lowrey, who has been the oracle on the subject, that the character (Cherokee symbol) has been omitted, and, as no type has been cast for it, your printers can only represent it, as I perceive they have done, by breaking the English capital G.
In regard to the syllable Claugh there must have been an error. The character P has the sound the Tlv, [the letter v representing nearly the sound of un French.] The character (Cherokee symbol) has, through imperfect penmanship, taken the place of G, pronounced Tli, the sound represented in the United States document by Cleegh. Clah, [Cherokee symbol] Clegh [L] and Cloh [Cherokee symbol] are the sounds which I represent by Tla, Tle, Tlo. The sound of z I represent no. It is often, perhaps more commonly aspirated, as if written hno, and perhaps slightly nasal.  I suppose gnaugh is used to represent precisely the same sound which I would write hno.
Question 3. 'Why is the name of the nation (Cherokee symbols) pronounced by Guess Tsah-lah-keeh, and by W. Tsa-la-gi? are the sounds G and K interchangeable and also Cl and Tl?'
Ans. Guess never wrote the name of the nation either Tsah-lah-keeh or Tsa-la-gi, but (Cherokee Symbols). The h at the end of each syllable of Tsah-lah-keeh, I suppose was intended to indicate that a has the short Italian sound, and ee that of short i.  The sound represented by the character (Cherokee symbol) is sometimes ki, but oftener gi, or between the sounds of k
' g, but nearer that of g. G. as pronounced by Germans represents it best. This is the case in the word (Cherokee symbols for Cherokee).  The sound G and K are not interchangeable in the same work, tho' they have the same representatives in the letters (five Cherokee symbols). In each the sound of German G is most common.
The sound of Cl or Kl does not belong to the language. If, however, Professor R. will attempt to pronounce the syllables Cla  and  Tla, he will find that he make but a slight difference; and as the combination Cl is familiar to the eye of an English scholar, and not Tl, he is more likely to use the former as a representative of the Cherokee sound.
Question 4. 'Is really the Tsalagi language totally deficient of the sounds B,D,F,J,P,R,V,X,Z,Th, and all the nasal sounds An, En, In, On, Un? how would you write my name Rafinesque, for instance, perhaps Lahineska? how Washington, Jefferson, Europe, Phoenix, Boston, 'c.'
Ans. All the sounds in question are entirely wanting in Tsalagi except R in one dialect in which it is always used instead of L.- [See question 6.]
Foreign words, except proper names, are seldom imitated by Cherokees. In proper names, B is sometimes changed to Q, as (Cherokee symbols)(Que,ti) for Betsey, (Betty) Sometimes to W. as (Cherokee symbol) (Wi-li) for Billy. D is represented by (six Cherokee symbols), the consonant sound of the three first of which is always, and that of the three latter often, better represented by D. than by T. F. is sometimes, perhaps always changed to W. aspirated, as in (Cherokee symbols) (Tse-hwi-si-ni) for Jefferson. J is changed to Ts, as also Ch ' G soft; as (Cherokee symbols) (Tsi-sa) Jesus, (Cherokee symbols)(Tsi-ka-sa) Chickasaw (Cherokee symbols)(Tsa-tsi) George. P is sometimes changed to Q, as (Cherokee symbols) (Qui-da) Peter, and sometimes to W, as (Cherokee symbols)(Wa-li) Polly. V is changed to W, as (Cherokee symbols) (de-wi) David. Of X I recollect no example.* In the name Jackson cks may be considered as equivalent to x. This name is written (Cherokee symbols) (Tse-ki-si-ni) the vowel of the second syllable having but a slight sound. Z would become Ts. Th would assume the sound of D nearly. Of the changes of the nasal sounds in question I know no examples.
The name Rafinesque might be written (Cherokee symbols) (La-hwi-ne-ski)+ Washington has been written (Cherokee symbols)(Wa-sv-ta-nv) Jefferson (Cherokee symbols)(Tse-hwi-si-ni) Boston I believe (Cherokee symbols) (Wo-sda-ni) Europe might be (Cherokee symbols)(Yu-la-qui) Phoenix is a hard word. The greatest approximation would be (Cherokee symbols)(Hwi-ni-ki-si) or (Cherokee symbols)(Qui-ni-ki-si) The Cherokee name of the newspaper signifies That which has risen again, an allusion to the fable of the Phoenix rising from its own ashes.
Question 5. 'Has not every syllable of the Tsalagi a proper meaning or import when standing alone? If they have, give the meaning of each.'
Ans. Far from it. The number of monosyllables is very small. I can learn only the following which are ever used separately.
D. an adverb of place.
(symbol) an interjection of admiration or surprise, used only by women
(symbol) commonly doubled, (two symbols) signifying yes
(symbol) an interjection, calling for attention
(symbol) an adverb, yonder at a distance
(symbol) interjection, what? also an exclamation of pain.
(symbol) adverb, very (symbol) an interjection denoting disgust at any offensive smell,
(symbol) pronoun, that; adverb there
G          an interjection, used in conversation, denoting assent to what another has just said.
(symbol)
no, not
(symbol) the same with (symbol) but belonging to a different dialect.
(symbol) (hwo) the amen of an assembly of Cherokees, uttered on a low key with a protracted sound, by the assembly, at the close of a speech which is approved. If only here and there an individual utters this sound, the speaker infers that his address is not well received. This is used also, I am told, by other Indian tribes.
The following may be considered as distinct words, but are always attached to the termination of other words, like the conjunction que in Latin.
(symbol)
Did you say? as (symbol) bread, (symbols) Bread did you say?
z and
(symbol) an adverb which asks a question.
(symbol) or (symbol) for, because.
(symbol) an adverb of exhortation
(symbols) an adverb of interrogation, equivalent to J.
There are also several significant syllables prefixed to nouns and verbs, some of them having the force of pronouns, but they are no more distinct words, than ed or ness in English.
W.
_________________
* Mr. Pickering speaks of the combination ks as occurring in Cherokee; a mistake probably arising from having heard some words pronounced, in which the vowel sound of a syllable beginning with k and followed by the sound of (symbol) is scarcely articulated; as (three symbols) (Ida-ku-sa-nv,) a turnip, where the vowel (symbol) is not distinctly heard,
+ Many Cherokee syllables are sometimes aspirated, as (symbol) hwi (symbol) hli 'c.










We take much pleasure inlaying before our readers the annexed communication from the Hon. Richard M. Johnson, of Kentucky.  the interest which that philanthropic gentleman has manifested in the cause of Indian reform, will entitle him to the respect of good men everywhere.- His efforts have been as persevering as they were well directed, and the happy results are beginning to be realized to an unexpected extent.- Col. Reg.
From the Columbian Star.
CHOCTAW ACADEMY, BLUE SPRING,
June 24, 1828
Dear Sir, It is already known to you that the Choctaw Nation has located a school at this place under the name of Choctaw Academy, under superintendence of the government of the United States and the Baptist missionary society. The school consists of one hundred students from the following tribes, the Choctaws, Creeks, and Pottawattamies.
The whole establishment is supported by their own funds according to the number of scholars from each tribe.
Upon my return home, about the first of June, I was very much gratified that there existed a most extraordinary revival of religion in this neighborhood; about two hundred and fifty new converts have already joined the Crossing Baptist Church, about two miles from the school.  I am not able to speak with precision as to the vast number who have joined the adjacent churches. The most pleasing part is yet to be told, I mean the influence which this stir of religion has had upon the students of the Choctaw Academy. Before my return home, a number had been baptized and joined the church at the Great Crossings, and the respectable Methodist Society at Georgetown, about four miles distant. I had the satisfaction myself to see other students added to the Crossing Church, a few days since, at which time fifty were baptized.- The solemn ceremony was performed in the presence of several thousand admiring and deeply affected spectators. The interest of the scene seemed greatly to be increased by the fact that the native sons of the forest composed a part of the subjects for baptism; thirteen or fourteen have joined the Baptist Society; and eight or ten are members of the Methodist society in Georgetown. These converted students are composed indiscriminately of the young men and boys down to nine years of age. The son of the Creek chief Opo-tho-lo-hola, about nine years old, gave in an experience before he was received by the church, which astonished every beholder, and is the theme of conversation in every private circle. The experience of many others has not been less extraordinary and interesting. the students have their prayer meeting this night in my house, by invitation, and they have their regular weekly prayer meetings at their school rooms and in their devotions they would not be disparaged in comparison with their white brethren for interesting and correct views on the subject of religion. The greatest pleasure that I experience from a communication of these facts arises from the conviction of my own mind, that the change is real and of divine origin, judging from the change in their conduct, in their temper, and in their dispositions. Their humility and meekness would do honor to any Christian community.- The Christian may rejoice in the full confidence that God, in his providence, has smiled upon this institution, and intends it for the useful and desirable purpose of civilizing and Christianizing our red brethren with the United States. That the wilderness may blossom as the rose, is the prayer of your sincere and devoted friend.
R. M. Johnson.
N. B. The following are the names of the Choctaws who have become religious, viz; Robert Jones, Samuel Garland, Lyman Collins, Anderson Perry, James Brewer, Peter King, Levi Parsons, Wm. Bryant, Samuel Worcester, Sylas D. Pitchlynn.- Samuel Birch came to the school a Baptist, and joined the Crossing church.
The following are the names of the Creeks who have become religious viz; Stephen Grayson, Thomas H. Benton Daniel Asbury, Jesse Brown, Samuel Brown, William Gray, Jacob Creath, Henry Clay, Thomas Henderson, Benjamin S. Chambers, Thos. Hicks, James Berryhill, and Richard M. Johnson, son of Opo-tho-lo-hola, nine years of age.- Samuel M'Intosh came to the school a Methodist and joined the society in Georgetown.
R. M. J.


















COMMUNICATIONS.
INVENTION OF THE CHEROKEE ALPHABET
Mr. Editor- The following statement respecting the invention of the Cherokee Alphabet, may not be altogether uninteresting to some of your readers. I have it from a particular friend of Mr. Guess, who lived near him at the time he made his invention.
Mr. Guess is in appearance and habits, a full Cherokee, though his grandfather on his father's side was a white man. He has no knowledge of any language but the Cherokee, consequently, in his invention of the alphabet, he had to depend entirely on his own native resources. He was led to think on the subject of writing the Cherokee language by a conversation which took place one evening at Sauta. Some young men were making remarks on the superior talents of the white people., One said, that white men could put a talk on paper, and send it to any distance, and it would be understood by those who received it. They all agreed, that this was very strange, and they could not see how it could b e done.  Mr. Guess, after silently listening to their conversation for a while, raised himself, and putting on an air of importance, said, 'you are all fools; why the thing is very easy; I can do it myself:' and, picking up a flat stone, he commenced scratching on it with a pin; and after a few minutes read to them a sentence, which he had written by making a mark for each word. This produced a laugh and the conversation on that subject ended. But the inventive powers of Guess's mind were now roused to action; and nothing short of being able to write the Cherokee language, would satisfy him- He went home, purchased materials, and sat down to paint the Cherokee language on paper. He at first thought of no way, but to make a character for each word.  He pursued this plan for about a year; in which time he had made several thousand characters. He was then convinced that the object was not attainable in that way: but he was not discouraged. He firmly believed, that there was some way in which the Cherokee language would be expressed on paper, as well as the English: and, after trying several other methods, he at length conceived the idea of dividing the words into parts.  He had not proceeded far on this plan, before he found, to his great satisfaction, that the same characters would apply, in different words, and the number of characters would be comparatively few. After putting down, and learning all the syllables that he could think of, he would listen to speeches, and whenever a word occurred which had a part, or syllable, in it, which he had not before thought of, he would bear it on his mind, until he had made a character for it. In this way he soon discovered all the syllables in the language. In forming his characters, he made some use of the English letters, as he found them in a spelling book, which he had in his possession. After commencing upon the last mentioned plan, I believe he completed his system in about a month.
During the time he was occupied in inventing the alphabet, he was strenuously opposed by all his friends and neighbours [sic].  He was frequently told that he was throwing away his time and labour [sic], and that none but a delirious person, or an idiot, would do as he did. But this did not discourage him. He would listen to the expostulations of his friends, and then deliberately light his pipe, pull his spectacles over his eyes, and sit down to his work, without attempting to vindicate his conduct. After completing his system, he found much difficulty in persuading the people to learn it.- Nor could he succeed, until he went to the Arkansas and taught a few persons there, one of whom wrote a letter to some of his friends in the Nation, and sent it by Mr. Guess, who read it to the people. This letter excited much curiosity. Here was a talk in the Cherokee language, which had come all the way from the Arkansas sealed up in paper, and yet it was very plain.  This convinced many that Mr. Guess' mode of writing would be of some use. Several persons immediately determined to try to learn. They succeeded in a few days, and from this it quickly spread all over the nation, and the Cherokees ( who as a people had always been illiterate,) were in the course of a few months, without school, or expense of time, or money, able to read and write in their own language.
This astonishing discovery certainly entitles Mr. Guess to the warmest gratitude of his country; and, should the Cherokee language continue to be spoken, his fame will be handed down to the latest posterity.-
G. C.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, August 13, 1828
A Methodist Camp meeting will be held at Oougillogy, commencing the first Friday of next month.
_________________________________
We understand that last Thursday, Mr. Wesley Jones, while on his way home from Pine log, was bitten by a rattle snake, and died the same day. He had been to a blacksmith shop-while there his horse left him, and he was obliged to walk, which occasioned his early death. As there was not a house very near, he was deprived of a speedy remedy.  A Cherokee came to him, when he was unable to go any further, but the poison had made rapid progress, for he died soon after, while his friend was absent to procure medicine and assistance.  Mr. Jones was a white man, with a Cherokee family.
_____________________________________
There is a report, that the Arkansas Cherokee Delegation, in entering into the late treaty at Washington, acted contrary to the wishes and instruction of their Countrymen, and that they have made themselves liable to severe punishment. From circumstances which have transpired since the return of the Delegation from Washington, we have been some what inclined to believe it, though we should like to hear more on this subject, before we give full credit.  Above all things, we should hate to witness another Creek tragedy acted over.
_________________________________
MR. EDITOR:- I here enclose you a letter from a Friend. If you consider it worthy of insertion in the columns of your paper, you will confer a favor on a subscriber._______________
BEDFORD COUNTY TEN.
July 12th 1828.
DEAR FRIEND: Your letter came safely to hand ' I must beg leave to acknowledge the reception of the bundle of newspapers which you were pleased to send me, in which I was gratified to see many inteligent [sic] and highly honourable [sic] communications made by those, who (as Mr. Mitchell of this State so very unjustly observes) 'groan in chains of Iron bondage.'- This observation is one among the many surprising flights of his unbridled imagination; but we could scarcely expect more from such a hugh unshapely mass of self conceit.
The progress of the Cherokees towards civilization have surprised those theorist [sic] who have long endeavoured [sic] to hold out the idea, that it was impossible to tame the sturdy son of the forest, whose greatest boast is in the possession of that glorious blessing, Liberty. 
Liberty is the greatest Boast of an American. It is his shield and armour [sic] at home, for it protects his life from assassins, and his property from hungry and greedy wolves of his own species. It is his greatest pride when abroad, for it is an inexhaustible theme, and a source of unbounded pleasure in comparing his condition to the abject spirits that surround him in a foreign land.
Yet I am sorry that there are some low grovling [sic] spirits in our country who, whilst they always have in their mouths a word, the sound of which would heal the wounds of those who are groaning in despotic chains, are using their powers to drive from their homes, those whose hard exertions have procured for themselves a habitation, on the land which their forefathers possessed and hunted the deer, long before a white man stained with his feet the rich ' luxuriant vallies [sic] of America. But I scarcely think that the American people will degenerate from those truly honorable principles of 'doing as you would be done by,' 'giving unto each man his due,' 'and that any property in the possession of one shall not be given to another unless by a fair and impartial investigation of right by the laws of his country, and the adjudication of twelve good and honest men, or the decision of our chiefs that is agreeable to 'equity and good conscience.' I cannot think such a derogation can ever be made by them from such long and established rules, that have been their guide ' directors ever since they have been a free ' independent people. Would it not be departing from those rules to dispos- [sic] those of their rights, that are as completely in our power, as ever the mouse was under the tremendous power of the Lion, who with one crush of his powerful foot could have deprived of existence, a small and to him, a harmless animal. Such is the present condition of the Indians within the U. States. But as the proud and lofty soul of the Lion disdained to stain his paw with the blood of an innocent mouse; so I hope will be the determination of the American Government, especially towards the Cherokees, whose progress towards civilization would lead us to expect, as a grateful return if ever an opportunity offered, an act, as did the mouse when he found the Lion entangled in the net placed for his destruction, gnawing the cord into pieces and setting his former preserver at Liberty.
At all events, the Cherokees have my warmest wishes for their prosperity and welfare, and I look forward to the time when all the blessing that attend social intercourse and friendly feelings between man and man shall exist between the American Government and their Red Brothers; when every barrier shall be torn down, ,and we shall see school, academies, colleges; springing up in your country and sons of Literature eminating [sic] from them who will be ornaments to themselves, and preserve the name of their country from that oblivion which many nations that existed at the time of Columbus' discovery have experienced.
You will please accept my best wishes for your and family's welfare, and the prosperity of your country.
With pleasure I remain your sincere Friend.______________
_________________________________________
Page 2 Col 5b
Page 3 Col. 1a
From the Boston Commercial Advertiser
Frigate CONSTITUTION, commonly called,  'OLD IRONSIDES,'- On the 4th inst. this favorite and fortunate ship came up and anchored off the Navy Yard. When off India wharf, she fired a national salute in honour [sic] of the day.
The return of this noble frigate to the place of her nativity, and on the 4th of July too, may be reckoned among the instances of good luck that has always attended her. She was launched from Hart's shipyard at the north end, in October 1797, and is consequently nearly thirty-one years old. The severe labor that attended her birth which was only effected at the third trial, was seized upon by the enemies of a navy as prophetic of ill luck! With how little reason, her brilliant career has fully demonstrated. We may safely challenge the annals of naval history, to name the ship that has done so much to fill the measure of her country's glory.  She sailed on her first cruise on Sunday, the 22d of July, under the command of Captain Samuel Nicholson, and returned about the middle of November. This was during the brief war with the French Republic. We notice the appointment of Isaac Hull as her fourth Liutenant [sic].  In May of 1803, Commodore Preble was appointed in her command, and in June he sailed with the squadron for the mediterranean [sic], destined to act against Tripoli. To all conversant with this scene of war, it is well known that the Constitution acted a conspicuous part, in fact bore the brunt of the battle.  After the destruction of the Philadelphia of 44 guns, she was for a long time the only frigate on the station, and being ably seconded by the smaller vessels with the gallant Decatur, did more to humble the pride of the barbary states, than all christendom ever did before or since.
In short, such a variety of service and perilous adventures has never been achieved by any single vessel.- She soon after returned home, where she remained unemployed, or nearly so, till the commencement of the late war with Great Britain. This was on the 18th of June, 1812. On the 12th July she left the Chesapeake for New York, and on the 17th discovered and was chased by a British squadron consisting of the Africa 64, and four frigates, for three days and three nights. She escaped at last by skilful [sic] management, and arrived in Boston harbour [sic] on the 26 of July. This was one of the most brilliant exploits of the war. After remaining a few days in port she sailed again, ' on the 19th of August fell in with , and after an engagement of thirty minutes, captured H. B. M. frigate Guerriere of 49 guns, and 362 men. After burning her, Captain Hull returned again to Boston on the 30th August, and soon gave up the command to Captain William Bainbridge, who with the same crew shortly after sailed on another cruise to South America, where on the 29th December of the same year, after and engagement of about two hours, she captured H. B. M. ship Java of forty-nine guns, and upwards of four hundred men. This was one of the severest contests of the war.  The Java was likewise burned, and the Constitution returned again to Boston. In June, 1813, Captain Charles Stewart was appointed to her command, and on the 30th of December, she proceeded to sea notwithstanding Boston was blockaded by seven ships of war. She returned on the 4th of April, 1814, and was chased to Marblehead by two of the enemy's heavy frigates, La Nymphe and Juno. About the middle of December, 1814 she proceeded on her second cruise under Captain Stewart, on the 28th of February, off Maderia, after an action of forty minutes, she captured H. B. M. ships Cyane of 34; Levant of 21 guns, and upwards of 300 men. The Cyane arrived safe and now forms a part of our navy; but the Levant was recaptured.  The Constitution herself was chased by a squadron under Sir George Collier, consisting of the Leander and New Castle of 50 guns each, and the Acasta of 44.- Her usual good fortune however attended her, and she arrived safe in the United States. Peace had now been proclaimed, and she remained, unemployed again, we believe with single exception, until the cruise from which she has just returned, after an absence of more than 3 years, the details of which have not yet transpired.
She is now to undergo all necessary repairs, and in the first emergency will forthwith be ready to serve her country.  About seven years since she was hove out and completely examined at the Navy Yard in Charlestown, when her timbers 'c. were in remarkable good order-a fact which after twenty-five years wear and tear and hard service redounds not a little to the credit of the old fashioned mechanics of Boston.
In her actions with the Guerrier and Java, the Constitution mounted 54 guns, and 53 when engaged with the Cyane and Levant.  Her loss in the action with the Guerriere was, killed and wounded 14; with the Java, 34; and with the Cyane and Levant, 15 more-total, 62. The Guerriere's loss, killed, wounded, and missing, was 103; the Java's 161; the Cyane's 38; the Levant's 32-total, 341, or in the proportion of five and a half to one.  The prisoners were nearly one thousand.










From the National Intelligencer.
CHOCTAW ACADEMY
This seat of instruction is so called from having been chosen by the Choctaws as the place of their preference, for the education of a portion of their children. It is situated at the Great Crossings, in Kentucky; is under the direction of the Baptist Board of Missions, and the regulations of the Department of War.  The Creeks, hearing of the success which attended their brothers, the Choctaws, followed their example, and appointed, like them, a portion of their means for the benefit of some of their children, as have also the Pottowattamies.
The labors of the institution increasing, it was deemed best by the Secretary of War to lessen them by the introduction of the Lancasterian plan; besides it was believed that greater facilities in learning would result to the youths of the inferior classes. Mr. Ould, who had been selected, and sent over from England by Lancaster himself, for the opening and organizing the Lancasterian School in Georgetown, in this District, was sent to organize the Choctaw Academy, and for the first time, to give the nations of the forest the benefits of this new mode of instruction.
The following is an extract of a letter from Mr. Ould, to Col. McKenney, of the Indian Department, which is published because it so abundantly testifies to the advances of a portion of our red brothers, which will appear extraordinary to those who have thought them incapable of making them.
Many of these little foresters go from their wilderness home, with only their Indian names. To such names are given, and they like best the names of those whose names are most familiar to them; or are pleased in proportion as they are taught to believe (should they never have heard of them) that those after whom they are called are great men, Hence, among the Creek boys at the Choctaw Academy, we have Henry Clay, John c. Calhoun, Richard Rush, Thomas H. Benton, Richard M. Johnson, Andrew Jackson, James Barbour, 'c.
Extract of a letter from Mr. Ould to Col. McKenney, dated Great Crossings (Ky.) June 28, 1828.
'Deeming it not uninteresting, I have taken up the pen to inform you that I have arrived here, and am busily employed in re-organizing the Choctaw Academy.
'It consists of one hundred Choctaw, Creek, Chickasaw, and other Indians, some of whom have made considerable progress, having advanced so far in their studies as to be well grounded in astronomy, moral philosophy, surveying, geography, history, use of the globes, 'c.-removing at once, and I hope forever, the musty idea that our sons of the forest are incapable of civilization. Moreover, many have made an open profession of religion-some Methodists, some Baptists, in short, I never before witnessed so interesting a spectacle, and which a letter is too short to describe.
'The Lancasterian plan is joyfully received, and will no doubt prove a powerful auxiliary.'










Governor Cass, and Colonel Menard of Illinois, have been appointed Commissioners to treat with the Sac, Fox, Winnebago, Ottawa, Pattawatamie, and Chippewa tribes of Indians, for the extinction of their title to the mining country upon Fever River, and also to a tract of land south of St. Joseph of Lake Michigan; and to another, to connect the settlements of Indiana.  The season is so far advanced, that we learn it will be impracticable to hold the council this year for the lead country-it will be held next season. Some of the other objects of the commissioners will be effected this year.    Det. Gaz.










POCKET BOOK LOST
About the middle of July last was stolen out of my Pocket at my house, a large Washed Leather POCKET-BOOK containing one note on the State Bank of Georgia for $10, one note of hand on Elijah Hicks for $85, payable sometime in October next; a receipt of Henry Megyr of the State of New York, for two notes on John Byers of the said State, and some other papers not recollected. To any person getting ' delivering said Book, papers, and money to me; I will give ten dollars and five for the apprehension of the rogue.
I do hereby forwarn [sic] all persons from trading for said note of Elijah Hicks. And I also forwarn [sic] Elijah Hicks from paying said note to any person excepting myself.
GEORGE HARLIN.
Coosewaytee Cherokee Nation, August 13, 1828.-24-th. _______________________________________
Page 4 Col. 5b
An alligator, measuring eleven feet in length, was caught at Little Rock, on the Arkansas, the 13 ult. but not before nine rifle balls had been fired into his eyes and other parts of his head, was he overpowered.


















NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, August 20 1828
In another part of our paper will be found a piece taken from the Little Rock (Ark.) Gazette, which goes to confirm the report we mentioned in our last, respecting the Arkansas Cherokee Delegation.- As the information is derived from the neighborhood of the Nation, we have no reason to question its correctness.
Those of our readers, who have any knowledge of Indian treaties are aware that the one which seems to occasion so much dissatisfaction, is a liberal treaty; yet it is objected to. Does not this fact prove that the Arkansas Cherokees are as averse to removal as we are? Does it not show that the country to which we are invited, and which is recommended to us as an excellent, fertile, and healthy country, is unlike the Arkansas country, much less like our own? for we must consider the Cherokees as good judges in this affair, by far better judges than many designing politicians. We are sorry that there are self interested men in all Indian tribes, who will not scruple to sacrifice the interest of their people, and that the United States, instead of discountenancing, will enter into treaties with them, contrary to the feelings of the rest of their brethren. If such a course is pursued, there is no hope for the Indians.
____________________________________










CHEROKEE LANGUAGE.
ANSWER TO PROFESSOR RAFINESQUE'S QUESTIONS.
[Continued]
Question 6. 'Are there not several dialects of the language yet spoken, or is the uniformity complete? what is become of the Ayrati dialect which changed L into R, and called the Mountain Cherokis Otari  instead of Otali, and the whole nation Chiroki whence your English name of Cherokees? Are they all gone to Arkansas?'
Answer: There are two principal dialects in the nation, each of which is denominated by those who speak the opposite (Cherokee symbols)(U-nv-sta.). Between these two there are various shades of approximation to one or the other.- There has also been a dialect called (Cherokee symbols)(gi-du-wa,) but I know not whether it is now distinguished.  Those of the one dialect give the sound of R, where the other give that of L; and the difference in other respects is considerable. The name of the nation is not pronounced by them Chiroki, but Tsa-ra-gi. No dialect has, or probably ever had the sound of Ch. The name of the dialect Ayrati is not recognized. It was probably given by some white man, and seems to have come from the word (three Cherokee symbols), signifying low, pronounced in one dialect E-la-ti, and in the other E-ra-ti.  Very few of those who speak the latter dialect were among the emigrants to Arkansas.
Question 7. 'What is the meaning of the following historical names and words in Tsalagi, translated into English?
Otali, Cherokee symbols Tsalagi,
Alati, Cherokee symbols Teomi
Olata, Cherokee symbols Melilo
Teliquo, Tanassi, Amana
Talasi Cusa Matika
Alega Satula Olaimi
Atsala Talomeco Utina
Awalatsi Timuaca, Mayla
Hitanatsi Yamasi Atsora
Quowatsi, Aquowaka Hemanlini.
Ans. Among this list I find only the following recognized by those to whom I have immediate access as Cherokee names or words; viz, Otali (Cherokee symbols) a mountain; Alati, probably Elati, (Cherokee symbols) low, below; Olata, (Cherokee symbols,) an ancient word signifying fireless, a place destitute of fire; Teliquo (Da-li-qua,) (Cherokee symbols), the name of a place in the state of Tennessee, now called by the whites Tellico; Talasi (Cherokee symbols) The name of a place; Tanassi (Cherokee symbols), the name of the Tennessee River; Cusa (Cherokee symbols), the Cherokee name of the Creek Indians; and Tsalagi, the name of the Cherokee Nation. These names, if they were ever significant, have lost their significancy, and are known only as proper names. Perhaps some others in the list may have sprung from Cherokee origin, but the attempts of Englishmen to write Cherokee names have been so extremely awkward, that it is often impossible to recognize them.
Question 8. 'Try to give literal translations of the Lord's prayer and some other fragments, word for word in opposition to each other, so as to offer at once a view of words and syntax; but the words must each be separated and distinguished either in two perpendicular lines or double lines, one word Tsalagi and one word English annexed to each other and separated from all others!'
Answer. Literal translations, word for word, from English into Cherokee, are beyond the limits of possibility.- The following of the Lord's Prayer is perhaps as great an approximation as can conveniently be made. The translation ' retranslation are substantially the same as in No. 1 of the Phoenix, but here arranged in parallel columns, and the retranslation still more literal.
Cherokee symbols Our Father
Cherokee symbols above
Cherokee symbols who dwellest,
Cherokee symbols honored
Cherokee symbols be
Cherokee symbols thy name.
Cherokee symbols *Thou king
Cherokee symbols the being so
Cherokee symbols spring to light.
Cherokee symbols Let happen
Cherokee symbols what thou wilt
Cherokee symbols on earth,
Cherokee symbols above
Cherokee symbols as does happen.
Cherokee symbols Our food
Cherokee symbols day by day
Cherokee symbols bestow upon us.
Cherokee symbols In that we have transgressed against thee
Cherokee symbols pity us
Cherokee symbols those who transgress against us.
Cherokee symbols and
Cherokee symbols do not
Cherokee symbols place of straying
Cherokee symbols lead us into
Cherokee symbols restrain us from
+Cherokee symbols (on the other hand)
Cherokee symbols transgression.
Cherokee symbols For thine [is]
++Cherokee symbols ++ thou king
Cherokee symbols the being
Cherokee symbols and
Cherokee symbols thou strong
Cherokee symbols the being
Cherokee symbols and
Cherokee symbols thou honored
Cherokee symbols the being
Cherokee symbols forever.
Cherokee symbols This
Cherokee symbols let be.
It will be observed that a single word in Cherokee requires often several English words to translate it.- Fewer words are required in Cherokee than in English to express the same ideas, for the reason, that what we express by pronouns, adverbs, and prepositions is, in Cherokee, expressed chiefly by variations of the verb.
W.
_________________
*Thou king the being so, thy being king, thy dominion.
+ (Cherokee symbols) and (Cherokee symbols) are particles, inseparable from the word to which they are attached, and signifying variously according to the connection.  (Cherokee symbols) two lines below, is also an inseparable conjunction.
++ Thou king-thou strong-thou honored. The Cherokee word in each of these instances must necessarily have person for want of abstract terms.- The words (Cherokee symbols) however, when united, convey the same idea as in English. Thine is the dominion, empire,  or, to coin a word, kingship.










WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES
In our first number, we gave an extract of a speech of Bloody Fellow, or Oo-ne-ne-doo-yah, at a conference held in Philadelphia in 1791 between the Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation, and the Secretary of War, Gen. Knox. We now publish the entire speeches of the Cherokees, the Secretary of War, and Gen. Washington, as contained in a book, presented to the Cherokees by Washington, and signed with his own hand. As education has since been introduced and progressed in this Nation, business between the General Government and the Cherokees is carried on through the medium of written correspondence, as our readers will have noticed in some of our past numbers.
The following Cherokee Chiefs and Warriors arrived at Philadelphia, on the twenty-eight of December 1791, by the way of Charleston, South Carolina; bringing with them evidence from Governor Pinckney and General Pickens of the authenticity of their mission, to wit:
Nenetooyah,- or Bloody fellow.
Chuthloh, - or Kingfisher.
Nontuaka, - or the Northwards.
Teesteke,- or the Disturber.
Kuthagusta,- or the Prince.
George Miller
James Carey, Interpreter.
Having been clothed they were, on the fourth of January of 1792, introduced to the President of the United States, who desired them to communicate their business to the Secretary of War. They were assembled for this purpose at his house on the fifth, when the Secretary of War addressed them in the following manner- Colonel Thomas Proctor and Constant Freeman being present, besides James Carey, and a young Indian warrior named George Miller, who jointly acted as interpreters.
Chiefs and Warriors of the Cherokee Nation! - As you are now recovered from the fatigues of your long journey and voyage, we will proceed to business. But before you mention the objects of your journey, it is proper that I should inform you, that the President of the United States, gives you a hearty welcome to this city. He has commanded me to assure you, that your arrival makes him glad-that he will kindly hear everything you have to say, and he hopes, that you will open your hearts fully, and conceal nothing from him; as it is his desire that the white and red people should become one people, and live together like Brothers on the same land-speak therefore without reserve, for you speak to real friends.
Conference of the Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation with the Secretary of War.
THURSDAY January 5th 1792.
Bloody Fellow: I am come a long journey by the direction of my whole nation and others, our neighbors, to take the President of the U. States, and yourself by the arm-but I am not prepared at present to make a full communication of my business. One of the Counsellors is sick and left behind, I cannot therefore, till the next day after the morrow (Saturday) make you acquainted with my particular business.
It was the wish of my nation when I left it, that all the speeches, both on their part, and the answers thereto, by the President of the United States, or yourself, should be committed to writing and transmitted to them.
I will explain myself fully agreeably to the desire of my nation, and I hope so fully to your and their satisfaction, that an everlasting white cloud will be over them.
[Bloody fellow then presented the Secretary of War with two silver medals.]
These medals were presented by Colonel Martin, about four or five years ago, but as some disturbances have since happened they are now returned, to obtain others from the United States. Medals are valuable to the Cherokees, and when accompanied with speeches, are monuments of friendship to their nation.
[As Bloody fellow and the other Chiefs had nothing more to communicate on this day- it was agreed that they should again meet at the house of the Secretary of War, at 11 o'clock on Saturday morning.]
[TO BE CONTINUED]










'In White county, state of Tennessee, near the town of Sparta, there have been discovered three burying grounds, where a very small people are deposited in tombs (coffins) of stone. The greatest length of the skeletons is nineteen inches. Some of these people appear to have lived to a great age-their teeth being worn smooth and short, while others are full and long. Many of the tombs (graves) have been opened, and the skeletons examined. The graves are about two feet deep; the coffins are of stone, made by laying a flat stone at the bottom, one at each side, one on at each end, and one over the corpse. The dead are all buried with their heads to the east and in order, laid on their backs and their hands on their breasts.  In the bend of the left arm is found a cruise or mug, that would hold nearly a pint, made of ground stone, or shell of a grey color in which is found one, two, or three shells supposed to be sea shells. One of these skeletons had about the neck, ninety-four pearl beads. There are many of these burying grounds. Near the one which I examined is the appearance of an ancient town. The bones found in these graves are strong and well set. The whole frame appears to be well formed. These grave yards are in extent from half an acre to an acre and a half.- In the same neighborhood is a burying ground where the dead are buried in the same manner as above described, and where the skeletons are from seven to nine feet long.' -Zion's Herald.










New Jersey and New York.- Messrs. Webster, Wirt, Wall, Wood, Frelinghuysen, and Vroom, have been employed as counsel for New Jersey, to conduct the suit in the Supreme Court of the United States, against the state of New York, relative to the long disputed boundary between the two states.


















[CONTINUED]
WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES.
Saturday, 7th January.
Bloody fellow: On Thursday last, I was not prepared to enter upon business, as one of the Chiefs was then sick-I am now desirous of entering upon business.
About two years ago Nontuaka was chosen by his Nation to go to New York, to the great beloved man, at the great white house; when he was there, he had not a good interpreter, and not well understanding the english [sic] language, he could not well receive so much advantage from his journey as his Nation expected. When he returned the whole Nation were assembled, and were disposed to enter upon the business of peace between them and the United States.
I shall now enter upon the business in behalf of my own and other Nations.
[The Bloody fellow then produced a string of white Wampum, which he held in his hand until the business of the day was finished.]
I wish you to be, if you are not already made, acquainted with the use and value of these beads, which among the Cherokees answer the same purpose as letters with you, and are held in the highest estimation.
George Miller, one of our people has been brought to attend this treaty, both as a witness and that, he might assist the interpreter in explaining our talks, as he understands the english [sic] language.
It was early in the summer, soon after the treaty with Governor Blount, that the whole Cherokee Nation was assembled, and we delegated on this treaty. The whole Nation were assembled at the great beloved town, Astanolay (on the waters of the Mobile,) when it was agreed on to send an embassy to Philadelphia, to see the President of the United States, and yourself.
The talks to Nontuaka, delivered by the President and you, are now in the beloved town Astanolay, and these talks have induced us to come to this place. In these talks you informed us, that as North Carolina had not joined the Union, our business could not be attended to; but as that State has since joined, we hope our business maybe now accomplished.
Before I left my nation it was determined that a stop should be put to the further effusion of blood, and that they should take the United States by the arm with a warm heart.
The talk which I am now delivering to you, is the talk of the beloved men of my Nation, with a desire that their children might grow up on the land in peace: and this is the talk of our beloved men.
Among us we have two Kings to look up to, but you have only one, who we hope will extend his eye over all, both red and white.  We have put ourselves under the protection of the United States, and from them only do we expect justice, and we wish to become as one people. We wish our talks may be attended to, and we have that justice, which is the portion of all.
We remember the talks of our forefathers, who told us of the first coming of the white people, over the great waters, that they were few in number and settled on the lands of the red people- they have now become so numerous as to be able to overpower them, but we still expect we shall have justice done us.
Last summer we received talks from Governor Blount, informing us that he was authorized to hold a treaty with us; we accordingly repaired to the place appointed.
When we left our country we all rejoiced in the expectation of having something done for us in regard to our lands, but when we arrived at the treaty ground, we were sorry to find it was not the case.
Very soon after we opened our business, Governor Blount informed us, that he was authorized by Congress, to purchase our lands of us, which being so contrary to our expectations afflicted us exceedingly.
When I found Governor Blount wanted to purchase our lands, I told him, that I loved my lands, and would not part with them, that, I came there not to treat of selling land, but on public business of friendship between the white and red people. I tell you truly what I said to Governor Blount, and I am come to ask of you whether he was authorized to purchase our lands?
We remained seven days, at the place of treaty, on this business, and Governor Blount still urging us to sell our lands- the thoughts of which made tears come into my eyes daily.
On the seventh day, finding Governor Blount still urging the sale of lands, I told him, I was desirous of going to General Washington and Congress, to see whether I could not obtain better satisfaction; to which, Gov. Blount replied, that he was fully authorized for the purpose, therefore it would be unnecessary for any Indians to go.
I however persevered in my wishes to go to Philadelphia, when Governor Blount asked me whether I had money to defray the expenses of my journey, this struck me forcibly, and reflecting that our people young and old were in his power, I then told him that if he would not demand so much land of us, we would give him a small piece, without any consideration whatever, if he would let us and our children return to our own country in peace and safety.
In answer to this Governor Blount told me that he had goods in his house to pay for the lands, besides which, one thousand dollars should be paid yearly. I told him that I could not think of taking it, that it would not but a breech-clout for each of my nation.
When the treaty was first fully opened, Governor Blount asked of us lands at the Muscle-Shoals, I told him that we could not give them up, as they were not clearly our property, but belonged to the four nations, and were the common hunting grounds for them.
Governor Blount told me, that he had already purchased of these lands of the State of Georgia, but was desirous of making a fuller purchase of our Nation. That he intended to erect store houses on these lands from which we could be supplied with goods, and smith's shops where our guns could be repaired.
After which Governor Blount proposed a line upon the upper parts of the Tennessee, to go from that river upon a ridge which divides the waters of Nine Mile Creek from Little River. This line, I also refused.
Governor Blount then proposed another line, at the Fork below Chota, to run to the aforesaid ridge, which he said he wanted to settle on himself for the purpose of being near our nation, and that he might more readily confer with us on public business, and he said none others, than himself should settle there. The Fork I rejected.
Governor Blount said he would quit the Fork, but wished that the line might be on the aforesaid ridge, which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those of Little River, and that this line should be a lasting line, in order to divide the white from the red people. On which I complained to him, that the white people had settled on our lands there, without our permission.
After a good deal of dispute with Governor Blount I proposed that from the fork down of the long Island of Holstein, should be the boundary (he having before mentioned a water course.) But he still insisted upon the ridge before mentioned, observing that the game on that ground was all destroyed, the land settled and therefore could be of no use to us.
As Governor Blount still insisted upon the before mentioned line, I asked him whether the handful of goods was all he meant to give us for the lands, and if so, it was nothing equal to the value of them.  To which Governor Blount replied that the few goods he had, were not intended to pay for the lands, but as presents.  The yearly payment of one thousand dollars was to pay for the lands.
It is my desire that you should understand, that John Watts and myself were the principal speakers at the treaty, being appointed for that purpose, by our Nation. That we repeatedly told Governor Blount that we considered the sum of one thousand dollars per year, as too small a price for our lands; and not near as much as Mr. McGillvray had obtained for a worse tract. He replied that he was not authorized to offer more, but that he would write to Congress upon the subject, and let us know whether more would be granted.
John Watts told Governor Blount that he knew the North Carolina people to be headstrong, and that they had under the sanction of a flag of truce laid his uncle, The Old Corn Tassell [sic], low, it was therefore vain to contend about a line at this time, as he knew that they would have their own way. And that they would not observe the orders of Congress or any body else.
Watts further told Governor Blount, that we wondered that he should be appointed for this business, being a North Carolinian but that he would notwithstanding make him an offer of a line. Whenever you North Carolinians make a line, you tell us it shall be a standing one; but you are always encroaching upon it, and therefore we cannot depend upon what you say.
Governor Blount replied to Watts, that these lands on the line now contested, were taken from the Cherokees in time of war, and that he did not therefore consider the settlements made on them as encroachments.- This is all which Watts said upon the subject. He told me privately that the death of his uncle so affected him, that he could not speak any more, and desired me to finish the business.
After Watts retired, Governor Blount repeated to me the observation about the country's having been conquered, he told me, that I knew the Americans had driven the English out of the country and that the land had been purchased with American blood. On this I observed, that although it was true the English were driven from the country, they had come a great way to fight the Americans, and that the Americans had been assisted by the French. That no good purpose could be answered by bringing these up now, and therefore such things ought to be buried forever.
[The Bloody fellow and the other Chiefs then agreed to meet again at the Secretary's house on Monday, the 9th instant at noon.]










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, August 27, 1828
We are credibly informed that Col. Hugh Montgomery, United States' Agent has received orders from the War Department to visit every section of this Nation, and enroll emigrants for the western country, in company with James Rogers and Thomas Maw. These are two of the (Ark.) Cherokee Chiefs who lately violated the delegated powers conferred upon them in exchanging their country for another comparatively of no value. This conduct of their's is so dissatisfactory to their poor brethren, that it has produced no common degree of sensation. We are told that their lives are in danger, and poles are erected on which to exhibit their heads. To avoid the punishment which awaits them, and which seems to have been apprehended by them, they have been travelling in this Nation, and are now to undertake a very unpopular, and we would add, serious task of influencing the people of this country to emigrate. We hope, however, for the sake of peace, nothing will be attempted which may go to implicate us as a people.
We would request our readers to bear in mind that Col. Thos. L. McKenney, special Agent of the General Government, sometime since, silenced a Cherokee, who was employed by the Creek Nation as Secretary, on the ground of interference.- Whence arises this inconsistency? Why are these inter-meddling Cherokees thrust in amongst us ' paid by the United States, when they are unwelcome, and possess no right in this country? Why not 'break' these 'interfering Agents' 'on the spot,' as did the special agent in the Creek Nation? Can such inconsistency proceed from benevolent motives, and true love for the Indians? Is it not more to gratify the State of Georgia, than to procure our benefit that this emigration is recommended and the present efforts to effect it are now pursued? Such efforts may ruin us, by disorganizing the Nation, and the state of Georgia may reap benefits on our ashes, but upon whom will the blame rest?
The Agent will commence his journey with his two Cherokee companions about the first of September. We understand that he considers his present appointment the most unpleasant of any in his life. By virtue of his office he is bound to obey the orders of the War department, and we sincerely hope he will be treated with respect during the execution of the business entrusted to him.










Murder- On Sunday last we had a melancholy comment on the evils of intemperance and Sabbath breaking. George Chapman a tailor by trade, had a quarrel with Daniel Wright, labourer [sic] (both excessively intemperate drinkers,) and happening to meet about the middle of the day at Nares', just over the line between this village and Fayette, in Seneca County, they 'talked it over' and were apparently reconciled. According to a vulgar custom, however, they must ratify their treaty of amity over a bottle of whiskey, and here the smothered flame of resentment again burst forth. Chapman swore he would kill Wright. To escape danger Wright went into the granary and lay down on the oat bin. Chapman followed a while afterwards, seized a spade, and repeated the threat. Wright attempted to get up, but received a blow on the head which prostrated him, and which was followed by others in quick succession. Chapman went to the house avowed what he had done and was taken into custody. Wright died about an hour afterwards. After the frenzy of the liquor subsided the mind of the wretched murder awakened to a sense of the horrid deed he had perpetrated and to the inevitable doom which awaits him. - Geneva Gaz.
______________________________
A young man by the name of John Cox, a seaman, on board the ship Constitution, has received $40 for his grog money, and I have been credibly informed that he has not drank any liquor on board the ship.- 
Philanthropist.
____________________________
From the New York Observer
THE DRUNKARD IS CAST OFF.
It was nearly 5 o'clock when I reached the Pier at Albany. The broad flag of the steamboat was gloating in breeze, and passengers were pressing on board. The signal for starting was given. A few were pushing through the crowd of spectators. Among the rest, a man of decent appearance and in good apparel, crowded to the plank, and staggered upon the deck. He was half drunk and was ordered to leave the boat, ' immediately helped off by 2 men. He begged hard for a passage to N. York, offering money. It was all in vain- he was drunk, and should not go.
I stood by the gang-way. He reached me a small roll of bank bills, saying, 'I will give you $50, if you will take me to New-York,' I refused telling him to put his money in his pocet [sic]. He still persisted, and stretched out his hand with the money as the boat slowly moved from the dock.- He was held from falling by strangers in whom he still offered money for his passage. The boat moved swiftly down the stream, and I saw no more of him.--Probably he reached some resting place, will waking from his dream he found himself moneyless.
The scene made a deep impression on my mind, I thought:
1. The drunkard is despised and his company rejected, even by temperate drinkers.- He is welcome only in the grocery or dram-shop and by those made delirious with the poisonous draught.
2. The drunkard destroys his property.- In his derangement he offers all his money to strangers for trifles.- Perhaps he has a wife and children in want and distress. Perhaps for want of this very money his goods may be seized, and his estate ruined forever.
3. The drunkard is rendered incapable of examining the truth, consequently cannot know the word of God. His senses are blunted-his affections are destroyed-his mind is deranged, he renders his life a scene of sinking brutality; at last he may wish for a conveyance to the heavenly world, and offer all that he has for the favor. But alas! he is deranged- he offers to, he knows not whom- he is rejected, and his soul is cast off forever.
Volume 1, ATOR.


















WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES.
Monday, January 9, 1792
Bloody fellow. I shall explain myself fully and hide nothing from you.
When we were assembled at Astanolay, before we left our Nation, as I mentioned the other day, just as we began our business arrived Chinabee, the Chief of the Natchez, and of the Creek Nation, we were glad that he arrived at that moment, as he was sent by his Nation. He spoke to us, and said that he was glad to find us assembled, as he was sent by the Chiefs of his Nation with a talk to the President, recommending to him the Chiefs of the Cherokees who should go to Philadelphia. He said we are near neighbours [sic] and ought to be as one people. We have been to Congress and settled our business to our satisfaction; but you have still a deficiency; go then to Congress and have your affairs settled as our are.
He further desired us to believe what the President would say to us, and that he would attend to us because we were recommended by him (Chinabee) so that our children might grow up in peace, and that the red and white people should hereafter be as one.- Chinabee also said, I look upon the Cherokees as our elder brothers- I judge that they will be fully satisfied with the success of their journey- that upon their return I shall hear all this in a talk from them- and I shall come for that purpose.
Chinabee desired particularly, that we should say that Bowles' arrival had excited disturbances in the minds of the Creeks, who wished to know from the Creeks, who wished to know from General Washington, what authority Bowles had for this conduct. That this answer was earnestly requested upon our return, in order that the Creeks might know how to conduct themselves against Bowles in the affair. This is an important point, on which we desire full information.- This is all the talk from the Creeks, and as a proof of the truth of it, we give you a string of beads from them  in token of their friendship.
[ Bloody fellow then presented the Secretary of War with a single string of white Wampum.]
Hear now the talk from the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations! This talk was brought by Chenowie and another Chickasaw, and two Choctaws, who came together to Tatokie, or the town of the springs, below Chickamaga, on the Tennessee, in the month of September last.- They said:
'We were sorry our elder brothers, that we could not come while you were setting upon business with Governoy [sic] Blount, but we were informed of the matter too late. But understanding that you are about setting out for General Washington, we desire, that he would hear what you should say in our behalf, and on your return we will again attend upon you to learn the news.'
'Tell General Washington, that the Carolina people ought not to be appointed to hold talks with the Indians, as they always ask for land, and that we desire a person to be appointed by him who will not ask for our lands, but do justice to the white and red people. We have proved that we have regarded General Washington's words- and we now desire, that he will make the white people equally quiet, and not breed disturbances.' Here ends the talk of the Chickasaws and Choctaws, which is confirmed by this string of beeds.[sic]
[The Bloody fellow then presented a string of white Wampum] and said:
When
Nantuaka returned from General Washington, two years ago, he sent good talks to all the nations, of the kindness with which he was treated, and of the intentions of General Washington to do justice to the red people about their lands. We hope General Washington has not forgotten the good talks to Nontuaka, we desire nothing more.
Having now fully explained my business, I will tell you what our beloved men and warriors told us when we left our country.
They told us to make haste, to finish our business and to return as soon as possible, so that by fully informing them of the good dispositions of General Washington, measures might be taken to restrain the young warriors, whose minds are greatly disturbed by the proceedings of last summer.
The Kingfisher. We have fully explained every thing- I am witness to it-I hope all things will be finished well; I have never been for spedding [sic] blood of our elder brothers, and I hope we shall always live in peace and friendship.
The Bloody fellow. We now mention a small circumstance for your consideration.  A young man by the name of George who is now with us, and who served your troops, has complained to us, that he never received any pay, think of this.
We earnestly entreat, that General Washington would now send a man with us who shall protect us in our lands and be our friend; and who will explain all things, and at all times.- He shall reside with us and we will take care of him. If two men were now to be sent it would be better than one.
Nontuaka. I have attended to the talks of the President, delivered two years ago in New York, and always believing in his words, I have persuaded our warriors to repair again to the President, knowing we should have justice done us fully; and it makes my heart glad to find myself under the roof of my friend who treated me so kindly when in New York.
We are now here, and have explained ourselves upon our business- I hope all things will be done to our satisfaction, and that we shall be sent away with good news, so that all our people may be made glad upon our return home.
[The Chiefs having thus explained themselves, it was agreed that they should meet the Secretary of War, at his house on Wednesday the 11th instant, to receive his answer.]










CHEROKEE LANGUAGE
ANSWER TO PROFESSOR RAFINESQUE'S QUESTIONS.
[Concluded]
Question 9. 'What numerals are used by the Tsalagi, give the names of number to 10,in letters, ' the ciphers? Do they count decimally or how?'
For the answer to this question I must refer Professor R. in part to the table of numbers contained in the second number or your paper, which I presume he has received. By examining that table he will perceive that the Cherokees count by tens, hundreds, and thousands. Their number terms are simple as far as ten. Thence to nineteen they add to one, two, 'c., the syllable s, tu, with a variation of the simple term for the sake of euphony. Twenty, thirsty, 'c to 90 are formed by the combination of two, three, 'c. with ten. Above twenty to twenty-nine they add the termination (Cherokee symbols) to the simple terms one, two 'c. Above thirty-nine they add to the same simple terms the termination (Cherokee symbols) Ga-li, and the same above forty to forty-nine, ' so on to ninety-nine, prefixing, however, in every instance above thirty-nine, the decimal number. The term denoting one hundred is formed by adding (Cherokee symbols) a-sko-hi ten, the syllables (Cherokee symbols) tsu-qui; and each decimal number between one and two hundred by adding the same termination to (Cherokee symbol) sa-du eleven 'c. thus (Cherokee symbol)eleven, (Cherokee symbol)one hundred and ten; wws ta la du, twelve, (Cherokee symbol) one hundred and twenty. Any number of hundreds less than ten is formed by adding the termination (Cherokee symbol) to the simple numbers two, three 'c. to nine; thus (Cherokee symbol) ta-li two, (Cherokee symbol) two hundred. Between thousands any number of hundreds may be expressed either by eleven, twelve, 'c. followed by (Cherokee symbol) i-ya-tsu-qui, as (Cherokee symbols) eleven hundred, or by adding to the number of thousands the excess of hundreds. In the later case they add the term (Cherokee symbols) wi-du-na-tlv-di, which denotes addition; thus (Cherokee symbols) a-ga-yv-li ta-li-tsu-qui wi-du-na-tlv-di, one thousand and two hundred. (Cherokee symbols) signifies a thousand, (Cherokee symbols) ta-li-iii-ya-ga-yv-li two thousand 'c. They have also a term for million, which is (Cherokee symbols)a-ga-yv-li-ya, a real thousand, by[sic] it is not universally known, and (Cherokee symbols) a thousand thousand is better understood.
Question 10. 'I send you a short vocabulary of the Language spoken by Apalachi, Timuaca or Yamasi in 1640; please to compare the words with the Tsalagi, and point out those which have a resemblance, or give the corresponding Tsalagi words.'
Ans. There are no words in the vocabulary which bear any resemblance at all to the corresponding Cherokee words. I however annex the vocabulary, with the Cherokee words in a parallel column.
English Apalachi Cherokee
Man viro, cara, hua [1] Cherokee symbols A-ska-ya
woman nia Cherokee symbols a-ge-hyv
father iti [2] Cherokee symbols e-do-da
mother isa Cherokee symbols e-tsi
child chirico, kie, ule Cherokee symbols a-que-tsi
brother niha,hiasa [3] Cherokee symbols v-gi-ni-li
Cherokee symbols v-gi-nv-tli
Cherokee symbols v-gi-do
sister yachamiso Cherokee symbols v-gi-do
do. amita Cherokee symbols v-gi-lv
do. yachamina
river achi Cherokee symbols e-quo-ni
king cusi, cuhe Cherokee symbols u-gv-wi-yu-hi
queen qui
emperor paracusi Cherokee symbols u-gv-wi-yu-hi
earth gua,aga Cherokee symbols e-lo-hi
great ma, mi Cherokee symbols e-qua [large]
holy hari Cherokee symbols ga-lv-quo-di
priest iaohua [4] Cherokee symbols a-do-ni-ski
fine hitana Cherokee symbols u-wo-du [pretty]
valiant hiba [5] Cherokee symbols
u-li-tsv-ya-sti
Cherokee symbols u-ska-se-di
1 one minecota Cherokee symbols sa-quo
2 two naincha Cherokee symbols ta-li
3 three nahapu Cherokee symbols tso-i
fish baza wasa Cherokee symbols a-tsa-di
yes haha Cherokee symbols v-v
maize hazez naarimi Cherokee symbols se-lu
mountain aimi Cherokee symbols o-da-li
house maste, bohio Cherokee symbols a-da-ne-lv
Cherokee symbols ga-li-tso-de
God Yao, Que,Tec, Io [6] Cherokee symbols
u-ne-la-nv-hi
Cherokee symbols
ga-lv-la-ti e-hi
spirits inama teka [7] Cherokee symbols
u-tse-lv- nv-hi
Cherokee symbols na-ye-hi
Cherokee symbols a-da-nv-to
city meli Cherokee symbols ga-du-hv
council ilo Cherokee symbols de-ga-la-wi-v
sum ol,huga,tona Cherokee symbols nv-to
bird tsuli Cherokee symbols tse-squa
lake tseo Cherokee symbols v-da-l-i
gold sierapira,silahila [8] Cherokee symbols
da-lo-ni-ge a-te-lv
my na [9] Cherokee symbols
a-qua-tse-li
thine ye Cherokee symbols tsa-tse-li
his, her mima Cherokee symbols u-tse-li
our mile [10] Cherokee symbols
gi-na-tse-li
Cherokee symbols
o-gi-na-tse-li
Cherokee symbols
i-ga-tse-li
Cherokee symbols
o-ga-tse-li
your yaya Cherokee symbols tsa-tse-li
their lama Cherokee symbols u-na-tse-li
__________________
[1] In distinction from woman. The general name of the human species if (Cherokee symbol) yv-wi.
[2] (Cherokee Symbols) my father, (Cherokee symbols) tsa-do-da thy father, (Cherokee symbols) u-do-da his father 'c.- so (Cherokee symbols) my mother, (Cherokee symbols) tsi-tsi, thy mother, (Cherokee symbols) my child 'c. The nouns of relationship are inseparable from the possessive pronouns.
[3] (Cherokee symbols) my elder brother. (Cherokee symbols) my younger brother. These two are used only by men. (Cherokee symbols) my brother used by a woman. (Cherokee symbols) my sister used by a man. (Cherokee symbols) my sister used by a woman.
[4] (Cherokee symbols) signifies a conjurer. Conjurers seem to have acted the part of priests more nearly than any other class of persons. In translating scripture (Cherokee symbols) a-tsi-lv ge-lo-ho, fire feeder, is used. The Cherokees formerly offered sacrifices by throwing pieces of meat 'c. into the fire, and this was called feeding the fire.
[5](Cherokee symbols) who makes himself a man. (Cherokee symbols) literally signifies dreadful, but is the term most commonly applied to a valiant warrior.
[6] (Cherokee symbols) the Creator. (Cherokee symbols) he who dwells above. These are their only names for God. They never call him the Great Spirit, as it has been erroneously supposed that all Indians do.
[7] (Cherokee symbols) is a little troublesome imaginary supernatural being, which sometimes drives or rides persons about through marshes and briar-patches by night, and otherwise torments them. Jack with a lantern goes by the same name, and perhaps deserves the credit of giving rise to the fable. (Cherokee symbols) denotes a superior order of beings.   (Cherokee symbols) the soul, the spirit.
[8] Yellow metal. (Cherokee symbols) denotes either of the precious metals, but usually silver, or money, unless accompanied with (Cherokee symbols) yellow.
[9] (Cherokee symbols) my one thing. (Cherokee symbols) my more than one thing. (Cherokee symbols) thy  one thing. (Cherokee symbols) thy more than one. (Cherokee symbols) his one thing. (Cherokee symbols) his more than one.
[10] (Cherokee symbols) belonging to thee and me; (Cherokee symbols) belonging to him and me (Cherokee symbols) to you and me; (Cherokee symbols) to them and me. (Cherokee symbols) of you two (Cherokee symbols) belonging to you,
more than two.  These have also a plural form, as (Cherokee symbols) our [of thee and me]  more than one things 'c.










New Echota:
Wednesday, September 3, 1828
The principal Chiefs were to start last Monday on a tour through the Nations, we presume to prepare the minds of the people for the coming of the Agent and his two Cherokee friends. This new step of the General Government being so unexpected to a large portion of our citizens, unguarded persons may be tempted to employ violent measures (not against the Agent, but against his assistants.) It is therefore important that they should be advised to use as much forbearance and lenity as the circumstances of the case will admit. For our part we should be extremely sorry to notice anything like violence offered against the two Arkansas Cherokees, while they are fostered by the United States.  We are not sorry that this experiment is to be made, for we expect the repeated assertion that the majority of the Cherokees are willing to remove, is now to be falsified.
_________________________________
The following is from the Georgia Journal.  All that we have to say to it, is that, the intelligent gentleman did not communicate a very intelligent information, and that if the hope for our removal is to be raised by such means, that hope may be kept up fifty times a year, and as often blasted.
THE CHEROKEES
In a conversation which we lately had with an intelligent gentleman, we were given to understand that the prospect of a removal of those Indians residing within the limits of Georgia was very good, and would certainly take place at no very distant day.- This auspicious result was to be brot' [sic] about by the operation of the treaty made last winter, with the Cherokees west of the Mississippi. It was even stated to us that, Ridge, Vann, Ross, and perhaps some other influential individuals were making purchases of property west of the Mississippi with the view to removal. So encouraging was all this, that, we had high hopes of witnessing the early fulfulment [sic] of the wishes of Georgia in this regard.- But the following information, has dashed them all.
Here follows the information received from Arkansas in regard to the dissatisfaction expressed by the Cherokees to the late treaty.
__________________________________________________
(In Cherokee)










From the Savannah Georgian.
NOTICE.
LITERARY PREMIUM.
'The lands in question belong to Georgia, she must and she will have them.' Report to State Senate Dec. 5, 1828 [date}].
Convinced that the claim advanced on behalf of this State to the country inhabited by the Cherokee Indians, has no foundation in justice- Strongly impressed with the opinion that the completion of the views of those politicians who advance it, will justly entail upon Georgia the odious charges of being Faithless- Covetous-Ungrateful- and Inhuman-
(Faithless-Because we have treaties with the Cherokees defining the present boundary; up to which boundary we have full and undisputed possession-
Covetous- Because our present territory, nearly fifty thousand square miles, is out of all proportion large for our population-so that for centuries to come it will not be properly cultivated-
Ungrateful because upon a late emergency, a number of the warriors of that Nation drew their swords in our behalf with conspicuous service.
Inhuman-I ought to say Barbarous Because in modern times-in civilized countries-there is no instance of expelling the members of a whole nation from their homes-of driving an entire population from its native country. The notoriously disgraceful partition of Poland involved no such stigma of cruelty.)
Convinced, also, that if the territory could now be received with honor, it would be impolitic to receive it- Our true policy being to hold the United States bound to us for the equivalent of its value at a distant period-
Believing likewise that the people of this State, if made properly acquainted with the subject, are too religious, too honest, too honorable to sanction claims so irreligious, so dishonest, so dishonorable- and which, if enforced will result in such deep disgrace to themselves-such enduring shame to their posterity. - Under these convictions, and in this belief, I intend to offer a Memorial to the next General Assembly; and desiring that  this Memorial may illustrate and enforce these views with ability and energy, I hereby offer A PREMIUM OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS, for that Production, which, in respectful language, shall, in my opinion, most perfectly accomplish that purpose.
The manuscript, written is a legible hand, to be left at my counting room, or forwarded to me here, free of expense, before the 10th day of November next.
R. CAMPBELL.
Savannah, August 13, 1828.
_________________________________
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday September 3, 1828
Volume 1 No. 27
Page 3 Col. 4b
From the New York Observer.
HOT COFFEE vs. RUM
Last winter, one of the Fire Companies in Brooklyn passed a resolution, prohibiting the use of spiritous [sic] liquor as a refreshment in cases of fire. It was doubted, by some of its members, whether the measure could be carried into effect, in consequence of the erroneous impression which prevailed, that men could not work at an engine any length of time unless assisted by what is considered a moderate supply of spirituous liquor.
At the time spirituous liquor was abandoned by this Company, they provided an apparatus at their engine house for making coffee. The late great fire in Brooklyn afforded an excellent opportunity to test the experiment. While other Companies were with their usual refreshment, No.- drank their hot coffee.  Every member was satisfied that they were more refreshed by this, than they ever had been by the use of liquor on similar occasion; and what was highly gratifying, several members of other Companies left their brandy, rum, 'c. to take a cup of coffee with this Company, who had thus taken the lead on the side of temperance.
The members of several other Companies are endeavoring to get similar resolutions passed; and I have no doubt the force of example will be sufficiently strong to drive the use, or rather abuse, of spirituous liquors, at times of fire, our of all the Fire Companies in Brooklyn, and substitute in the place of poison, wholesome
HOT COFFEE.










From the New York Observer.
HOT COFFEE vs. RUM
Last winter, one of the Fire Companies in Brooklyn passed a resolution, prohibiting the use of spiritous [sic] liquor as a refreshment in cases of fire. It was doubted, by some of its members, whether the measure could be carried into effect, in consequence of the erroneous impression which prevailed, that men could not work at an engine any length of time unless assisted by what is considered a moderate supply of spirituous liquor.
At the time spirituous liquor was abandoned by this Company, they provided an apparatus at their engine house for making coffee. The late great fire in Brooklyn afforded an excellent opportunity to test the experiment.  While other Companies were with their usual refreshment, No.- drank their hot coffee. Every member was satisfied that they were more refreshed by this, than they ever had been by the use of liquor on similar occasion; and what was highly gratifying, several members of other Companies left their brandy, rum, 'c. to take a cup of coffee with this Company, who had thus taken the lead on the side of temperance.
The members of several other Companies are endeavoring to get similar resolutions passed; and I have no doubt the force of example will be sufficiently strong to drive the use, or rather abuse, of spirituous liquors, at times of fire, our of all the Fire Companies in Brooklyn, and substitute in the place of poison, wholesome
HOT COFFEE.


















WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES
Wednesday, January 9th 1792
The Secretary of War, addressed the Chiefs and Warriors of the Cherokee Nation, as follows:
Brothers- I am heartily glad that you have disburthened [sic] your hearts in your own way; because I am sure, when the red people see the hearts of the Great Chief, General Washington, and the Congress, that we shall become as one people, each living in peace and safety with our families.
You have mentioned some uneasiness about the treaty with Governor Blount, but the President, and the Senate of the United States, who are his Council, on this business, believing that this treaty was a good and satisfactory treaty, as well for the red and white people, have confirmed it- printed it as you here see, and it has become the law of the land; and if any bad white people should encroach upon your ground, or do any thing contrary to that treaty, they would be immediately punished.
It is therefore for your good that the treaty should be punctually complied with in all its parts, as well by you, as by us.  Perhaps you may not clearly understand some part of the treaty; if so, speak, for we wish to remove all possible causes of difference and obstacles to our becoming one people.
Bloody fellow, in reply.- What you have said, is true and just; and you shall now hear all I have to say, so that nothing may hereafter lie heavy upon the hearts either of the red or white people.
I have heard you talk with satisfaction, but I am afraid every thing has not been fully explained from the treaty ground.  I have considered well on our business and shall unfold all to you.
We are now together upon important business to us- I wish therefore to see the line Governor Blount has mentioned to you.
(a Map was accordingly produced, with the lines mentioned thereon, to which no material objection was made, as it was stated that the lines were to be run by Commissioners from each side.)
Bloody fellow.  At the time of the treaty we objected to giving up so much land; but for the sake of peace and quietness we did it. But we object to the little money given for so much land. We request therefore that something further may be done in the matter, so that all our people may be quiet in their minds.
Instead of one thousand dollars a year for our lands, give us as much more, that is, fifteen hundred dollars a year, and we shall be perfectly satisfied.
If this could be obtained for us- we do not require it in money, but in goods bought in Philadelphia where they are cheapest; and to be sent to General Pickens, by the way of Charleston.
We should be happy that our business could be soon finished, that we might take one years goods with us- that you might sent a man with us, so that you may learn the satisfaction which we shall spread on our return.
The treaty mentions, ploughs, hoes, cattle and other things for a farm, this is what we want; game is going fast away from among us. We must plant corn and raise cattle, and we desire you to assist us. If these things could be sent us the next season, it would be of great service to us.
We wish you to attend to this point. In former times, we bought of the traders goods cheap, we could then clothe our women and children, but now game is scarce and good dear, we cannot live comfortable. We desire the United States to regulate this matter.
I shall now speak upon a point of great importance; the ridge which divides the waters of Little River from the Tennessee, is the boundary fixed by the treaty. But the white people are already over it, and their numbers have increased since the treaty. Remove these back, or our people will not be quiet. We speak strongly on this point.
We came to Philadelphia with our eyes full of tears; but since we have seen General Washington, and heard him speak, through you, our tears are wiped away., and we rejoice in the prospect of our future welfare, under the protection of Congress.
Governor Blount spoke very much to us, that a trading house should be established at Bear Creek below the Muscle Shoals on the Tennessee.- We could not consent to this- after we return home, we talked among ourselves on this matter, and it would be very disagreeable to our Nation.- But we have heard that this matter is still going on. We desire that the man you send with us should prevent this settlement at the Muscle Shoals.
I have now explained all I had to say, and hid nothing from you.
I now speak of the private affairs of our party, who are now here, you see that being upon the business of our Nation, we could not go a hunting and therefore our families will be unclad, unless you will do it, and we hope you will.










NEW ECHOTA;
Wednesday, Sept. 10, 1828
Last Wednesday, the Agent commenced his business at Coosewaytee. If he does not meet with a better success in other places, he will hardly make out a boat full of emigrants.
____________________________
Western Carolinian a paper published in North Carolina talks as follows:-
'Our readers doubtless recollect the failure of the recent attempt by the commissioners, (Gens. Davidson and Gray, of this state, and General Cocke of Tennessee) to enter into negotiations with the Cherokee Indians; and that their indisposition to sell was ascribed to the influence which white men exercise in this Nation.  Subsequent events have demonstrated that the affairs of the Cherokee Nation are wholly managed by the whites and half breeds.'
What are the subsequent events that has brought about this wonderful discovery? Why, reader, simply because 36 to 56 of our candidates for the General Council happened to have English names. This, with the wise editor of the Carolinian, is a complete demonstration that 'the affairs of the Cherokee Nation are wholly managed by the whites and half breeds.' Amongst the 56 were some half breeds, but not a single white man.
______________________________________
'At a called meeting of the citizens of Montgomery County, Ala. August 9th, 1828 to take into consideration measures for the more speedy acquiring for Alabama the Creek Indian Territory,' Mr. Moseley Baker, Editor of the Alabama Journal made a speech. The following short extract will afford a good specimen of his harangue.
They [Indians] themselves know not how to act: the God of their nature has not given them capacity to judge for themselves, save in chasing the wild buck of the forest. The Indian knows not the advantages that would attend a removal.  Bound down by the iron mask of ignorance and savageness, he knows not how his state would be meliorated, nor cares not.- Indeed, sir, but very few know a treaty was ever made, or that one is desired; or if they have heard, they have no correct ideas concerning it.- No, sir, but very few should have the appellation of even Indian- they are something less; humanity will pardon me the expression: but, sir, their situation is more abject, more degraded, they are more ignorant, more debased, than the idea of Indian can convey.- As members of the human family, the sun of reason and light appears never to have shed his softening rays over them; they appear to have sunk into a lower state of ignorance and darkness than the dark, barbarous age of the Goths. They are a gang of roving gypsies: they have no homes, no country; they have no firesides; they have no monumental sepulchres [sic] as described by the advocates against their removal, but are wandering in droves throughout every part of our State, subsisting by the humanity of the inhabitants, or living by plundering them of their property.
____________________________________
New Echota, September 8, 1828
Mr. Boudinott,
Sir: Enclosed you will find the constitution of the Methodist Tract Society of the Cherokee Nation; which you can publish in the Phoenix if you think proper. And hereafter I will furnish you with the proceedings of the Board of managers.
Yours Respectfully.
N. D. SCALES.
CONSTITUTION
Of the Methodist Tract Society of the Cherokee Nation.- Adopted by said society on their organization, June 14th 1828 at Oougillogee.
Art. 1 This association shall be denominated the Methodist Tract Society of the Cherokee Nation, auxiliary to the tract society of the Methodist Episcopal Church.
Art. 2 The business of the society shall be conducted by a President and Vice-President, corresponding Secretary, Treasurer and five managers, to be chosen at the annual meeting.
Art. 3 It shall be the duty of the President, or in case of his absence the Vice President, or if both be absent, of a member chosen for the occasion, to take the chair, keep order and cause the business of the society to be transacted with propriety and despatch.
Art. 4 It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the minutes of the Board of managers and of the Society, conduct the correspondence and prepare the annual report.
Art. 5 It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to take charge of the funds of the Society, answer all orders on the Treasury by the Board of Managers, and render an annual account to them of his receipts and expenditures.
Art. 6. The Managers shall meet at such time and place as they may appoint for the transaction of business; they shall have power to adjourn their meetings at pleasure; and of their number three shall be a quorum.
Art. 7. Every annual subscriber paying twenty-five cents in advance shall be a member, and one dollar paid in advance, shall entitle them to membership for life.  Each subscriber shall be entitled to Tracts to the value of one half their subscription. Ministers of the M. E. Church on the circuit or station, shall be considered ex officio members of the society, and all such preachers shall form or be considered a distributing committee for the purpose of distributing Tracts gratis, also to dispose of others to purchasers.
Art. 8. A place or places of deposit shall be fixed by the Managers, and a depositary appointed who shall deliver tracts according to the direction of the Board, he shall keep an accurate account of the different Tracts received, their number and description, he shall be accountable to the board of Managers, and report to them when required, and pay over the money received from the sale of tracts to the Treasure.
Art. 9. All moneys paid into the Treasury of this association after the necessary expenses are defrayed, shall be remitted to the Tract Society of the M. E. Church for the purchase of Tracts, to be distributed agreeably to this constitution.
Art. 10. The Secretary shall give official notice of the establishment and prospects of this association, together with such information as will be likely to effect its objects, and shall forward the annual report to the Parent Society.
JAMES I. TROTT, Pres't
Nicholas D. Scales, Sec'y.










Cherokee Lands.- Gen. R. M. Saunders, who we a few weeks since mentioned, had repaired, under a commission from the Governor of this state, to Haywood County, to enter into contracts with divers Cherokee Indians, for a relinquishment of their claims to certain reservations of lands, some of which have been sold by the state returned last week to his residence in this town. We learn that General has been successful in contracting for the extinguishment, at moderate price, of the Indian claims to twenty-six of these reservations, and entered into conditional contracts for the purchase of fifteen more-comprising all the reservations to which the Indians were enabled to establish valid claims.- These contracts are to be submitted to the Generally [sic] Assembly, for their ratification, before they can become binding on the state. But; from the favourable [sic] terms upon which they have been entered into, we presume the Legislature will not hesitate to ratify them. --Western Carolinian 12th Aug.
_____________________________
Creek Indians- We have understood that, in consequence of the dissatisfaction expressed by many of the Creek Indians who had subscribed their names and agreed to form a part of the emigrating party, a disturbance has taken place among them, and rendered it necessary for the Government to take some precautionary measures. Capt. Wager's Company of the 4th Regiment has been ordered to repair immediately to the scene of disturbance, and will leave here in a few days. It is supposed the disturbance has been created by Indians opposed to emigration, and some white persons who have influence in the nation.
Pensacola Argus, 29th ult.
________________________________
From the People's Friend
Confessions of a Rum Drinker.
No one who has not experienced the effects of habit, when appearing under the form of vice, can judge of its absolute power, nor of the insidious advance it makes, from the moment when we first become acquainted with it, to that when we have become slaves to its power, and completely subjugated to a tyrant, whose influence increases the longer we are governed by him. We do not at once become vicious. We are led on gradually from one step to another; we go deeper and deeper, until we are involved too seriously oftentimes to be extricated.
I pass by the history of my former life.  Suffice it to say at the present time, that at the age of 25 I was the father of a family, and in circumstances of prosperity. Fortune had, indeed, denied me wealth, and I was compelled to be dependant upon my own labour [sic] for a livelihood;-yet that would have afforded me enough to live easy, had I properly improved the privileges in my power. But, alas, how keen is the agony I feel, when I think of the past! Its horrors and realities are before me; and I see myself again (as I was then) a loathed and hated wretch, for whom affection had lost all feeling-for whom life had no joy. I was then a slave to intemperance.
I contracted the habit as thousands have done, and as thousands do now. I began by little, but repeated indulgence made way for new efforts to arouse the dormant and paralyzed energies of my frame. One step made way for another. The oftener I raised the accursed cup to my polluted lips, the oftener, I burned for it again. Did I think then I would be the hated, sinful wretch I soon became? No- Though I saw thousands around me who were sunk by the same destroying spirit into the most abject misery, yet I only pitied them, and did not fear that such would be my fate, for I trusted in my own prudence, my own sense of moral rectitude, little dreaming that I was going on imperceptibly to the same grade of depravity, and that habit was every day throwing around me allurements which, in a little while human power could scarcely destroy.  Yet so it was and it was infatuation that hid from my view the precipice I stood on.- Oh what an awful fall is such a one! But let me finish my history.
I was at this time in the bloom of life.  Every thing might have been beauty and happiness around me, for God had blessed be infinitely more than I deserved- infinitely more than even now, a redeemed man, I dare to ask. My circumstances were favorable. My employment afforded enough to supply the wants of my family, and I could even allow them to indulge in some of the luxuries of life.  But, alas, how soon was I doomed to see these fair prospects wither.
As it generally happens in cases like mine, the companions with whom I associated were, like myself, fond of frequenting  taverns- those great marts vice and immorality. To such places I often went, when my daily labor was finished, and spent there many thoughtless hour in riot and debauchery. Yet I was not so far gone iniquity as not to feel now ' then, when reflected upon my life, a secret sting of conscience. Unfortunately, however, it had but little effect upon me. Reason ceased to exercise her wonted power. Every day found me involved more and more, and it was not long before the taverns and intemperate companions had more attraction than my innocent and suffering family. The consequence was, my business was neglected, my credit was lost, and poverty and distress soon followed after.
In this way I went on, step after step, until at length I became a confirmed toper.  I made myself an object of scorn and derision. The finger of shame was pointed at me as I walked the streets. But need I add any thing more to the picture? Every one knows what a wretched, loathsome object a drunkard is. He has made himself worse than a brute-sunken in depravity, lost, lost to all sense of moral feeling. And need I say, too, that all shame and disgrace heaped upon me by the world, failed to bring a bout a change of habits, when the tears and entreaties of a beloved wife, and the misery and want of my innocent children, had no redeeming influence over my heart? Oh what a state of cold, adamantine insensibility! I had been the possessor of feeling, but every fibre of my heart was palsied. Vice had set up his throne there, and it was all desolate and drear.
I pass by the five long years of my moral death.  I do not love to swell upon the subject.  Let me only say, that during that period I was an outcast from society. My wife and children were taken from me, and generously supported by a relative.  Every thing I owned was seized upon by my creditors, and my property was lost forever.
I am now an altered man. It has cost me many a struggle to break off from the pernicious habit; but, by the blessing of God, I am redeemed, and restored once more to myself and to the world.
Let him remember, who puts the glass to his lips, that vice steals imperceptibly upon its victims; that security consists, not in meeting, but in avoiding temptation; and that no one who is in the habit of drinking, be it ever so little, can safely say, he will not be, in a few years, what I was?
M.
_________________________________
From the N. Y. Observer
INTERESTING TO DRUNKARDS.
In the latter part of July, Samuel Wager, about 70 years of age, was found dead at Chester, N. J. sitting with his back against a fence,- in a state of putrefaction and covered with worms,-having in one hand a rum bottle, and in the other a cork!! He was an old veteran in the service, and had destroyed cast quantities of intoxicating liquor-that cruel enemy of man. He was not without his reward; for he reached the highest honors to which the drunkard seems to aspire, viz. the poor-house, and to die drunk, unlamented and alone in the open field, exposed to the ravages of vermin, a sight too appalling for human nature!!- What encouragement is this to the thousands who are following in the same steps!
_____________________________










The Rev. William McKendry, Bishop of the  Methodist Episcopal Church will preach at Creek Path on the first Sunday in October, and on the second at Oothgelogy.
The Methodist Camp meeting which was to have been held at Rock Spring meeting house in the neighborhood of McNairs on the first week in October is altered, and will commence on the last Thursday in September.










Physical, Civil and Moral Power of the West.- The following is taken from an article in the Quarterly Journal of the American Education Society, for April.
Physical Power.- By the Western States, we mean to include those which are situated between the Allegheny and the Rocky Mountains, and are watered by the Mississippi, and its tributaries. The Territories of Michigan and Arkansas contain 586,000 square miles. It is only fifty-five years since the first English settlements west of the Allegheny, were made in Kentucky.
At various periods since, settlements have been made in most of the States belonging to the Western division.  Thirty-eight years ago, the entire white population of all these States amounted, as we have said, by actual computation, to scarcely 150,000-making a little over seven persons to a square mile.  Their ratio of increase has been not far from 100 per cent. The ration will probably diminish as the country grows older and those checks of population increase which ever exist in long settled States. But it is hazarding little to say, that in 1850, the Western States will contain a population larger than that of the other great divisions of the United States.
Of their capability to support a population equal in density to Massachusetts, no doubt can be entertained.
The number of persons to a square mile in Massachusetts in seventy. By recurring to the number of square miles in the Western States, it will be seen, that with a population equal in destiny [sic] to Massachusetts, they will contain 36,960,000 inhabitants. The effective military force of a population of 10,000,000, may safely be estimated at 1,000,000. When therefore, the Western States shall contain a population equal in destiny [sic]  to Massachusetts, their effective force will be nearly 4,000,000- an army superior to that which can be brought into the field by the Autocrat of Russia. The above estimate is undoubtedly too low. A moment's reflection will satisfy any one, that the Western States are capable of sustaining a much larger population, who takes into consideration the salubrity of their climate-the extent and fertility of their soil-the richness of their mines-the facility they have for working them, - and the great navigable rivers and tributary streams by which they are watered, suited either for manufacturing establishments, or the purposes of commercial enterprize and activity.
In the preceding remarks, no regard has been paid to the unorganized territory belonging to the United States in the valley of the Mississippi. When, therefore, these immense regions between the Allegheny and the Rocky Mountains shall be filled with a population equal in density to Massachusetts, their physical power will be greater than that of the mightiest nation now in existence.
Civil Power.- By civil power is here meant that influence which any division of our country possesses in the national councils. Proceeding, then, upon the calculations laid down in the tables published in another part of the present number of the Journal,* it will be seen that the civil power of this nation will soon be wielded by the people of the West. Divide the United States into four parts, Northern, Middle, Southern and Western. The present number of Representatives in Congress, from each of the divisions, is as follows: Northern 39- Middle 67-Southern 64- Western 46.- Whole number of Representatives from the first three divisions, 176.- From the last. 56.  Under the present regulations the apportionment for a representative is 40,000. According to the best calculations which can be made, it is ascertained, that in 1850, the population of the Northern, Middle, and Southern divisions of the United States will be 11,384,705; while that of the Western division will be 11,424,550. Should the rate of apportionment be the same then as at present, the first three division will have 267 Representatives, and the last 269; leaving the balance of power in favor of the West. The apportionment in future will, no doubt be much larger than at present; but upon the principle of equal representation, whatever the apportionment may be, the influence possessed by the West will be the same.
In little more than twenty years, therefore, the Western States will have a majority in Congress; and in fifty years that majority will be overwhelming. Of course they will be able to control all the measures of the General Government which are of great national importance.
Moral Power- Now, when we reflect that the Western States, according to the lowest estimate one is capable of sustaining a population of more than 36,000,000, we find their moral power must be great in them for good or evil, in proportion to their intelligence or ignorance, virtue in them prevail among their citizens.  Many have before shewn [sic] that in 1850 they will have a majority in Congress, for it is well known that the character of a representative ever corresponds with that of his constituents.  If the people are industrious and virtuous, then their representatives will be men of like spirit. But if ignorance, licentiousness of manner, and a disregard of religious obligation, prevail in the community, then reckless demagogues and abandoned profligates, will inhabit the sacred hall of legislation; and ambition and self aggrandizement and loss of power will take the place of patriotism and public spirit, and an unspoken attachment to the best interest of the nation. Where such a state of society exists, the elective franchise, which is the peculiar glory of America, will become one of its deadliest scourges. Nothing, therefore, will prevent a dissolution of the Union, and save our free and-happy institutions from utter subversion, but patriotism and intelligence, directed, animated and controlled by the purist moral principles, pervading all classes of people at the West.
*The tables here alluded to, give comparative increase of the several divisions of the country in the following ratios: Eastern States 12 7 per cent. Middle 32 8; Southern 19 4; Western 99. The comparative population of the same divisions of countries when as dense as the present population of Great Britain, will be as follows: Eastern States, 11,851,200; Middle, 18,072,000; Southern, 56,173,000; Western 120,960,000; unorganized territory, 153,658,000; total 360,000,000.


















[Continued]
WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES
My Children of the Cherokee Nation! attend! In a former interview soon after your arrival, esteeming you the representation of your whole nation, I received you with open arms and an hearty welcome. I then referred you to communicate freely all you had to say to General Knox the Secretary of War, and I am glad to learn that you have fully disclosed all the things which you had in your hearts to say; and he has reported the same to me.
I am highly satisfied with the confidence you repose in me, and in the United States as your friends and protectors.
We shall indeed rejoice in being the instruments of the Great Master of Breath, to impart to you and your whole Nation, all the happiness of which your situation will admit. To teach you to cultivate the earth and to raise your own bread as we do ours-to raise cattle-to teach your children such arts as shall be useful to them, and to lead you by degrees from one information to another, in order not only to better your situation on this earth, but by enabling your minds to form a more perfect judgment of the great works of nature, to lead you to a more exalted view of the Great Father of the Universe.
Rest therefore upon the United States, as your great security against all injury.
But, in order to receive the good designed for you, it will be your duty upon all occasions to be peaceable-to be kind to the whites-and above all, not to indulge resentment upon any supposed injury, but rather apply to the United States or their Agent for redress.
My Children- You have mentioned something about your past grievances. We too have had causes of complaint on our parts, but we are desirous of burying deep under ground all past evils.
We will now consider the treaty made at Holstein, near the mouth of French Broad, on the second day of July last, as the bond of our union.- Adhere to that treaty on your part, as we shall do on ours.
You have asked whether we have authorized Governor Blount to make that treaty, he being a Carolinian? In answer to your question we tell you now that Governor Blount is the Agent of the United States, and that he will always speak truly to you, and you must depend upon what he shall say to you on our behalf.  Respect him therefore and love him for my sake, and I will answer that he shall conduct himself as your friend.
When he shall send to you that he is ready to run the lines according to the treaty, attend to what he shall say and repair to him immediately.
It is very important to you as well as the whites that the boundary should be known so that no bad people trespass in future on your grounds.
My Children- Attend to me now, for I shall reply directly to the objects which you have communicated as the cause of your journey.
You ask, firstly, that you should have a greater sum each year for your lands than was stipulated in the treaty of Holstein.
Governor Blount told you truly that he could not give more than one thousand dollars yearly for the lands you relinquished; because he was limited to that sum.
But my Children, as you have requested five hundred dollars more, and as the United States and myself are desirous of affording you every proof of our friendship, we comply with your request; and you shall accordingly, receive suitable goods to the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars, yearly.
You ask, secondly, that you should take with you goods to the amount of one year's allowance. This request is also granted, and you shall have the goods accordingly.
You ask, thirdly, that the white people who have settled to the southward of the new line which divides the waters of the Tennessee from those running into Little River, should be removed.
I answer that the people shall be removed as soon as the line is run.
You ask, fourthly, that a person shall be sent to reside in your nation who shall be your Counsellor and protector, in behalf of the United States.
I shall also comply with your request in this instance, and I have accordingly appointed this Gentleman, Leonard Shaw (presenting him at the same time,) to return with you and reside in the Nation.  He is a man of knowledge, and is desirous of being serviceable to you in teaching you and your children useful arts.  Is he acceptable to you? and will you protect and comfort him and follow his advice?
You have asked, fifthly [sic], that we shall make no settlements at the Muscle Shoals on the Tennessee.
Be assured my Children, we shall not make any settlements at that place, which we understand to be the hunting grounds of several of the southern Nations, without their consent. It is however proper that you should agree among yourselves about your own boundaries, so that there be no dispute in future on that account.
It is proper also that you should understand that the United States have stipulated by treaty with the Chickasaws, to establish a post at the Occochappo or Bear's Creek below the Muscle Shoals.  This ground the Chickasaws stated as solely belonging to them. They asserted this at the treaty of Hopewell, when a considerable part of your Nation was present, and it was not denied on your part.
And lastly it is proper that you should know, that the object of the United States, is not to make a settlement there for the purpose of hunting or clearing your lands, but to prevent bad white people from doing it, and that you may obtain goods cheaply under the protection of the United States. It is the General Government who will be present there and not a disorderly set of people. But notwithstanding that these are the objects of the United States, yet a trading post will not be established there if it be disagreeable to the red people.  Consult therefore among yourselves and with your neighbours [sic], and let me know your wishes on this subject.
You have asked, sixthly, for two Interpreters, who shall be sworn to communicate all things faithfully which shall pass between the United States and your Nation; and you have pointed out James Carey, who is present, as a proper person for one Interpreter, and after your return you will let Governor Blount know whom your Nation will choose for the other.
In conformity therefore to your request, I appoint James Carey one Interpreter and leave it to the Nation to nominate the other.
I have ordered that you should be well clothed yourselves; and that you should also carry home some clothing for your families besides other personal presents of Medals and Rifles, which you have received.
I have besides ordered personal presents of a similar nature to be provided and sent by Mr. Shaw to be delivered in the name of the United States to the Little Turkey, the Badger, the Dragging Canoe, John Watts, Katakiskee, the Hanging Maw, the Breath, the Boots, the Black Fox, the Thigh, the Glass, and Dick of the Look Out Mountain who I learn are the principal chiefs of your Nation.
You will understand that all these presents are in addition to the annual allowance to your Nation, which allowance is the public property, and to be distributed in the most fair manner upon your arrival at home in the presence of the Little Turkey and your other great Chiefs. And I am sorry you have been detained here so long, but the Great Spirit above having covered the waters with ice and the ground with snow our vessels nor waggons [sic] could not pass, nor could your goods be transported, this you have seen and will be able to declare to your people.
You have mentioned one Bowles, who has caused disturbances among the Creeks- my Children, believe what I say to you concerning that man-he is an impostor and a deceiver and means no good either to the white or red people and therefore ought not to be suffered to reside among the Indians.
My Children- You may be told when you get back to your Nation, if you have not heard it already, that a battle has been fought between the white people, and the hostile Indians living at the Miama Towns and on the Wabash north west of the Ohio, and such others as they could draw to their aid; and that our people were beaten with considerable loss; and you may be told too by some of these Indians, who probably may visit your nation, that this dispute has arisen from attempts of ours to take away their lands.
That a battle has been fought; that we have lost many men and were obliged to retreat at that time is true. But that the dispute is about land is false. We neither claim nor do we want to possess any land beyond the boundary, which has been established between us and those Nations of Indians whose right it was to fix it, and who did it by three different treaties. All we have asked and all we require is that our frontier people may live undisturbed in their persons and properties; and these dispositions have been communicated to them in various messages and by every means in our power, before we marched any forces against them, and even after they had at different times between the close of the war with Great Britain and the march of the troops under General Harmen killed wounded and carried into captivity, one thousand five hundred of our people and more than two thousand of our Horses.
This my Children is the truth, you have it from my own mouth; and I will not deceive you. But hearken further to my words- though we were unsuccessful in the last battle from causes which are not necessary to mention, yet if these unfriendly Indians do not now come forward and make peace with this country on the terms of equity and justice, the force that will be sent against them in future will be able to cut them off from the face of the earth.
Losing an hundred a thousand or even ten thousand men would not be missed in this country. But such a loss would destroy the whole of these Indian Nations which are at war with us.
Look through the streets of Philadelphia, and behold the number of people! and what are these when compared with the whole number in the United States? Why not more than one leaf is to the whole number of those which grow on a tree.  Had you travelled to this place by land, instead of coming by water, you would have been an eye witness of the truth of this observation, and even then you would not have seen half the extent of the United States which are now joined together and will act as one man, and all must resent what is done to a part. I mention these matters to you my Children and friends, that all bad Indians may be acquainted with it and know what must be the consequence of waging an unjust war against the United States, or injuring the property of any of its citizens.
My Children- There are several other matters, which General Knox the Secretary of War will speak about to you in my behalf and which you must attend to.
But I shall subscribe my name to this talk which shall be written in your book, in order to be preserved among you as a witness of our transactions together, and to which you may have recourse in future.
This book you will sacredly preserve and not suffer any thing to be written therein, but in the presence of the United States or their Agent who is Governor Blount, and under him Mr. Shaw.
In this book the treaty between the United States and the Cherokees will be written together with your speeches here, and this answer thereto.
Besides this manner of recording our proceedings, I confirm all I have to you in your own method, by a White Belt as the emblem of the purity of our hearts towards you.
I shall also in answer to the Messages and Belts brought by you, send particular Messages and Belts by Mr. Shaw to the Creeks, the Choctaws and the Chickasaws- I consider their interest and the interest of the United States as the same, and shall accordingly treat them as our firm friends and children.
Given under my hand at the city of Philadelphia this third of February in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety two.
GO. WASHINGTON.










From the Charleston Observer.
Mr. Editor- Not long since, my attention was arrested by reading the following lines on Eternity, in a discourse delivered nearly a half century ago. The writer's text was Matt. 25c 41v.  'Then shall he say unto them on the left hand, depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.'- After describing the curse under which the finally impenitent will hereafter be shut up, their misery, the punishment of loss, and a sense in hell, their society that of devils, he considers the Eternity of the whole. With the hope, Mr. Editor, (should you think them worthy of a place in your interesting paper,) that they will beat the eye, and arrest the attention, of some of your readers, and lead them to reflect, as it did the writer of these remarks on that eternal state before them, and especially if impenitent, on the eternity of misery to which they are exposed, they are copied for the Observer.
______________________________
ETERNITY.
'If I could,' says the writer 'I would shew [sic] you what eternity is- I mean the creature's eternity. But who can measure the waters of the ocean, or who can tell you the days, years, and ages of eternity, which are infinitely more than the drops of the ocean! None can comprehend eternity, but the eternal God. Eternity is an ocean whereof we will never see the shore: it is a deep where we can find no bottom; a labyrinth from whence we cannot extricate ourselves, and where we shall ever lose the door. There are two things one may say of it. (1) It has a beginning. God's eternity has no beginning, but the creature's eternity has. Sometime there was no lake of fire; and those who have been there for some thousands of years, were once, in time, as we now are. But (2) it shall never have an end. The first who entered into the eternity of woe, is as far from the end of it, as the last who shall go thither, will be at his entry. They who have launched out furthest into that ocean are as far from it as ever. Wherefore, eternity, which is before us, is a duration that hath a beginning, but no end.  After millions of years past in it, still it is a beginning. God's wrath in hell will ever be the wrath to come. But there is no middle in eternity-when millions of ages are past in eternity, what is to come; no not so much as one drop of water falling from the tip of one's finger bears to all the waters of the ocean. There is no end of it; while God is, it shall be. It is an entry without an outgate, a continual succession of ages, a glass always running which shall never run out.
'Observe the continual succession of hours, days, and months, and years, how one still follows upon another, and think of eternity, wherein there is a continual succession without end.- When you see a water running think how vain a thing it would be, to sit down by it, and wait till it should run out, that you may pass over-look how new water still succeeds to that which passeth by you, and therin you will have an image of eternity, which is a river that never dries up. They who wears [sic] rings, have an image of eternity on their fingers; and they who handle the wheel have an emblem of eternity before them; for to which part soever of the ring or wheel one looks, one will still see another beyond it.- When you look to a mountain, imagine in your hearts, how long would it be ere that mountain should be removed, by a little bird coming but once every thousand years and carrying away but one grain of dust thereof at once; the mountain would at length be removed that way, and brought to end, but eternity will never end. Suppose this with respect to all the mountains of the earth; nay with respect to the whole globe of the earth; the grains of dust whereof the whole earth is made up, are not infinite, and therefore the last grain would at long-run, come to be carried away, in the way supposed, but when the slowest work would be brought to an end, eternity would be in effect but beginning.
These are some rude draughts of eternity, and now add misery and woe, to this eternity, what tongue can express it? what heart can conceive it? In what balance can that misery and that woe be weighed?'
Careless reader, pause-and reflect whether you are going! Examine your hopes for eternity!
DISCIPULUS.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, Sept. 17, 1828
We understand that on last Friday, a murder was committed not far from Crutchfield's mill, by one O-lah [in Cherokee] who in a fit of intoxication thrust a butcher knife into the temple of another, Ah-ne-yvng-le, [in Cherokee]. The murderer has not yet been arrested. Here again is another instance of the dreadful effects of ardent spirits.  How long shall we foster this evil?  Is it not time, high time to bestir ourselves, and make a vigorous exertion to put a stop to the progress of intemperance?- We are happy to state that the repeated instances of murder occasioned by ardent spirits, have had a good effect on individuals. We hope the effect will become general, and that Whiskey will be considered as the most deadly poison, and be entirely discarded.
_______________________________
The following extract of a letter from an intelligent Gentleman residing among the Cherokees of the Arkansas, addressed to a friend of this place, will be read with interest.
Ere this I presume you have seen the new compact entered into by the Cherokee Delegation from this nation. From the documents we have received it appears that the Delegation labored faithfully to accomplish the business for which they were sent to Washington, and when they found that was impracticable, they were pursuaded [sic] to accede to the proposals made by the Sec. of War to enter into a new compact. Very general dissatisfaction prevails among the people.  At first their feelings were excited to a very high degree against the Delegation, who were threatened with the full weight of the nation's indignation. By many, their lives were threatened as soon as they should return.  At this time, the excitement has nearly subsided, and I think that no other punishment will be inflicted upon the Delegation than depriving them of their offices and influence. Nearly all the people are still dissatisfied with the treaty, and think the delegation exercise a most unwarranted stretch of power in making it. What will be the ultimate effect of the new treaty upon the general interests of the Nation it is impossible to foresee. When, however, the disastrous influence and confusion arising from breaking up from their homes and moving shall have subsided, and they shall be settled in their new homes, I do hope the provisions of the new compact will be favorable. This will certainly be the case, if the Nation exercise prudence and wisdom in the regulation of their internal affairs, and in regulating their intercourse with whites. By the new compact, whites can approach them only on one side and all the navigable waters will lie in an Indian country. These circumstances I do hope will greatly restrain, if not entirely prevent the introduction of ardent spirits into the country, as well as put a stop to many unpleasant collissions [sic] with whites. I hope however, that no other Indians will be induced to try the same experiment.










For the Cherokee Phoenix
INDIAN EMIGRATION.
Mr. Editor:- I have seen published in one of your late papers the treaty between the United States and Cherokees west of the Mississippi, and am pleased to see the anxiety manifested by the Government to secure for them a permanent home. This blessing it seems will even be extended to those East of the Mississippi, provided they accede to the proposition of the Government. But the offer of a few such paltry articles as a brass kettle, a few pounds of Tobacco 'c. is too insignificant to be thought of, as an inducement for us to abandon our cultivated possessions, and join our wilder brethren in the west. It is too late to think we can be so much allured by soft words  and smooth promises as to sell our birth-right for a few dried leaves of a noxious weed. Those who may entertain an opinion of our speedy removal, and that too to be effected by such trifling inducements as above, will be lost in the labyrinth of their speculations; and ere long the splendid mansions which their imaginations have builded upon the plains of Look Out and Coosa will vanish before reality, like darkness before the rising sun.
The subject of emigration is indeed one of great importance, and claims the peculiar attention of every citizen. If we direct our eyes to Arkansas, we shall see our brethren in distress, in consequence of their removal; we see them walking in grosser darkness than ourselves. If we look back, scenes which have befallen them are presented to our view, which cause our hearts to throb with brotherly sympathy. How many honest and innocent fathers and brothers have been laid low by the ruthless hands of more ignorant and vicious neighbors. Avarice and barbarity have deprived their social circles of many worthy members, who would yet have added to our number, had a unanimity of sentiment prevailed, and had they not been duped to wander in search of a mere phantom. Who will dare to raise with the spirit of murder the tomahawk at our door? or who will dare to molest us as we pursue the windings of our paths in peace through our fertile vallies [sic]? None. But can our brethren say in truth this is the case with them? With us the war club is only associated with scenes which have long since passed, but is ever suspended over the heads of our more unfortunate brothers. Let us weigh well this momentous subject ere we act, perhaps an age might not undo that which may have been the work of a day. We know the value of our lands, and we know how to appreciate the comforts of life.  We know what has transpired, and we are aware of the possibility of what might again happen. We know the lands which our brethren have given up were very poor and we are certain those which they have got in exchange must be far more barren and sterile, since the face of the treaty has discovered it, and the sum of $50,000 given them 'on account of the reduced value  of a great portion of lands ceded.' The aborigines are not accustomed to the culture of a barren soil, but select the choicest spots, to open their farms; and to be honest in the matter, we have now as much poor land, as we have any use for, without undertaking long journies [sic], undergoing new trials, and making experiments on a broad scale to acquire more.
It is said, 'they (the Cherokees,) have by the exchange freed themselves from the harrassing [sic] and ruinous effects consequent upon a location amidst a white population.' But time will soon prove the contrary; Difficulties of a new and more serious nature await them. It has been pretty well ascertained here, that the Delegates violated, and transcended the authority vested in them, by the Nation, in entering into a treaty. And it is not improbable, but we may see another McIntosh tragedy played over again.  But independent of this: when the game becomes scarce, by being killed up, or driven farther westward, how will they support themselves? penetrate farther into the forest, or turn their attention to agricultural pursuits? suppose the latter, and where will they have sufficiency of good lands for cultivation?  In the event we were to remove and be united with them, our laws would clash with theirs, we should have our own peculiar partialities and prejudices, and they would have theirs; in consequence of this difference perhaps a few avaricious speculating individuals would solicit from the General Government, a set of laws, as stipulated in the 6th article of the treaty. Imagine then how our internal affairs would be regulated, harrassed [sic] on the one side, and embarrassed on the other. Repentance then for the past would be too late. A difference in sentiment would produce a division of parties, and rebellion, dispersion, and extinction would soon follow up in succession.  We should be loth to mediate upon the gloomy prospects of bettering our condition by a removal, far less hazard a ruinous experiment.

An attempt has been made to enforce upon us the belief that if we were to emigrate, it would facilitate our civilization, and we would sooner become an enlightened people. But any man of moral capacity who will divest himself of all unnatural prejudices, and view the subject, will at once perceive the fallacy of this doctrine.  Our present location possesses greatly the ascendency [sic] in every point of view. Our improvement is as rapid as can reason ably be expected, and we are much farther advanced in the arts and sciences than our brethren at Arkansas. Now, I would ask to be informed by the votaries of this doctrine of policy, how it happens that those who live at the 'paradise of the west,' which affords such powerful means to propel them upward in improvement, are so far behind us? The examples of the surrounding states possess a great influence over us. Our political Government keeps pace by gradual changes, as we imbibe new principles of legislation, with our domestic advancement. Our population is not on the wane in consequence of our situation amidst the whites, but is rapidly increasing-the implements of husbandry have been substituted for the bow and quiver. In short we possess all the enjoyments adequate to the support of common life. Now why deprive us of all our comforts, tear us from all we hold dear, and drag us from the soil which gave us birth, rendered doubly precious, as the bones of our fathers have been deposited here from time immemorial, to accomplish that which is now in rapid progression? Why disregard our prayers for justice, cruelly sport with our feelings, and trample under foot our best interests? Will a glimpse of the blue summit of the Rocky Mountains inspire us with a moral aptitude to learn anthems of adoration to the Great Father of the universe? Will an association with bears and buffaloes [sic] give a new spring and vigour [sic] to our efforts, and thereby enhance our civil and moral improvement? or will the examples of more ignorant and barbarous tribes act as a great incentive for us to train up our children after the manner of enlightened communities, that they may become adept in the sciences, and dive into the deep recesses of nature, and finally become a renowned people? No. Remove us west of the Mississippi and what will be the result? In our earlier days we were accustomed to follow the chase for support; we found it an easy life; but we were entreated to abandon it as a preparatory step for the reception of instruction; the game has at length become scarce, and we no longer depend upon it for support, but upon the cultivation of the earth; and those who have not imbibed this laudable spirit from habits of industry, have been actuated by necessity; and now, while we are prospering under the exhilarating rewards of agriculture, the rifle is again put into our hands, and the brass kettle swung to our backs, and we are led into the deep forest where game is plenty, by the hands of those who would once have had us abandon the chase.  Admirably consistent.- Men brought up to the engagement of some certain pursuit are not easily detracted therefrom, when surrounding circumstances invite continuance.- Were we now settled in the `paradise of the West,' the chase would become our favorite pursuit, to follow which, we should neglect other avocations.- The principle which we have imbibed of governing ourselves after enlightened republics would again be subverted into the chase, and we should degenerate from our present eminence, lower and lower, until degradation with its concomitant train of evils should close up the rear.
Notwithstanding the inattention paid by the Government to the solemn resolution of the General Council never again to cede one foot more of land, it is to be hoped and in  justice expected, that the Cherokees are to be regarded as free agents in the disposal of their Territory, and upon a refusal to yield compliance no coercive measures will be used. The Government has acknowledged and guaranteed to us our possessions, and bound herself to protect us in our rights, an observance of which is all the Cherokees will ask. She was not unmindful of her own interest at the time when those treaties were made, but justice and humanity had a voice in her councils, and we trust at this late day, when the eyes of the civilized world are directed to the great American republic, for examples worthy of the high eminence to which she has arrived, she will never suffer herself to be so much influenced by interest as to lose sight of justice, and cruelly despoil a tribe of innocent Indians of their most sacred rights and privileges.
YOUNG BEAVER.


















[CONCLUDED]
WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES.
Communications between the Secretary of War and the aforesaid Cherokee Chiefs.

 Brothers of the Cherokee Chiefs, Attend!- You have heard from the mouth of General Washington, the great chief of the United States, the kindness which is intended for you and all the red people, and how it is proposed that in future our interests should be the same.
But, Brothers, in order to perfect this good work, the wise people on both sides must endeavor to prevent the young men from committing any rash actions.
The great Chief General Washington has informed you how the bad Indians north of the Ohio have been murdering the men, women and children of the people of Kentucky; that those bad Indians not only refused to accept the peace offered by General Washington, but they renewed their murders with greater violence than ever.
That they have beaten some troops which were sent to protect the frontier people, and that the United States are determined to punish with great severity, those bad Indians, unless they will be quiet.
Now, Brothers, it is very probable, the bad Indians will send messages to the Cherokees and by lies endeavor to obtain your assistance.
General Washington who always speaks the words of truth has told you, that we do not want the land of those bad Indians, and therefore whatever they say upon that head do not believe them, and above all prevent your rash young men from joining them.
We know however that the glory of a young man is to be engaged in a war, and that it will be a difficult task for you to restrain them. Consider will upon this point, and if you should find it impossible, to prevent your young warriors from joining one side or the other, will it not be for your interest and the happiness of your whole nation, that your young men should join our warriors as we mean in future to be one people?
If a number of your young warriors join our army they shall be well fed, and shall be well rewarded with money or presents as shall be agreed upon.
You are to understand clearly that this proposal is made for your consideration and free decision-that if you approve you will accept it-that if you do not approve, you will decline it.
The proposal is made to you from a belief that you cannot keep your young men from joining one side or the other.
If they join the bad Indians, they then make themselves our enemies and much misery will be the consequence. If they join our army, the friendship between the United States and the Cherokees will be cemented as firm and as durable as the mountains and we shall always be one people.
Take this matter into your consideration until to-morrow and then let me know your mind thereon.
The sooner we finish our business the better, as I have heard the ice has broken up at New York, and you may if you please go to that place and embark for your own country.
__________________________________
February 9, 1792.
Bloody fellow to the Secretary of War.

 Brother- It is now three days since we received your talk. You desired us to consider well upon the matter, which we have done and are now going to reply to you.
We were sent as Ambassadors from our country, in order to adjust every thing between the United States and the Cherokees and we now see plainly that we have accomplished all we could desire, and we now can return home with confidence and assure our people that full justice shall be administered to them.
We have had the happiness of seeing our father General Washington, and of hearing his talk from his own mouth, and will now assure ourselves under his protection of being a flourishing Nation evermore.
We are persuaded that all he has said to us is truth, and as we are ambassadors for our Nation we are desirous of explaining it to all our people, so that they may lay hold of it as we do.
We received the talk of General Washington and also yours three days ago, and we hold them fast to our hearts. But as ambassadors, we cannot answer for our Nation, until we first consult them-this we shall do immediately upon our arrival home and let you know.
We therefore here act not only as representatives of our own Nation, but of the Creeks, the Chickasaws and Choctaws. We wish also to consult them upon the war with the Northern Indians, and all of us join, arm in arm, as one people, with the whites, to crush the Northern Indians, who we consider as acting wrong and that they are unjustly waging war against the United States.
Were we at home, we should speak more plainly upon this subject. But, although our hearts are good and true to the United States, we wish not to pledge ourselves farther than our authority-although we shall use our endeavors to comply fully with your request.
Mr. Shaw, who you are going to send with us, whom we call the Long Sword, shall be present at our deliberations on this point, and as soon as we come to any conclusion thereon, he shall write to you through Governor Blount. All this comes from our Hearts, free of all deception.
King fisher- You are the man appointed to do our business by our Great Father the President of the United States-we have received both your talks, which give us the greatest satisfaction. We are perfectly happy in finding the business, about which we were sent, so well accomplished. We would only therefore suggest the propriety of running the Boundary line as speedily as possible, in order that those persons who have intruded on the Cherokee lands may be compelled to remove soon. We cannot help mentioning one person that has given us a great deal of trouble-his name is Davidson-he is a magistrate and lives on the banks of the Swannow river.
We must farther add, that we request a letter may be written by the Secretary of War for the perusal of the whole nation containing a positive promise that all persons intruding on our lands shall be turned off, in order that their minds may be fully satisfied.
____________________________________
Personally appeared before me John Barclay, Mayor of the City of Philadelphia, James Carey, Interpreter to the Cherokee Nation of Indians who being duly sworn deposeth and saith that he is well acquainted with English and Cherokee languages, and that the interpretations which he the deponent has given at the respective conferences held between the President of the United States, the Secretary for the department of War, and the Cherokee Indian Chiefs now in this City, were true and faithful translation from the English into the Cherokee, and from the Cherokee into the English languages to the best of his knowledge and abilities, and further this deponent swears, that as he has been appointed the Interpreter of the United States to the Cherokee Indians, that he ever will to the best of his abilities translate every thing which he may hereafter be required to translate between the said parties, and that he will exert himself upon all occasions to promote and keep up a friendly understanding and harmony between the said parties and further this deponent saith not.
(Signed) JAMES CAREY.
Sworn before me the 16th February, 1792.
(Signed) JOHN BARCLAY, mayor.
_____________________________
Personally appeared before me John Barclay, Mayor of the City of Philadelphia, George Miler or Suwegey, one of the Cherokee Indians, who being duly sworn deposeth and saith, that he is well acquainted with  the English and Cherokee languages, and that he the deponent was present at the several conferences between the President of the United States, the Secretary for the department of War and the Cherokee Indian Chiefs now in this City, at which conferences James Carey served as Interpreter and that the several translations made by said James Carey at the respective conferences from the English into the Cherokee, and from the Cherokee into the English languages were made by him the said James Carey faithfully and agreeably to the spirit and significations of the respective languages to the best of the knowledge and understanding of him, the deponent and further saith not.
(Signed) JOHN BARCLAY, Mayor.
_______________________________
City of Philadelphia,ss.
I Leonard Shaw do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States and that I will well and truly serve the United States in the office of Deputy Agent to the Cherokee Indians and that I will not be concerned either directly or indirectly in the Indian trade.
(Signed) LEONARD D. SHAW.
Sworn before me the 16 February, 1792.
(Signed) JOHN BARCLAY, Mayor.
___________________________________
The foregoing are all genuine copies, excepting the speech of the President of the United States, which is the original and signed with his own hand.
H. KNOX, Sec'y of War.










VARIOUS KINDS OF INTEMPERANCE.

Doctor D. M. Reese, a respectable physician of New York, in work recently published, considers intemperance as prolific mother of human miseries, and is of opinion that if mankind were universally temperate in all respects, cassualty [sic] and old age would be the chief passports to the grave.- He notices several species of Intemperance: Intemperate Drinking, Intemperate Eating, Intemperate sleeping, Intemperance in clothing, Intemperate Labor, depraved Appetites, 'c.- Hamp. Gaz.

Intemperance in Clothing.- Dr. R. points our the ill effects on health of tight lacing, and remarks that almost every professional man has witnessed the fatal results of this abomination. He dissected the bodies of two young females, who had died of disease caused by tight lacing and found 'the adhesion of parts and the derangement of structure truly frightful.' He adds, 'the ingenuity of the ladies, perhaps, could not be exerted than in contriving some method of preventing such havoc as is annually occasioned among them from tight lacing and thin dressing.'
Eating Opium and Snuff.- Dr. R. states, as a fact well known to the faculty, that hundreds of females in our large cities are in the daily use of taking opium.  'This is neither more nor less than a fashionable way of getting drunk, and ought to be frowned upon by every husband and father.'
Dr. R. says he has known two instances of death from eating snuff, 'a habit which is perhaps increasing among the ladies of our country with a rapidity only equalled by the ravages of ardent spirits, and which is no less rumous [sic] to health and destructive to life.' 'This practice has its origin in using the Scotch snuff as a tooth powder, a fondness is soon acquired for it, and hundreds among us, especially among our females, get drunk upon it every day of their lives.'  The effects are paleness of countenance, torpor of body, stupor of mind, disease of a stomach, lungs, 'c.
Drinking malt liquor to excess.- In Great Britain diseases are increased in number and fatality by the large quantity of malt liquors drank in their community. Sudden deaths are frequent among those who drink habitually and excessively of these liquors.
Cold Water.- Dr. R. says 'that death seldom occurs from drinking water, except in constitutions, previously impaired by some of the other species of intemperance.'
 Drinking Ardent Spirits.- This is the worst kind of intemperance, and in criminality; the magnitudes of its evils, outweighs all the rest. Dr. R. proposes the following expedients for removing these evils:
'Would it not be productive of salutary effects, if in collecting the interments, when it could be distinctly ascertained that this vice had produced death; that in publishing the report, whether weekly, monthly, or yearly, it should be so stated? Instead of their being marked, fits, drowned, suicide, murder, dropsy, apoplexy, or sudden death,' let them be officially announced in glaring capitals, RUM! DEATHS FROM RUM!!  This would open many eyes and might contribute to the most desirable object which can interest the friends of humanity. If the fact were known, and when known, distinctly stated by our city authorities, that out of forty deaths among our adult population, in one week, thirty of them were occasioned, manifestly, by RUM! surely it would cause the sot to tremble over his glass, and abandon his fatal habits.
To my medical brethren, I would respectfully proffer this fraternal counsel; let us no longer make drunkards, by prescribing spirituous tinctures or medicated wines; let none of us carry the use of the lancet to such excess, as to render the subsequent use of ardent spirits, either convenient or indispensable; let us no longer conceal from our patients, their vicious agency in producing their diseases, from a timorus [sic] prudence, or from the fear of incurring their displeasure. But, when they wonder at their ill health, let them not 'perish for lack of knowledge,' but let us reply to their inquiries into the cause of their maladies, Rum! sir, rum madam; and when they urge their former habitual use of it, as a plea for their continuance in their iniquity, let us hold up the terrors of death, and present them with a view of the judgment to come and yawning gulf , an interminable hell, as the fearful alternative, that haply we may save one soul from irretrievable despair.
_____________________________________
Page 2 Col. 1a-3b
From the New York Observer
THE COST OF INTEMPERANCE.
The following article was prepared by one of the Editors of this paper for the Christian Almanac of 1829.
1. The quantity of ardent spirits consumed in the United States; in the year 1820, according to Mr. Pitkin, was 31,725,417 gallons, or about four and a half gallons for every person.- At the same rate, the quantity consumed at the present time, is 56,000,000 gallons, which at fifty cents the gallon, is 28,000,000 dollars.
2. The cost of the liquor is but a small part of the cost of intemperance. 'time,' as Dr. Franklin says, 'is money;' and who can doubt that the time which is spent by the intemperate over their cups, and in recovering from the stupor of intoxication, is worth many times more than the trifle which they pay for their dram. When it is remembered, that whiskey sufficient to prostrate an ordinary drunkard for six hours, can be purchased for six cents, it will not be thought extravagant, if we estimate the time killed by 56,000,000 gallons of spirit at as many millions of dollars. If we suppose that only one-half of the quantity is consumed by drunkards, and that one pint of spirit destroys only six hours of the drunkard's time, the value of the time destroyed, reckoning it only at four cents and hour, would be 53,760,000 dollars.
3. It is inferred from the result of inquiries extensively made in our principal towns, that three fourths of all the pauparism [sic] in our land is the consequence of intemperance.
The Executive Committee of the American Temperance Society, after giving from official documents the number and cost of paupers in the cities of Baltimore and Philadelphia, and the States of Massachusetts and New -York, estimate the whole number of paupers in the United States at 200,000, and the cost of their support at 10,000,000 dollars. Of this sum, 7,500,000 must be set down to the score of intemperance.
4. The Directors of the American Temperance Society estimate, and no one will doubt that three fourths of all the crime in the country is the result of intemperance.

The number of persons committed to the City Prison and Bridgewell in New York, for various crimes and misdemeanors, from the 1st of January, 1822 to the 20th of November 1826, was 11,535, equal to nearly 2400 annually, or about one every sixty-three  of the population. In Philadelphia, the number of persons in the Mayors Court, arrested for various offences [sic], between 1813 and 1823, was on an average 1653 annually, or one in sixty-four of the population. A writer in the North American Review, computes the number of persons in Boston who live by vice and crime, at 2,000, which is equal to one in thirty of the population.  From these facts, we think it safe to infer that, in the whole United States, at least 60,000 persons, (which is only one in two hundred of the population,) are either tenants of our prisons, or live by vice and crime. The expense of watching the movements of this army of criminals, of seizing and trying them, of maintaining them in prison; and the losses which the community sustain by their thefts, burglaries, arsons, frauds, murders, 'c. are unknown, but must be immense; and three fourths of the whole must be set down to the account of intemperance.
5. The relatives of intemperate persons suffer misery and shame on their account.
The number of drunkards in the United States, i.e. of those who are frequently intemperate, and either habitually or occasionally drunk, has been variously estimated from 500,000 down to 300,000.  It seems to be generally admitted, that the habitual drunkards are at least one in every hundred of the population, or 120,000 in all. If we take into view only the habitual drunkards, and consider that each of them on an average has eight relatives as near as father, mother, wife, child, sister, or brother, we shall perceive that intemperance dooms nearly One Millon persons to the disgrace and suffering necessarily connected with a relationship so intimate.
6. Of all Persons who die in the United States after they arrive at adult age, one out of three is probable intemperate.

In New-Haven, Conn. the number of persons over 20 years of
age, who died in 1826, was 94; and, of this number, more than one-third, according to a published statement of the Medical Association of that city, were intemperate;*  and, 'on referring further back,' they say, 'we find a similar proportion for the two years preceding.' If this proportion is found in New-Haven, a city certainly as highly distinguished for morality as any in the United States, we have no reason to believe that it is less in the country at large. The whole number of persons in the United States, at the present time, of adult age, is about 6,000,000; of this number, if nothing is done to check the progress of intemperance, 2,000,000 will probably die intemperate.
7. The number of persons in the United States who die by excessive drinking every year, is at least thirty thousand.
In Portsmouth, N. H. which had at the last census 7,327 inhabitants, 21 persons, or three for every thousand, dies by excess in drinking, according to the bill of mortality of 1826. At this rate, the number in the whole United States would be 36,000 per annum. A distinguished physician of Philadelphia, after commenting upon the bill of mortality of that city for the year 1826, estimates the number of deaths by intemperance at 335, which is nearly three in every thousand of the population.+ The estimate, of thirty thousand lives annually destroyed in the whole country by intemperance, he fears, if the truth were fully know, would be found too small. In New-Haven, Conn. which had at the last census 8,327 inhabitants, the number of persons whose deaths were caused or hastened, directly of indirectly, by intemperance in 1826, according to the statement of the Medical Association, was, as we have already intimated, at least 31, or four for every thousand.  At this rate, the number in the whole United States would be forth-eight thousand per annum! and this statement, let it be remembered, is founded on the private record of the physicians, and is therefore worthy of entire confidence, and might with more propriety be adopted as the basis of calculation for the whole country than any statements or estimates derived from bills of mortality.
8. By the premature death of these thirty thousand persons, the country loses the profits of their labor, for the period which would have been added to their lives in case they had remained temperate.
If we suppose this period to be on an average ten years, we cannot estimate these profits at less than 30,000,000 dollars; for, let it be remembered, with a trifling exception, the whole 30,000 would be in the prime of life, there being few deaths by intemperance among those who are under twenty or over sixty years of age.  We are certainly within bounds when we say, that a temperate person, in the prime of life, earns on an average, every year, one hundred dollars more than is necessary for his individual support.  How else, indeed, could men support their families?- and yet, at this low rate, each of these 30,000 persons, if he had been temperate, and had lived ten years longer, would, besides supporting himself, have earned one thousand dollars which would have been expended in increasing the comforts of his children or others dependent upon him.  By intemperance, all this (amounting for the 30,000, to 30,000,000 dollars) is lost.
9. In addition, to the losses above enumerated, there are many others, which, although amounting to an immense sum in the aggregate, do not admit of estimate; such are the loss of vessels and cargoes by the intemperance of seamen; the loss of life and property by fires, accidents, and casualties of various kinds, originating in the carelessness of the intemperate; the mischiefs arising from the mismanagement of business by intemperate agents, 'c. 'c, 'c.
For the purpose of exhibiting more clearly the cost of intemperance, we subjoin a bill, in which the above items are introduced in their order.
The people of the United States to Intemperance,
Dr.
1. To 50,000,000 gallons of spirit at
fifty cents per gallon                                                                           $28,000,000
2. 1,944,000,000 hours of time wasted
by drunkards, at four cents per hour $53,760,003
3. To the support of 150,000 paupers
7,500,000
4. To losses by depravity of 45,000
criminals
unknown, butimmense.
5. To the disgrace and misery of
1,000,000 persons, (relatives of drunkards,)                                                              incalculable.
6.' 7. To the ruin of at least 30,000
and probably 48,000 souls annually
          infinite! unspeakable!
8. To loss by the premature death of
30,000 persons in the prime of life
30,000,000
9. To losses from the carelessness and
mismanagement of intemperate seamen, agents, 'c. 'c.
        unknown, but very great.
 _________________________
Certain pecuniary loss (in round numbers)
120,000,000
To which add 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 9th items,
____________________________
TOTAL
______________________________
Thus it appears that, independently of items which cannot be estimated, our country pays or losses at the rate of one humored and twenty millions of dollars per annum by Intemperance!-  This sum is five times as large as the revenue of the United States' government; it would pay off our national debt in six months; it would build twelve such canals as the Grand Erie and Hudson canal, every year; it would support a navy four times as large as that of Great Britain; it is sixty times as much as the aggregate income of all the principal religious charitable Societies in Europe and America; it would supply every family on the earth with a Bible in eight months; it would support a missionary or teacher among every two thousand souls on the globe!  How prosperous might this country be,-what blessings might it confer upon the world, if it were only relieved from the curse of Intemperance!
_______________
*I.e. in the language of the statement, their deaths 'were caused or hastened, directly or indirectly, by intemperance.'
+ It is evident from remarks of this physician, that bills of mortality afford a very imperfect account of the number of deaths by intemperance. In many instances, he says, to avoid wounding the feelings of surviving relatives, the death of a drunkard is reported under the head of inflammation of the brain, insanity, 'c. and he thinks that one-half of the adults reported under the heads 'apoplexy, Casualties, Dropsy, Drowned, Found Dead, Palsy, and Sudden,' are justly referable to ardent spirits.
_______________________
 Ardent Spirits overboard.- Captain Harding, of the ship Franklin, lately lost on her passage from Liverpool to Portsmouth, N. H. in a postscript to a letter giving an account of his shipwreck, says, 'I would remark, for the benefit of any one who may have the misfortune to suffer shipwreck, that as soon as I discovered the ship would be lost, I ordered all the ardent spirits, on board the ship to be thrown overboard-the consequence was that the men were orderly and obedient throughout the whole of that distressing scene, to which I attribute, under Providence, our preservation.'
N. Y. Adv.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, Sept. 24, 1828
The general Council of the Cherokee Nation will commence its session on the second Monday of next month.
______________________________
Mr. Ashmum, the friend of Africa ' late agent of the American Colonization Society, died in New Haven, Con. on Tuesday, the 26th ult. aged 34 years.
______________________________
The following letter from the citizens of Aquohee District, to William Hicks, Esq. will convey to the reader a pretty good specimen of the feelings of the inhabitants of this Nation, in regard to the present efforts made to remove them.
AQUOHEE DISTRICT, Sept. 11, 1828
TO WILLIAM HICKS, ESQ.
PRINCIPAL CHIEF, SIR:
We the citizens of the above named District, assembled at Hiwassee Town House, in consequence of information communicated to us, concerning the intended visit of our friend, the United States Agent, and two Arkansas Cherokee Chiefs.
We are all glad to find; that, our Elder Brother, the Principal Chief, holds fast his love to our country, and hereby with unanimous consent, thank him for his visit.
Our judgement is that it behooves us to stand fast; and to hold our lands for the benefit of our rising families. We consider it exceedingly vexatious, to be perpetually teased, to part with our inheritance, just as we are beginning to occupy a respectable standing in the estimation of Christians who know us, and who now possess the country, on which our fathers once reared and raised their children. Must our prospects be always blasted? We think our white brethren will answer, no.
We are determined to hold fast the land of our nativity. We do not wish to turn our feet from our original habitation, nor to move a step further towards the setting sun; our native soil being well watered and healthful.- We are happy when we rise in the morning, to behold all things look fresh and cheerful, and especially to see our children running to and fro, partly raised in our former old towns.
Parts of our lands, have, from time to time, been sold from under our feet: our wives and our children have been ousted, and our property scattered, till, in many instances, it has been all lost, and families reduced to want.- Our old men say they are fully determined to have their bones laid in these mountains. One of the old men from Damatlee says he never will agree to let go one inch more of land, although one of his old neighbors has undertaken the disgraceful task of endeavoring to deprive his people of house and home. He thinks the gentleman would have been better employed and perhaps as much respected, if he had stayed at home and attended to his own business. We do not wish to have such a character ranging through our country. We are persuaded the object of these gentlemen is nothing that will, in any way, benefit us. Therefore we do not wish their advice, nor thank them for their visit.  And we assure the Arkansas Chiefs that they need not expect to find, in this District, a single Arkansas emigrant.
We join in assuring you of our attachment to yourself and to our country.
Signed on behalf of the whole.
JOHN TIMSON,
SAMUEL WARD,
WOOD PECKER, his X mark.
(In Cherokee) his X mark.
ROMAN NOSE, do.
(In Cherokee) do
(In Cherokee) do.
(In Cherokee) do.
(In Cherokee) do.
BALL TOWN GEORGE, do.
JOHN WELCH, do.
LOCUST, do.
(In Cherokee) do.
(In Cherokee) do.
In the presence of
SITUAGEE, do.










From the Southern Advocate.
Pony Club in Carroll County, Georgia.- We are informed by a gentleman who has recently passed through that place, of indubitable credibility, that there is a CLUB, who make a profession of stealing horses as well from their own citizens as from strangers. Their plans, from their contiguity and intercourse with the Cherokees, have been so judiciously executed as to elude detection. They do not we understand, profess to take the life of a traveller, but only his horse, in order, it may be presumed, that in cases of conviction, their punctilious clemency may establish a contested principle in penal law, that there is a distinct and tangible difference in value between property and life. This policy reminds us of the reply of Judge Burner, to the horse-stealer, who upon being asked what he had to say, why judgment of death should not be passed upon him, and answering, 'that it was hard to hang a man for only stealing a horse,' was told by the Judge, `Man, thou art not only  to be hanged for stealing a horse, but that horses may not be stolen.' That punishments should be proportioned to offences [sic] is just and politic we admit, but that there is a lamentable deficiency in the justice and morality of this new country overlooking the alieni appetens which is so manifestly a nuisance to their neighbors and strangers, is equally notorious.
We have frequently heard of this pony club.- It is said by a Traveller who passed this place some time since directly from Carroll, that this stealing association has become so dexterious [sic] in its profession, that if the d___l had been in the shape of a pony, he would ere this have fallen a prey to its agility. 'Pony club' is but a limited name and will by no means give a correct idea of this neighboring combination- 'cow club,' 'hog club,' 'c. may properly be added.
______________________________
Page 3 Col. 5b
Yellow Fever.-The Yellow Fever has made its appearance in Charleston, S. C. It is there called the Strangers Fever.
_______________________________
Page 4 Col. 5b.
Mr. Ashum.- This distinguished and excellent man- the founder of the Colony of Liberia on the coast of Africa, has arrived in this town in a very alarming state of health. His constitution appears to have been undermined by the severe labours [sic] and privations which he has long encountered in a tropical climate; and his present indisposition is attributed, by himself, to a very arduous labour [sic] and privation of sleep in January last, when an uncommon pressure existed upon him; and there is too much reason to fear that he will not recover.- New Haven Journal.


















NEW ECHOTA
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1,1828
INTEMPERANCE.
Intemperance is the curse of mankind. It spreads desolation in societies and families. It is the parent of strife, the cause of diseases, and almost every species of misery. To the Indians, intemperance occasioned by the use of ardent spirits has been pernicious. It has been our shame in the eyes of other people, and has planted the common opinion, that the love of whiskey is a necessary trait of the Indian's character.  Though this opinion is erroneous, yet the fact that intemperance is sadly prevalent and its effects awfully great among the Indians, we cannot deny. Among us, t has been a wide spreading evil. It has cost us lives, and a train of troubles. It has been an enemy to our national prosperity, industry, and intellectual improvement.- Even at this day, when it is generally conceded that we are the most civilized of all the Aboriginal tribes, we see this enemy of all good stalking forth in triumph, carrying desolation and misery into families and neighborhoods. The murders committed in this Nation, with a very few exceptions, are occasioned by intoxication. The only two public executions by hanging originated from the same cause. And what but whiskey produces all our accidents, all our strifes, fightings and stabbings?
It is to be lamented that ardent spirits should have ever been introduced among the Indians by the white man, but more so that, at this enlightened age, our intelligent citizens and the, intelligent citizens of the neighboring states should encourage this worst of all poisons, by making it a subject of trafic [sic]. But it is not ten times more to be regreted [sic], that professors of religion should engage in this trade of death? How is such conduct to be reconciled with Christian principles, and with the doctrine of universal benevolence?-Some of those who send whiskey here from Ten. we are credibly informed are professors of religion. How can they pray, 'thy kingdom come,' and desire the universal spread of the Gospel in heathen countries, particularly among their neighbors, the Indians, when they are sending death and destruction in our ranks?  If this paper should ever meet the eyes of such persons, we would solemnly warn them of the mischief they are doing. Are you not aware that you are making a nation of drunkards? Are you not aware that you are causing deaths, murders, and a host of evils? To our fellow citizens, particularly professors of religion, who make it a business of traficing [sic] in whiskey, we would say, what availeth [sic] all our professions of patriotism when we are encouraging an enemy of such notoriety?  What availeth our feeble exertions to enlighten our more ignorant brethren, when we are feeding them with coals of fire, and strewing their path with deadly poison? To our Legislators and civil leaders who have not scrupled to deal in ardent spirits, we would say, what availeth all legislative acts to prevent intemperance, when some of our law givers are encouraging it by retailing whiskey.
Our Cherokee readers will bear with us when we speak so plain upon this important subject. It is a subject which ought to occupy the attention of every citizen who sincerely desire that we may become a happy and intelligent people.  Intemperance forms the great obstacle, and it is the hope that the public sentiment of this Nation may be aroused to the removal of this obstacle, that we freely bring this subject before our readers. Something far more efficient must be done than has hitherto been attempted. The public mind must bear upon this evil.  Legislative resolutions will effect but little, unless they are sustained by the united opinion of the intelligent and virtuous portion of the nation.
We would sincerely hope, while so much is doing abroad to arrest the progress of intemperance, the citizens of this nation will not be inattentive to the call of their country-the call is imperious-it cannot be misunderstood. The call is to the Christian, and to the patriot. If an enemy were to come among us in a warlike attitude, and commence, unprovoked, a work of destruction with our women and children, our property, and with our most sacred rights, what patriot is there who would countenance the enemy, and remain an idle spectator? But fellow citizens, we have an enemy among us, a far more dangerous enemy, because its progress is unobserved, and because it insinuates itself as a friend, but mark ye, deaths by violence, deaths by diseases and deaths by accidents, sickness and famine, profanity and indecencies, and a host of other evils, are its trophies and triumphs.
We look with fond anticipation to the approaching session of the General Council. We hope there will be sufficient patriotism, and desire for the good of the Cherokee Nation among the members, to create acts against the introduction of ardent spirits.- The subject is important. It will not be unworthy their notice. Generations yet unborn may bless them for the decided stand which they may now take against the progress of intemperance.










From the Visitor and Telegraph
LETTER FROM THE CHOCTAW MISSION.
[The subjoined article is an extract of a letter, recently received at this Office from Mr. Jewell, a Missionary stationed at Emmaus in the Choctaw Nation. The Choctaws reside in the State of Mississippi between the Tombigbee and Mississippi rivers, their population, is estimated at 20,000.- The mission was commenced in 1818. It has seven or eight stations. The one from which our correspondent writes, is near the Southern limit of the Choctaw country. The rapacious and cruel avarice of some of our citizens of whom he speaks, merits the indignant frown of every friend of justice and humanity- and that such men should be members of the church of Christ-should awaken Christians to call on God-and use the proper means to remove this cause of reproach.] His letter is dated-
EMMAUS, CHOCTAW NATION,
July 23, 1828.
DEAR SIR,- Perhaps I ought to make some apology for having suffered so long a time to elapse, since writing you, especially considering your continued kindness in forwarding you valuable papers for the benefit of this station. I can however, plead no excuse for the delay, but the constant pressure of business which is upon my hands, and the want of matter that would be interesting. It would be truly gratifying to me, would I interest you, as much as I am interested by your useful papers; but, situated as I am in the midst of a wilderness, there is little variety of circumstance to interest any person, unless the Great Head of the Church should condescend to bless our feeble efforts, to the salvation of some of these children of the forest; such an event would no doubt interest every real child of God, but alas, a labor of ten years in this dreary land, we have hardly as yet, been permitted to witness any thing like a revival among the people to whom we are sent. However, we are not left without some evidence that labors are not in vain.
There have been several seasons of more than usual inquiry in regard to the things of eternity- at Elliot, Mayhew, Goshen, and Ai-ik-hunnah stations, and several souls at each of these places have been hopefully brought into the kingdom; and also several united with the church at Bethel, before that station was given up; but most of these converts, were whites and blacks, so that we can still number few from among the natives. When Missionaries see so little visible effect of their labors on the people for whose best good they have left home with all its endearments; it often suggests to them many solemn reflections. They often charge the whole to their unfaithfulness, incapacity, and want of proper qualifications for the work-not unfrequently [sic] they stop to compare the heathen among whom they labor, with those where other Missionaries are laboring, and try to find some social difference between them, which might operate as a barrier against their receiving the gospel. At other times, when they witness the Christian public, all awake in behalf of some mission which is very signally blessed; they are then apt to feel that the people of God almost forget them, and the poor heathen of their charge at the throne of grace. But when we are enabled to rise above everything of a worldly nature, and view God as a Sovereign, and feel that his promises cannot fail, but must be accomplished in his own time; it is then we can go forward with confidence, though we should seem only to be beating the air.
The anxiety of many of the citizens of the United States to obtain the lands of the natives, I think has an unfavorable influence on the cause of missions among them; and besides, many of the white people circulate reports among the Indians, quite unfavorable to the mission; but we have no reason to expect any thing better, from people who contend that 'might makes right;' and such people are not uncommon in this southern section of the country. Were it not for the prayers of the church, I should have no hope that these Indians would ever become evangelized, indeed I should sooner look for their extermination. If the United States Commissioners, who are appointed to make treaties with the Indians, have power to depose such chiefs as they cannot bribe, and then be permitted a few troops to awe the rest into compliance, I see not but the poor children of the forest must be doubly entombed in the wilderness beyond the rocky mountains. If it were only the people of the world who manifested such opposition to the welfare of the natives, it would be a matter of little surprise; but when we see men ( as we frequently do in this vicinity)_ who profess to be the sincere followers of him, who freely laid down his life for the salvation of a ruined world, using all their influence to send these perishing fellow beings far beyond every state of civilization, and far beyond the means of instruction, we cannot but be astonished; and we are thereby often led to exclaim in the language of the Word of God, Surely 'Righteousness has fallen in the street, and equity does not enter.' But we do rejoice to learn that there are some, even in the halls of Congress who can rise above a selfish policy and plead in behalf of suffering humanity,- Mr. Wood's speech is a noble instance of this; may the blessing of many ready to perish come upon him.
But I have doubtless already tresspassed [sic] too long upon your time and patience, I will therefore only add, our sincerest thanks for your continued kindness in forwarding us your papers for so long a time; we do sincerely wish its continuance, although we feel ourselves unworthy of so valuable a donation.- In behalf of the Mission Family at Emmaus, I subscribe myself,
Your very ob't servant
MARS JEWELL.










SNAKING EXTRAORDINARY.
Franklin, (Tenn.)
July 18.
We have been informed by two respectable gentlemen, that some time about the 4th of the present inst. perhaps on that very glorious day, a man by the name of Hicks living in the neighborhood of Nolensville, this in co. caught, on some small wager, 15 snakes in about twice that number of minutes, from a neighboring stream called Mill Creek. He had what he called a diver to assist him, whose duty it was to turn over the rocks, when woe betide any unfortunate water Moccasin (no matter how great his size, or how terrific his appearance,) who was lurking below: quick as tho't [sic] Hicks would pounce upon him; nab him somewhere near the head, and by no very friendly pressure cause him to open his mouth, when he would, bind him with some convenient strip of pawpaw bark round the under jaw and proceed on in the hunt.  We have heard of a man living in one of the new counties of the Western District, who killed one hundred in a day, and pronounced it 'no great snaking at that.' Truly after the late exploit of Hicks, we are inclined to the same opinion. Why, the snake killer was a mere retail dealer to the catcher.


















NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, October 8, 1828
CREEK INDIANS.
A company of Creek boys seven in number, passed this place, a few days since on their way to the Choctaw Academy, Blue Springs, Kentucky. They were conducted by one of the leaders of the Nation, and Patrick Carey, a young man of intelligence. The number of Creek students at the Academy will now be about thirty, all supported by the appropriation made at the treaty of Washington. The appearance of the boys and their conductors was unlike the wretched condition of the Creek Nation, of which lately we have frequently heard.
We took occasion to inquire of Mr. Carey the state of emigration among his countrymen. We were informed by him that Col. Brearly was employing every measure to obtain emigrants, but was likely to be defeated in his expectations. Of the emigrants who were stationed at Fort Strother, 200 deserted and returned to their homes, leaving a few mulattoes to pursue their journey to the promised land. The Chiefs of the Creek Nation strenuously deny employing any measure to discourage emigration among their people. The question is left to individual free choice.










From the Buffalo Journal.
Important army movements.-We understand that Fort Niagara is immediately to be garrisoned by four companies of the second regiment of United States' infantry; and report says, that this fort will be made headquarters of the frontier line of posts. By the Detroit papers we are informed of several new arrangements made in the West by the War Department. Among which are the re-occupancy of Fort Dearborn (Chicago) and Fort Gratiot. But the most important measure of the department we conceive to be that of establishing new posts immediately upon the portage between the Fox and Ouisconsin Rivers, in the country of the Winnebago Indians. Permission for this was obtained of the natives at the late Treaty at Green Bay.  The post will be called Fort Winnebago, and is to be garrisoned by two companies of the first regiment of United States' infantry. This fort will occupy the only intervening land, (a portage but six miles) between the chain of western lakes and the Mississippi River.  The position is about central between Prairie du Chien, on the Mississippi, and Green Bay, and upon the extreme northern verge of mining country. To obtain a cession of this district to the United States, was among the objects to be embraced in the late Treaty at Green Bay. The purchase was not effected, but permission was obtained to occupy the mining district, until all the Indians interested in the sale can be collected, at a council which shall convene the ensuing summer, probably at Galena, when there seems little doubt the arrangement will take place. In the meantime, the Indians propose to inform themselves of the numbers of the whites, by actual observation; for which purpose, fifteen of their principal men came to Detroit, in the Clay, on their way to Washington. They propose visiting, before they return, the seaports of New England, and many of the large interior towns of the country. 'This,' says the Michigan Herald, 'will doubtless have a powerful effect on those savages, who have heretofore considered themselves equal in numbers to the whites, and more brave and warlike. They will soon be convinced of their error, in regard to the numerical strength of the people of the United States, and, of course, less willing to put their bravery tot he trial.'
Should the proposed treaty, the ensuing summer result favorable, we trust no time will be lost in rendering perfect the navigation between the Fox and Ouisconsin Rivers, and thus opening the way by the short route of emigration which is ready, through that channel, to penetrate the forests of the West.










From the New-York Observer
THE OSAGES.
Messrs. Editors.- The following is an extract of a letter dated 'Hopefield, (Osage Nation,) July 9, 1828,' from Rev. William B. Montgomery; who is stationed at that place:
'The past Spring has been a more than usually eventful one to the Osages. Our principal settlers, who thought they had forever buried the tomahawk even with regard to Indians, now stand responsible for the killing of five white men in a single day.- But, happily, the transaction was one for which they are not likely to be blamed, at least in this country. At 10 o'clock, on the 15th of June, this place was alarmed by the report of guns in rapid succession, a short distance beyond the fields, on the opposite side of the river. The next moment brought intelligence that The Bird, one of the earliest settlers, was lying in the road killed and scalped.- The men, immediately seizing their guns, crossed over and set off in pursuit of the party, supposed of course to be Indians.  In this there was no difficulty, for the murders, as injudicially [sic] deprived of common sense, kept together and were overtaken in open country, and the whole of them, amounting to five persons, were destroyed, without loss to the Osages. The return of the latter after an absence of about two hours, exhibiting in triumph the scalps of those wretched men, and their outcry and firing when they arrived at the spot where the man was killed, presented a full specimen of barbarous manners. The lamentations of the widow and children over the corpse were of course more vehement than even their ordinary mournings. Whether the Osages had any suspicion with regard to the murderers being white men till after the termination of the battle, I do not know-but such they were soon ascertained to be. Three brothers and two other relatives, who alledged [sic] that their father had been killed by the Osages on Red River, came to seek revenge, and such was the result.- Some of our people expressed a regret at having killed their fellow creatures; -but plead, as white people would do, the urgency of the occasion.
Another interesting occurrence to us as well as to the Indians, is the transfer of the country Westward from Fort Smith as far as the Neeslio, to the Cherokees, by a treaty recently concluded at Washington. The removal of the Osages to their reservation, seventy miles North of this, hitherto delayed from year to year, will now be carried into effect, - and the doubtful question with regard to the forbearance with which one tribe of Indians will witness the best of their lands put into the hands of another, with whom also they were not long space at war, will soon be determined. How well the United States may be able to keep the peace amongst these people, I cannot say: but I am confident that unless some judicious measures are taken to enable and induce the Osages to cultivate more land than they are likely to do if left to themselves, nothing but most distressing want and wretchedness can result from crowding them together.'
Yours respectfully,
John Montgomery.
__________________________________
DREADFUL STEAMBOAT ACCIDENT.
New Orleans, August 13,- The towboat Grampus, Cap. Morrison, ascending the river yesterday morning about sunrise, when opposite the plantation of Dusau de la Croix, (having four vessels in tow, viz.: the brig Thomas and William, Capt. M'Intyre, the British brig Anastasia, the brig Louisiana, and the sloop Dos Amigos,) burst her boilers.
The top masts, sails, rigging, and bulwark of the Thomas and William were carried away; her deck covered with pieces of the boiler, bricks and other rubbish, but no person on board injured. The Anastasia was very slightly damaged; the other vessels not at all. Capt. Morrison was standing on or near the wheel house on the upper deck in conversation with Mr. Wederstandt, a passenger on board. They were thrown with the deck about thirty feet into the air, and fell upon the forecastle of the boat, the deck falling over them, but prevented from crushing them by falling on the capstern. Capt. M. is much bruised; Mr. Wederstandt is also a good deal bruised and wounded in the neck by a splinter. As soon as the news of this awful catastrophe reached town, Dr. Y. M'Daniel hastened down on board of the Pilot, taking with him a medicine chest, to the relief of the wounded. The following is a correct list of the killed, missing and wounded:
Joseph Dryden, second engineer, missing; Thomas Dodd, steersman, do; Harry and Frank (black men) missing; L. Brace, do; George Mooney, do; Jack Smith, a free black boy, wounded since dead; George Brown, Baliz pilot, had his leg broke, and bleed to death before medical aid arrived; William Taylor, slightly scalded; Peter Smith, dangerously do; John Handlin, badly do; Charles Craig, arm broke; Robert Watkins, carpenter of the Anastasia, was struck with the steam and thrown overboard, was picked up and died immediately afterwards: He was lying on the forecastle hatch of the boat with another hand belonging to the Anastasia, who is very badly scalded.
Capt. Morrison requests us, in behalf of himself, his officers, and the unfortunate sufferers, to return his sincere thanks to Mr. Dusan de la Croix, who humanely sent out his boat to their assistance.  It is disagreeable to reflect upon the cause of this accident. We think it probable that no blame can be attached to Capt. Morrison; but it was undoubtedly owing to a pulpable [sic] and shocking carelessness in the engineer, who neglected seeing that the boilers were properly supplied with water.
____________________________________________
Bank of the United States.- The Report made by a ;committee of the stock-holders at the annual meeting has been published at length. The stock is in 350,000 shares; it is owned by 3,818 individuals; and they reside in 23 States and Territories. The stock owned in foreign countries is 40,412 shares, something like an eighth part of the whole. The capital paid in is about 35 millions; due to sundries rising of 6 millions; and the surplus of fund of reserved profit about a million and a half of dollars.  The aggregate of these sums is about 60 1-2 millions of dollars. To meet the above debt, the bank has Funded debt, nearly 17 millions; discounted paper, 37 millions; Bills of Exchange, (foreign) a third of a million; Real estate, 2 1-4 millions; Banking Houses, one million; specie, 6 1-2 millions; and other property, 5 millions. - J. of Com.
_______________________________
THE AFRICAN COLONY.
It gives us pleasure to learn that the Board of Managers of the American Colonization Society have appointed Dr. RICHARD RANDALL., a highly respectable Member of the Board, Colonial Agent, and that he accepts the appointment, with the intention of proceeding forwith [sic] to Liberia, to assume the administration of its Government.
We consider it a most auspicious circumstance for the continual prosperity of the Colony, and the success of the noble object of the Society, that the Managers have been able to obtain the services of a gentleman so respectable and every way so well qualified for the important trust, as Dr. Randall; and we congratulate the friends of the Society every where, that so able a successor has been so early obtained to supply the place of the late lamented Agent. ----Nat. Int.
________________________________


















From the Missionary Herald.
CHICKASAWS.
Monroe It was mentioned in the number of this work for February, and for April, that the Mission among the Chickasaw Indians, formerly under the care of the Synodical Missionary Society of Georgia and South Carolina, had been transferred to the Board. Mention was also made of a pleasing attention to religious instruction, which had been for some time witnessed at Monroe, one of the stations in the Chickasaw nation.
The Church at that station was organized in June, 1823; and then consisted of members of the Mission family, and one colored woman, who was the first fruits of missionary labors there. From that time, till the commencement of the present revival, the Lord had blessed the preaching of the Gospel in an encouraging manner, ' 16 had been added to the church.- Since March, 1827, 42 more have been added so that the church now consists of 58, exclusive of the mission family.
The school at Monroe has been suspended for nearly a year, because no suitable person could be obtained to teach it.  The schools at two of the other stations are seriously embarrassed for the want of regular and devoted teachers.  The station is in the most populous part of the nation there being, according to the best estimate, more than 800 souls within 10 miles of the mission family. Five-eights of them are Chickasaws, and the remainder colored people of African descent, with a few white men having Chickasaw families.
The annexed account of the revival was recently received in a communication from the Rev. Thomas C. Stuart, superintendent of the Chickasaw mission and contains dates as late as July 5th.
'The season of refreshing with which it has pleased the Lord to visit our church, commenced about the first of April, 1827.  The first Sabbath in that month, being the time of our quarterly communion, brother Kingsbury and brother Gleason were with us. Having had a time of reviving at Mayhew, their hearts were warm in the good cause, and they seemed earnestly to desire that the Lord might here also display his mighty power and grace in the conversion of sinners. During the meeting, the Spirit of God was evidently present in a peculiar manner, exciting in is people a deep searching of heart, and a spirit of prayer for the prosperity of Zion. On the succeeding Sabbath, brother Byington was providentially with us, and preached once in English and once in Choctaw, to crowded assemblies.
A spirit of inquiry began now to be manifested by some who had been the most careless; and from this time it became evident that the Lord was in our midst. A solemn stillness seemed to pervade the assemblies which met for the worship of God; our weekly prayer meetings, which had been for some time suspended, were again revived, and crowded; and in a few days we were encouraged to appoint a meeting for anxious inquirers. At the first of these meetings, which were weekly, eight attended; at the next seventeen and soon twenty, and twenty-five which was the average number through the summer. By the first of July, the revival became general, the whole country seemed to be waked up, and persons came 30 and 35 miles to inquire what these things meant.  Some of the most hopeless stubborn sinners, were the first subjects of the work.
There was nothing very remarkable in the character of the revival.- A solemn stillness marked its course; there was no noise, no excitement of animal feeling; the deep sigh and silent g roan might occasionally be heard and a few cases of conviction were so pungent, as to bring the subjects to sink down upon the ground and cry for mercy. This however, was not in the public assemblies, but in private interviews and secret places.
Perhaps it should be noticed as a remarkable fact, that in almost all cases of conviction, the individuals were peculiarly concerned, lest they should grieve away the Spirit, or settle upon a false foundation. A Gospel hope, 'a good hope through grace' was what they all desired ' earnestly sought for, and short of which they could not rest. The good word continued without any apparent abatement, until the middle of the winter, when it seemed to decline for a few weeks; but since the opening of the spring, it has been gradually growing in interest, and at this time, I rejoice to say appearances are very encouraging. The season for another communion is close at hand. Six new members have already been admitted.- Two of these are native young men of standing and influence; one of them is from the neighborhood of Martyn.- We expect to admit two or three more on the approaching occasion.- Besides these, there are six or eight others who give hopeful evidence of a change of heart, but we think it prudent to defer them until another communion.'
Under date of July 8 Mr. Stuart adds:
'The meeting above referred to has passed. We had a solemn time. About 200 persons were present, and I believe God was in the midst of them by His Holy Spirit, operating in a special manner upon their hearts.- We have indubitable evidence, that some deep impressions were made.- One young man, in particular, a native, and a prominent character in the nation, was deeply wrought upon. The people in this place are much stirred up.  The late season has been a time of refreshing to their souls. A spirit of earnest prayer seems to be poured out upon them. A few of the young male converts in the neighborhood have resolved to meet together, on every Tuesday evening, to pray for the continuance and increase of the good work.
Our need of a meeting house is every day becoming more pressing.- Our school house will not now contain the people. On the late occasion we had to occupy the forest. A convenient place, in a beautiful grove of timber was prepared for the purpose.- Our communion table was 45 feet long and well filled.'
Death of Sarah
Mr. Stuart, in connection with the preceding narrative of the revival at Monroe, forwarded a biographical notice of Sarah, a colored woman, who recently died near that station.
'Only one member of our church has died, and that was a colored woman. As the circumstances of her death were somewhat remarkable, I have thought an account if it, together with a short history of her life, would be interesting.
'This woman was called Sarah, was born in Africa, from whence she was taken, when small, to one of the West India Islands. There she had an opportunity of hearing the Gospel, but from her ignorance of the English language, she was not instructed by it. After dragging out many long years in hard bondage in the West Indies, she was removed to New Orleans, where she resided a number of years among the French. By this time, she had passed the meridian of life, and was beginning to decline, having as yet no correct views of the true God, of her own miserable condition as a sinner, or of the way of salvation through a Savior. 'At length,' to use her own words, 'the Lord led me by the hand, thought unseen, into this land, where He revealed himself to me as a God pardoning sin.' As she lived within a few miles of the station, she was a regular attendant on the preaching of the Gospel from its first introduction into the country. It however, produced no saving effect upon her, until about a year before she died, when she became deeply impressed with her lost and ruined condition; saw herself exposed to the wrath of God, and was enabled, as she afterwards believed and hoped, to throw herself on the mercy of the Redeemer. Her life from this time was strictly conformed to the precepts of that holy religion which she professed. She generally enjoyed a comfortable hope of her interest in Christ; took great delight in hearing the Scriptures read, and in attending upon the institutions of the Gospel; and appeared to be fast ripening for the enjoyments of the heavenly state. As if warned of her approaching dissolution she spent the last ten days of her life in going from house to house, exhorting sinners to flee from the wrath to come, and encouraging Christians to faithfulness in their Master's service.  On the night in which she took her departure from this world, she mingled in a little company of colored people who had assembled for prayer, it being the first Monday in the month. She was unusually happy; her soul appeared filled to overflowing with divine love, and she could scarce refrain from praising God aloud. About midway of the exercises she requested that a favorite hymn might be sung, in which she joined; and while it was singing, she rose from the bed on which she was sitting, went round and shook hands affectionately wit all in the room, returned and laid herself down, and before the song was closed winged her way , as we hope, to the realms of light to join the song which shall never end. So gently did she depart, that, although several were sitting on the same bed, they did not perceive it.- How great was their astonishment when at the close of their meeting they found that happy Sarah had left them. Indeed, they could not believe she was really dead, but supposed she was in a swoon, and used means to revive her. It was not known to anyone that she had any previous indisposition. Her age was unknown, she could not have been much short of threescore and ten.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, October 15, 1828
We are sorry that we Indians are so frequently misrepresented. The following is from the Athenian. The two commissioners in the service of the General Government, are probably the two Arkansas Cherokees, James Rogers and Thomas Maw, for whom, for selling their country, poles have been erected on which to hang their heads-this is done by their citizens over the Mississippi. There are no poles here for them. Whether these men are entitled to the dignified appellation of Commissioners of the United States, we know not. They have not been introduced to us, by the General Government-they may, for aught we know, be secret agents, a fact, the gentleman direct from Tennessee, probably was well acquainted. Those editors who exchange with us, and have copied the article in question, would do us a favour [sic] by making public this explanation.
It is reported on the authority of a gentleman, direct from Tennessee, that two Commissioners in the service of the General Government, and acting under its authority, are now executing their commission within the Cherokee Nation, in endeavoring to excite a spirit of emigration to the West. The effect is represented as being not only unpopular, but hazardous in the extreme, their lives having been threatened, and poles erected on which to exhibit their heads. The Agent, Colonel Hugh Montgomery, it is also stated, has received instruction from the War Department, to accompany them, and to protect them against the execution of the threat by which they are menaced. How far the Agent will be disposed to lend his official sanction to the encouragement of such a disposition, is a matter of much doubt, if we may infer from his apology to the Indians of the unpleasantness of his duty which usually accompanies his exertions. Should the measure be successful, which is highly uncertain, the names of those disposed to emigrate, will hereafter be enrolled, and measures taken for their removal.- Georgia Athenian.










Effects of Intemperance in the body.- we have never seen this branch of the general subject better handled, than in Dr. Mussey's Address before the N. H. Medical Society. The following short extract is a specimen.- Let the drunkard read it-and shudder! as every sober man must.
N. Hampshire Obs.
What is the secret of this witchery which strong drink exerts over the whole man? I will try to tell you.- After being received into the stomach it is sucked up by absorbant [sic] vessels, is carried into the blood, and circulates through the alimentary organs, through the lungs, muscles, and brain, and doubtless through every organ of the body. Not a blood vessel however minute, not a thread of nerve in the whole animal machine, escapes its influence? It disturbs the functions of life; it increases for a time, the action of living organs, but lessens the power of that action; hence the deep depression and collapse which follow preternatural excitement. By habitual use, it renders the living fibre less and less susceptible to the healthy operation of unstimulating food and drink, its influences soon become incorporated with all the living actions of the body, ' the diurnal sensations of hunger, thirst, and exhaustion, are strongly associated with the recollection of its exhilirating [sic] effects, and thus bring along with them, the restless desire for its repetition.
Is evidence required of its being absorbed, and pervading the different organs of the body? Approach within a few feet of the rumor brandy drinker, and the odour [sic] of his breath will quickly demonstrate, all the lungs, loaded with the foul liquor, are discharging it with all the energy in their power.
When taken by the nursing mother, it enters into the delicate food prepared by the nature for the nourishment and growth of helpless infancy and in this way, as may most rationally be supposed, produces a relish for an article naturally disgusting, and lays thus early, in some instances, a foundation for intemperance in after life. What physician has not known a nursing mother give a fretful child a good night's sleep, by taking herself a dose of brandy at bed time?
Other organs than those destined for the formation of milk, manifest the presence of this article when it is combined with peculiar odours [sic]; those organs especially which are set as waste gates to the system, soon show how foreign it is, and ill adapted to the real wants of the animal economy, by seperating [sic] it from the blood, and taking it out of the general circulation as fast as possible.
The brain, that most delicate and wonderful organ, which forms the mysterious link between the other forms of matter and mind, the healthy functions of which are essential to vigorous intellectual operation, is capable of imbibing alkohol [sic], and having all its actions suddenly arrested.  In point, is the case of a man who was picked up dead in London, soon after having drank a quart of gin upon a wager.  He was carried into the Westminster Hospital and there dissected. ' In the venticles [sic] of the brain was found a considerable quantity of limpid fluid, distinctly impregnated with gin, both to the sense of smell, and taste, and even to the test of inflammability.  The liquid appeared, to the senses of the examining students, as strong as one third gin to two thirds water.'
We know that alkohol [sic], even when diluted, by long contact after, death hardens the brain, as well as the other textures of the body which contain albumen; and although the vital principle may enable the brain to resist in great measure, and for a long time this effect of alkahol [sic], when brought into it from the stomach by the general circulation, the fact, as alleged by many, and as I am strongly induced to believe from the limited means I have had of observing, viz. that the brains (of) drunkards are literally harder at death, than those of the temperate, may be considered in strict accordance with the effects of intemperance upon the intellectual functions. If this organ be any degree hardened by the circulation of diluted alkohol [sic] through its minute and most delicately organized parts, it might well be supposed to be less susceptible of those exquisitely balanced actions, which we can hardly help believing do exist in the impressions made by external objects and in the variety of combinations of them, produced by the more abstract and retired operations of the mind.- That a large proportion of tipplers early discover an unnatural obtuseness of intellect, and that frequently a mind originally quick and vigorous, becomes sluggish and imbecile, need not be told to an assembly of physicians who have had the common opportunities of observing the effects of intemperance.
_______________________________________
AWFUL EFFECTS OF INTEMPERANCE.
Extract of a letter to the Editor, from the Rev. A. W. Gay dated Wilkesborough, September 12, 1828.
I have thought it might not be amiss to sent you the following account of the fatal effects of ardent spirits, of which you can make whatever use you think proper.
At the fall term of the Superior Court of this county, held this week, a man named Barlow, was tried for the murder of his wife.  During the trial, the following facts were proved. Barlow had been a dutiful son, a good neighbor, and an affectionate husband, until habitual drunkenness induced insanity. In a fit of insanity, he murdered an affectionate and a pious wife who had borne him five children, the youngest about two weeks old.  The manner in which the atrocious deed was committed, is almost beyond credibility. Barlow confessed that he beat his wife until he thought she was dead-that he left her,- that she rose and attempted to make her escape-and that he then pursued her, and beat her brains out with a rock! It is said that they had previously lived in perfect harmony, and that her character was irreproachably good.  Barlow was acquitted on the plea of insanity.
At the same time, Jacob Miller of the same county was convicted of murder, and sentenced to be hanged.
P. S. -Perhaps it ought not to be disguised that the last spirits which Barlow was known to have used before the murder of his wife, was a few gallons, procured from a Preacher of the Gospel, who kept Distillery. This was procured a very few weeks before the murder, and was the immediate cause of that particular fit of insanity. The previous habits of Barlow were well known to that Minister.
[If a preacher of the gospel will in this way become accessary to murder and to the death of the soul for the sake of filthy lucre-let it be known to the public;-let no disguise be thrown arround [sic] his character-the sooner such preachers are known, and their characters duly estimated, the better it will be for the interests of religion. Who can read the above postscript without feeling indignation-without a thrill of horror at the tho't [sic] that a minister of Jesus Christ instead of saving, should by this traffic, destroy the souls of men!!!]- Visitor and Telegraph.
________________________________________










Another Calamity.- Our heretofore favored land, it would appear, has been doomed to curses, not with 'war, famine, and pestilence,' (for we are at peace with all nations and unprecedently [sic] healthy,) but with worms. The worm had scarcely ceased its devastation on the crops before we heard of the maggot in cattle.
The description of fly that deposits the eggs from which these maggots are generated we understand is partly covered with hair, and is above the size of the ordinary green fly. They deposit them in the nostrils, wherever there is blood on the animal, or an abrasion of skin, as from slight injuries, and not, as with the common fly, where there is a taint. The egg shortly after it is deposited, assumes the shape of a worm, varying in length from a quarter to one inch. They affect horned cattle, horses, hogs, dogs, 'c. Among the former we believe they are more general. Blood is constantly trickling or oozing from the place where they are deposited, and is the first indication of their presence.  It is really revolting to humanity to see the victims of these voracious insects.
The experience of persons in this neighborhood, in the use of applications to destroy them is limited; but we understand that if they are early discovered, washing the part affected with spirits of turpentine will kill them. If they have been at work several days, the part should be laid open with the knife, washed with spirits of turpentine, and sprinkled with calomel. These are agents, and used for exterminating these insects, as we learn are generally successful.
Selma (Ala.) Cour. Sept. 11










Tecumseh.- This hero of the scalping knife, is in the way (as we perceive by the New Monthly Magazine) of being immortalized in Great Britain, through the medium of 'a Poem in four Cantos, by an English Office,' bearing the romantic title of 'Tecumseh, or Warrior of the West.'- No extracts are given; but we take it for granted, that the inspiration of the subject has elevated the military bard into something very like Homer-or Milton, at least.  The editor of the New Monthly puts forth a deal of interesting pathos in his notice of the work. 'It is a tribute to the memory of a great and noble character in savage life, that was distinguished as an ally of the British in Canada, during the late war there, and fell in battle. The Kentuckians afterwards skinned the fallen warrior, to make razor strops of his hide-proof of Kentuckian civilization which the Americans of other states refer to in proof of their charges against that, if being a semi-barbarous province.'- 'He seems to have been one of those dignified and noble characters which occasionally burst forth from the shackles of savage and untutored nature to command and direct the meaner spirits around him, and to obtain unqualified admiration from civilized nation.'  'Not only the British, but the Americans (not Kentuckians,) have paid the tribute of admiration to the tried virtues of Tecumseh.' 'He was a brave and honorable savage whose name should not die in England.'  But enough of this rigmarole. It is a pity that officers of the army will dabble in mock heroics and sage critics become ridiculous; but it seems to be the fate of almost every English writer in regard to this country, to be guilty of the sin of ignorance, ill-nature, or absurdity.- N. Y. Statesman.










To all my friends, and Cherokee citizens generally.
I would hereby give notice that I intend, by leave of Providence, to open a boarding house about the first of November next, near the Mission School in this town, where I will supply children under twelve years of age, with board and washing for one dollar per week, and youth over twelve years of age with board exclusive of washing, for the same price.  But should any youth over twelve or thirteen years of age wish to enter the boarding house, they will please to produce satisfactory testimonials with regard to their moral character.
For the satisfaction of all who may wish to support their children at School, I would state that Messrs. William Hicks, Alexander M'Coy, and Elias Boudinott have had the kindness to accept the appointment of Committee to visit and examine the School once in three months viz. on the first Tuesday of January, March, June and September, when they will report through the medium of the Cherokee Phoenix the state and improvement of the School.
MARY ROWE for her father
RICHARD ROWE.
High Tower, Oct. 15, 1828.


















      
        
      
GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
MESSAGE
OF THE PRINCIPAL CHIEFS OF THE CHEROKEE NATION, TO THE GENERAL COUNCIL.
To the Members of the Committee and Council in General Council convened.
FELLOW CITIZENS:- In addressing you on this momentous occasion, we cannot, in justice to our feelings, forbear a solemn pause, and with grateful feelings meditate on the many blessings which a kind Providence has conferred on us as a people. Although we have had trials ' tribulations to encounter, ' in some instances, the sad effects of intemperance have been experienced within the circle of our citizens, yet, there is every reason to flatter us in the hope, that under wise and wholesome laws, the preponderating influence of civilization, morality, and religion, will secure to us and our posterity and ample share of prosperity and happiness.
Occupying your seats by the free suffrage of the people, under the privileges guaranteed by the Constitution, the various subjects requiring your deliberation the present session, will necessarily be important.  The organization of the new Government, the revision and amendments of the old laws, so as to make them in unison with the principles of the Constitution, will require your attention; ' it cannot escape your wisdom, that the laws should be short, plain ' suitable to the condition of the people, and to be well executed. The Judiciary system demands your serious deliberation, and the mode for conducting suits in courts should be free from all complicated formalities, and no other form should be required than, to let both parties know distinctly, what is alledged [sic], that a fair trial may be had. A law should be passed requiring managers ' clerks of all public elections to register the names of the persons voting as well as the names of the candidates to whom the votes are given, by observing such a course, illegal votes will be detected, and the elections conducted with more regularity, harmony, and satisfaction.
The public press deserves the patronage of the people, and should be cherished as an important vehicle in the diffusion of general information, and as no less powerful auxiliary in asserting and supporting our political rights. Under this impression, we cannot doubt, that you will continue to foster it by public support. The only legislative provision necessary for conducting the press, in our opinion, is to guard against the admission of scurrilous productions of a personal character, and also against cherishing sectarian principles on religious subjects. The press being the public property of the Nation, it would ill become its character if such infringements upon the feelings of the people should be tolerated.  In other respects, the liberty of the press should be as free as the breeze that glides upon the surface.
From accompanying memorial, signed by several of our respectable citizens, together with the public Treasurer, you will discover that further indulgence is called for in behalf of the public debtors, and it is for your wisdom to determine, whether, it would be just and proper, that the law requiring the Treasurer to call in all the money loaned out, should be amended so as to give further indulgence to the borrowers, that the payments may be made by reasonable installments. Owing to the extreme scarcity of money, from the general pressure in business, such indulgence would, no doubt be, a great relief; and the probable distress and ruin, from the sacrifices of property consequent from public sales may be averted.
After receiving the Treasurer's report and ascertaining the true condition of the public funds, it will also be your province to determine the expediency of making suitable provisions for the erection of a National Academy, at New Echota. This subject, has for some time past been agitated, and is anticipated with the warmest zeal by the reflecting part of our citizens, and it should receive your particular attention. By the Treaty of 1819, four tracts of land, equal to fifteen miles square were reserved for the purpose of creating a revenue for a school fund, to be applied under the direction of the President of the United States, for the education of the youths of this Nation. The lands were to have been sold under the direction of the President in the same manner, as the public lands of the United States, and notwithstanding the repeated and urgent requests which have been made, for the sale of these lands, and the no less repeated promise on the part of the General Government to attend to it, for reasons unknown, they are not yet sold. We would recommend you to memorialize the President on this important subject, and respectfully to request that, the available funds may be applied to the support of the contemplated National Academy.
The several charity schools in this country under the imediate [sic] patronage of benevolent societies of the several states should not escape your notice. Altho'[sic]  the superintendents of these schools, under the direction of respective societies have the right of conducting them, according to the dictates of their own discretion and judgments, yet, without presuming any disparagement to their regulation, we would suggest the expediency of selecting a visiting committee on the part of the nation, for the purpose of inspecting their public examination, ' at such other times as said Committee may deem proper, and that they should be required to make a general report on the state of improvement 'c. to be laid before the session of each General Council. Such a course pursued by the authorities of the Nation in relation to these institutions, would no doubt excite an interest among the pupils, and add to the vigilence [sic] of their preceptors, and at the same time produce general satisfaction.- An indifferent course perhaps might eventually produce relaxation and apathy in their operations, and we should endeavor to avoid the dishonor of any circumstance which might possibly take place, that would defeat the fondest expectations of those, upon whose benefaction they are founded.
The circumstance of our Government assuming a new character under a constitutional form, and on the principles of republicanism, has, in some degree, excited the sensation of the public characters of Georgia, and it is sincerely to be regreted [sic] that this excitement should have been manifested by such glaring expressions of hostility to our true interests.  By the adoption of the Constitution, our relation to the United States, as recognized by existing Treaties, is not in the least degree affected, but on the contrary, this improvement in our government, is strictly in accordance with the recommendation, views and wishes of the Great Washington under whose auspicious administration, our Treaties of piece [sic] friendship and protection were made, and whose policy in regard to Indian civilization has been strictly pursued by the subsequent administration.
The pretended claim of Georgia to a portion of our lands, is alleged on the following principles., First, by discovery.  Secondly, by conquest.- Thirdly, by compact.
We shall endeavor briefly to elucidate the character of this claim. l In the first place, the Europeans by the skill and enterprize of their Navigators, discovered this vast Continent, and found it inhabited exclusively by Indians of various Tribes, and by a pacific courtesy and designing stratagems, the aboriginal proprietors were induced to permit a people from a foreign clime, to plant colonies, and without the consent or knowledge of the native Lords, a potentate of England, whose eyes never saw, whose purse never purchased, and whose sword never conquered the soil we inhabit, presumed to issue a parchment, called a 'Charter,' to the Colony of Georgia, in which its boundary was set forth, including a great extent of country inhabited by the Cherokees and other Indian Nations.
Secondly. After a lapse of many years when the population of these Colonies had become strong, they revolted against their sovereign, and by success of Arm, established an Independent Government, under the name of 'the United States.' It is further alleged that the Cherokee Nation prosecuted a war at the same time against the Colonies.
3dly. Several years after the treaties of peace, friendship and protection, which took place between the U. S. and the Cherokee Nation, and by which the faith of the United States was solemnly pledged to guarantie [sic] to the Cherokee Nation forever, their title to their lands, a Compact was entered into between the United States and the State of Georgia, by which the United States promised to purchase for the use of Georgia certain lands belonging to the Cherokee Nation, so soon as it could be done on reasonable and peaceable terms.
Thus stands the naked claim of Georgia to a portion of our lands.- The claim advanced under the plea of discovery is preposterous. Our ancestors from time immemorial possessed this country, not by a 'Charter' from the hand of a mortal King, who had not right to grant it, by the Will of the King of Kings, who created all things ' liveth forever ' ever.
The claim advanced under the second head, on the ground of conquest, is no less futile that the first, even admitting that the Cherokees waged a war with the Colonies, at the time they fought for their Independence. The Cherokees took a part in the war, only as the allies of Great Britain, and not as her subjects, being an Independent Nation over whose lands she exercised no right of jurisdiction; therefore, nothing could be claimed from them, in regard to their lands by the conqueror over the rights of Great Britain. At the termination of the war, the United States negotiated with the Cherokees on the terms of peace as an Independant [sic] Nation, and since the close of that war, other wars took place, and at their terminations, other treaties were made, and in no one stipulation can there be found a single idea that our title to the soil has been forfeited, or claimed as the terms of peace; but, to the contrary, we discover that the United States solemnly pledged their faith that our title should be guarantied to our Nation forever.
The third pretension is extremely lame. The United States enters into a compact with Georgia that they will purchase certain lands, which belong to us, for Georgia, so soon at they can do it on peaceable and reasonable terms, This promise was made on the part of the United States without knowing whether this nation would even consent to dispose of these lands on any terms whatever; and the Cherokees not being a party in the compact, their , title cannot be effected in the slightest degree. It appears astonishingly unreasonable, that all those hard expressions of denunciation which have been unsparingly lavished against our sacred rights and interests, by interested politicians, have arose from no other circumstance than our honest refusal to sell to the United States lands, for the fulfilment [sic] of their Compact with Georgia. Although our views ' conditions may be misrepresented-although we may be stigmatized with the appellation of 'Na-bobs' and should be represented as ruling with an 'Iron rod' and 'grinding down into dust the wretched  and abject mass' of our citizens; and although we may be called avaricious for refusing to sell our lands, we should not be diverted from the path of rectitude. In all our intercourse with our neighboring white brethren, we should endeavor to cultivate the utmost harmony and good understanding, by strictly observing the relations which we sustain to the United States.
Owing to the various misrepresentations respecting us, we have been frequently called upon to make a treaty of cession; and under the hope of succeeding with us, a treaty has been entered into by the United States with that portion of the Cherokees who have absolved themselves from all connection with us, by removing west of the Mississippi and establishing themselves there as a distinct community, stipulating that all those Cherokees residing east of the Mississippi who will consent to emigrate west of that river, shall receive a bounty consisting of a rifle gun, a blanket, a steel trap, a brass kettle, and five pounds of Tobacco. Such are the temptations offered to induce us to leave our friends, our relatives, our houses, our cultivated farms, our country, and every thing endeared to us by the progress of civilization-for what? To tread the barren wilds and dreary waste on the confines of the Rocky Mountains, with those necessary accoutrements and appendages of the hunter on our backs, in pursuit of the Buffaloe [sic] and other wild animals.  With the view of carying [sic] this burlesque on our happiness into effect, the United States' agent for this Nation has been instructed by the Secretary of War, to visit us at our firesides, accompanied by James Rogers and Thomas Maw, two of the Cherokees residing west of the Mississippi, and who composed a part of the chiefs that negotiated the late Treaty. This extraordinary movement has been made, though without any effect; and we are happy to state, that our citizens generally have treated the Agent and his associates with civility, and have with great propriety restrained their indignant feelings from committing any violence on the persons of the two Arkansas chiefs, for the indignity offered by the design of their visit. We would recommend you as the immediate representatives of the people, to submit a respectful memorial to the Congress of the United States, expressive of the true sentiments of the people respecting their situation, and praying that measures may be adopted on the part of the United States for the adjustment of their Compact with the state of Georgia, otherwise than to anticipate any further cession of land from this nation.
WILLIAM HICKS
JOHN ROSS.
New Echota, C. N. Oct. 13, 1828.
______________________________
NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
The National Committee met, on Monday 13th October, agreeably to the provision of the Constitution, at New Echota, when there not appearing a quorum of members, they adjourned to meet on Tuesday 10 o' clock October 14.
MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
Richard Taylor} Chickamauga
John F. Baldridge}
Edward Gunter} Chattooga
Dan'l Griffin Jr.}
Joseph Vann} Coosewatee
George Sanders.}
David Vann} High Tower
Jos. Vann}
James Daniel} Hickory Log.
Saml. Downing}
William Bolen} Tahquohee
Alexander M'Daniel}
Samuel Ward} Aquohee
John Timson}
Thomas Foreman} A-Mo-Hee
Lewis Ross}
_____________________________________
Tuesday, Oct. 14
The National Committee met agreeably to adjournment when, a quorum being formed, they proceeded to the election of a President and Clerk Pro. Tem. Lewis Ross was elected President, and David Vann Clerk.- After which, they proceeded to the examination of the certificates and returns of the members, when each produced his certificate, was qualified, and took his seat.
The house adjourned to meet Wednesday, 9 o'clock, October 15th.
Wednesday Oct. 15
The House met agreeably to adjournment, and proceeded to election of a President and Clerk for the session. Lewis Ross was elected President, and William S. Coody clerk. The House being organized, proceeded to business.
Rules for the regulation of the National Committee.
The following rules were submitted by Messrs. James Daniel, Joseph Vann and David Vann and adopted by the House.
1. Each member shall be seated, and whenever he wishes to address President he shall rise up in his place.
2. No member shall be allowed to speak more than twice upon any resolution, or bill, but with the consent of the President.
3. Whenever a member shall introduce a bill or resolution, it shall be in writing, unless for adjournment, or the previous question.
4. When two members rise to speak at the same time, the President shall decide who shall take the floor.
5. Whenever a member is called to order by the President, or a member, he shall sit down, or explain before he shall be permitted to continue the debate.
6. When a communication is received by the Committee, from the Principal Chiefs or Council, all debate shall be discontinued until the bearer leaves the Committee room.
7. Each member that absents himself fifteen minutes after the time appointed (by adjournment) for meeting, shall forfeit twenty five cents, and for every half hour thereafter twenty five cents more, unless a good excuse be made, which shall be adjudged by the Committee.
8. Should any member, after the meeting of the House agreeable to adjournment, absent himself more than five minutes he shall pay twelve and a half cents for every fifteen minutes thereafter.
Edward Gunter and Daniel Griffin were appointed a Committee to inform the National Council, that the National Committee was organized, and ready to proceed to business. James Daniel and Jos. Vann (of Coosewaytee) were appointed to form a joint committee, and to wait on the Principal Chiefs, and inform them that both Houses were organized and ready to receive any communication from them.
A communication was received from the Principal Chiefs, read and interpreted in joint committee of the whole.
The Committee adjourned to Thursday 9 o'clock October 16th.
Thursday Oct. 16th.
The communication from the Principal Chiefs was read, and explained in Cherokee. On motion of Jos. Vann of Coosewatee, the Committee made an appropriation for erecting railing in the Committee Chamber, which was agreed to by the Council. It was decided that elections for the Principal Chief should take place on Friday Oct. 17th.
Friday Oct. 17th.
Mr. Richard Taylor appeared, produced his certificate, was sworn and took his seat. R. Taylor was elected interpreter for the house.
The Committee and Council formed a joint Committee of the whole, and proceeded to elect the principal Chief, the assistant principal Chief and other officers according to the provisions of the Constitution. William Hicks and John Ross were nominated candidates for the office of the Principal Chief and George Lowrey assistant principal Chief. John Ross and George Lowrey were declared duly elected as Principal Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation for the term of four years. Messrs. William Hicks, Major Ridge and Maj. George M. Waters were elected executive Counselors. Messrs Walter S. Adair, Andrew Ross and John Huss, were duly elected Supreme Judges of the Cherokee Nation. Mr. Joseph Lynch was elected Marshal. There appearing no other candidate, John Martin was declared Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation.
The Committee passed a resolution, which was agreed to by the Council, authorizing the judges of the Supreme Court appointed according to the provision of the Constitution, to decide on all cases appealed from the District Courts.
Saturday Oct. 18th.
The Committee met according to adjournment.  A petition from George Candy was read, praying the National Council for a grant of a set of blacksmith tools, in accordance with a provision made Oct. 26th 1820. Fifty seven Dollars and twenty five cents was appropriated for the benefit of the Petitioner.
A communication was received from the principal Chief, recommending a resolution in lieu of another adopted on Friday by the Committee and Council, organizing the Supreme Court of the Cherokee Nation.  It was adopted without a dissenting vote, and sent to the lower House.
Margaret Reid appeared ' presented a petition, claiming the right of citizenship, and praying the privilege of remaining in the Nation, until she could procure proofs to authenticate her right to this Country. The petition was rejected, only two voting for it.
A resolution from the lower House imposing a tax of eight Dollars on persons introducing shows in New Echota during the session of the General Council, was laid before the Committee, and adopted.
The Committee adjourned to met on Monday 9 o'clock, Oct. 20th.
Monday Oct. 20th.
The Committee met according to adjournment.
Messrs. David Vann, James Daniel and Edward Gunter, were appointed a select committee, to take into consideration so much of the principal Chiefs Message as relates to the judiciary system, and to report to this house such laws and regulations as they may deem expedient to be made.
On motion it was resolved that the pay of the Judges of the Supreme Court be four Dollars per day and that their sessions be limited to three weeks in each year.
Mr. Elijah Hicks appeared, and proposed to sell his house for the use of the Supreme Court. His proposition was rejected without a dissenting vote.
The Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation made a report on the state of funds.
________________________________________
NATIONAL COUNCIL
This body was organized on Wednesday October 15th.  Going Snake was appointed Speaker, and Alexander M'Coy Clerk. For want of assistance, we have thought proper to dispense with publishing the Minutes of this House. It is composed of the following members.
Charles Reece,}
Sleeping Rabbit} Chickamauga
Tsu Nung-gee}
Archibald Campbell,}
Bark,} Chattooga
Laughing Mush,}
White Path}
Da-Ye-Ske} Coosewatee.
Ne-Gah-We,}
Walking Stick,}
Turtle,} High-Tower
Chuleo,}
Moses Parris,}
John R. Dowel,} Hickory Log.
Slim Fellow}
Matoy,}
Cricket.} Taquohee
Nah-Hoo-Lah,}
Si-Too-Wa-Gee,}
De-Geh-Le-Loo-Gee,} Aquohee.
Robert Musk Rat,}
Going Snake,}
James Bigby.} Ah-mohee.
Deer in the Water,}










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, October 22, 1828
ARKANSAS CHEROKEES.
We are requested to insert the extract of a letter from Capt. John Rodgers, dated July 31, 1828.
Maj. Ew. Duval.
Dear Sir: 'In my last letter I informed you there was to be a General Council on the 18th inst. which I expected to attend but did not, owing to false information. The council came on sooner than was stated to me, ' was at the Agency instead of being at Horse Head as was first represented to me. The object of the meeting was to explain to the people of the nation the transactions of the delegation while at Washington. And from the best information I can get the people at this time are generally satisfied, and a number of those that were very hostile before they were brought fully to understand the nature of the Treaty are now the best satisfied, if any difference. They are now and have been for some time past engaged in selecting them places to move to in the purchase. With regard to the whites that were settled in the purchase they appeared to be well pleased with donations of land, but two thirds of them have sold their claims for very trifling.'
___________________________________
WASHINGTON AND THE CHEROKEES.
We have had occasion to publish two addresses of General Washington to the Cherokees. We are glad to present another of that great man.
TO THE CHIEFS AND WARRIORS OF THE CHEROKEE NATION OF INDIANS.
My Children- I am glad to see you and take you by the hand after so long a journey.  I rejoice that you are all in good health and I bid you heartily welcome to this City.
I am made acquainted with the talks you have had with the Secretary of War, you may depend upon what he may say to you in my behalf.
My Children.- I am very sorry that since I took some of you and others of your nation by the hand about two years ago in this City that disturbances and hostilities have happened between your nation and some of the white inhabitants upon the frontiers.- It is unnecessary for me to enter upon the particulars of those unhappy events, as we now mean to bury deep and forever the red hatchet of war.  Let us therefore forget past events, let us endeavour [sic] to find out the means by which the path between us shall be kept open and secure from all harm. you [sic] must restrain your bad young men from stealing of horses and murdering our frontier people. Unless You [sic] have force sufficient for this purpose peace will never be established.  The frontier people will not suffer their property to be stolen, much less will they suffer their friends to be murdered without seeking satisfaction.
We shall endeavor to keep in order the white young Men and prevent their doing you any injury.
The Secretary of War has spoken to you my mind about the lands upon Cumberland. These have been confined by the two treaties of Hopewell in 1785 and of Holstein in 1791- More than ten thousand people are seated on those lands and they cannot be removed.
The treaties which have been made cannot be altered. The boundaries which have been mentioned must be marked and established so that no disputes shall happen or any white people cross over it.
But in order to convince you that the United States are desirous that you and your families should be comfortably clothed, your annual allowance of one thousand five hundred dollars will be increased to the amount of five thousand dollars yearly. The Secretary of War will consult you for the purpose of furnishing you with the articles which shall be acceptable to your nation and you shall take the amount of one years allowance home with you.
Besides this quantity which will be for the whole Nation, I have directed that you who are present, and your families should be well clothed and well treated in all respects.
This liberal allowance independent of all former considerations will be of mucher [sic] greater value to the whole nation than could possibly be obtained by Hunters from off the small spots of ground upon Cumberland or elsewhere which any of you may be desirous of having returned.
The Secretary of War will endeavour [sic] to find an Agent who shall reside among you in the heart of your nation to advise you in all cases and to protect you from all injuries.
Anything further which you may have to say you will communicate to the Secretary of War in whose charge I leave you being obliged myself to go to Virginia. He will take care to have you returned to your nation with the goods which shall be provided for you.
GO. WASHINGTON.
Philadelphia June 14th 1794.










DECLARATION OF WAR.
The following preamble and resolutions which are beautiful in more respects than one, we copy from the Ithica Chronicle.  They were adopted by the Ludlowville Artillery, at a company parade on the 1st inst:
Whereas we view with serious alarm the wide-spread evil of intemperance-assuming as it does the character of a merciless and desolating ENEMY-destroying not only the property, physical strength, and life, but also the moral worth and reputation of many of our most, valuable citizens; thereby bringing them under tribute and dragging them into disgraceful slavery and ruin:
And whereas, on occasions like the present, this enemy has, by his foul stratagems, lulled into security, and then shorn the locks of many of our citizens soldiers-so that, with all their imposing military appearance, when they have said,' We will go out, as at other times, to battle, they have found that their strength was most:
And whereas, in view of the progress of this enemy, and the manner in which he has intrenched [sic] himself throughout our country, we are of opinion that he is more dangerous to our free republican institutions, and liberties, than any foreign foe, therefore,
Resolved, Being mastered for military improvement and discipline, that we hereby wage a war of extermination against this common enemy, intemperance.
Resolved, As the Holy Scriptures are eminently calculated to promote the best interests of any people, and as, upon the Bible, rest the safety and prosperity of our republican government; that the amount, which a pernicious custom has almost compelled us to pay, on occasions like this, for ardent spirits, shall be given to the 'Female Bible Society of the town of Lansing.'
___________________________________
Page 3 Col. 5b.
In Amherst and some of the neighboring counties of Virginia, the drought has been so extensive, that forest trees of the largest growth have died. The oldest inhabitants do not recollect a season of similar severity.
_________________________________
Page 4 Col. 5a.
Extract of a letter from Capt. Thomas Anthony, dated.
CANTONMENT GIBSON,(A.T.) July 1
'General Chilly M'Intosh and twenty seven of our Creek Indians have been on a buffalo hunt; and after an absence of twenty days, returned with the meat of 24 buffaloes [sic], which they killed. They saw about 60 buffaloes [sic], and an immense number of deer whilst out, and would have killed more, but had not the means of bringing the meat home, every horse having as much as he could carry. A second party will go out next month, when they anticipate much sport.- All the Indians are delighted with this country, which is rich and well calculated for our people, who can live well by agriculture and hunting.- We have no fears of their suffering, as the crops look well. We shall have roasting ears of corn in two weeks, out of new ground cultivated since March last.  We have some good gardens with cucumbers, lettuce, radishes, plenty of Irish and sweet potatoes, beans, peas, beets, watermellons [sic], 'c. Col Brearly will raise 1500 bushels of corn, which we planted since I have been here.'
'We have had a deputation of Delaware Indians amongst us, who claim to be the grand-father of all Indian tribes. I went to our Public Square with them, and held a talk. They presented beads and tobacco, which was received in ancient form; and received presents of the same articles in return. All this is right; and we do not anticipate difficulty with any of the Indian tribes. We shall avoid all alliances. This has been my advice to the Indians. There are, however, a number of Indians who do not respect the rights of any nation: that go upon a war expedition to gain the name and character of warriors, and will take any person's scalp, and run the risk of the consequences.'
Eve. Post.


















      
        
      
GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
Tuesday Oct. 21.
Mr. Joseph Vann (of Coosewaytee) moved an amendment to the law of the 26th Oct. 1819, authorizing the issuing of permits for the employment of schoolmasters, and mechanics 'c.- After discussion the following resolution was passed and submitted to the Council for concurrence.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened:
That the law passed 26, Oct. 1819 regulating the issuing of permits 'c. 'c. is hereby so amended, as to require any citizen of citizens who shall obtain permit for any mechanic 'c. agreeably to the above law, to pay a tax of five dollars for each and every permit so obtained for the term of one year, and in proportion for a greater length of time.
Be it further Resolved,  That so much of said law, as requires the Committee and Council to issue permits, be repealed; and in lieu thereof the power of issuing permits shall be vested in the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation; and that it shall not be lawful for him to issue any permit or permits to any person or persons before the above tax shall have been paid: and that he shall keep a correct record of all permits issued.
Be it further Resolved,  That any person or persons obtaining a permit or permits shall be required to give bond and security for the good behaviour [sic] of such person or persons so brought into the Nation, which shall be satisfactory to the Treasurer.
Be it further Resolved, That the employer or employers shall be bound, under the penalty of twenty dollars, to notify the Sheriff of his or their District of the expiration of the term specified in his or their permit or permits:- and it shall be the duty of the Sheriff to remove such person or persons out of the Nation, unless his or their permit or permits shall be renewed within the space of twenty days.
 Be it further Resolved, That the above resolution shall go into effect, so soon as it shall have passed the Council, and been approved by the Principal Chief. [Concurred.]
The select Committee on the duties of the National Marshal made report.
The following resolution was passed-
Resolved 'c. That the National Marshal shall enter into bond with sufficient securities in the penal sum of $5,000 for the faithful discharge of the duties that may be required of him.
Sec. 2d. Be it further Resolved, That it shall be his duty to attend the Supreme Court annually during its session, and to execute all the decisions which may be made, or have it done by the Sheriffs of the several districts and all other business in which the Cherokee Nation may become a party within the jurisdiction of the Nation.
Sec. 3d. Be it further Resolved, That he shall receive for his services a salary of $100 and shall also be allowed eight per cent for [all] collections [which he shall make.]
Messrs. Taylor, Sanders and Foreman were appointed a select Committee to take into consideration so much of the Message of the Principal Chiefs as relates to loans due the National Treasury.
The house adjourned till to-morrow at nine o'clock.
Wednesday Oct. 29
The committee on loans from the Treasury made a report which was read.
The following Resolution was passed without a dissenting vote, and sent down for concurrence.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened: That all officers appointed under the authority of this Nation, who are required to give bond and sufficient security for the discharge of their duties, and whose offices require a Commission from the Principal Chief, shall be required to enter into their bonds with the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation; and shall be required to produce certificates from the managers of the elections certifying that they have been legally elected; and it shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive their bonds, and issue a certificate to each officer so bound, which when presented to the Principal Chief, shall be sufficient evidence for his commission to be granted.
A resolution was passed directing the sending of an express to require the immediate attendance of the Principal Chief, who was absent, or, in case of the impossibility of his attendance, desiring commissions to be sent to Walter S. Adair, Andrew Ross and John Huss, who had been duly elected Judges of the Supreme Court.- [Concurred.]
The Report of the Committee on public loans was taken into consideration, and after discussion, the following resolution was passed without dissent.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, That so much of the law passed 24th Oct. 1827, supplementary to the law passed 5th Nov. 1825, as requires the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation to call in all monies loaned out of the Treasury on the first Monday in October 1828 be, and the same is hereby repealed.
Be it further Resolved,  That any person or persons who may be owing the National Treasury by bond for loaned money, shall be allowed one month from the passage of this Resolution for the renewing of his or their bond or bonds in the Treasury, by paying up the interest due thereon, and giving sufficient securities; and that he or they be required to pay up the full amount of his or their bond or bonds, with the interest, in three instalments [sic] of six months each,- the first instalment and interest to be paid seven months after the passing of this, and the second instalment to be paid six months thereafter, 'c.
Be it further Resolved, That in case any person or persons should fail to renew his or their bond or bonds by paying up the interest 'c. within the space of one month, as provided above, the Treasurer shall proceed to have the full amount of his or their bond or bonds, with the interest due thereon, collected agreeably to law.
The Petition of Reuben Thornton, praying for the prevention of the cutting of roads, and establishing of ferries on the Chattahoochee, contrary to law, and to his injury, was read, ' referred to a select Committee, consisting of Messrs Daniel Gunter, and Baldridge.
The Committee to whom was referred so much of the Chiefs Message as relates to the Judiciary System, presented a Report, which was read and made the order of the day for tomorrow.
Adjourned to meet tomorrow at 9 o'clock.
Tuesday Oct. 23
A Resolution was passed, requiring the former Clerk to deliver up to the present Clerk all papers belonging to the National Committee.
On motion of Mr. David Vann, the report of the Committee on the Judiciary was taken up. The Report was read the second time, and again laid on the table.
The Resolution submitted to the Council giving further indulgence to public debtors was returned with a verbal amendment, when the House adopted the following rule,
That any objections or amendments that may be proposed by the Council to any resolution submitted by the Committee should be made in writing; and sent back the Resolution for the written amendment.  The Resolution was returned from the Council with the following note.
The Lower House has concurred with the Committee, excepting the term of one month to renew bonds and securities, and in lieu of one month they have substituted six weeks. On the question whether the Committee would agree to the amendment the votes were-Ayes Daniel, Downing, Foreman, Gunter, Taylor, Jos. Vann ( of Hightower D.) 6 Nays Baldridge, Bolin, Griffin, M'Daniel, Saunders, Timpson, Jos. Vann, (of Coosewaytee D.) David Vann, Ward, 9.
The Resolution was again submitted to the Council.
John Martin appeared before the Committee and executed his bond as Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation, to the satisfaction of the Committee, agreeably to law.
On motion of Mr. Daniel the House went into the revision of the Judiciary System. After progress adjourned to meet tomorrow at the usual hour.
Friday 24th.
The Bear's Paw, who killed a man at Sumach in last March obtained pardon by a joint vote of both houses of the General Council.
The Resolution of the Committee giving further indulgence to public debtors was returned by the Council with their concurrence.
The House resumed the revision of the Judiciary System, and after a further progress, again deferred the subject till tomorrow.
A resolution to rent a room for the use of the supreme Court was adopted and submitted.
The Committee on the petition of R. Thornton made a report, ' resolution relating to said petition was read and laid on the table.
Saturday 25
The House took up the petition of Reuben Thornton.  After discussion deferred the further consideration of the subject until Monday.
A petition from Jno. Gunter and Arch. Campbell, (praying for the appointment of a new administrator to the estate of Richard Riley, deceased,) was read, and laid over.
The Judiciary Bill was again deferred.
Monday 27th.
The subject of Reuben Thornton's petition was resumed. A communication from the Principal Chief, and other documents relating to the subject were read. Mr. Thornton desired a loan of $500 from the Nation. Jos. Vann (of Coosewaytee) moved that it was not expedient to loan more than $300. The question being taken, Mr. Vann's motion was carried, and the following resolution passed ' submitted to the Council for concurrence.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council Convened, That the sum of three hundred Dollars be and the same is hereby appropriated out of any monies in the Treasury not other wise appropriated, as a loan to Reuben Thornton, and that the said Reuben Thornton be required to enter into a bond with security to the satisfaction of the Committee, before a warrant be issued for the money; the said loan to be subject to the same regulations as those under the law passed the present session, extending further indulgence to persons owing the Treasury.
A resolution was passed, appropriating the sum of $12 00 as a compensation to Thomas Melton of Jefferson Co. Alabama for apprehending, and bringing in from the state of Alabama, a criminal by the name of John Cockerel, alias Brown; and also the sum of six dollars to Kah-noh-skee-skee for acting as guard over said Cockerel. Concurred by the Council, and approved by the Principal Chief.










LETTER FROM ARKANSAS
The following is a translation of a letter from one of our brethren in Arkansas, the original of which we also publish.  We suppose that such translation may be of some interest to our English readers, not simply for the information which they contain, but as affording occasional specimens of the manner of communication between those who are only beginning to be versed in this new species of literature, and ignorant of all other.
In August and the beginning of September I write.
I will relate to you what is done here on the Arkansas river. Last fall certain Chiefs were appointed to visit the city of Washington. Three days after Christmas they set out. They were sent for the purpose of settling a claim for land due to the nation.- This object was not accomplished.- They exchanged away the country which we already possessed. Consequently there is great disturbance.- The people were exceedingly exasperated. When the delegation returned they came very scattering.* Then a council was held. Two did not attend,-John Rogers and Geo. Morris. Two only were present.- Thos. Graves and Geo. Guess. I did not however see any difficulty arise in the council. Several tribes of us were present- Shawnees, Mohawks, Delawares, Creeks-so many different tribes met with us. (It was all very peaceful. We are soon to have another council at which I understand they [the delegation] are to be tried for not following their instructions-for what they have done in regard to the land, whereas they were directed to go and see respecting a debt. They were instructed if any other proposal should be made, not to accede to it. On this account their conduct gave offence.  It has been very near creating mischief.+ But what is not to be will not be. At present the people are beginning to look out for themselves building spots.
Now I have done giving you an account of this one subject.
Now I will relate to you what things have taken place at the West. Last Fall a party of men, thirty five in number, set out on a hunting expedition.  When they had gone far, three of their number returned. On their way they were taken prisoners, and detained five days. They were, however, set at liberty, and returned. The company who went farther had proceeded some distance when they saw Pawnees. The Pawnees were many.-Now they rushed upon them, and surrounded them.  Then a battle commenced. Three were lost-Tee-le-tah-ta-gee of the A-nee-sah-haw-nee Clan, another called the Squirrel, the other the Horse. This is a true account. Many of the other party were lost, for they had no guns, but only bows and arrows.
Secondly. Another company of seven persons set out for the Pawnee towns. There they arrived at a populous village. They were discovered, there they were attacked, and three of their number were lost. Four only returned, belonging to one town, called Piney-town. Of those that were lost, one was of the Long Savannah Clan, viz. Oo-lah-stoo-hah; another of the Deaf Clan, Tung-ne-no-lee, of the family of Wau hatch-ee; the other of the Wolf Clan, James, a half Creek. This happened in the month of June.
Thirdly. The Council has now just adjourned. Many were together.- There was a great variety of people, and a great variety of business. It was with difficulty that affairs were settled. Now they have completed their business. The land which has become ours is not far off, and is good land.
Fourthly. We hear that there will be war. I believe it will prove true; for we have suffered much injury during the past winter.
At the West there is much war.- There is no prospect of peace. What you hear of bloodshed is true.
I wrote in the first instance of the former council-now I have written respecting the second.
My friends I relate to you something of importance. We learn here that there is likely to be disturbance in the Spanish territory. We believe it is true. People from the United States are much engaged in forming settlements within the Spanish dominions. We understand also that they cross over to the North side of our line. A great variety of people of different nations are now crossing over.
Here in our country the Cherokees have disposed of their land. But the land is good. There is no fault to be found with it. But our elder brethren++ are the cause of it-for they are at work with us. Exert yourselves, members of Council. I wish it might again belong to us Cherokees on the Arkansas River. I hear that such a thing is possible. My friends, I relate this to you.
The Creeks are about crossing into the Choctaw country to settle. The river is the boundary between us.- They do not like the Fork, they say. When they have settled, then they will go to Washington to tell that they like their land.
This is addressed to you all;- John Miller, John Watts, John McIntosh, Cul-sa-tee-hee, Hair Conrad, Bushyhead, Thos. Field.
Now my friends, Farewell. Be thankful that all is well here in Arkansas. This is all. Send me in turn some information, that I may hear what is done among you.
I THE GLASS write this. I am well.
______
* Two of them are yet in this country. Ed.
+ That is, we suppose, the murder of the delegation. Ed.
++ The people of the United States. Ed.










From the Philadelphian.
MISSION AT DWIGHT
A letter just received from one of the faithful Missionaries of the American Board, at Dwight, in the Arkansas Territory, states that the interest hitherto felt both by Parents and children in education and general mental improvement, is increasing. A diagram enclosed, with the accompanying calculations, shewing [sic] the process of ascertaining the altitude of a perpendicular at the foot of a hill, from the hill's ;side, the work of James Madison Payne, an Indian boy, twelve years old, proves (as the writer well observes) that the red children of the forest are 'as capable of being interested in right lines, angels, and parallelograms 'c. as any other youth.- The boy, above mentioned, entered their school at the age of 6 years, totally ignorant of the English language; and now, speaks and reads it with fluency and accuracy; and within the same time has obtained a good knowledge of Geography, English Grammar, and the rules of Arithmetic, and besides has made some progress in Surveying, and the mensuration of heights and distances. Others in the schools are nearly as far advanced.- The adult scholars begin to feel, that the time is at hand, when they who have been enjoying the privileges of the schools will exercise the greatest influence in the nation.
__________________________
Page 4 Col. 3a-4a
THE PRAISES OF ALKOHOL [sic]
More than nine hundred years ago, an Arabian Chemist discovered by distillation, a pungent and warming liquor, to which was given the name of Alkohol [sic], and which we call ardent spirit. This, a modern writer asserts, is the aqua divina, or water of the Elysians [sic] fields, invented by Democritus, and he maintains that the term alkohol has nearly the same import with golden liquor, applied by some of his countrymen to the precious invention of the Greek philosopher. This  liquor was brought into Europe at the time of the Moorish conquest, soon came into general favor, and now exerts an important influence over a great part of the civilized world.
It is the object of the following remarks to examine the claims of this article to the extensive patronage and confidence it has acquired.
When taken in small quantity into the stomach, it diffuses its influence over the whole body; a fresh impulse is given to the living powers, the countenance lights up with pleasure, and the mind acts with new interest and vivacity.
Under the influence of a larger dose of exhilarating fluid, sensibility and sympathy unfold themselves.- Tears fall as a pensive association crosses the mind, or a tale of common suffering is told, the benevolent affections flow out upon all surrounding objects, and the whole world is not too large a sphere for the exercise of the generous sentiments which swell the bosom. The mind disburthened [sic] of care, and disregarding the past and future, sees no impediment to the boldest and most extravagagant [sic] enterprise; and rioting in the luxury of present existence, scarcely acknowledges a superior in the universe. Here the distinctions of society begin to disappear. The idle and half starved vagrant is transformed into a lord, and surrounded with pomp and plenty; and the miserable outcast, who has tenanted [sic] a prison for his crimes, imagines himself on a throne, clothed with power sufficient to direct the destinies of a nation or of the world.
The lover of alkolol [sic] sometimes resorts to poetry and song in the expression of his ecstacies, but as the effect of the etherial liquor deepens, he sings or shouts inarticulate responses to music or voices which seem to come to him from a distance, but which are occasioned by the violent beating of the arteries of his own brain.
If the corporeal part of man, in this happy condition, be inspected, it presents phenomena which correspond with those of the mind. The whole face is swollen, the forehead and temples patched with red and white, the cheeks of a deep crimson, the nose tipped with ruby, the corners of the mouth drawn down, and the under lip inclined to drop; the eyes bloodshot and glassy, roll upward under their lids, and the body and limbs, no longer subjected to the arbitrary control of the will, assume that position which is dictated by the power of gravitation; in a word, the whole man declining farther intercourse with external nature, retires with himself, and heedless of the material creation around him remains for hours, as if in a trance. If such be some of the effects of alkohol, who can wonder that it has been called golden drink, or that poets have chaunted [sic] its praises?
This however is not all. It possesses more than any other invention of man, the power of transforming character; but what is worthy of particular notice, is that all its good transformations are transitory, and nearly all its bad ones permanent. Does it give momentary strength to the feeble, its habitual use, makes the strong man weak. Does it inspire the coward with desperation, it can break down the heart of courage, and reduce the manly spirit to the imbecility of childhood. Does it make the poor man rich in imagination, it makes the rich man poor in reality. If it occasionally excite a flood of sympathetic tears, and unclench the fist of avarice, it relaxes benevolent exertion, and renders the mind habitually less sensible to the sufferings of others. - Professor Mussey's Address.










TEN DOLLARS REWARD.

IN February 1827, a man by the name of WILLIAM STONE sold me a horse, which has since that time proved to be stolen. Said Stone formerly lived in Jackson County, Alabama, and is about five feet 10 or 11 inches high, light colored hair, spare made, and about 25 years of age. I will give the above reward for any information of the residence of said Stone.
WILLIAM LESLEY.
Chattooga District, C. Nation. Oct. 29, 1828.


















GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
Tuesday Oct 28.
The petition of Reuben Thornton is regard to his Road and Ferry was again taken up.  The following Resolution was than adopted, and sent down for concurrence:
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, That from and after the passage of this Resolution it shall be unlawful for any citizen of citizens of the Cherokee Nation to cut or open any road or roads from any public road in this Nation, in any direction whatever, or repair any road or roads that have been put down by the authority of the Nation, or to open any road, or establish on their own account, or in conjunction with any white person, any ferry or ferries on any water courses bounding on this Nation or within the limits thereof, without first obtaining a permit from the General Council on the terms of the law passed Oct. 1819 on the subject of roads. And that all roads and ferries which are now in operation within this Nation as aforesaid, and which have been opened and established without a permit from the Genl. Council since the passage of the aforesaid law of 1819, are hereby declared to be unlawful, and the same shall be forthwith stopped by the sheriff of the District in which such roads or ferries may be located, or by the Marshal of the Nation, giving notice to the parties using said roads or ferries, or at whose instance the same may have been cut out or established, that the same are put down, and required to be stopped by them, by virtue of, and in obedience to the provisions of this Resolution. And any person or persons continuing to keep open or use such roads or ferries thereafter, shall be considered as if the same had been cut out or established after the passage of this Resolution; and shall be subject to such penalty as shall hereinafter be fixed.
Sec. 2 Be it further Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the several sheriffs of the circuits courts of this Nation, and the  Marshal of the Nation, upon information being lodged with them, or upon any violation of the provisions of this Resolution coming to their knowledge, forthwith to arrest such violators, and carry them before one of the Circuit Judges or Justices of Peace, who shall bind them over to appear at the next circuit court for the district in which the offence was committed in a bond with such security at the said Judge or Justice shall deem sufficient to compel the said violators to appear at the court aforesaid, ' stand trial. And in the event of any person or persons so arrested refusing to give good and sufficient security for his or their appearance at court as aforesaid, then it shall be the duty of the Judge or Magistrate, before whom such person or persons may be brought, to inflict upon them the penalty hereinafter specified.
Sec. 3 Be it further Resolved, That any person or persons that shall violate any of the provisions of this resolution, shall, for every such offence, of which he is convicted pay a fine of five hundred dollars, one half to go to the arresting officer, and the other half to be paid into the National Treasury; which said fine shall be collected by any qualified officer of the Nation by seizing any property belonging to such person or persons, as in case of other fines imposed by the laws of this Nation.
Sec. 4. And be it further Resolved,  that this Resolution shall be considered as an amendment to the Resolution of 30th October 1819, on the subject of roads: and that the following clause in said Resolution, 'On any such cases as may be brought before them for trial,' be, and the same is hereby repealed.
The Judiciary Bill was again taken up, and after further progress, a Committee was appointed, consisting of Messrs. Daniel, Gunter and Ward, to draft a resolution, organizing and defining the duties of the inferior Courts of the several Districts.
The Resolution of the Council, to appoint Committees to visit the several Mission Schools in the Nation and report, was read and laid on the table.
Jos. Vann (of Hightower D.) John Baldridge and John Timpson were appointed a Committee to take into consideration so much of the Chiefs' Message as relates to the passage of a law regulating the manner of conducting elections in the several Districts, and to report thereon.
A petition was presented from John C. Bird, who was sentenced by the Supreme Court to receive one hundred lashes on the bare back for the crime of horse-stealing, praying for the remission of a part if not the whole of the punishment. The house resolved that the prayer of the petitioner ought not to be granted.
Wednesday 29th.
Reuben Thornton appeared and executed a bond with security for the payment of the loan authorized to be made to him by a Resolution passed the present session.
The following resolution was passed, and sent down for concurrence;
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened:
That the Resolution passed 24th October 1827, prolonging the suspension of the poll tax law, be, and the same is hereby prolonged for the term of one year: and the law imposing a tax on citizen merchants is also hereby suspended for the above mentioned term.
The Principal Chief returned the resolution regulating the manner of issuing permits 'c. stating his rejection of the bill in its present form, and his inability, on account of the death of an infant child this morning, to state his objections immediately. Laid on the table till the Principal Chief should state his objections.
The Resolution of the Council respecting the appointment of Committees to visit the Mission Schools in the nation was taken up and several amendments proposed and discussed.
Thursday 30th.
The subject of visiting School Committees was resumed, and the following resolution passed and sent to the Council for concurrence, in lieu of that submitted to the Committee by that body:
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened:

That there shall be appointed by the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation two committees of two members each, one on each Judicial Circuit, whose duty it shall be to visit the different Schools in the Nation within the respective districts of their Circuits, at the public examinations of said Schools, once a year, and to report to General Council, annually the number of scholars, progress of education 'c.
Be it further Resolved, That they shall be paid one dollar per day, while in actual service, out of the National Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
The Committee to whom was referred so much of the Chiefs Message, as related to the passage of a law regulating the mode of elections made report. After some discussion and progress the bill was laid on the table.
Jos. Vann (C.) moved that it was expedient to repeal the law passed 28th Oct. 1828, requiring the payment of cash for a trade debt in case of delay in making payment after the demand is made. After discussion the house agreed to repeal.  Ayes Baldridge, Foreman, McDaniel, Griffin, Saunders, Timpson, Taylor, J. Vann (C.) D. Vann, J. Vann (H.) Ward, 11.  Nays Bolin, Daniel, Downing, Gunter, 4.
Friday 31st.
A Resolution was moved for the enactment of a law, to be an amendment of the law passed 12th November 1825, in lieu of amendment made 28th Oct. 1826, repealed. After some discussion the Resolution was laid on the table.
The objections of the Principal Chief to the Resolution regulating the issuing of permits, 'c. were presented in writing.  The Resolution with the objections was read and laid on the table to be read again on Monday next.
The Resolution respecting contracts made payable in property was resumed, further discussed, and made the order of tomorrow.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, Nov. 5, 1828.
CREEK INDIANS
Another body of emigrating Creeks lately passed Creek Path on their way to the Western country. They are called Creeks, though we are credibly informed that there were but few full Indians, most of the party being white men, half breeds, and mullattoes [sic]. They divided into two companies at Creek Path. One company pursued their journey on land, the other went down the Tennessee River in boats.
__________________________
Sometime since we copied from a Western paper an article describing a species of flies said to be very dangerous to animals.  These flies have lately made their appearance in this country. We have heard of several animals that have been afflicted by these strange visitants.  But only one case where a living person has been fly-blown has come to our knowledge. This person was living during last accounts. It is said whenever these flies penetrate the flesh they cannot without great exertions be extricated.
______________________________
Natural Curiosity.- There is now exhibiting in this place a tooth weighing 1 1-2 lb. which was found in Turkey's Town. It appears to be the jaw tooth of some enormous animal, now extinct, probably the Mammoth.
________________________________










From an address by President Humphrey.
INTEMPERANCE.
There is a domestic tyrant now traversing the fairest districts of our country-consuming its young and vital energies; treading down the blossom of its hopes; undermining its free institutions; setting at defiance all its authorities; multiplying engines of torture; fencing off grave years-and breathing pestilence upon every acre of our goodly heritage. This man-devouring shape,
'If shape it may be called, which shape has none,
Distinguishable in member, joint or limb

'Fierce as ten faries [sic], terrible as hell,
is INTEMPERANCE. 'O, her lords have had dominion over us,' but here is the very Nero of the horrid dynasty, and we must dethrone the despot, or we are lost.  If we sit still but a little longer, and look quietly on, while his scourge is raging like a tempest on fire in all our borders, the fourth of July will indeed come; but we shall have no independence to celebrate. Our liberties will exist only in the song of the drunkard. Fuit Ilium, will be written upon all the monuments of our glory.
The downward course, from moderate drinking, and cogniac [sic] hospitality, to dead intoxication, has been sketched again and again with graphic power and in horrible colours [sic]. Total abstinence is now becoming the watchword, not only upon all the heights of Zion, but in almost every department of civil and social influence.
But to be a little more particular-mark that carbuncled, slavery, doubtful remnant of a man, retching and picking tansy every morning before sunrise-loathing his breakfast-getting his ear bored to the door of a dram shop an hour after-disguised before ten-quarreling by dinner time and snoring drunk before supper.- See him next morning at his retching and tansy again; and as the day advances becoming noisy, cross, drivelling, and intoxicated.  Think of his thus dragging out months and years of torture, till the earth refuses any longer to bear such a wretch upon its surface, and then tell me, if any Barbarian slave was ever so miserable.
But who is this that comes hobbling up, with bandaged legs, inflamed eyes and distorted countenance? Every step is like the piercing of a sword or the driving of a nail among nerves and tendons. He suffers more every night than he would under the lash of the most cruel driver. And what is the cause? the humours [sic] he tells us trouble him; and though he has applied to all the doctors far and near, he can get no relief. Ah these wicked and inveterate humors! Every body knows where they came from. But for the bottle he might have been a sound and healthy man.
Looking again at the self-immolated victim of intemperance-hobbling-ulcerated-bloated-cadaverous-fleshless; every nerve and muscle and sensitive organ of his body quivering in the deadly grasp of some merciless disease, occasioned by swallowing the fiery element. Hear him cry out under the hand of his tormentors. Follow him, too, through the middle passage from health and freedom and happiness, to all the woes of habitual intoxication; and thence through scenes of the most grinding and crushing bondage that ever disgraced and tortured humanity, to his final rotting place, and tell me which of these slaves suffers most.  Ah, give me, you say, the chains and stripes and toil and perpetual servitude of a West India plantation rather than the woe, the wounds, and the diseases of the dram shop.










Indian Reform.- A Buffalo paper of Sept. 18 says, a letter from the mission establishment at Carey, Rev. Mr. M'Coy, had left that place on a tour of observation to the west,-to ascertain the local advantages of the territory, bounded east by the Missouri river and the State of Missouri, and west by the great American desert, for the settlement and colonization of the Indians scattered over the northern states and territories of the United States. Mr. M'Coy last winter gave to the public a pamphlet entitled 'The practicability of Indian reform, embracing their Colonization.' - This work probably drew the attention of government, and Mr. M'Coy was directed to make an examination of the country in question.










A LITTLE TOO FRIENDLY.
Another racer gone to the Poney [sic] Club Carroll County, Georgia, or to some other place of similar distinction. On Tuesday or Wednesday last was taken without my leave, a small dark chesnut [sic] sorrel Mare, blazed face, all feet white, her fore legs white nearly to the knees, bare-footed all round, and rather wild when handled by a stranger particularly and mane very short, owing to her having the Lampers.
There is some reason to suspect a lurking kind of white man, who left this place about that time on his way to Marion Co.Ten. or Jackson Co. Alabama. Friends to the suppression of such villainy, are earnestly requested in all the adjacent states, to keep a sharp look out. I will give ten dollars for the delivery of the thief ' mare to me at this place, or five for the mare alone if caught in the Nation.
ISAAC H. HARRIS.
Nov. 5th 1828.


















GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
Saturday, Nov. 1
On motion of Mr. Taylor, it was agreed to dispense with the consideration of the Principal Chiefs message on the subject of issuing permits to another time, and in lieu thereof the house proceeded to the petition of individual citizens of the Nation.
The petition of Robert Lovett was taken up, praying for a special law to be passed, granting him a new trial on a case of wrong judgment issued in his absence, at the District Court of Chattooga; by which sixty dollars was collected from petitioner as Security to Rabbit, who was defendant, and Kan-o-hee plaintiff. After considerable discussion and examination of some testimony, on motion of Mr. Gunter, the petition was laid on the table for further consideration on Monday.
The petition of A. Campbell and John Gunter Jr. praying for letters of administration to be issued on the estate of Richard Riley, deceased, was taken up for consideration. On motion of Mr. Taylor it was indefinitely postponed until a law shall be enacted, regulating administrations on estates.
The petition of E. Wilcox was postponed for further consideration.
The following petition was presented and agreed to without a dissenting vote, and submitted to the Council for concurrence.
To the Hon. Committee ' Council:
The undersigned petitioner begs leave to represent to your Hon. Bodies, that he is desirous of again returning to the Cherokee Nation, with his family and effects to live, having for some years past been living in the state of Alabama. It may be necessary to inform you that my wife and children are Cherokees. I therefore pray that it may please your Hon. Bodies to re-admit me and my wife and children to all the rights and privileges of citizenship, and in duty bound your petitioner will ever pray.
WILLIAM WILSON.
New Echota, Oct. 28, 1828.
The petition of Jesse Bushyhead was taken up.  On motion of Mr. Taylor it was defered [sic] until next Saturday for consideration.
The Committee adjourned to Mon-Monday [sic] 10 o'clock, Nov, 3d.
Monday, Nov. 3
The Committee met according to adjournment.
The resolution regulating permits was taken up and read the second time, with the objections thereto made by the principal chief.  The house adjourned after proposing various amendments to the resolution .
Tuesday Nov. 4
The resolution respecting permits was again resumed.
Mr. Gunter moved that Missionaries or superintendents of Missionary establishments be required to obtain permits; agreeably to the provisions of the resolution. The motion was opposed by Mr. Taylor and Mr. J. Vann (C.)
Here a warm discussion ensued, in which Gunter, Taylor, Van. (C.) took an active part. Mr. Gunter argued on the inconsistency of introducing white men into the Nation, and granting them rights and privileges withheld from natural born Citizens. Messrs. Taylor and Vann argued on the blessing and privileges of education, and the good which has been produced by Mission establishments.
On motion of Mr. Gunter, the Bill was laid on the table, until further information can be produced respecting the privileges which were granted to Missionaries by the National authorities at the time when they were first permitted to make establishments.
Jos. Vann (C.) moved that the law passed in 1828, respecting Citizens hiring without-permits, be so amended as to make the penalty of such a trespass fifty Dollars. Mr. Bolen moved that the penalty be twenty-five Dollars. For Vann's motion, Baldridge, Daniel, Downing, Gunter, Sanders, J. Vann (H.) J. Vann (C.) and Taylor, 8 For Bolen's motion, Foreman, McDaniel, Timpson, D. Vann, Ward, and Bolen, 6.
Mr. Foreman moved for the passage of a law making unlawful f for the owners of authorized Ferries to exact toll from the citizens of the Nation. Yeas, Bowlen, Downing, Foreman, Gunter, McDaniel, Sanders, Timpson, Taylor, J. Vann (C.) D. Vann, J. Vann (H.) and Ward 12. Nays, Baldridge and Daniel, 2.
Jos. Vann (C.) moved that the law be a general one, including all Ferries, Toll Bridges and Turnpikes. The question being put, the motion was adopted without a dissenting vote.
The following resolution was passed and sent to the Council.
Resolved by the Committee and Couincil in General Council convened: That it shall not be lawful to exact pikeage [sic], tollage or ferriage from citizens of the Nation at any of the turnpikes.  toll bridges and ferries, within the Cherokee Nation.
Mr. Gunter made motion to have the rates of Ferriage, at his ferry on the Tennessee river, regulated by law,. whereupon the following rates were established.
For Waggon [sic] ' team, $1.00
' Cart, .50
' two wheel carriage, .50
' four wheel carriage, .75
' man and horse,                                 .25
' horse, .12 1-2
' footman, .12 1-2
' cattle, sheep, hogs 'c
pr. head, 4
A resolution was adopted authorizing the Circuit Courts to regulate tolls at all the turnpikes, ferries and bridges belonging to individuals of the Nation and established according to law.
On motion or [sic] Mr. Taylor the following resolution was adopted.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, That the law passed 8th Nov. 1822, prohibiting gaming at cards under certain penalties therein specified, be, and the same is hereby, so amended, that no person or persons shall be allowed to game at dice, roulette, or thimbles, under the same penalties as are prescribed therein for gaming at cards.
Be it further resolved, that the above amendment shall go into full force and effect on the first day of January, 1829.
The resolution submitted by the lower house on the subject of advertising stray property, and making it the duty of officers to forward a copy of the advertisement to the Editor of the Phoenix, under the penalty of fifty Dollars, was taken up. After some progress, on motion of Mr. Ward, the resolution was laid on the table.
The petition of Robert Lovett was resumed.  After the examination of further testimony, the Committee decided that they had no power to interfere in the proceedings of the Courts, though it was evident to the house that petitioner was unjustly treated.
Wednesday 5th.
The following communication was received from the Principal Chief.
Executive Department.
Nov, 3d, 1828
TO THE PRESIDENT
OF THE COMMITTEE,
Sir,- It has become my duty to communicate to you for the information of the General Council, that Jesse E. Bean has made charges before me, against Edward Adair, public turnpike keeper, for making use of public money. Mr. Bean further states that he is willing at any time to authenticate his charges by good proofs.
I am, Sir you Obt. Serv't
JOHN ROSS.
On motion of Mr. Taylor the subject was defered until Mr. Bean should produce his proofs.
The sum of three dollars was appropriated for the benefit of Whippoowill [sic], for acting as express to the principal Chief.
Leave of absence was given to John F. Baldridge for the remaining part of the session.
The select Committee on the judiciary made report, recommending the establishment of justices Courts. After some discussion the bill was laid on the table.
The Committee to whom was refered [sic] the Treasurer's report, also made report.
The petition of Archy Foreman, ' James M'Daniel, sent from the lower house, praying for permission to establish a ferry on the Highwassee river near Tobacco John's and also to open a road, from thence to intersect the Georgia road at Thos. Fields, was read and granted.
The petition of William Robison, granted by the lower house praying to be restored to all the rights and privileges possessed  by other whitemen [sic] by marriage, was introduced. It was unanimously rejected by the Committee, it appearing that petitioner was never lawfully married, and had two or three other white wives; ' had left them all without being divorced.
The petition of Messrs Robert Rogers, James Rogers, and William O. Wagnon. praying for permission to burn lime in the Nation, was read and rejected.
Mr. Jos. Vann introduced a Bill, requiring the Treasurer to keep his office at Echota during each session of the General Council. It was unanimously adopted and sent to the Council.
The Bill respecting the issuing of permits was again resumed. A motion was made not to include missionaries in the Bill. It was agreed to be the Committee. After some discussion a resolution was adopted and sent to the lower house for concurrence.
The Bill establishing inferior Courts was again resumed. After some progress it was laid on the table and made the order of to-morrow.
The petition of William Lassly and others, praying for a grant to open a road from Turkey's Town to Alexander Sanders was read and rejected.
The petition of Luke Fernal praying that the appropriation of $57 2., for the benefit of George Candy, be paid to him, was introduced, and granted.
The petition of Big Cabbin praying the Committee to grant him a new hearing in a certain case, was rejected.
The claim of Big Cabbin against the Cherokee Nation, for the sum of one hundred dollars, the amount advanced to Maj. John Walker in 1817, by order of the Delegation at Washington, was laid before the Committee. After some considerations, it was laid on the table.
Friday, 7th.
The judiciary Bill was resumed.- After some progress, it was laid over until to-morrow.
The petition of James C. Martin, praying for compensation as Clerk of The Supreme Court of the Cherokee Nation, was presented, and rejected.
The resolution regulating the issuing of permits was rejected by the lower house, and sent to the Committee. It was laid on the table until tomorrow.
Saturday, 8th
The resolution on the subject of permits was adopted with amendments, and again submitted to the Council.
The Bill on the judiciary was resumed. It was decided by the Committee to establish one District Court in each District, to be composed of a District Judge, with a salary of sixty Dollars, six Jurors and a Clerk, instead of three Justices Courts, as recommended by the select Committee.
A resolution was passed dividing the Cherokee Nation in to two Circuit Districts. The first Circuit to be composed of the Districts of Coosewaytee, High Tower, Hickory Log, and Taquohee. The second Circuit to be composed of the Districts of Aquohee, Ahmohee, Chickamauga, and Chattooga.
An appropriation was made to purchase an iron chest, for the use of the Treasury of the Nation.
A resolution was adopted, authorizing the several judges of this Nation to establish such rules as they may deem expedient for the better regulation in their Courts.
A Bill was introduced by Mr. D. Vann and adopted, requiring the prosecutors in all criminal cases, to give bond and security for the faithful maintainance [sic] of such prosecutions.
The Committee adjourned to Monday.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, Nov. 12, 1828
Mr. BOUDINOTT: I notice in the September number of the Holston Messenger, the following editorial statement. 'that paper,[the Cherokee Phoenix,] we learn, is mostly under the influence of a northern missionary: who manages it in subserviency to the costly establishments in the Cherokee Nation. I suppose I am the only person who can possibly be intended by the 'northern missionary', who 'manages' your paper. Your won denial of such an assertion might be sufficient, but I have thought it might not be improper for me also, being thus implicated, simply to oppose my own assertion, united with yours, to that of an Editor, who certainly cannot know. I am well aware that the circumstance of the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix being associated with me as my assistant in translating and in the study of the Cherokee language, and still more the circumstance of my rendering to him occasional assistance, might excite jealousy; and I have therefore been particularly careful to have an answer always ready to any insinuation; which may be made. You will bear witness to the truth of the following statement.- I have never, in any single instance, given or intimated my opinion to the editor of the Phoenix, in regard to the insertion or rejection of any communication in that paper. I have never suggested a single remark of the Editor of the Phoenix, in regard to any topic connected with missionary establishments, or sectarian interests or differences of opinion. I have never written or dictated one sentence, which has appeared under the editorial head, except the few sentences in No. 35, published during the late sickness of the Editor, and, I believe a single note of one sentence, entirely unconnected with religious or political controversy, inserted with his approbation. There is, perhaps, no occasion for me to add anything, except to disclaim the least degree of influence in regard to the religious or political character of the Cherokee Phoenix, and to request the Editor of the Holston Messenger to insert this communication.
SAML. A. WORCESTER.
New-Echota, Nov. 6, 1828
The above statements are strictly correct, and as the Editor of the Messenger seems to be disposed to listen to both sides of the question, we hope he will, in justice to us, insert our unequivocal denial of the implication contained in his paper. The charge is a serious one, for it is intended to effect the veracity of the Editor of the Phoenix, and the General Council, under whose patronage it has been undertaking. We regret, that the Rev. Mr. Stringfield should give his influence in circulating the assertion above quoted. It is a mere fabrication, intended we fear, to effect the circulation of our paper.  He should have considered that a charge is easier made than proved.
It may be proper to state to our readers the circumstances which have produced the implication in question. In the 14th No. of our paper, we inserted a communication of the Rev. Nicholas D. Scales, formerly Methodist Missionary in this nation.  As we considered him in error, we took the liberty of adding a few remarks to his communication. This conduct of ours was highly disapproved by the Rev. Gentleman, in a letter addressed to us. Explanation was made by us in the 17th No., of one paper which paper, which we request our readers to peruse.  Soon after we received a long communication from the Gentleman, which we thought exhibited too much of sectarian spirit, and having no desire to engage in any controversy, we rejected it, and returned it to the author. This communication was afterwards sent to the Rev. Mr. Stringfield Editor, of the Holston Messenger, a Methodist Magazine printed in Knoxville, Tennessee, and published by him with the remark, 'that paper, [the Cherokee Phoenix] we learn is mostly under the influence of a Northern Missionary, who manages it in subservience to the costly establishments in the Cherokee Nation.'  Who communicated this assertion to the Editor of the Messenger, we are not solicitous to know, all we have to do is to declare it untrue, and challenge the author to prove his declaration.
It has already been stated to the public that the Phoenix was under Cherokee influence. It has never been, nor was it ever intended to be, under the influence of any Missionary or White man. We are extremely sorry that the charge has originated from a quarter not anticipated by us.
Ed. Cher. Phoe.
________________________________
ARKANSAS CHEROKEES.
Extract of a letter from William Thornton, to the Editor of the Phoenix dated,
DWIGHT, CHEROKEE NATION, ARKANSAS, Sept. 28, 1828.
I understand that two of our people are in your nation hunting emigrants to this nation-they are to come without lands, we don't approve of this-and I hope that they will not be countenanced. That part of the Delegation that has arrived are all broke and silenced forever, and the others will fare the same way. I have a letter written (now to put in mail) by the Sub. Agent, at the request of the greater part of the Nation, saying that the delegation had no instructions to make such a Treaty, and they have acted with fraud and deception, therefore they consider the treaty made void until a further understanding. They have also asked permission for another Delegation to go on, in order that they may have a fair understanding with the United States.
________________________________________
MR. BOUDINOTT- Much has recently been said respecting the injury of stock from a fly which is supposed lately to have appeared in this part of the country. I have had cattle and swine affected with them, and have seen one horse badly affected.  There is no doubt respecting the appearance of the fly. It is a little larger that the common green fly and its body partially covered with down or hair.- Three years ago last August I saw apparently the same fly depositing its young on a piece of chicken which had been cooked eighteen hours, while several persons were taking some refreshment, some distance from any human habitation.  About six years ago I saw the same fly engaged on a piece of, perfectly sweet bacon before it cooled after cooking.  In both instances the young crawled immediately.
When the young are deposited in a wound they grow with amazing rapidity, and soon cause a constant oozing of blood from the wound- I have made use of the Spirits Turpentine, and Camphor; both of which kill the maggots which came in contact with them. But the best remedy I have found is a strong infusion of elder leaves, which ought to be applied regularly and faithfully at least twice a day to the infected part. This course has in every case I have seen effected a cure in a few days.
E.B.
A gentleman requests us to state that burnt allum (sic), well pulverized, and applied to the part effected is a most certain cure. It instantly kills the maggots.- ED.










From the Courtland Herald.
You are respectfully requested to publish the Resolutions herewith communicated; ' brother Editors, friendly to the cause of Temperance and the observance of the Sabbath, it is hoped, will, through the medium of their papers, aid in this good work by copying these resolutions.
HUGH BARR.
The Presbytery of North Alabama view with great satisfaction, the spirited and Christian efforts that are making in some parts of our land to arrest the violation of the Holy Sabbath; and depending on the blessing of the great Head of the Church, the Presbytery would 'come to the help of the Lord, to help of the Lord against the mighty.' It is therefore
Resolved, That it is the sense of this Presbytery, that the travelling under common circumstances, which is so much practised [sic] in the community, and even by members of our Church, is a plain, a growing and awful profanation of the Christian Sabbath.
Resolved, That the presbytery enjoin, and they do hereby enjoin it upon all our sessions, to be strict in enforcing the discipline of the Church in every case of violation of the Sabbath which may come to their knowledge.
The Presbytery have to lament, that in several instances, professing christians, when on a common journey, have refused to 'rest according to the commandment,' even when an opportunity offered of spending holy time in worshipping with God's people in the sanctuary.
And they do enjoin on the members of the church, individually, a strict observance of the Christian Sabbath, particularly that they abstain from travelling under common circumstances, and from all other violations of a day. the observance of which is so intimately connected with the prosperity of Zion.
The Presbytery of North Alabama taking into consideration the great and deplorable extent, and the fatal consequences of intemperance.
Resolve, That they will not only abstain from the use of ardent spirits themselves, and prohibit the use of them in their families, except for medical purposes-but that they will use their utmost influence to discountenance the vice, and actively engage in promoting the interest of those associations, which have in special view, the suppression of this great and growing evil.
By order of Presbytery,
HUGH BARR.
Stated Clerk.
Moulton, Sept. 13, 1828.










HOUSE BUILDER AND CABINET MAKER.
J. S. W. WHITE, from the city of New York, respectfully informs the citizens of the Cherokee Nation, that he intends carrying on the business of HOUSE BUILDING AND CABINET MAKING in a manner superior to any that has been done, ' in the most fashionable manner, equal to that of N. York or Baltimore, and Superior to any work of the kind in this part of the Country. He will work as cheap as any workman, and in a better manner than can be done. He has got Mahogany and materials of the best quality.
N. B. He will take apprentices in the above business. Any native who will come with good recommendation and of steady habits will be received and taught in the above business.
Persons wishing to build can be supplied with a plan and elevation of any house that may be wanting.
For further information please apply to Messrs David Vann and John Ridge.
Nov. 12. 1828.
______________________________________
$8 REWARD
STRAYED OR STOLEN out of a lot in this Town, a small light brown mare, with two scars in her forehead, having the upper part of her left ear bent.- Not one of her legs is white-her main [sic] and tail are dark.  I do not know her age, as I had just got her from a white man. Any person who will deliver the mare to me, at Turkey's Town, shall receive the above reward.
CRYING SNAKE
Nov. 12, 1728 [sic]
___________________________________________
NOTICE
I DO hereby forewarn all persons from trading for two notes of hand, both payable to Joshua Holden, and signed by myself, and dated the sixth day of August 1827.  One of said notes was due the 25th of December 1827 for one hundred yards of home spun. The other is due the 25th of December 1828, for one hundred and fifty yards of homespun; I am determined not to pay them, unless compelled by law, as the consideration for which they were given has failed.
JONATHAN BLYTHE.
Nov. 12, 1828.


















      
        
      
GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
NATIONAL COMMITEE [sic]
Monday, Nov. 10.
The Committee met according to adjournment.
The subject of Jesse E. Bean's charges against Edward Adair, was taken up. Summons were issued for the appearance of David McNair, Jacob Harnage, William Burgess, Alexander Otterlifter, and John Martin, as witnesses.
The Resolution regulating the issuing of permits, as amended was agreed to by the Council.
Mr. Foreman moved that the amendment passed 28th Oct. 1826, to the law passed 25th Oct. 1820, on the subject of strays be so amended, that the owners of stray property shall be allowed at any period after the money arising from the sale of said property shall have been paid into the Treasury, to draw the same by making satisfactory proof.
The resolution sent up from the Council, requiring officers, under the penalty of fifty Dollars, to advertise stray property in the Cherokee Phoenix, was unanimously rejected.
The resolution on the subject of roads and ferries, was concurred by the Council, but rejected by the principal Chief, who returned it with his objections.
The petition of Geo. Lowrey and David Brown praying for compensation for translating the laws of the Cherokee Nation, from the English into the Cherokee language, agreeably to the resolution of the General Council. Seventy two dollars was appropriated for the benefit of petitioners.
The petition of W. J. Tarvin, praying for permission to establish a shoe and boot shop in New Echota, was referred to the Treasurer of the Nation.
The petition of John H. Garret, a citizen of the United States praying for permission to reside in the Cherokee Nation, was received and unanimously rejected.
Tuesday, Nov. 11
The petition of Messrs. Geo. M. Waters, William Rogers, Moses Parris and others, sent up by the Council, praying permission to open a road was granted.
The petition of White Path, Motoy and Cricket, to cut and open a road, leading from Major Ridge's Ferry, through Ellijoy, Tahquohee, Aquohee, to the boundary line of North Carolina, was granted.
The petition of John Wright, Moses Alberty, William Rogers, and others, to open a road from New Echota, through Pine Log, to the Chattahoochy River, was granted.
The resolution on the subject of roads, rejected by the principal Chiefs, was again submitted to the Council with some amendments.
The resolution submitted to the Committee by the lower house, imposing a tax of fifty cents on every Gallon of spirits introduced into the Nation, by citizens or white men, and a tax of $5 on every distillery, was unanimously rejected.
A Bill was introduced by Mr. Gunter, making it unlawful for citizens of the Nation to retail spirits, without first obtaining licence [sic], and paying tax for same. The Bill was rejected.
The petition of James Brown, Pigeon, and Jesse Half Breed, praying for permission to open a road from James Brown, by Pigeon to Oogillogy, was granted.
The claim of Thos. Woodward for nine days service as commissioner in running the boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks, was received and laid on the table.
The petition of Nancy Boggs praying for redress for unlawful proceedings against her by the Court at Chickamauga, was laid before the Committee. The Committee decided they had no right to interfere with the Courts.
The petition of John R. Daniel, Wm. Rogers and other citizens of Hickory Log District, praying for a removal of the Court house, to a more eligible place, was submitted and granted.
The petition of T. Conyell, a citizen of Georgia for permission to open a road from Carroll County, Georgia, to Mr. David Vann's was submitted to the Committee and rejected.
Wednesday 12th.
Mr. Gunter introduced the following Bill, which was agreed to.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council Convened, That if any person or persons shall interrupt, by misbehaviour [sic], any congregation of Cherokee, or white citizens, assembled at any place, for divine worship, such person or persons so offending, shall upon conviction, before any of the courts be fined in a sum not exceeding Ten Dollars, to be adjudged by the Court of the District in which such offence may be committed. And if any negro slave shall be convicted of the above offence, he shall be punished with thirty nine lashes on the bare back.
A communication was received from the principal Chiefs, recommending some measure to be adopted by the General Council for the adjustment of some important business with the United States.
The Committee decided that it was expedient to send a Delegation to Washington, during the ensuing session of Congress.
The Bill regulating elections and precincts was again resumed, ' laid on the table, until the next Gen. Council.
The resolution submitted by the lower house, granting the Ferry bank in the Fork of Ooste-nah -lee and Conasauga rivers, to A. McCoy, and imposing a fine of Two Hundred Dollars on any person who may put a ferry boat in opposition to his, or at any established ferry in the Nation was submitted to the Committee. After some investigation, and examination of witnesses, the question of concurrence was taken. Yeas, Bowlen, Daniel, Downing, Gunter and Sanders, 5- Nays, Foreman, Griffin, McDaniel, Timson, Taylor, Jos. Vann, (C.) D. Vann, J. Vann (H.) and Ward, 9.
Thursday 13th.
Twenty five Dollars was appropriated for the benefit of Jesse Bushyhead.
Mr. Gunter moved that the general Council adjourn on Tuesday next. It was opposed by Mr. D, Vann. The motion was lost.
A communication was received from the principal Chief, on Robert Lovett's petition. The Committee decided that it was not expedient to pass a law for his relief.
The salary of the principal Chief was fixed at $300 per year.
The salary of the assistant principal Chief was fixed at $150 per year.
The salary of the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation, was fixed at $350 per year.
The pay of the Executive Counsellors was fixed at $2 per day during service.
On motion of Mr. J. Vann (C.) it was resolved that the salary of the Sheriffs be $50 per year, besides collection fees.
On motion it was resolved to let, to the highest bidder, the two National turnpikes on the Federal road, and to require the contractors to give bonds and good securities, for the payment of money to the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation.
The law passed 4th day of July 1827, requiring the Treasurer of the Nation, to lease to the highest bidder, the ferry and improvement on the Chatahooche River, commonly called, Vann's Ferry, was repealed.
Four dollars was appropriated for the benefit of each of the superindents [sic] and Clerks, who served on the first Monday in last August, during the election of members of the General Council.
The petition of Oo-le-noh-wah Scraper; granted by the Council, praying for a hearing in a certain case, was received and rejected.
The communication of Mr. D. Grown respecting a pair of Globes, presented to him, for the Cherokee Nation, by individuals of New Orleans was submitted. The globes were received, and an appropriation was made of fourteen dollars and eighty eight cents, for the benefit of D. Brown.
Fifteen dollars was appropriated for the benefit of Joshua Buffington and Alfred A. Hudson for illegal fees collected from them, by direction of the Supreme Court of 1827.
Friday 14th.
The petition of Moses Fields, praying for a grant to open a road from his house to the Cherokee Agency, was granted.
A Bill was passed regulating expenses occasioned by criminal prosecutions.
John F. Baldridge returned and took his seat.
The petition of Thos. Woodward, for a grant to cut a road, was granted by both houses.
A communication from the principal Chief was received, containing his objections to the bill regulating the issuing of permits.
The Bill was again taken into consideration, and was so amended as the penalty of employing white men without permits not to exceed fifty dollars, and not less than one dollar.
The petition of Tahnoowee, and Thos. Pettit, to establish a ferry on the High Tower River, was granted.
The petition of several citizens of Taquohee District, praying for the appointment of commissioners to select suitable place for a Court house in that District, was submitted and granted.
Saturday, 5th.
The following communication was received from the principal Chief, nominating Delegates to Washington.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
Nov. 15th 1828.
TO THE PRESIDENT
OF THE COMMITTEE
SIR-Agreeably to the resolution of the general Council, deciding on the expediency of sending Delegation to Washington City this winter, for the purpose of transacting ' adjusting business with the Government of the United States, I hereby recommend to the Committee, Messrs. Richard Taylor, Edward Gunter, and William S. Coody to be appointed on this mission.
I am, Sir, respectfully your Obt. Serv't
JNO. ROSS.
The Committee returned the following answer.
COMMITTEE ROOM,
Nov. 15th 1828.
TO THE PRINCIPAL CHIEF
OF THE CHEROKEE NATION,
SIR.- Your communication recommending Messrs. Richard Taylor, Edward Gunter, and William S. Coody to be appointed as Delegates to Washington City this winter, to adjust the unsettled claims that this Nation have against the Government of the United States have been read to the Committee, who are all of opinion that the interests of this Nation require that you should accompany the Delegation, and request you to inform them, whether you are willing to go. If you are, will it be necessary that three other persons should be appointed, or only two? LEWIS ROSS, Prest.
The resolution submitted to the Council respecting executors and administrators, was concurred by the Council, and sent to the principal Chief.
A communication was received from the principal Chief, expressing his willingness to accompany the Delegation to Washington.
Mr. D. Vann moved that it was not expedient to appoint more than two Delegates.
Mr. Gunter opposed the motion.
The Committee decided that it was expedient to appoint four.
The two houses met, and proceeded to elect the Circuit and District Judges.
Daniel McCoy and Walter Adair were duly elected Circuit Judge's [sic] of the Cherokee Nation, for the term of four years.
John Sanders was elected District Judge of Coosewaytee District.
Alexander Sanders was elected District Judge of High Tower District.
John Duncan was elected, District Judge of Hickory Log District.
Geo. W. Owens was elected Dis-District [sic] Judge of Tahquohee District.
Richard Walker was elected District Judge of  A-quo-hee District.
Young Wolf was elected District Judge of Ah-mo-hee District.
John Benge was elected District Judge of Chickamauga District.
Daniel Griffin Sr. was elected District Judge of Chattooga District.










NEW ECHOTA;
Wednesday, Nov. 19, 1828
Mr. WILLIAM HORN formerly from Virginia, has been employed by a number of citizens to open a School in this place.- He comes well recommended, by gentlemen in Virginia, and Tennessee, among whom is Dr. Coffin President of East Tennessee College. The School will commence on Monday next, provided the General Council shall adjourn previously, if not, it will commence on the day after the adjournment of the Council.










The Indian- In all probability, (says the Boston Bulletin) collisions will be perpetually arising between the white and the copper-tinged inhabitants of this continent-at least until the latter race shall become extinct. It cannot be disguised, that encroachments are daily making upon their haunts: and that as the white population increases, the Indian tribes are elbowed aside, or crowded forward towards the shores of the Pacific.  The descendants of the aboriginal lords of the soil, feel themselves on some occasions, to be grossly wronged, according to their interpretation of that law which secures them the right of possession of country-a right to sell the soil, founded on the principle of prior occupancy, and which the law of nature recognizes only while maintained by force-compulsion is the grand principle of that law, and by the operation of that very principle by which they originally came into their possessions, they may finally be dispossessed.
They possess rights derived from another source than those said to be established by the law of nature.
'They have long possessed assurances and guaranties from the governing authorities of the whites, that they should not be removed from their habitations without their consent, or without an equivalent.'  The transgression of such stipulations, affords reasonable ground of complaint.
The following sentiments expressed by the citizens of Montgomery County, Alabama, towards the Creek Indians, evince a spirit of hostility towards them, which has hitherto too often characterized the proceedings of the people in that section of the country. Proceedings like the following tend to counteract all charitable exertions of individuals, and efforts on the part of our government, to meliorate the condition of the Indians:
'As citizens of Alabama, they behold with astonishment a tract of country lying within their geographic boundaries, inhabited by a people who claim the right to exercise an independent government for themselves who bid defiance to the laws of our state; and who are supported in their independence by the general government.'
'They view the present power exercised by the general government, in supporting the tribe of Creek Indians within the limits of this State as founded in usurpation, and as an injury too serious to be passively submitted to, as an injury which can only be removed by the determined energy of the State. As such, as freemen, as Americans as citizens of the State of Alabama, they feel themselves obliged to arraign the conduct of those high in station: and in arraigning them they do it neither with malice, with fear, or favor. They are well aware it is for guilt to tremble, but for honesty to be bold. They know that false fear can only give false courage; and that while they avow the cause of truth and right, they will find their shield an impenetrable protection, and that no attack can be either hazardous or inefficient, if it be but just and resolute.'










NOTICE
I HEREBY forewarn all persons from trading for a note of hand, payable in good property to R. C. Beasley, of the state of Georgia, and signed by me. The note is dated, August 8th 1828, and was due October 8th 1828.
I am determined not to redeem the said note, unless compelled by law, as the consideration for which it was given has failed.
TEGENEE MURPHEY.
Nov. 19. 1828.
______________________
NOTICE
PERSONS having business with the Supreme Court of the Cherokee Nation, will please apply to Mr. S. Watie, who is legally appointed Clerk, and qualified accordingly.
W. S. ADAIR,
A. ROSS,
J. HUSS,
Judges S. Court.
Nov. 19, 1828.


















      
        
      
GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE CHEROKEE NATION.
NATIONAL COMMITTEE.
Monday, Nov. 17
The following resolution was adopted by the Committee.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council Convened, That any person or persons who shall leave their houses, farms, or other improvements, and bind themselves by enrolment, or otherwise, with intent of removing our of the jurisdictional limits of this nation, as emigrants to another country, such person or persons shall forfeit all right, title, claim and interest that, he, she, or they may have, as citizens of the Nation to houses, farms, or other improvements so left.
The Resolution passed by the lower house, appointing Andrew Vann, Cold Weather, Chu-no-loo-hah-ski, Capt. Old Fields, and Robert Parris, to fix upon some suitable place in Hightower District, for holding the Courts, was agreed to.
The resolution amending the law passed 12th Nov. 1825, on the subject of Witnesses, was concurred by the Council.
The claim of Big Cabbin and others was again resumed, for consideration. After warm , the claim was rejected, only one ( e. Gunter) voting in favor of the claim.
Edward Adair, charged with using public money, appeared, likewise Jesse. E. Bean with his witnesses.- After the examination of the  witnesses, the Committee decided that the evidence was not sufficient to convict E. Adair.
The petition of Captains Brown and Deer in the Water, praying for extra pay for services rendered in assisting Capt. McCall, in 1820, in removing the intruders from this Country, was submitted and rejected.
Small Wood's petition for a grant to open a road was rejected.
Tuesday, Nov. 18.
The report of John Martin, on the subject of public turnpikes was submitted. In favor of the Nation, after deducting all expenditures, $227 34 cts.
The principal Chief returned the resolution on the subject of roads with his objections.
A motion was made to reduce the penalty prescribed in the resolution to One Hundred Dollars. The motion was adopted.
The following resolution was passed.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened: That the resolution passed 12th Nov. 1825, making it unlawful to attach and sell certain kind of property therein specified, be, and the same is hereby, so amended as to include sixty bushels of corn.
The petition of John Beamer and Walking Stick, to establish a ferry at a certain point between the Lower Shallow Ford, and Gate's Ferry on the Chattahoochee was agreed to, but rejected by the Council.
Wednesday  19th.
On motion it was decided to build a Court house, in New Echota, for the benefit of the Supreme Court of the Cherokee Nation.
A claim was submitted by William Hicks which was rejected.
The Resolution, providing for the erection of a Court house at this place, was agreed to by the Council.
The petition of Thos. Mannon and others, for a road, granted by the Council, was rejected by the Committee.
The petition of Small Wood praying for compensation, for paying A. McCoy a certain amount of money due him without his orders, was submitted.
The Committee decided that the Nation was bound to Small Wood, in case A. McCoy would not refund the money. A. McCoy appeared and agreed to refund the money.
A communication was received from the principal Chief, on the subject of the controversy existing between A. McCoy and Jas. P. Chisholm ' Co. respecting the ferry landing, advising that the subject may be settled by Legislative act. On motion of David Vann, the Committee decided that it was not expedient to resume the subject.
The Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix made report respecting the establishment. Additional regulations were passed for the future management of the paper.
Appropriation Bill was passed, to meet the contingent expenses of the Nation, and sent to the Council.
A resolution was passed, providing payment for the two principal Chiefs, appointed in 1827.
Thursday 20th.
The Resolution providing payment for the two principal Chiefs, appointed in 1827, was concurred by the Council.
The Resolution on the subject of the Printing establishment, was concurred by the Council.
The appropriation Bill, to meet the expenses of the Nation, was also concurred by the Council.
The petition of Samuel Ward, asking pay for four years service as Capt. of the Light horse company, was submitted, and after examination, was laid over until the next General Council.
The following communication was addressed by the Committee and Council, to Col. Hugh Montgomery, United States' Agent.
IN GENERAL COUNCIL.
NEW ECHOTA, C. N.
Nov. 20th 1828.
Col. HUGH MONTGOMERY, U. STATES AGENT.
Sir- The General Council of the Nation has been in session several weeks. The great variety of business concerning the individual interest of our citizens, has necessarily protracted the session, beyond the day anticipated for adjournment.  During the Council we have heard some unpleasant reports from that quarter, but not having received a single word from you on any subject, we do not know what credit should be given to them. It has been stated here that in consequence of James Rogers, of Arkansas, having used indirect and underhanded influence with James Spear's Brother and Sister, who are under age, to induce them to emigrate west of the Mississippi, ' to take off certain property of their Father's estate, which is under the administratorship [sic] of James Spears, an affray took place in M'Minn County, between said Spears and Rogers, in consequence of this private matter; and that the Sub agent under your order at the head of the Sheriff of McMinn County and other citizens thereof, some days thereafter, entered the Nation, arrested Spears, and imprisoned him in Athens jail.  If this report be true, we cannot see under what legal authority the Agent is justifiable in leading the Sheriff and other citizens of the United States into the Nation, and arresting one Indian
 for whipping another Indian; and to take him out of the Nation and punish him under the laws of the United States. In order that any further difficulty between our citizens, and any of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, may be prevented, and that harmony and good understanding may be preserved, we do hereby protest against the Arkansas Cherokees interfering, or intermedling [sic] with the concerns of our citizens in any manner, whatever, and we hope that you will advise them accordingly, as the authorities of this Nation cannot, and will not be, responsible for the consequences.  It is also stated, that the Sub-agent and one of the interpreters are gone out into the Nation to use influence to obtain emigrants to Arkansas. The contents of the Treaty lately made with the Cherokees west of the Mississippi is generally known to the people of this Nation, and if they are disposed to embrace any of its provisions, they know where the agency is located and can find the way there themselves, and we hope that it is not the design of the General Government that any unfair and dishonorable steps should be taken to seduce any of our citizens away from this country.
We will avail ourselves of this occasion to inform you, officially, of the changes which have been made by appointments under our Constitution, and with whom you are to correspond on public business with this Nation.- John Ross has been duly elected Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, for four years, and Geo. Lowrey Senr. Assistant Principal Chief for the same term, and John Martin, National Treasurer for two years. We will also inform you that Messrs. Richard Taylor, Edward Gunter, and William S. Coody, have been appointed as delegates to the General Government during the ensuing session of Congress for the purpose of adjusting various business of interest and importance to this Nation, and that the Principal Chief has been requested, and is expected to accompany the delegation on this mission. You will please to report this intended visit to the General Government immediately; it is expected that the delegation will reach the Agency on the 20th of next month on their journey.
We are respectfully your friends and obedient Servants.
The lower House adjourned this evening to the second Monday of October, 1829.
Friday, 21st.

The Committee were this day employed in paying the Members of the Genl. Council, ' other expenses of the Nation. Amount of expenses incurred during the session, $5104 48 3-4.
The Committee adjourned to meet on the second Monday of October 1829.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 26, 1828
GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES.
The following is taken from the message of the Governor of Georgia to the Legislature of that State.
The solemn promise of the United States, made in 1802, to remove at their expense the Indians from the territory of the State, is yet to be performed. Of the wish and determination of the Federal government, is all its departments, to fulfil that promise as early as practicable, we have repeated assurances.  The policy heretofore pursued towards the Indians, the mode of effecting the purposes of the General Government by contracts with the chiefs of the Indian Tribes, or with the government created by those chiefs, is still persisted in, nor is there any indication that a change is contemplated. In this State it is well known that without a change of policy, the Government of the U. States cannot, by a contract with their government remove the Cherokees.- The rulers of that Tribe, who have, since the year 1818, systematically devoted themselves to defeat any attempt to purchase out their permitted occupation of our lands, have, as a last resort, adopted a constitutional form of government.  By this instrument the annuity paid to the Tribe by the United States, and all the rights and privileges of individual Cherokees are controlled- a Government professing to be independent, is set up in defiance of the authority of the States of Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and North Carolina, upon the territory and within the jurisdiction of these States. The Cherokees have been indeed tardily informed by the Chief Magistrate of the Union, that this attempt will not make any change in the relation in which they stand to the United States. The new government, however continues unmolested to exercise its power, and seeks to strengthen itself by conferring citizenship or denizenship [sic] upon such white mechanics as choose to incorporate with them. Here within our own territory, upon the land forming a part of our sovereign property, is a Government exercising authority independent of ours and denationalizing our citizens in order to strengthen itself in opposition to our will. This state of things cannot be endured. If the United States are unable, acting on the policy to which alone they choose to adhere, to induce the Cherokees to remove, and unwilling to vindicate our right over the persons and territory within our sovereignty, in the only practicable mode, our duty to the people and to posterity require that we should act.  Of the right of the General Assembly to legislate over all persons and all things within our territorial limits on general principles, a doubt cannot be entertained. Is there any thing in our Constitution, in the Federal Compact, to which we are a party, or in our relation to the Cherokees, inhabitants of this State, which impairs, in respect to them, our sovereign right? In the State Constitution there is no limitation of the Legislative power over the Indians within our territory. In the Federal Compact, sacred in our eyes, to the provisions of which we have ever looked with veneration, and which we will be the last to impair, the only clause which can be tortured to bear upon the question, is that which gives to Congress 'the power to regulated commerce with the Indian Tribes.' To the Cherokees within the State, we owe protection and to us they owe obedience. In no instance since the adoption of the Constitution of the U. States has the authority of a State, exercised over the Indians within its limits, been disputed or disregarded. The Penobscots and Passamaquoddies in Massachusetts and maine [sic], the Narragansetts in Rhode Island, the Senecas and the Onoudagas [sic], 'c. in New York, the Choptanks and Nanticokes in Maryland, the Pamuakes in Virginia, the Catawbas in South Carolina, the remnants of various tribes yet existing in the old thirteen States, except North Carolina and Georgia, are all protected and governed by State Laws. On what just principle of plausible pretext can the right of Georgia, to exercise similar power in regard to the Cherokees be resisted? Believing that our right is undoubted, that the exercise of our sovereign power is required by the best interests of the State, an important consideration presents itself for examination.- What disposition is to be made of the Cherokees who reside within the State? To expel them would be cruel and unjust, to leave them as mere tenants at will of their present settlements would be a reproach to the character of the State- for incorporation with equality of rights as a part of our political family, they are unfit. Under these reflections I recommend to you to extend all the laws of the State over the territory lying within our limits occupied by the Cherokees. The Indians to be subject as other persons to the operation of those laws. To secure to the Indians immediately the enjoyment of all civil rights- to grant each Indian family now living in the State, while they continue in it a sufficient body of land for their comfortable support, looking to the General Government under the compact of 1802, for the value of the land thus granted, and for all the expenses that may be incurred by the State in the execution of the proposed enactments. As an evidence or respectful deference to the United States, and of our determination to treat with tenderness the Cherokees, whose fate is to be affected by these regulations, I recommend that the operation of the act be prospective-not to take effect until the President of the United States shall have ample time to ascertain whether the Cherokees choose to remove for a just equivalent, or to remain and to submit themselves to the authority of the State Government.- You will find in the contract made by the President of the United States and the Arkansas Cherokees, herewith submitted, a motive for this delay. I have been informed by one of our Senators, Mr. Cobb, that an article in that contract was inserted for the express purpose, and under the belief that it would be effectual for enabling the President to induce the Cherokees in Georgia to remove beyond the Mississippi, and the whole contract, notwithstanding it contained many highly objectionable features, was chiefly, if not altogether on our account approved by the Senate of the United States.










WANTED
AT THIS OFFICE, A JOURNEYMAN, of industrious habits, who understands his business. To such an one, employment will be given for 12 months, if application is made between this date and the first of January.
Nov. 26, 1828.
____________________________
TO HOUSE BUILDERS.
SEALED proposals will be received; at my office, in Coosewaytee, until the first day of February, for the building of a COURT HOUSE at New Echota, of the following description.
The House to be framed, twenty four feet by twenty in dimensions, two stories high, lower story ten feet and the upper story nine feet high, shingled roof of yellow poplar singles, one staircase, one door on each side of the house with plain batten shutters, two fifteen light windows in each side of the house above and below, also two windows at the end, in the lower story, where the Judge's bench is to be erected.- The weather boarding of the house is to be rough, but jointed; the floors are likewise to be rough. The lower floor to be of square joint, but the upper floor tongued and grooved. The platform for the Judge's bench is to be three feet high, eight feet long, and three feet wide, and banistered [sic], steps at each end, with a seat the whole length of the platform. There are also to be half a dozen dressed pine benches of ten or twelve feet long. The foundation of the house is to be of good rock or brick, and raised two feet above the ground.
The person or persons contracting for the above mentioned building are required to furnish lumber, nails, glass, hinges, locks and other necessary articles. The lowest bidder is to have the contract, who will be required to give bond and good security for the faithful execution of the work, in a workman-like manner, to be completed by the second Monday in October 1829.
JOHN MARTIN,
Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation
Nov. 26, 1828.


















NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday Dec. 3, 1828
Patrons of the Cherokee Phoenix are informed by the Editor, that he has resigned, and expects soon, to take a final leave of his readers. He tenders his thanks to those of his Countrymen, and friends of Indians abroad, who have interested themselves in the prosperity of the paper, which he has had the honor of conducting. The task has been an arduous, nevertheless and interesting, one, because the good of the Cherokees, and other Indians was its object; and nothing but imperious duty would now induce him to leave the field of his labours [sic]. For years, his health has been precarious, and since the commencement of the Phoenix, it has been on a gradual decline, owing to the excessive confinement, which he has been obliged to endure. It was his hope that he would be relieved by the appointment of an assistant in the Cherokee department, by the late General Council, which however adjourned without relieving him in any way. An alternative was then left, whether to continue as formerly, with increased duties, and with his present state of health, or to resign, and make way for another person, perhaps better calculated to fill the office of Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix? He has chosen the latter.- In leaving the paper, which has, since its commencement lain near his heart, he does, by no means, forsake the interest of his Countrymen. That will still be his favorite object. Though not acting publicly, and under less responsibilities, he expects to be engaged for the moral improvement of his kindred according to the flesh.
There never was perhaps, in the history of Indians, a time, when instruction may be inculcated to better advantage, than at present. The introduction of letters among the Cherokees, which has progressed with unparalleled rapidity, and the printing press may do wonders here as it has done in other nations. The power of the press has been justly acknowledged. It is the safe guard of liberty, civil and religious-the medium of intelligence, and when under suitable regulations it is the scourge of vice, and the protector of virtue. An experiment is now making among us, whether the press established in this place will have its ordinary effects. Let a fair trial be made-let the Phoenix be fostered with care by the inhabitants of this Nation, and encouraged and patronized by friends of Indians abroad. Its past patronage has been too limited-we sincerely hope it will be increased, and that the new Editor, whoever he may be,(if worthy of encouragement) will receive better support from the public and the citizens of the Cherokee Nation, than that with which the subscriber has been favoured [sic].
ELIAS BOUDINOTT
______________________________
GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES.
From the extract of the Message of the Governor of Geo. published in our last, our readers will discover that the views of the leading men of that state in regard to Cherokee lands have not undergone any change; though the language and recommendations of the present Chief Magistrate are more temperate and becoming than we have been accustomed to hear.  The members of the Legislature are now in session-what they will do in regard to the recommendation of Gov. Forsyth, we are unable to say; we mean the extension of the civil jurisdiction of the state of Georgia, over that part of the Cherokee Nation lying within its chartered limits. The Governor thinks that it would be cruel to expel the Cherokees, yet recommends the extension of all the laws of Georgia over them, which would in effect be expulsion, though perhaps of a more decent nature. All laws, including of course the act inserted in another part of our paper. What rights will the Cherokees enjoy?
______________________________________
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
The long contest is over, and we shall soon ascertain, who is to be the next President of the United States. From returns of the elections received thus far, it is highly probable that Gen. Andrew Jackson will be the Chief Magistrate of the Union.
_____________________________________










From the Savannah Georgian.
THE CHEROKEES AND GEORGIA
How terrible thy tenderest mercies are!
Not being able to endure that the Cherokee Indians should live in peace and independence upon their own lands, within their own limits; and yet desiring to avoid the disgrace which must attend their compulsory removal, it is now proposed to extend all the laws of the State over them! to subject them to the operation of those laws!! and to secure to them immediately all civil rights!!!

The following law of Georgia will show the value of the civil rights to which we are to be introduced, and the benign spirit which actuates those who are to extend them to us. The document is brief, but very significant. It presents another remarkable view of this very remarkable and very interesting case.
Royal Tyranny might advantageously take a leaf out of the Repulican [sic] code containing such a statute.
'An act to prevent the testimony of Indians being received in Courts of Justice.'
'Be it enacted, 'c. That from and after the passage of this Act, no Indians, and no descendant of an Indian not understanding the English language shall be deemed a competent witness in any Court of Justice created by the Constitution or Laws of this State.
'Assented to 26th December, 1826.- G. M. Troup' (Governor.)
I leave these things for the present, without further comment, to the solemn reflections of every honest man who feels an interest in the honor of his country.
OUTALLISSI.










WINNEBAGO INDIANS.
On Monday (in N. Y. ) there was a grand military parade, Gen. Morton commanding, to give the Indian Chiefs an opportunity to view a specimen of the physical force of the country,.- They appeared to be gratified, especially with the horsemen. An arrangement was made to have the cannon discharged at the moment the Indians were passing them in the rear without their being apprised of the intention to see what effect it would produce; and, strange as it may seem, they did not move a muscle, or appear to regard it. At the conclusion of the parade the Chiefs assembled at the Governor's room in the City Hall, where were present the Mayor and other officers of the City Government. After partaking of a simple collation, the Chief Naukaw, (or Wood) addressed the Mayor in a short speech or talk.  We have been favored by Col. Kinzie with the substance of if, as follows:-
'Father! the chiefs of my nation, now before you, with myself, are very glad to see you. We are glad also to see your peace officers ( Alderman, 'c.) and your war chiefs (the military officers) around you, and to hold you fast by the hand.  We thank the Great Spirit above for giving us so clear a sky, today to meet you and your young warriors.- We thank you for the milk (meaning cider, 'c.) and bread which you have helped us to and we shall keep in our breasts your kindness to us today. So good by.'
The Chiefs left the city yesterday morning in the steamboat for Philadelphia, on their way to the Seat of Government.- J. of Com.










Indian Murder.- On the  31st of August last, six soldiers of Cantonment Towson, had permission to go to the Keameche a fishing. Corporal Thomas Gloyd and musician Glenn, preceded the party thirty or forty yards; when six miles from their post, those in the rear heard the report of a gun, followed by the exclamation, 'O God I am killed!' The party knowing that neither Gloyd nor Glenn had a gun, concluded they were attacked by enemies, ' returned to the garrison. After stating the facts, a detachment of twenty men was ordered out by Major Burch, under L. Casy, who returned with the corpses of Gloyd and Glenn, the former being marked with a ball and many arrows, and the latter with arrows only. The alarm was given, and the garrison with citizens and friendly Indians, amounting to about forty men, pursued the murderers, overtook them the fourth day encamped about ninety miles off, near the Blue Water River, dancing round the scalps of their victims. The detachment rushed suddenly upon them, a few only escaped through the thicket.  The governor has ordered two detachments of militia to hold themselves in readiness to cooperate with the garrison at the Cantonment in case of necessity.










TRIAL OF INDIANS.
Detroit, Oct. 23
At the late special session of the Circuit Court for Crawford county, held at Prairie du Chien, Judge Doty presiding, the Winnebago Indians, Wan-i-ga, (the Sun) and Chick-hong-sic, (the Petit Boeuf,) were tried for murder of Gagnier and Lipcap, at that place, on the 24th of June, 1827. They were found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged on the 26th of December next. In the case of the Indians imprisoned for the murder of Methode and his family, near Lake Pepin, in 1824,  a nolle prosequi was entered, and the prisoners discharged. Two other Indians imprisoned for firing upon the keel boats on the 30th June, 1827, were also discharged, no bills having been found against them.
_________________
Indians in Upper Canada.- A Methodist Missionary writes from Credit River, under date of 20th September, 1828 as follows:
'The Indians here have now got their tract of land surveyed and divided into portions for each family, so that we hope to see them improve more in agriculture next season. They have completed three comfortable dwelling houses this year, ' have four more building by individual exertion, without pecuniary aid from anyone although they are under the necessity of continually exerting themselves to obtain the means of subsistence from day to day. Two of them have raised and harvested five or six acres each of excellent wheat which is the first fruits of their labor in that kind of grain; and their crops of corn and potatoes are abundant, according to the quantity of ground cultivated.'










THE TUSCARORAS.
The Tuscaroras, it is well known to most of your readers, live within a few miles of the great Niagara cataract, and consist of about forty families, and probably one hundred and fifty souls.  They have had a missionary station among them for better than twenty years, being one of the first that engaged the attention of the New York Missionary Society. The tribe has ever been small since their emigration from North Carolina; and by reason of the evils which have ever befallen the Indian tribes in their circumstances, are still, it is to be feared, growing less and less.
Now, although the missionaries have not been permitted at this station to accomplish all their hearts' desire among this little community of immortals, they have still been permitted to rejoice over some souls which have been converted from the error of their ways. They have seen a few humble followers of Christ for these several years adorning their profession; and some they have seen die in the faith, and calmly sleep in Jesus. If they have not been able to banish intemperance, that foul blot upon our own national character, from their village, they have been the instruments of reclaiming some from its power, and keeping back others from its consequent disgrace and ruin, who, but for their warning, would in all probability have sunken to the lowest pitch of brutal sensuality. A little church of sixteen members still remain, whose orderly walk and conversation, in the main, goes to show that the gospel trumpet has not sounded in vain through their mountain. The missionary teacher, Mr. John Elliot, has an entering school of thirty children, who have learned to read the word of God in a short time. A very neat and comfortable chapel has been recently finished principally by the labors and contributions of the Indians themselves which is to be consecrated to the worship of God in a very few days.- West. Rec.










EDUCATION
THE NEW ECHOTA ACADEMY
has commenced and is expected to continue.  All those wishing to become students during the winter session are requested to make application previous to the 25th inst. No pains will be spared, on the part of the Instructor, for the advancement of those placed under his care.
Board, lodging, and washing may be had for $1.00 per week.
W.M.HORN.
Dec. 3, 1828.










EDUCATION!!!
The New Echota Academy has commenced and is expected to continue. All those wishing to become students during the winter session are requested to make application previous to the 25th inst. No pains will be spared on the part of the instructor, for the advancement of those placed under his care.
Board, lodging, and washing may be had for $1 00 per week.
WM. HORN
Dec. 3, 1826 40 1










POETRY
From the Hingham Gazette.
RUM
'Oh thou invisible spirit of Rum! if thou
hadst no name by which to know thee, we
would call thee- Devil.- Shakspeare [sic].
Let thy devotee extol thee,
And thy wond'rous virtues sum;
But the worst of names I'll call thee,
O, thou Hydra-monster, Rum!
Pimple-maker, visage bloated,
Health-corruptor, idler's mate;
Mischief-breeder, vice-promoter,
Credit-spoiler, devil's bait.
Almshouse-builder, pauper-maker,
Trust-betrayer, sorrow's ;source;
Pocket-emptier, Sabbath-breaker,
Conscience-stifler, guilt's recourse.
Nerve-enfeebler, system-shatterer,
Thirst-increaser, vagrant thief;
Cough-producer, treacherous flatterer,
Mud-bedauber, mock-relief.
Business-hinderer, spleen-instiller,
Woe-begetter, friendship's bane;
Anger-heater, Bridewell-filler,
Debt-involver, toper's chain.
Memory-drowner, honor-wrecker,
Judgment-warper, blue-faced quack;
Feud-beginner, rags-bedecker,
Strife-enkindler, fortune's wrack.
Summer's
cooler, winter's warmer,
Blood-polluter, specious snare;
Mob-collector, man-transformer,
Bond-undoer, gambler's fare.
Speech-bewraggler [sic], headlong-bringer,
Volume 1, tals-burner, deadly fire;
Riot-mover, firebrand-flinger,
Discord-kindler, misery's sire.
Sinews-robber, worth-depriver,
Strength-subduer, hideous foe;
Reason-thwarter, fraud-contriver,
Money-waster, nation's woe.
Volume 1, le-seducer, joy-dispeller,
Peace-disturber, blackguard guest;
Sloth-implanter, liver-sweller,
Brain-distracter, hateful pest.
Utterance-boggler, stench-emitter,
Strong man sprawler, fatal drop;
Tumult-raiser, venom-spitter,
Wrath-inspirer, coward's prop.
Pain-inflicter, eyes-inflamer,
Heart-corrupter, folly's nurse;
Secret-babbler, body-maimer,
Thrift-defeater, loathsome curse.
Wit-destroyer, joy-impairer,
Scandal-dealer, foulmouthed scourge;
Senses-blunter, youth-ensnarer,
Crime-inventer, ruin's verge.
Volume 1, rtue-blaster, base-deceiver,
Rage-displayer, sot's delight;
Noise-exciter, stomach-heaver,
Falsehood-spreader, scorpion's bite.
Quarrel-plotter, rage discharger,
Giant-conqueror, wasteful sway;
Chin-carbuncler, tongue-enlarger,
Malice-venter, death's broad way.
Tempest-scatterer, window's smasher,
Death-forerunner, hell's dire brink;
Ravenous murderer, wind-pipe-slasher,
Drunkard's
lodging, meat and drink.
U. U. B.


















AN ALARMING EVIL
There can be little doubt of the correctness of the prevailing opinion, that the consumption of ardent spirits has been, for a few years past, an alarmingly increasing evil in our country.
By the marshal's returns in 1810, it appeared that no less than thirty three millions three hundred sixty-five hundred and twenty-nine gallons of spirit were distilled and imported, for a single year's consumption in the United States; and there is little doubt that this estimate is far short of the truth, as there is probably, every year, a considerable quantity smuggled into the country, of which of course no account is given. If from that time, the consumption of ardent spirit has kept pace with the population, it will amount to fifty-six millions of gallons; but from the increase in the consumption, says a distinguished gentleman of our state, in an elaborate calculation, for which the following results are taken, 'we may safely set it down at sixty millions.- This will give to every individual, man, woman, and child, including bond and free, five gallons each. Deducting the slaves and children under ten years of age, it will give to the rest not less than eight gallons each.'
[The writer them proceeds to estimate the cost of liquors to the country, and the expenses occasioned by them, at one hundred millions of dollars a year; and the number of lives lost every year in the same manner, at twenty-five or thirty thousand. He then proceeds.]
How can anything be done effectually to check this mighty evil? I give the same answer to this question which has repeatedly been given within the last few months; change public opinion, make it unpopular, unfashionable to drink spirit. What is the use of applying to Government for a tax upon ardent spirit so large as to place it beyond the reach of the lower classes in the community? Legislative enactments which far outrun public opinion, are worth nothing. Fashion and custom hold men with a stronger arm that Legislative prescription. But how change public opinion, is it not already an overwhelming torrent rolling onward with resistless and increasing power?  Man can accomplish wonders both in the physical and moral world, he dares even meditate a canal across the Isthmus of Darien, expecting to lower the waters in the Gulf of Mexico, and perhaps to stop the gulf stream, and who that recollects the mighty moral achievements accomplished in the time of the reformation by the efforts of a single man, shall despond at the vastness of the change now contemplated?
Let all good men, all well wishers to social life and family quiet; to health, industry, and the arts; to religion, morals, and good government, unite their efforts; and by all possible means, but chiefly by their example, in rigidly abstaining from ardent spirits, discourage and discountenance its use, among all within the sphere of their influence.- Mussey's Address.










A SUM OF RELIGION.
Written by Judge Hale, Lord Chief Justice of England which was found in a closet amongst his other papers after his decease.
He that fears the Lord of Heaven and Earth, walks humbly before Him, thankfully lays hold of the message of redemption by Jesus Christ, and strives to express his thankfulness by the sincerity of his obedience. He is sorry with all his soul, when he comes short of his duty. He walks watchfully, in the denial of himself and holds no confederacy with any lust; or known sin; if he fails in the least measure he is restless till he has made his peace by true repentance. He is true to his promises, just in his dealings, charitable to the poor, sincere in his devotion. He will not deliberately dishonour God although secure of impunity.  He hath his hopes and his conversation in Heaven, and dares not to do anything unjustly be it ever so much his advantage; and all this, because he sees Him that is invisible, and fears Him because he loves Him; fears Him as well for his goodness as his greatness.  Such a man, whether he be an Episcopalian or a Presbyterian, an Independent or Anabaptist, whether he wears a surplice, or wears non; whether he hears Organs, or whether he hears none; whether he kneels at the cummunion, or for conscience sake stands or sits, he hath the life of religion in him, and that life acts in him; and will conform his soul to the image of his Saviour, and go along with him to eternity, notwithstanding his practice, or non-practice of things indifferent. On the other side, if he fears not the Eternal God, he can commit sin with presumption, drink excessively, swear vainly or falsely, commit adultery, lie coxen, cheat, his break promise, live loosely, though at the same time he may be studious to practice every ceremony, even to a scrupulous exactness, or may perhaps as stubbornly oppose them: though such as one should cry down Bishops, or Presbytery, though he should be rebaptised every day, or declaim against it as heresy; and though he fast all the Lent, or feast out of pretence of avoiding superstition; yet notwithstanding these, and a thousand external conformities, or zealous opposition of them, he wants the life of religion.










Indians of America.- Mr. Flint, in his excellent book, the Geography and History of the Western States, gives a better account of the condition and habits, and a more correct idea of the character of the aborigines of our country than can be found anywhere else. This book will probably fall into the hands of few of our readers, and perhaps we cannot better serve the purposes of our paper than by transplanting into our columns some of the interesting information it contains. The study of the history, geography, and character of our vast country and its inhabitants, may be pursued with advantage by all, and none can be said, at this day, to be fully informed on these interesting subjects.  Indeed the knowledge of the people generally, in this particular, is by far too limited.
The greater part of the Indians of the United States dwell in the limits of what Mr. Flint styles the Mississippi Valley, that is, the western states, including Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas Territory, Tennessee, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, and Ohio. The Cherokees, in many respects the most interesting tribe, of whom we have before given some account, have been most successful in imitating the habits and institutions of the whites.- They have looms, ploughs, blacksmiths' shops, slaves, enclosures, barns, taverns, brick dwellings in some instances, public roads, a code of laws, civil divisions, magistrates, 'c. Their laws are severe, energetic, and promptly administered.- Some of their planters have large enclosures, and fine stocks of cattle and horses, and may be considered rich. One chief, whom Mr. Flint mentions, has a dozen slaves, fine teams, ploughs, and looms; he has three wives, and twenty-seven living children.  Most of the people of the nation dress in a cloth manufactured entirely by their own hands. There are several missionary establishments among them, and great and increasing attention is paid to education. A printing press has recently been established among them, from which a weekly newspaper is issued.
In the northern parts of Ohio and Indiana is an establishment of the Shawnees, a tribe once very powerful, but now hastening to decay. The Pottawattomies and Kickapoes are in Indiana and Illinois. The Peorias, Kaskaskias, and Cahokias that figured so much in the early French history of this country, are almost extinct. The Wyandots, Chippeways, and Winnebagoes, or Paunts, hunt further to the northwest, extending their range to Lake Superior. The Choctaws, Seminoles, Baton Rouges, Creeks and Chickasaws were powerful tribes before the late war, but in that war received a withering check. The Sacks, or Saukies, as they call themselves, inhabit the country above and below Rock River, and claim the territory of the lead mines. The Iaways are further up the river. The Menomene inhabit the Menomene to Lake Michigan. The Souix are still further up the Mississippi. They are divided into six or seven tribes, with distinct names.  Each tribe has also a distinct badge, coat of arms, or what they call totem.  On the Missouri are the Osages, Ottos, Missouries, Kanzas, Sawnees, Mandas, Paucahs, Omawhaws, Padoucas, La Plais, or Bald Heads, Tetans, Minnitarees, Arracarees, Snakes, and Blackfoots.- The Quawpaws, on the Arkansas, the remains of many of the ancient tribes, such as the Eatchez, Appalachies, Tensas, Alabamas, Pasgagoulas, Chetimaches, Biloxies, Tunicas, Cados 'c. on the Red River, and a small number of the Carancoaches, (which Mr. Flint says are clearly cannibals) near the Sabinx, about complete the catalogue.
The whole number of Indians in the United States is about one hundred and eighty thousand; the number within the Mississippi Valley, is estimated at one hundred and three thousand.
Lancaster Gaz.










NEW ECHOTA;
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 10, 1828
A Savannah paper, speaking on the Message of the principal Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation, has the following words.
'In turn, the state of Georgia asks upon what principle of Natural Right it is, that the Indian claims to hold immense bodies of Forest land, which manifestly he cannot cultivate? A question in Ethics that can be easily solved by the Lawyer or Missionary who wrote the Message.'
Though we are not the Lawyer  or  Missionary who wrote the Message, yet we take upon ourselves to say, that the Indian claims his land upon a better right, than the white man has to monopolize this same land, and with republican tyranny expel its original occupants.
_________________
Presidential election.- It is now certain that Gen. Jackson is elected President of the United States, by a large majority, probably between 80 and 90 votes.  The Jackson ticket in the States of Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana has prevailed.










From the Savannah Georgian.
THE CHEROKEES AND GEORGIA.
The good faith, honorable conduct, and Superior civilization of white men.
When the United States, on the 24th of April 1802, entered into an agreement with one of themselves, for the extinguishment of the title of the Cherokees to a part of their (the Cherokee) lands, a treaty was at that very time in existence, between the Cherokees and said United States, (of which Georgia then was, and still is one,) containing the following articles.
'Art. 7. THE UNITED STATES SOLEMNLY GUARANTY TO THE CHEROKEE NATION, ALL THEIR LANDS NOT HEREBY CEDED.'
'Art. 14.- That the Cherokee Nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization and become herdsmen and cultivators, instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the United States will from time to time furnish gratuitously, the said nation with useful implements of husbandry; 'c.'
The joint Committee of Georgia on the State of the Republic, in their report of 5th December, 1827, complain that the United States have managed 'so to add to the comforts of the Cherokees, and so instruct them in the business of husbandry, as to attach them so firmly to their country, and to their homes, as almost to destroy the last ray of hope that they would ever consent to part with the Georgia lands,'- and declare that 'the lands in question belong to Georgia-she must and she will have them.'
Under any, but particularly under the circumstances of this case, what monstrous sentiments, what detestable principles, are here promulgated.- If this be the result of the white man's sciences and arts, of his civilization and Christianity; if this be a sample of his good faith and his regard for the fame and honor of is country, I thank the Great Spirit that he has kept me free from their contamination.
OUTALISSI.










LITTLE ROCK, A.T. OCTOBER 28
The General Assembly  of the Territory adjourned sine die, on Wednesday last, after and extra session of 17 days, and the passage of twenty five Acts, one Resolution, and four memorials.- Ark. Gazette.

The Cherokees.- From a gentleman residing in the western section of the Territory, we learn, that the Cherokees, residing in the lower part of the nation, are still greatly dissatisfied with the late treaty. As the time approaches for their removal, the Indians in that section display increased discontent; ' it is feared that considerable difficulty may arise in removing some of the disaffected.- The flame of discord, it is thought, is fanned by white men who reside among them, and who are not destitute of influence in their Councils.
The old U.S. Factory, at Spadre Bluff, was destroyed by fire, a few weeks ago.- b.
We learn, by travellers from up the Arkansas, that great numbers of the people who were residing in the country recently ceded to the Cherokees, have removed east of the line, and that it is probable there will be few left west of the line, after official information shall be given of its completion. Most of the settlers have removed across the line into the country acquired from the Cherokees, with whom many of them have exchanged improvements; and a large number have removed into the flourishing settlements on the head waters of Illinois, which form a part of the new county of Washington, erected by an act passed at the late session of the General assembly. A correspondent in speaking of that country, says--
'The contemplated Washington County, in the north-west section of the Territory, is represented as embracing in its limits, one of the finest bodies of soil in the western country. Its extent of fertility is unsurpassed: the climate more favorable for health than it is in any part of the Territory: the springs of water numerous and not excelled in quality by any in the world. emigration to it, is taking place every day. to examiners of the Territory, we would say, leave it not, until you have seen it.'


















CHEROKEE LAWS.
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That from, and after the passage of this resolution, it shall be unlawful for any citizen or citizens of the Cherokee Nation, to cut out or open any road or roads from any public road in this Nation, in any direction whatever, or repair any road or roads that have been put down by the authority of the Nation, or to open any road, or establish, on their own account, or in conjunction with any white person, any ferry r ferries, on any water courses bounding this Nation, or within the limits thereof, without first obtaining a permit from the General Council.
Be it further resolved, That all roads that are now in operation within the Nation, and which have been opened since the passage of, and contrary to, the law of 1819, on the subject of roads, shall be forthwith stopped by the sheriff of the District in which such road may be located, or by the Marshal of the Nation, by giving notice to the parties using said road or roads, or at whose instance the same may have been cutout, that the same are put down and required to be stopped by them by virtue, and in obedience to the provisions, of this resolution; and every person continuing to keep upon or use such roads, thereafter, shall be considered as if they had ut and opened the same since the passage of this resolution, and shall be subject to such penalty as shall hereinafter be prescribed.
BE it further resolved, That it shall be the duty of the several of the sheriffs of the Districts of this Nation, and the Marshal of the Nation, upon information being lodged with them, or in case of any violation of the provisions of this resolution coming to their knowledge, to forthwith arrest such violators, and carry them before one of the District Judges, who shall bind them over to appear, at the next District court for the District in which the offence shall be committed, in a bond with such security as the said Judge shall deem sufficient to compel the said violators to appear at the aforesaid court and stand their trial; and in the event of any person or persons so arrested refusing to give good and sufficient security for his or their appearance at court, as aforesaid, then it shall be the duty of the Judge, before whom such person or persons may be brought, to inflict upon them the penalty hereinafter specified.
Be it further resolved, That nay person or persons who shall violate any of the provisions of this resolution shall for every such offence, for which  he or they are convicted, pay a fine of 100 dollars, one half to go to the arresting officer, and the other half to be paid into the National Treasury, which said fines shall be collected by any qualified officer of the Nation, by seizing and selling any property belonging to said person or persons as in cases of other fines imposed by the laws of this Nation.
Be it further resolved, That this resolution shall be considered as an amendment to the resolution of 30th Oct. 1819, on the subject of roads, and that the following words in said resolution, 'or any such cases as may be brought before them for trial' be, and the same are hereby repealed.
New Echota, Nov. 11th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Comm.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r Coun.
Approved.-JNO. ROSS.
_________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That in case a vacancy should happen in the General Council, either by death or resignation of any of the members, previous to the next General Election, the District Judge of the District in which such member may reside or have resided, shall notify the Principal Chief of the same.
Be it further Resolved, That in all such cases of vacancy, as may happen as above mentioned, the Principal chief shall have power to issue a writ of election to fill such vacancy, until the next General Election, and shall appoint such persons as he may deem suitable to superintend the election.
New Echota, November 12th, 1827.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r. Coun.
Approved-JNO. ROSS.
_________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That if any person or persons shall interrupt, by
misbehavior, or congregation of Cherokee or white citizens, assembled at any place, for the purpose of Divine worship, such person or persons, so offending, shall upon conviction thereof, before any of the courts, be fined in a sum not exceeding ten dollars, to be adjudged by the court of the district in which such offence may be committed; and if any negro slave shall be convicted of the above offence, he shall be punished with thirty-nine lashes on the bare back.
New Echota, Nov. 12th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
_________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the law passed 4th day of July, 1827, authorizing the Treasurer of the Nation , to lease out, to the highest bidder, the ferry and improvements on the Chatahoochee River, on the federal road, be, and the same is hereby repealed.
New Echota, Nov. 13th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r. Coun.
Approv'd JNO. ROSS.
______________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened. That the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation shall be allowed a salary of three hundred dollars per annum, during his continuance in office, out of the public funds of the Nation. And the assistant Principal Chief shall be allowed a salary of one hundred and fifty dollars.
The executive Counsellors shall be paid at the rates of two dollars per day, while in actual service, when called upon by the Principal chief.
The treasurer of the Cherokee Nation shall be allowed, for his services, three hundred and fifty dollars per annum.
The sheriffs of the several districts shall be allowed for their services fifty dollars per annum, besides their collection fees-any law to the contrary notwithstanding.
New Echota, 13th Nov. 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd, GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r. Coun.
Approv'd JNO ROSS.
__________________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the law passed 13th November, 1824, making it unlawful for citizens of the Nation to receive into their employment citizens of the United States, without obtaining a permit agreeably to law, under the penalty of being fined in a sum not exceeding $10, be, and the same is hereby, so amended, as to raise the above named sum of ten dollars to fifty dollars; and any citizen of the Nation upon being convicted of violation of the above mentioned law, before any of the courts of this Nation , shall be fined in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars and not less than one dollar for each and ever such offence to be assessed by the court of the respective District.
Be it further resolved, That this resolution shall go in full fore and effect on the first day of January, 1829.
New Echota, 14th Nov. 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Sp'kr.
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That all costs arising from prosecution, for violations of the laws, shall not be paid by the Nation, excepting in such cases as may hereinafter be specified, but shall be collected from the person or persons so prosecuted and convicted; and in case the person or persons so convicted shall not be able to pay the same, then, and in that case, the Nation shall pay the same.
Be it further resolved, That whenever a criminal may be arrested for violation of the laws of the Nation, it shall be lawful for the officer to board him or her with the guard at some suitable place, until the time of trial, which expense shall be paid by the Nation, in case the said criminal shall be acquitted, but if convicted, he or she shall be required to pay the same if the amount can be collected; and the rates of charges for boarding guards and criminals shall not exceed the following rates, viz: for man and horse per day, seventy five cents, for man without a horse, fifty cents; and the amount, time, 'c. of boarding shall be certified by some lawful officer of the District, which shall be presented to the Principal Chief before a warrant shall be issued for the money.
New Echota, Nov. 14, 1838
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Spk'r
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
___________________
Resolved by the committee and Council, in General Council convened, That when a person shall die without a Will., the nearest relatives of the deceased shall have the right to recommend to the Circuit Court of the District in which the deceased lived, such person or persons as they shall choose, to administer on the estate, and it shall be the duty of the circuit Judge to issue letters of administration to the person or persons so recommended, provided that he, she, or they shall make and exhibit on oath a true and just schedule of all the property, debts, dues, and demands of right belonging to the said estate, together with all demands that maybe against the said estate as far as he, she, or they may know, which schedule shall be filed in the clerks office; and provided also that said person or persons before obtaining letters of administration shall execute a bond with good and sufficient securities for the faithful management and forthcoming of the estate, together with the increase, to the legal heir or heirs of the deceased, so soon as they shall become of age; and that males twenty one years of age shall be considered of lawful age, and females eighteen.
Be it further resolved, That the administrator or administrators shall be required, at the end of every year during their administratorship, upon oath to make returns to the said court of all the expenses and profits consequent upon the management of such property or estate, which returns shall be filed in said clerk's office.
Be it further resolved, That when a person dies and leaves a will, the executor or executors shall be required to render in a true account, upon oath, before the Circuit court, of all the property belonging to the estate, and shall also give bond and sufficient security for the faithful performance of their duties agreeably to the will.
Be it further resolved, That all persons now acting as executors or administrators in this Nation be required to render in a schedule of all the property 'c. before the next Circuit Court of their several districts, according to the foregoing provisions, and be required to enter into bond and securities as aforesaid.
Be it further resolved, That incase such executors or administrators fail to comply with the requirements of the provisions of this resolution, he, she, or they shall forfeit his, her, or their executorship or administratorship.
Be it further resolved, That any person or persons, who is not a citizen of the Nation shall not be appointed under letters of administration.  And in case an executor or executrix, or administrator or administratrix shall remove out of the limits of this Nation, his or her appointment shall cease, and it shall be lawful to appoint others to act in their places agreeably to the provisions of this resolution.
Be it further resolved, That it shall be the duty of the executors of administrators, so soon as they obtain letters agreeably to this resolution, to publish in the Cherokee Phoenix, a notification to all persons indebted to the estate to come forward and make payment, and all persons having claims against the estate to present them for payment, and after such notification, twelve months shall be allowed for any person having claims or demands against the estate to present them for adjustment, but if the above mentioned time shall expire before such claims shall be presented, the said claims shall be void and not recoverable by law.
New Echota, Nov. 15, 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't. Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker,
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
___________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, That any person or persons who shall leave their houses, farms or other improvements, and bind themselves by enrollment, or otherwise, with intent of removing our of the jurisdictional limits of this Nation, as an emigrant or emigrants to another country, such person or persons shall forfeit all right, title, claim, and interest that he, she, or they may have or be entitled to as citizens of this Nation to the houses, farms or other improvements so left.
Be it further Resolved, That it shall be lawful for any citizen or citizens of this Nation to take, and occupy for their own use and benefit, any of the houses, farms or other improvements which may be abandoned by emigrants, as aforesaid, and such citizen or citizens first going into possession of such houses, farms, 'c. shall have a preference right, any contract, bargain, or sale made by such emigrant or emigrants, to any other person or persons whatsoever, to the contrary notwithstanding.
New Echota, 17th Nov. 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker,
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the resolution passed 12th November, 1825, making it unlawful to attach and sell certain kind of property, therein specified, be , and the same is hereby, so amended, as to include sixty bushels of corn, which quantity shall hereafter be exempted from attachment or sale for debt.
New Echota, Nov. 18th 1828
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker.
Approved, JNO. ROSS.










NEW ECOTA:
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 31, 1828. (Note the difference in date)
We have an apology to make to our readers.  On the day of the publication of the last Phoenix, the Editor was necessarily absent, at which time, we were requested, by the principle Chief, to suspend the paper, until the laws of the Nation enacted during the three last sessions of the General Council, should be published in a Pamphlet form. It was out of our power to give notice, to our Subscribers, of this arrangement.  It was considered important to have those laws printed immediately, as some of the courts of this nation will sit this winter, and as the judiciary system has undergone a material change.










TO THE PUBLIC
To the undersigned, not long since, apprised his readers, of his resignation, as editor of the CHEROKEE PHOENIX. It was his hope that another person would be appointed to fill his place, and that he would be permitted to retire, and follow pursuits most congenial to his health. Circumstances, however, not anticipated by him, have rendered it necessary that he should again resume the management of the paper. He therefore again respectfully commends his feeble exertions to the indulgence of the public, and begs of his patrons and readers, further forbearance and increased patronage.
The subscriber has taken occasion to state before, that the avails of the Phoenix were by no means sufficient for its support, and that, without an increase of subscribers from abroad, it could not exist.  He has been hitherto unsuccessful, and but few names are now received as subscribers. Will the public refuse us aid, and permit the Phoenix to languish?  We hope not. If the paper itself is not sufficient value to demand extensive support, we hope that it will, at least, be considered, by many of the friends of Indians, as a matter of charity, to assist us.
The present trying state of the Indians requires that the sympathy ' good feelings of the public should be extended towards them. If they are left to themselves to stem the torrent -- if they are deprived of the aid of the benevolent and Christian part of the community, they will undoubtedly perish.  A few years hence, it may be too late to wish them well, and to extend unto them what they now need and implore.  The undersigned hopes that those who may cast their eyes on this sheet will reflect on the situation and future prospects of the red people, particularly the Cherokees -- consider their former savage condition, their present improving state, their difficulties, and the inveterate prejudices of the surrounding states which are made to bear upon, and crush, their infant attempts to become an intelligent people.  If the enemies of Indians are permitted to succeed, and the Cherokees are disorganized and dispersed, (which will be the inevitable consequences of such success,) the great object of the Phoenix, and other exertions made by the public authorities of this Nation, and the object of those benevolent persons who, with laudable zeal, are laboring among us, will be lost. It is the hope of every friend of Indians that a thorough and complete trial may now be made, and the question decided, whether the Indians are capable of improvement or not; ' it is sincerely wished that sufficient time may be given, and sufficient means granted to Cherokees, to evince to the world that Indians are capable of improvement. They need, however, assistance from their white friends, ' it is on account of this fact, that we beg aid.
Will not each friend who takes the Phoenix go to his neighbours and procure subscribers for us? One responsible subscriber sent by each of those who new receive our paper would greatly relieve us and encourage us. We hope we shall not be forgotten by the public.
ELIAS BOUDINOTT
_________________________
In the Georgia Legislature, when the question of Cherokee lands was under consideration, Mr. Wofford, a member from Habersham, is said to have used the following words.
'The majority of these Indians [Cherokees] do not wish to remain where they are. But they are kept thee by cunning white men, and half breeds, for their own purposes. It is not the interest of the Indians to stay there, and if they were not restrained, they would not remain one year on the territory.'
The bare faced falsehood of the above remark will appear evident from the following extract of a letter from a respectable gentleman.
'After all the exertions and influence of the Agent, in his recruiting tour for emigrants, he has failed to effect anything.  After his return he despatched the Deputy Agent and U. States Interpreter through the Nation, to take a list of those who wished to emigrate and endeavor to get as many as possible, but they returned without obtaining the first one to give his consent.'
Be it known to all whom it ma concern, that cunning white man and half breeds have had no influence in preventing the emigration of the Cherokees. Every person who wishes to emigrate has the perfect right to do so. The fact is, every citizen of this Nation is cunning.










In the Georgia Legislature, when the question of Cherokee lands was under consideration, Mr. Wofford, a member from Habersham, is said to have used the following words.
'The majority of these Indians [Cherokees] do not wish to remain where they are. But they are kept there by cunning white men, and half breeds, for their own purposes. It is not the interest of the Indians to stay there, and if they were not restrained, they would not remain one year in the territory.'
The bare faced falsehood of the above remark will appear evident from the following extract of a letter from a respectable gentleman.
'After all the exertions and influence of the Agent, in his recruiting tour for emigrants, he has failed to effect anything.  After his return he despatched the Deputy Agent and U. States Interpreter through the Nation, to take a list of those who wished to emigrate and endeavor to get as many as possible, but they returned without obtaining the first one to give his consent.'
Be it known to all whom it may concern, that cunning white men and half breeds have had no influence in preventing the emigration of the Cherokees. Every person who wishes to emigrate has the perfect right to do so. The fact is, every citizen of this Nation is cunning.










GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES.
We give below some of the proceedings of the Legislature of the state of Georgia in regard to Cherokee lands.
SATURDAY, Dec. 13.
The bill to add the territory lying within the limits of this State and occupied by the Cherokee Indians, to the counties of Carroll, DeKalb, Gwinnett, Hall, and Habersham, and to extend the laws of this State over the same, for other purposes was taken up.
The first five sections provide for the division of the territory, and the addition of it to the frontier counties of Georgia.
Sec. 6. Provides that the laws of this State be extended over the territory, and white persons, residing, within the same, shall be subject to the operation of the said laws, as other citizens of said counties.
Sec. 7. From the 1st of June 1830, Indians in said territory, shall be subject to the operations of the said laws, and regulations as the Legislature may hereafter proscribe.
Sec. 8. No Indian or descendant of an Indian, residing within the Creek or Cherokee Nation, shall be a competent witness, or a party to any suit, in any court created by the constitution or laws of this State, to which a white man may be a party.
A great deal of discussion took place, particularly on the section relating to the restriction to be imposed on the Indians, and on the bill generally, in which, Messrs. Jourdan, Holt, of Putnam, Wofford, Iverson, Walker, Bates, Cleveland and Ryan took part -- A number of amendments were offered. The proceedings terminated in adoption of the provisions above stated. The bill was then read the 3d time, passed, and ordered to be sent to the Senate for concurrence.
In the eighth section of the above bill, our readers will learn what is intended by securing civil rights to the Cherokees. This Christian State, the State of Georgia, is, we believe, determined to oppress us.  And what are the Cherokees, over whom these grave Counsellors, representatives of an enlightened and republican people, are tyranizing? A hand full of men, weak and oppressed, with no means to defend their rights. Is it magnanimous to treat such a people, in the manner that our neighbors are trying to treat us? Our hearts sicken; and our courage fails, when we consider the power and number of our enemies, and when we look around and see but few friends, and very few who will speak in our defence. In this trying season we are glad to hear even a word spoken in our favor by Editors of newspapers. We feel indebted to the New York Daily Advertiser for its continued friendship towards us; but more especially, for the following timely remarks on that part of the Message of the President of the United States, which we insert after it.
There is one part of the message which, taken in connection with the report of the Secretary of War to which it refers, we strongly disapprove. We allude to the part relating to the Indians. The scheme of removing the deeply injured people from their recessions [sic] within the States, to a distant settlement in the wilderness, is founded on gross injustice, and therefore cannot conscientiously be sanctioned by a Christian nation. It is in vain to talk of obtaining their consent. Their consent, if gained at all, is acquired by duress; and duress, even by the common law, will discharge a man from the fulfilment of any contract, entered into in that situation. The truth is, it is almost impossible to make a government feel that justice is due to such a degraded and careless race of beings as the Indian tribe. And the stupidity of white men is such, that they had rather meet the full force of the imputation of injustice, than forego the opportunity to seize their lands and possessions. It is degrading to the character of a powerful nation to oppress and injure a weak one. It is doubly so to plunder, and banish from the homes, those who have no power of resistance. The injustice and cruelty practised towards the Indians in our country, is exceeded by nothing but by the more aggravated injustice and cruelty to the African slaves.  In both cases they are national sins of a heinous character; and happy will it be for the inhabitants of this country, if they do not, first or last, call down national judgments. If the Indians are forced to remove into the wilderness, all the exertions that have been made by benevolent men towards their civilization, and instruction in the principles of the christian religion, will be lost: and the tribes, now half reformed, and rapidly improving, will be driven back to savage ignorance and barbarism.










The Cherokees east of the Missippi
The following is an extract of a letter, to the Editor, from an intelligent gentleman at Gunter's Landing, Alabama, date 4th ult. Ark. Gaz.
'Boats and other preparations are making to move on [to Arkansas] a considerable number of Cherokees, under the late mode of enlistment adopted by the government; and notwithstanding much opposition is made by the most of the intelligent part of the nation, it is believed by them, that the Cherokees cannot exist much longer, as a nation, distinct from those of the Mississippi.'
We refer our readers to the extract of a letter from a respectable Gentleman, inserted in another column of our paper.  It will there be seen that this 'late mode of enlistment' has so far been unsuccessful.
Ed.Ph.










The Second Session of the Twentieth Congress commenced on Monday, December 1st. On the following day, Tuesday, the President's Message was transmitted to both Houses. The extract below is all that we can find in the Message, which relates to the Indians.
At the establishment of the Federal Government, under the present Constitution of the United States, the principle was adopted of considering the Indian Tribes as foreign and independent powers; and also as proprietors of lands. They were moreover, considered as savages, whom it was our policy and our duty to use our influence in converting to Christianity, and in bringing them within the pale of civilization.
In changing the system, it would seem as if a full contemplation of the consequences had not been taken.- We have been far more successful in the acquisition of their lands than in imparting to them the principles, or inspiring them with the spirit of civilization.  But in appropriating to ourselves their hunting grounds, we have brought upon ourselves the obligation of providing them with subsistence; and when we have had the rare good fortune of teaching them the arts of civilization, and the doctrines of Christianity, we have unexpectedly found them forming, in the midst of ourselves, communities claiming to be independent of ours, and rivals of sovereignty within the territories of the members of our Union. This state of things requires that a remedy should be provided. A remedy which, while it shall do justice to those children of nature, may secure to the members of our confederation their rights of sovereignty and of soil.










FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
MR. EDITOR--Permit me to offer a few remarks on the extract from the governor of Georgia's message to the legislature, published in one of your late numbers. After speaking of the solemn promise of 1802, His Excellency says, 'the rule of that Tribe {the Cherokees] who have since the year 1818
systematically devoted themselves to defeat any attempt to purchase out their permitted occupation of our lands, have as a last resort, a constitutional form of government.' That the rulers of this nation have devoted themselves to any systematical mode to defeat a purchase I deny. Their determination, not to cede a foot more land has long since been made known to the world, and it is needless to say that firmly adhered to this determination. Experience and observation compelled them to act thus, that the remnant of the tribe might be saved from ruin and extinction; and it was not the studied and artful machinations of speculating individuals to keep Georgia out of her rights, as might be inferred from the above paragraph.  If flattering, threats, or the temptations of lucre could have preponderated over patriotism, a purchase would have been effected some years ago.
That our occupancy is permitted we acknowledge, and it is proved by possession; though we are not indebted to Georgia for this permission, but to authority infinitely higher. Her occupancy is permitted, and doubtless 'tis even limited like ours. But, to say we occupy the lands of Georgia, while yet she is constitutionally debarred from taking possession, or using them as hers, indeed requires a clearer explanation than is afforded by the light of his excellency's Message, or anything I have seen on the subject. Our title to the lands, was acknowledged to be the best by both parties in the compact of 1802, of which Georgia herself was one and that it was not affected by that instrument is evident, as the Nation was not a party concerned. But hear the plain and decisive language of President Monroe to Congress in 1824 on the subject: 'I have no hesitation, however, to declare it as my opinion, that the Indian title was not affected in the slightest circumstance by the compact with Georgia; and that there is no obligation on the United States, to remove the Indians by force. The adoption of a constitutional form of government was for the better administration of justice, that method should be observed in enacting laws; and not as a last resort to defeat Georgia in her rights.  If her rights are good let them be realized, but if ours are better we claim her attention to them as members of the confederacy. If we have a right to make laws for our own government have we not the right to observe order and regularity in their construction? Query -- Was the constitution of Georgia adopted, to affect the Yazoo purchase?
'By this instrument the annuity paid to the tribe by the United States, and ALL the rights and privileges of individual Cherokees are controlled.' [See Message.} The United States are bound to pay to the Nation the annuity, and not to distribute it. The Nation has vested in its rulers the power to manage this fund, and it is applied by them to the support of the government, and other National purposes. Much more advantage and benefit is desired from its present disposition, than if distributed, which would probably be about fifty cents per head. Would the authority of the state have this fund equally divided out, and thereby think to hasten a dissolution of the Nation?
All the `rights and privileges' of individuals are not controlled by the Constitution. Like other people they have privileges exempted from Legislative controlment. These individuals taken collectively compose the Nation, and a Nation of people destitute of legislation would have their `rights and privileges' but loosely controlled.
'Here within our territory upon the lands forming a part of our Sovereign property!! is a government exercising authority independent of ours, and denationalizing our citizens in order to strengthen itself in opposition to our will!!! This state of things cannot be endured.' [See Message]  The nation has ever exercised its own authority independent of Georgia, or any state government. And were it not that the promise in the compact is yet to be fulfilled, her right to do so would not be questioned. Neither has she made it an object, or even sought to denationalize the citizens of Georgia to strengthen herself, nor has she the direction of 'Cupids arrows.'  The authority of the Nation is too limited to pass an act prohibiting intermarriages, and I doubt whether Georgia herself would have the authority, or power to enforce it if passed. How then can this denationationalization be checked? Cannot the state endure the policy recommended by one of her greatest men?  But is it our growing physical strength that it is so alarming? No.  Our warriors are few, and none to disturb the repose of peace. With humility and a consciousness of dependence they look up to the Genl. Government for justice, and it is there only they expect to have their grievances redressed. 'Tis the growing strength of our intellect that cannot be endured; our love of country and unshaken faith in the Government.  Our rulers are men of honesty and reflection.
'What disposition is to be made of the Cherokees who reside in the State? To expel them would be cruel and unjust; to leave them as mere tenants at will of their present settlements would be a reproach to the character of the state!!! for incorporation with equality of rights as a part of our political family they are unfit. Under these reflections! I recommend to you to extend all the laws of the state over the territory lying within our limits, occupied by the Cherokees.
The Indians to be subject as other persons to the operation of those laws. To secure to the Indians immediately the enjoyment of all civil rights. To GRANT each Indian family now living in the state, while they continue in it a sufficient body of land for their comfortable support!!!'
To expel them would be cruel and unjust.  How merciful. But what is it, to tear the nation in two and divide it without its own consent -- set aside the Constitution of the United States and existing treaties, and legislate away a large portion of their territory, subject to be settled by white citizens of the state -- extend the laws of the state over the Indians, to be no longer blessed with their own wholesome regulations, but subject to laws under which the robber might enter and plunder their dwellings, and, in seeking redress, denied their testimony in courts of justice?  Let his Excellency's recommendation to be carried into effect; and under the simultaneous and portentous events that would ensue, the Cherokees would sink to rise no more. Though they have been the most favored of all Indian tribes -- have stood with safety upon the very precipice from whence others have fallen, and but a faint recollection left of their existence -- though they have surmounted innumerable difficulties, and are rising in respectability, yet under this cold and withering policy, their eternal fate will be sealed, and they must perish from among the nations of the earth. The reflection of their once flourishing condition and happy enjoyments will only add to their sufferings, Now tell me what is cruelty and injustice, and reproachful to the character of a state?  Better far, to raise at once the arm of power and say 'we are strong but thou art weak, power is right remove or be expelled,' for it is in virtue the same but perhaps a more decent way of coming round. But I am fully satisfied that the Cherokees and their lands are yet safe, and are likely to remain so; and that it betrays weakness to believe for a moment that the General Government would act the part of a silent spectator to such transactions, when her own character would be tarnished. Humanity alone would forbid it, even were the voice of justice silent on the subject.  Here I leave the matter for the reflection of an enlightened people and friends of aborigines.
CAWLAHNAHOONAKAH










CHOCTAWS
When a Choctaw dies, his friends set up a number of poles around the grave, on which they hang hoops wreaths, 'c. for the spirit to ascend upon. Around these poles the survivors of the family gather each day, at sunrise, noon, and sunset, and there prostrating themselves, and uttering convulsive cries, mourn for the deceased., This is continued during 30 or 40 days: then all the neighboring people assemble, the poles are pulled up, and the mourning is ended with feasting, drinking and great disorder.
Mis IIer










CHOCTAWS.
When a Choctaw dies, his friends set up a number of poles around the grave, on which they hang hoops, wreaths, 'c. for the spirit to ascend upon. Around these poles the survivors of the family gather each day, at sunrise, noon, and sunset, and there prostrating themselves, and uttering convulsive cries, mourn for the deceased. This is continued during 30 or 40 days; then all the neighboring people assemble, the poles are pulled up, and the mourning is ended with feasting, drinking and great disorder.
Mis. Her.










CROUP
The following simple remedy, says the Charlottsville Advocate, for Croup, is sanctioned by the experience of John D. Goodman, and as will be seen by the following extract, strongly recommended by him.  The simplicity of the remedy, and the facility of its application, bespeak for it a trial. He states that it 'has never caused vommiting, vertigo, or any distressing symptom, in my experience or of two other eminent physicians, who had recommended its use to him.
Of the external use of tobacco for the Croup. Whenever children are threatened with an attack of cynanche trachealis (Croup) I direct a plaster covered with dry Scotch snuff, varying in size according to the age of the patient, to be applied directly across the top of the therax, and retained there till all the symptoms disappear. The remedy is found to be always effectual when applied to the first and second stages of the malady. This mode of treatment was, from prejudice or scepticism, neglected by me, and, in one instance, in which, with very considerable difficulty, one of my children was rescued by the ordinary treatment. But on being urged to make trial of the snuff plaster I determined to make the experiment, whenever the opportunity presented. This was not wanting; ' when called to a child laboring under all the symptoms of the early stage of croup, such a plaster, (made by greasing a piece of linen, and covering it well with snuff) was directed to be applied to the chest. The event was most happy; the symptoms of tracheal irritation, and half crouping cough, ceased shortly after; the child fell into a profound sleep, with gentle perspiration, and by the next morning, was free from all distressing symptoms. The plaster was re-applied for a night or two following, and then discontinued. Since that time, my family has been saved from a great deal of anxiety and alarm, to which previously they were subject. As we were obliged to keep Coxe's hive syrup, tarter emetic, and all other articles restored to, constantly ready to meet the attacks of the Croup, which were very sudden and frequent in cold wet seasons. Since then, we have found nothing necessary than to apply the snuff plaster, and we fell under no further anxiety. Instead of being obliged to watch with the child all the rest of the night; when once the snuff is applied we go to rest again, with a feeling of entire security, which we have never had the least cause to regret.










SYMPTOMS OF SHORT-SIGHTEDNESS
It is evidence of short-sightedness when a man rubs out with his nose what he has written with the pen. So, too, when a young lady at her needle-work pierces the end of her nose with her needle, the presumption is strong that she is short-sighted. But when a young gentleman 'with spectacles on nose,' stumbles over a post, or runs against a person whom he cannot recognise with removing his glasses, his short-sightedness may well be questioned.










Note: this item is repeated in v. 1, no. 43 also
$20 REWARD
Taken out of my lot, without my leave, on Cedar Creek, Chuttoogy District, Cherokee Nation, on the twenty eighth of October last, one chesnut sorrel mare, about twelve years old, and about fourteen hands and a half high, blaze face, and has been cut on the weathers for the pistillo, and has a large wart under her left ear.  I will give the above reward in good property to any person who will bring said mare to me at residence, above named.
JOEL KERBY
8th Dec. 1828.










NOTICE.
Will be let out to the highest bidder, on the 1st Monday in January, at my residence in Coosewaytee, for one year, the two National Turnpikes on the Federal road.  Terms made known on the day of sale.
JOHN MARTIN, Treaty Ch.Na.
Dec. 29th, 1928 42tf.










[repeated in vol. 1, no. 43]
To the undertakers to keep in good repair the Federal Road
WHEREAS, a resolution was passed by the National Committee and Council on the 25th of October, 1824, that the road from Chattahoochy to May's Ferry on Highwassee River, and also the one to Blythe's Ferry on Tennessee River and the one to Walker's Ferry on Highwassee River, should be let out to the lowest bidder, for the term of five years commencing on the 1st of December, 1824, on the following conditions, to wit:
The road to be cut twenty four feet wide, clear of trees, and the causwaying to be covered with dirt, together with the digging of mountains and hills, to be fourteen feet wide, clear of rocks, roots and grubs.
I hereby make known to the undertakers of the different share of said road that, there will a commissioner appointed to review said road by the 25h of March next, and if said road, or any part thereof, be found not to be in the order as prescribed by law, I shall proceed to institute suit against all undertakers failing to have their shares in the order required by law.
J.M. Lynch, N. Marshal
Dec., 29, 1828. 42 l.










To the undertakers to keep in good repair the Federal Road
WHEREAS, a resolution was passed by the National Committee and Council on the 25th of October, 1824, that the from Chattahoocy to May's ferry on Highwassee river, and also the one to Blythe's ferry on Tennessee river and the one to Walker's ferry on Highwassee river, should be let out to the lowest bidder, for the term of five years commencing on the 1st of December, 1824, on the following conditions, to wit:
The road to be cut twenty four feet wide, clear of trees, and the causwaving to be covered with dirt, together with the digging of mountains and hills, to be fourteen feet wide, clear of rocks, roots and grube.
I hereby make known to the undertakers of the different shares of said road that, there will be a commissioner appointed to review said road by the 25th of March next, and if said road, or any part thereof, be found not to be in the order as prescribed by law, I shall proceed to instiute suit against all undertakers failing to have their shares in the order received by law.
J. M. LYNCH, N. Marshall
Dec. 29, 1828 42lt.










LAWS

OF THE CHEROKEE NATION, for the years 1826, 1827, 1828, Printed and for sale at this Office.


















CHEROKEE LAWS.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened,  That if any person or persons, not citizens of the Cherokee Nation, shall bring into the Cherokee Nation at the seat of Government, during the sitting of the General council, any shows such as wax figures, or such as lay actors, such person or persons shall pay a tax of eight dollars, for the benefit of the Treasury of the Cherokee Nation.
New Echota, 18th October, 1828
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
____________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened,  That the law passed November 12th 1822, authorizing the several Circuit Judges, to preside over the Supreme Court, and the law passed 14th October, 1825, requiring the Circuit Judges of the Several Districts to review and decide upon all cases, appealed from the District Courts, be, and the same are hereby, repealed; and in lieu thereof, the Supreme Judges elected agreeably to the Constitution, shall compose the Supreme Court, and shall have full power to try, and decide all cases upon the Supreme Court docket, that remain untried, which may come under the jurisdiction of the laws of the Nation, and shall have complete cognizance of all cases appealed from the several circuit Courts, as may be pointed out by law. The Supreme Court shall also have power to act and decide upon criminal cases without reference to appeals from the Circuit Courts.
 New Echota, Oct. 18th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd-GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r Coun.
Approv'd JNO. ROSS.
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened,  That the Supreme Court of the Cherokee Nation shall commence its session on the second Monday of October in each year, at New Echota.
 Be it further Resolved, that such session of the Supreme Court shall not continue longer than three weeks.
Be it further Resolved, That in case the Supreme Court docket shall be cleared before the expiration of the above mentioned time, it shall adjourn until the next annual session.
Be it further Resolved, That the compensation of the Supreme Judges shall be, for each of them, four Dollars per day, during the sitting of the Supreme Court.
New Echota, Oct. 20th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concur'd, GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r Coun.
Approv'd JNO. ROSS.
________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the National Marshal shall enter into a bond with sufficient securities, in a penal sum of five thousand dollars, for the faithful performance of the duties that may be required of him.
Be it further Resolved, That it shall be his duty to attend the Supreme Court annually during its session, and to execute all decisions which may be made, or have it done by the sheriffs of the several Districts, and all other business in which the Cherokee Nation may become a party, within the jurisdiction of the Nation.
 Be it further Resolved,  That he shall receive for services, a salary of one hundred Dollars per annum, and shall so be allowed 8 per cent for collection.
 New Echota, Oct.21th [sic], 1826.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Comm.
Concurr'd GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r. Coun.
Approv'd, JNO. ROSS.
_________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened; That all officers, appointed under the authority of this Nation, who are required to give bond and sufficient security, for the faithful performance of their duties, and whose offices require a Commission from the principal Chief, shall e required to enter into bonds with the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation, and shall be required to produce a certificate from the managers of the election, certifying that they have been legally elected; and it shall be the duty of the Treasurer to receive their bonds, and issue a certificate to each officer so bound, which, when presented to the Principal Chief, shall be sufficient evidence for his commission to be granted.
New Echota, 22nd October 1828.
LEWIS ROSS. Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker
Approved, JNO. ROSS.
___________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That so much of the law passed 24th October, 1827, supplementary to the law passed 5th Nov, 1825, requiring the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation to call in all monies, loaned out of the Treasury, on the first Monday in October, 1828, be, and the same is hereby repealed.'
Be it further Resolved, That any person or persons, who may be owing the National Treasury by bond for loaned money, shall be allowed on month, from the passage of this resolution, to renew his bond or their bonds in the Treasury, by paying up the interest due thereon and giving sufficient securities; and that they shall be required to pay up the full amount of their bonds with the interest, by three installments, six months, each, the first instalment and interest to be paid seven months after the passing of this resolution, and the second installment to be paid six months thereafter, 'c.
Be it further Resolved, That in case any person or persons who may fail to renew his bond or their bonds, by paying up the interest, within the space of one month, as provided above, the Treasurer shall proceed to have the full amount of his bond or their bonds, with the interest due thereon, collected, agreeably to law.
New Echota, October 22nd, 1828.
LEWIS ROSS.Pres't Committee,
Concurr'd GOING SNAKE,Sp'k'r Coun.
Approved-JNO. ROSS.
__________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the resolution passed 24th Oct. 1827, prolonging the suspension of the poll tax law, be, and the same is hereby prolonged for the term of one year, and the law imposing a tax on citizen merchants, is also hereby suspended for the above mentioned term.
 New Echota, Oct. 28th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS.Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE,Sp'k'r. Coun.
Approved.-JNO. ROSS.
________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That there shall be appointed, by the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, two committees, of two members each, one in each judicial circuit, whose duty it shall be to visit the different schools in the Nation, within the respective districts of their circuits at the public examinations of said schools, once a year, and to report to the General Council annually, on the number of scholars progress of education, 'c.
Be it further Resolved, That they shall be paid one dollar per day, while in actual service out of any monies in the National Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
New Echota, Oct. 30th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Committee
Concurred-GOING SNAKE-Speaker.
Approved.-JNO. ROSS.
________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, That it shall not be lawful to exact toll or ferriage at any of the turnpikes, toll-bridges, or ferries within the limits of the Cherokee Nation from citizens of the Nation.
New Echota, Nov. 4th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS,Pres't Com.
Concur'd-GOING SNAKE-Sp'k'r. Coun.
Approved-JNO. ROSS.










CONGRESS
SENATE. December 9TH, 1828.
Mr.
Prince submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Secretary of War be instructed to lay before the Senate, at as early a day as possible, a detailed statement respecting the several tribes of Indians now resident within the United States and Territories, exhibiting, as nearly as he can, the number of souls, and the number of families in each; and where each tribe is at present located.
And, that he also lay before the Senate a statement describing, as exactly as may conveniently be done, the location and extent of the several tracts of Territory North of Red River, and West of the River Mississippi, West of the State of Missouri and West of the Lakes Michigan and Superior, to which the Indian title has been extinguished; with an information in possession of the Department, as to the measures now in progress for that purpose; and the probability of further extingishments of Indian titles in those regions.










HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
December 9th, 1828.
The following resolution, offered yesterday by Mr. OWEN, was taken up and agreed to:
Resolved, That the Secretary of War be directed to lay before this House the report of the Board of Engineers, on the subject of making a Canal between the Hiwasse and Connasauga Rivers, and for the purpose of connecting the waters of the same: and that he, be also directed to communicate to this House the report of Major Armstrong upon the same subject, under the authority lately given him to open a negotiation with the Cherokee Nation of Indians.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 7, 1829
The following is from the annual report of the Secretary of War to the President of the United States.
While on the subject of Indian affairs, I should feel that I did not discharge my whole duty, were I to neglect to call the attention of the Government to the expediency, if not absolute necessity, of more clearly defining, by legislative enactments, the nature of the relations by which we are to stand allied to the Indian tribes; and especially, to prescribe what, as between them and ourselves, shall be the reciprocal rights, both of property and government, over the vast tracts of country, which they claim and inhabit.
At the commencement of our present government, these tribes, with few inconsiderable expectations, occupied a country in the interior, far beyond the range of our population, and our relations with them were the simple ones which exist between remote and independent nations, or they were rather relations of war; and most of our intercourse with them was carried on through the officers of the army, stationed along our frontier posts; and it was probably, to the posture in whom we then stood in regard to them, that the War Department was first indebted for the Superintendency of Indian affairs. Since that period, our white populations, in its rapid and irresistible progress to the West, has been sweeping past and around them: until now, a large proportion of these tribes are actually embosomed within the organized and settled parts of our States and Territories. In the mean time, we have been entering into treaties with them, not of peace merely, but of property, of intercourse and trade; and have actually contracted between them ' ourselves most of the relations which appertain to the municipal state, without, however, having fixed the boundaries of the authority by which these relations shall be controlled.
While some of our citizens, who are the advocates of primitive and imprescriptable rights in their broadest extent, contend that these tribes are independent nations, and have the sole and exclusive right to the property and government of the territories they occupy, others consider them as mere tenants at will, subject, like the buffalo of the parties, to be hunted from their country whenever it may suit our interest or convenience to take possession of it. These views of their rights and disabilities are equally extravagant and unjust: but the misfortune is, that the intermediate line has never been drawn by the Government. Nothing can be more clear, to one who has marked the progress of population and improvement, and is conversant with the principles of human action, than that these Indians will not be permitted to hold the reservations on which they live within the States, by their present tenure, for any considerable period. If, indeed, they were not disturbed in their possessions by us, it would be impossible for them long to subsist, as they have heretofore done, by the chase, as their game is already so much diminished, as to render it frequently necessary to furnish them with provisions, in order to save them from starvation. In their present destitute and deplorable condition, and which is constantly growing more helpless, it would seem to be not only the right, but the duty of the Government to take them under its paternal care; and to exercise, over their persons and property, the salutary rights and duties of guardianship.
The most prominent feature in the present policy of the Government, as connected with these people, is to be found in the efforts that are making to remove them beyond the limits of the States and organized Territories.
A very entensive tract of country, lying to the West and North of the Arkansas Territory, remarkable for salubrity of climate, fertility of soil, and profusion of game, has lately been set apart for the colonization of the Indians. Liberal pecuniary inducements have been offered by Congress to emigrants, and many have already embraced the offer. But the ultimate success of this project has been greatly endangered, and may yet be defeated, by the operation of another prominent measure of Government, which although suggested by the most humane motives, comes into direct conflict with the plan of colonization.
The annual appropriation of $10,000 to the purposes of educating Indian children, and teaching them the mechanic arts, has had the effect to almost every Indian reservation, in addition to the agents and interpreters, a considerable number of missionaries and teachers, with their families, who, having acquired, principally by the aid of this fund, very comfortable establishments, are unwilling to be deprived of them by the removal of the Indians; and thus we have found, that while the agents specially employed by the Government for this purpose are engaged in persuading, by profuse distributions of money and presents, the Indians to emigrate, another set of Government agents, are operating, more secretly, to be sure, but not with less zeal and effect to prevent such emigration.
These remarks are not intended as a personal reflection on the missionaries and much less on the teachers, pious and respectable patrons of these benevolent institutions, who, no doubt, are disposed to lend a ready support to every human measure which the Government may think proper to adopt in favor of these depressed people but are rather intended to show the natural and unavoidable tendency of the system itself to counteract the leading policy of the Government.
If the project of colonization be a wise one, and of this, I believe no one entertains a doubt, why not shape all our laws and treaties to the attainment of that object, and impart to them an efficiency that will be sure to effect it.
Let such of the emigrating Indians as choose it, continue, as heretofore, to themselves to the chase in a country where their toils will be amply rewarded. Let those who are willing to cultivate the arts of civilization be formed into a colony, consisting of distinct tribes or communities, but placed contiguous to each other, and connected by general laws, which shall reach the whole. Let the lands be apportioned among families and individuals in severalty, to be held by the same tenures by which we hold ours, with perhaps some temporary and wholesome restraints on the power of alienation. Assist them in forming and administering a code of laws adapted to a state of civilization. Let the $10,000 appropriation be applied within the new colony exclusively, to the same object for which it is now expended; and add to it, from time to time, so much of our other annual contributions as can be thus applied without a violation of public faith.
In regard to such Indians as shall remain within the States, and refuse to emigrate, let an arrangement be made with the proper authorities of the respective States in which they are situated, for partitioning out to them, in severalty, so much of the respective reservations as shall be amply sufficient for agricultural purposes. Set apart a tract, proportioned in size to the number of Indians, to remain in common as a refuge, and provision for such as may, by improvidence, waste their private property; and subject them all to the municipal laws of the State in which they reside. Let the remainder of the reservation be paid for by those who hold the paramount right, at such prices as shall be deemed, in reference to the uses which Indians are accustomed to make of lands reasonable; and the proceeds to be applied for the benefit of those of the tribe who emigrate after their establishment in the colony, or to be divided between those who emigrate and those who remain as justice may require.
It may, perhaps, be fairly doubted, whether the $10,000 appropriation (independently of its tendency to prevent emigration) produces, under the circumstances in which it is now expended, any useful results. These schools, it is true impart to a certain number of Indian youths so much information, and so far change their habits, as to inspire them with all the passions and desires, and particularly the passion for accumulating individual wealth, peculiar to a state of civilization: and then these half educated men are turned loose among their respective tribes without any honorable means of satisfying the desires and wants which have been thus artificially created. The lands of the tribe being common and unalienable, they have no motive to cultivate and improve them. There is no floating wealth to attract their ambition, and the only and usual means of gratifying their cupidity for money, is, by employing the advantages acquired by their education to appropriate to themselves more than their just share of the large contributions annually made by the Government: and in this way, they, with some few honorable exceptions, render, not only themselves, but the very arts they have acquired, obnoxious to the nation at large.
If, however, it should be deemed most expedient to continue to expend a portion of the $10,000 fund on the Indians remaining within the States, the missionaries and teachers should be located on the tracts proposed to be set apart of the common use of each tribe; from whence the information they supply, and the arts they teach, might be advantageously applied by the adjoining Indians to the improvement of their separate property; and where they might also take charge of those Indians, without furnishing them at the same time, appropriate subjects on which to employ them.
It is, in my opinion, worse than useless to impart education and the arts to the Indians, without furnishing them at the same time, appropriate subjects on which to employ them.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant.
P.B. PORTER










FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Among the many subjects, which have occupied the attention of the scientific world, perhaps there is none more curious and more interesting, than that of the Meteoric stone; which have been know to fall, at various times, since the Christian era, from the atmosphere. Many of the literatic [sic] have formed theories, and have endeavored to illustrate this interesting phenomenon; but after all their exertions, not having sufficient dates upon which to found their theories, they consequently could not say 'Tued erat demonstration.' Some have thought that these meteoric bodies have been hurled headlong from the moon or other planets; but they do not recollect, that these planets have centers and attractions of their own, and that no force or power could be employed on the moon to send a metallic substance of 100 or even a thousand pounds so far from it surface that the moon's attraction could not bring it back again. Consequently it would be utterly impossible for anybody to escape from the satellite and finally reach our Earth. Others have thought that the asteroids ceres, pallas juno, and vesta once composed a planet, and that; by some accident it burst asunder, and has finally formed four distinct bodies; and that these meteoric stones were the offals of those asteroids at the time of their separation, which have been revolving round the earth ever since. If this notion be correct, it would seem that the planet, from which these asteroids are supposed to have come, must have been an Iron as the meteoric stones are chiefly composed of that mettle [sic]. But the use of such a planet is a query as difficult to solve as to explain the phenomenon of the meteoric stone itself; unless it was the habitation of Vulcano [sic] before he was kicked out of haven [sic];
Others again have thought that these stones were ejected from some unknown Valcano [sic] on the surface of our globe; but they do not pretend to account for the manner in which these stones have been conveyed to the different parts of the Earth. For if they were ejected; the ejection would be mostly in a perpendicular manner; consequently the attraction of the earth would convey them back towards the crater from which they were discharged; hence it would be impossible that these metallic stones could fall on so many different countries as they have been known to do. But if this position were true, and the volcano could be found, it would be almost as valuable to the blacksmith as the Elixir of life would be to the physician, or the philosopher's stone, to the Chemist.
But others are of opinion that these meteoric stones are formed in the atmosphere; but how this operation is performed they have not thought proper to inform us. However, as these stones are found to consist chiefly of Iron, some mackel [sic] chrome, oxide of iron, sulphur, selex [sic], lime, magnesia, and alumine [sic] perhaps it may not be the wildest idea in the world, to suppose this last position is nearly correct. That they are formed from the exhalation, vapors, and gasses which arises from various substances, such as the fusing of mettle [sic] or the eruption of a volcano 'c. is most probable. It is evident that at such time there is a quantity of matter thrown up in a state of vapor which may be suspended than the atmosphere; until it undergoes some chemical change with the nature of which wee are not acquainted, and by the attraction of composition it may be instantaneously combined into a solid mass, which by the close union of its constituent particles has become much heavier than the atmospheric air and consequently the attraction of gravitation tends towards the surface of the earth. If this idea be correct it might serve, to some degree, to explain one of the most mysterious phenomena that has ever appeared.
PEGASUS.










LOUISIANA CROPS. The New Orleans Advertiser of the 10th ult. says, in relation to the crops, 'From all the information we can collect, we believe the sugar and cotton crops will be bountiful. We heard some time ago that, in consequence of drought, the cotton crops in the State of Mississippi had suffered; but since that period, there has been a considerable fall of rain, and it is presumed the injury is not so great as apprehended.
'The gradual increase of the products of this and the states bordering on the Mississippi, and its auxiliary streams, require additional shipping every year, to transport these products to different markets. Upon reasonable calculation, it may be stated that this city will have to export during the coming season,
350,000 bales of Cotton,
60,000 hhds. sugar,
20,000 do. Molasses,
40,000 do. Tobacco,
100,000 barrels of Flour,
100,000 do. Pork,
150,000 kegs lead:
Together with staves, lead, castings, 'c. That to effect this importation, it will require upwarps of three hundred and sixty thousand tons of shipping or about 1200 vessels of 800 tons each. The ship owners of the northern and eastern States are the principal carriers. They supply us with hats, shoes, coarse sorghum, negro clothing; and we give them, in turn, raw materials, sugar molasses, and employment for their shipping.  May such an equality forever exist between us, the brightest link in our state of union.'


















CHEROKEE LAWS.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the amendment of the 28th Oct. 1826, to the law passed 12th Nov. 1825, making trade debts recoverable in money on certain conditions, be, and the same is hereby, repealed.
Be it further Resolved, That money shall not hereafter be exacted for any trade debt, and whenever any person or persons may contract a debt payable in property, and the debtor shall fail to comply with the contract, it shall be lawful for the creditor to sue and obtain judgment for the amount specified in the contract, to be paid in property, and it shall be the duty of the officers in whose hands such judgments may be placed for collection, to forthwith seize upon any property of the debtor (save such property as is by law exempted) he may find, in case the particular property contracted for shall have been made way with, and the property so seized upon shall be valued by two food disinterested citizens, to be chosen by the collecting officer; and the debtor shall not have the benefit of the stay lay in such cases.
Be it further Resolved, That when there is no time or place specified in the contract, for the payment of the debt, the creditor shall give the debtor ten days notice, before he shall proceed to have the collection made agreeably to the provision of this Resolution.
Be it further Resolved, That, this resolution shall be considered as an amendment to the law passed 12th Nov. 1825, in lieu of the amendment above repealed.
New Echota, Nov. 4th, 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r Coun.
Approv'd JNO ROSS.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the power of regulating the rates of tolls ' ferriages, at all the turnpikes, toll Bridges and ferries, belonging to individuals within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, which have been established agreeably to law, and which have not been rated heretofore by the Committee and Council, be, and is hereby vested in the Circuit Court of the district in which such turnpike, toll Bridge or ferry may be located; and it shall be the duty of the said court whenever application may be made for such regulation, to fix upon reasonable and moderate rates, and to cause the clerk of said court to keep a correct record of the same.
New Echota, Nov. 4th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE,Sp'k'r Coun.
Approv'd JNO. ROSS.
______________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the law passed 8th Nov. 1822, forbidding gaming at cards, under certain penalties therein specified be, and the same is hereby, so amended that, no persons or persons shall be allowed to game at dice, roulette, or thimbles, under the same penalties as are prescribed therein for gaming at cards.
Be it further Resolved,  That the above amendment shall go into full force and effect on the first day of January, 1829.
New Echota, Nov. 4th, 1828.
LEWIS ROSS,Pre'st Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker
Approved, JNO ROSS.
________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation be, and he is hereby, required to attend and keep his office at New Echota, during each session of the General Council.
New Echota. Nov. 6th 1828
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Committee,
Concurred- GOING SNAKE, Speaker
Approved-JNO ROSS.
__________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That a District Court be, and is hereby established, in each District in the Nation, which shall sit twice a year at their respective court houses, to be composed of a District Judge, six Jurors and a clerk; and the court shall sit three days at each term, if the docket cannot be cleared of the cases pending in less time.
Be it further Resolved, that the time of holding courts in the several Districts shall be as follows, to wit:
At Coosoowatee and Aquohee, first Monday in January and July.
At Etowah and Ahmohee, second Monday in January and July.
At Hickory Log and Chickamauga, third Monday in January and July.
At Tahquohee and Chattooga, on the fourth Monday in January ' July.
Be it further Resolved, That this court shall have full and complete jurisdiction over all civil cases, when the amount shall not exceed one hundred dollars, and shall also have comp-___ criminal jurisdiction, (except in the case of murder) and that it shall be the duty of the District Judge, during the recess of the courts to try all criminals, save murderers, who may be brought before them, as the Constitution directs.
Be it further Resolved, That the manner of proceedings in said court shall be by summons or warrants under the hand of the judge or clerk presiding over the court, when the matter is triable, specifying the amount demanded by the plaintiff, and on what account, which summons or warrants shall be served by one of the officers of the District, at least ten days before the sitting of said court and the case shall be tried at the first term of the court, unless good cause upon oath shall be shown to the contrary; provided, no case shall be continued by the same party more than twice.  The defendant, if he shall have any defence against the plaintiff's demand, shall appear at the court in which he is sued, and make his defence; and both parties shall have the right of demanding subpoenas for witnesses whom they may deem necessary, and said witnesses, when duly subpoenaed, shall be bound to attend under the same penalties as prescribed by law in relation to witnesses in other courts of the Nation.- The defendant shall also have the right of pleading, by way of set-off, any debt or account, which he may have against the plaintiff, provided the same be mutual and due in the same right, and a substantial copy of the set-off shall be filed with the plea, and if the defendant shall prove a set-off of larger amount than the demand established by the plaintiff, the court shall give judgment for the defendant for the balance over and above the plaintiffs demand so established; provided nevertheless, that the court shall not have cognisance of any set-off exceeding the sum of one hundred dollars, as aforesaid.
Be it further Resolved That five days after judgment is rendered in any case, the clerk shall issue and execution against the property of the defendant, for the amount of the judgment and cost, directed to the officers of the District and any of said officers in whose hands such execution shall be placed, shall proceed to levy and make collections, according to law.
Be it further Resolved, That the Judge and clerk of this court be, and they are hereby authorized, and vested with authority, to administer Oaths on every necessary occasion; and that the District Judges be, and they are hereby also, authorized to perform matrimonial ceremony, agreeably to law.
 Be it further Resolved, That the District judges shall have power to grant appeals to the circuit courts agreeably to law, and shall receive a salary of sixty dollars per annum for their services; and the clerks of the District courts shall each be allowed ten dollars per annum extra pay for their services during the recess of the courts.
 New Echota, Nov. 8th 1828
LEWIS ROSS,Pres't Comm.
Concur'd, GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r. Comm.
Approved-JNO ROSS.
_________________
Whereas, much inconcenience is experienced by the courts in this Nation, in the trial of criminal cases, in consequences of prosecutors not being bound for the prosecution of such criminal cases, therefore,
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That after the passage of this act, any person or persons, not a public officer, who shall undertake to prosecute any criminal or criminals shall be, and he, she, or they are hereby required to give bond and security, in a sum double the amount of such prosecution, for the faithful performance of prosecuting the criminals, who may be arrested and brought to trial.
Be it further resolved by the authorities aforesaid, That it shall be the duty of such prosecutors to give bond and security previous to their receiving warrants for the arresting of such criminals.
New Echota, Nov. 8th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS,Pres't Comm.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE,Sp'k'r Coun.
Approved.- JNO. ROSS.
________________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That so much of the law passed 26th Oct. 1819, regulating the issuing of permits, as required them to be issued by the National Committee and Council, be, and the same is hereby, repealed, and in lieu thereof the power of issuing permits shall be vested in the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation.
Sec. 2. Be it further Resolved, That the above mentioned law is hereby, so amended as to require any citizen or citizens obtaining a permit to pay a tax of one dollar into the National Treasury for each and every permit so obtained, for the term of one year, and in proportion for a shorter or greater length of time, and the employer shall be bound for the satisfaction of all thefts, of which the person or persons employed under the permit, may be convicted of before any of the courts of different Districts, Provided nevertheless, that nothing shall be so construed in this section as to exempt such offenders from the penalty prescribed by law for such offenses.
Sec. 3. Be it further Resolved, That twenty days shall be allowed to the employer after the expiration of the permit, to renew the same, or the removal of the person or persons employed out of the Nation; and in case the employer shall not renew his permit he shall be bound, under the penalty of twenty dollars, to notify the sheriff or constable of his District, within the space of time above mentioned of the expiration and non-removal of the same. And it shall be the duty of any lawful officer after the above mentioned time, in case the person or persons so employed shall not have removed, to forthwith remove him or them our of the Nation and the expense of removal shall be collected from the person or persons so removed, and in case he or they shall not be able to defray the same, the employer shall be bound for the same; and in all such cases the officer or officers shall not exact unreasonable fees.
Sec. 4. Be it further Resolved, That the Treasurer shall be required to keep a correct record of all permits issued, specifying the different kinds of mechanics, ' to whom granted, and to present the General council at each session with a correct copy of the same; ' it shall be his duty to issue permits during the recess of the General Council.
 New Echota, Nov. 8th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE,Sp'k'r
Approved.- JNO ROSS.
_____________________
 Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, That there be appropriated so much money out of the Treasury of the nation, not otherwise appropriated, as will be sufficient to purchase one iron chest, for the better security of the public funds of the nation, and that the treasurer be, and he is hereby authorized to make the purchase.
Be it further Resolved, by the authorities aforesaid,  That the treasurer, be and he is hereby, required to keep his office open for transacting business every Wednesday and Thursday in each week, Provided nevertheless, that it shall be lawful to transact business on any other day, when necessity requires.
New Echota, Nov., 8th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS,Pres't Comm.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker.
Approved JNO. ROSS.










INDIANS.
We noticed with much regret that part of the report of the Sec'y of War, which relates to the Indians, inserted in our last.- We had not time than to express our disapprobation of that document, and even now, we cannot do better service to our readers than to copy the following remarks of the Editors of the New York Observer. These remarks meet with our entire approbation. We feel rejoiced to find that such documents as the Message of the Governor of Georgia, the proceedings of the Legislature of that State, and the report in question, have a tendency to call to our aid the pens of able Editors. In this way, perhaps, we may finally be benefited by these state papers, which now appear hostile to the best interests of the Indians. We know not the designs of Providence in regard to us- it may be that the present political Indian excitement (if we may so express ourselves) is intended to bring about an excitement of an entirely different nature- the expression of public opinion on this important subject. We do not think it possible that millions of friends of humanity throughout the Union, with the character of civil and religious liberty in their hands will keep silence and see oppression progress, and the Cherokees sacrificed to the cupidity of the State of Georgia.
Gen. Porter has by no means done a popular act in casting reflections (for what can his remarks amount to) on the Missionaries and their patrons. He has utterly mistaken the character of these worthy people. With most of the Missionaries among the Cherokees we are acquainted, ' we can assure the public that they have no influence in political matters, nor do they wish to possess any, their object being the moral ' religious improvement of the people among whom they are sent. The cause of the failure of the General Government to remove the Cherokees from their present abode is to be ascribed to the Cherokees themselves. They are to bear the blame, if blame is to be attached to their refusal to part with their country and homes.
_______________________________________
The next two paragraphs should be on Vol. 1 No. 44 Pg. 1_C5B
Page 1 Col. 5a
THE CHEROKEES.
It has now become fully apparent, that a project is seriously in contemplation for the removal of the Cherokees, and other Indians in the incorporated States, to the wilderness beyond the Mississippi.  We have never seen this purpose so distinctly avowed in any State Paper, as in the late Report of the Secretary of War, from which we quote the following paragraphs:
'The most prominent feature in the present policy of the Government, as connected with these people, is to be found in the efforts that are making to remove them beyond the limits of the States and organized Territories.'










THE CHEROKEES
It has now become fully apparent, that a project is seriously in contemplation for the removal of the Cherokees, and other Indians in the incorporated States, to the wilderness beyond the Mississippi.  We have never seen this purpose so distinctly avowed in any State paper, as in the late Report of the Secretary of War, from which we quote the following paragraphs:
'The most prominent feature in the present policy of the Government, as connected with these people, is to be found in the efforts that are making to remove them beyond the limits of the States and organized Territories.'
* *     *     * *     *     * *     *     * *     *
The annual appropriation of $10,000 to the purposes of educating Indian children, and teaching them the mechanic arts, has had the effect to draw to almost every Indian reservation, in addition to the agents and interpreters, a considerable number of missionaries and teachers, with their families, who, having acquired, principally by the aid of this fund, very comfortable establishments, are unwilling to be deprived of them by the removal of the Indians; and thus, we have found, that, while the agents specially employed by the Government for this purpose are engaged in persuading, by profuse distributions of money and present, the Indians to emigrate, another set of Government agents are operating, more secretly, to be sure, but not with less zeal and effect, to prevent such emigration.
'These remarks are not intended as a personal reflecting on the missionaries and teachers, much less on the pious and respectable patrons of these benevolent institutions, who, no doubt, are disposed to lend a ready support to every humane measure which the Government may think proper to adopt in favor of these depressed people; but are rather intended to show the natural and unavoidable tendency of the system itself to counteract the leading policy of the Government.'
The insinuation thrown out by General Porter as to the motives which influence the missionaries in opposing the removal of the Indians, is unworthy of the station which he holds, and but poorly accords with the suggestion that no 'personal reflections' are intended.  Does he not know, that if 'comfortable establishments' had been their object,-if wealth, ease, or honor, had been uppermost in their minds,- they could have enjoyed them all in a ten-fold greater degree in the circles they have left, than they do at present? Does he not know that some of them, on entering upon their work, gave all their property to the general cause of missions, to be expended upon themselves or others, just as the Board might judge expedient? Does he not know that other missionaries not a whit better than they, have penetrated, without repining of regret, the very forest in which it is intended these Indians shall be driven and then expected to spend their days without any other reward but the pleasure of doing Good? The truth is they have seen and see daily, the rapid advances of the Indians in the arts of civilization, as well as in morals and religion, and are well assured that nothing but a continuance of the present means of instruction is necessary to make them as respectable, intelligent and happy, as a nation of whites. Among the Cherokees, where the most efficient efforts have been made, the improvements are truly surprising. In eighteen years, ending 1823, their population increased (including those who emigrated to the Arkansas) more than 7000; or 60 per cent: which varies very little from the common rate of increase among the white inhabitants of the Southern States. In the same year there were in the Nation, 79,812 domestic animals, 762 looms, 2,486 spinning wheels, 172 wagons, 2,943 ploughs, 10 saw-mills 31 grist-mills, 62 blacksmith's shops, 8 cottongins [sic], 18 schools, 9 turnpikes, 18 ferries, and 20 public roads; being a vast increase above the returns of 1809, in almost every particular. A well organized system of government has been established-a Legislature-a Judiciary-a public treasury-a printing press- and an excellent newspaper. In all their legislative Acts, and in all their public documents; a spirit of moderation, prudence, and wisdom, prevails, which might well be imitated by some of the neighboring States. The late Message of John Ross and George Lowrey,* who have been elected Principal Chiefs for the term of four years, 'is certainly quite a sound sensible, business like paper, (says the National Journal,) treating of topics nearly allied to the best interests of the Nation, and creditable to its enlightened authors.'  Their laws too, if we may judge from what we have seen, are superior to the wisdom of Lycurgas or Solon.- We may call them 'savages' and 'heathen,' if we please; but neither our Legislatures nor our laws, exhibit more of the influence of Christianity than their own. We have the best reason for saying, that of the National Committee, comprising sixteen members and the National Council, comprising twenty-four members, and of other persons holding responsible offices in the government eight are hopefully pious.- One of the Judges of the Supreme Court is a teacher or exhorter under the American Board; and a member of the National Council is also an Elder in the Mission Church at Brainerd.
It is such a people,-prosperous, contented and happy,- rapidly improving in agriculture, manufactures, education and religion,-that the humane and enlightened government of the United States propose to drive into the wilderness. We say drive, because we know that the Cherokees, as a body, will never submit to the proposed arrangement, except by compulsion. They have declared again and again by the most solemn Acts of which they are capable, that they 'will never sell another foot of their land;' and they are repeating this declaration, practically, every day. What is the result of all the efforts which have been made, of late, to persuade them to remove? the reader shall be answered by a letter which we have before us, dated.
CHEROKEE NATION, Oct. 4, 1828.
The prospects of the Cherokees was never more flattering than they are at present, if we except what is doing by the United States and Georgia to remove them beyond the Mississippi. In order to place them in a station more eligible for civilization.- A few have been enrolled for emigration, I understand; say three or four families, of perhaps eight or ten individuals. It is thought by some, that this effort of the Government will be productive of good rather than harm, as it will give the Cherokees an opportunity of showing, by their rejection of all terms which may be offered, that their resolution is fixed, never voluntarily to dispose of the land of their fathers.
The project of removing the Cherokees is at present the more remarkable because it has been the professed object of the government, in all its dealings with and for the Indians, to teach them knowledge and the arts of civilized life. 'That the Cherokee Nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization,' says a Treaty which we believe is still in force, 'and to become herdsmen and cultivators instead of hunters, the United States will from time to time furnish gratuitously the said Nation with useful implements of husbandry, 'c.' But now it happens that the remnant of lands, which remains to them, is wanted by the Georgians, and therefore it is quite immaterial what course of life they pursue, provided only they vacate their lands, or continue themselves to a mere patch, which shall not be sufficient for Governor Troup to lay his finger upon.  On this point the language of the joint Committee of the Georgia Legislature on the state of the Republic, in their Report of December 5, 1827, is quite to the purpose. They complain that the United States have managed 'so to add to the comforts of the Cherokees, and so to instruct them in the business of husbandry, as to attach them so firmly to their country and to their homes as almost to destroy the last ray of hope that they will ever consent to part with the Georgia lands.' This is honest; and considering the quarter from which it comes, furnishes a valuable comment upon some of the statements in the subjoined extract from the report of the Secretary of War:
It may, perhaps, be fairly doubted whether the $10,000 appropriation (independently of its tendency to prevent emigration) produced, under the circumstances in which it is now expended, any useful results. These schools, it is true, impart to a certain number of Indian youths so much information, and so far change their habits, as to inspire them with all the passions and desires, and particularly the passion to accumulating individual wealth, peculiar to a state of civilization; and then these half educated men are turned loose among their respective tribe, without any honorable means of satisfying the desires and wants which have been thus artificially created. The lands of the tribe being common and unattainable, they have no motive to cultivate and improve them. There is no floating wealth to attract their ambition, and the only and usual means of gratifying their cupidity for money, is by employing the advantages acquired by their education to appropriate to themselves more than their just share of the large contributions annually made by the government; and in this way they, with some few honorable exceptions render, not only themselves, but the very arts they have acquired, obnoxious to the nation at large.
We beg to know if education is the mother of crime; and whether there are no objects to attract the attention of educated men, besides 'floating wealth?' We ask if Catharine Brown, who has left a memorial which will endure longer than the warriors honors- if John Arch who labored while life continued in teaching his brethren the way to heaven and now sings in glory- if David Brainerd, [David Brown] who is engaged in translating the scriptures into Cherokee.-
are only 'half educated?' and whether they have been 'turned loose among their tribe without any honorable means of satisfying their desires and wants?'- Their -'desires and wants' are, and have been, the best interests of their brethren and the world; and here they have found an object cast enough to absorb all their thoughts and all their efforts, even though they were a thousand times greater than they are. We ask if the surprising improvements in agriculture, manufactures and the arts, above alluded to are not 'useful!'- if the public press is not a 'useful' engine?- if the formation of Christian churches is not useful?' - and but for the remarks of the Secretary of War, we would ask if the establishment of schools is not 'useful?' Really, it is a shame, in this enlightened age and country, to see a State paper pleading for popular ignorance.
If it be true, as intimated by the Secretary, that any who have the power, have also the disposition, 'to appropriate to themselves more than their just share of the large contributions annually made by the Government,' one would suppose that the evil must be remedied, not by withdrawing all moral influence from among them, but by increasing and perpetuating it. It is plain, however, from the nature of the case, that this severe charge can have no application to the children in the schools. It can only be true of certain adults, men of influence; and if the cases are sought out and examined, we venture to say they will be found to result not from education, but the want of it, not from the influence of Christianity, but from principles and habits which it is the constant effort of the missionaries to eradicate.
The plan which it is proposed to pursue in reference to the Indians, is thus developed:
Let such of the emigrating Indians as choose it, continue, as heretofore, to devote themselves to the chase, in a country where their toils will be amply rewarded. Let those who are willing to cultivate the arts of civilization be formed into a colony, consisting of distinct tribes or communities, but placed contiguous to each other, and connected by general laws, which shall reach the whole.  Let the lands be apportioned among families and individuals in severalty, to be held by the same tenures by which we hold ours, with perhaps some temporary and wholesome restraints on the power of alienation. Assist them in forming and administering a code of laws adapted to a state of civilization. Let the $10,000 appropriation be applied, within the new colony exclusively, to the same objects for which it is now expended; and add to it, from time to time, so much of our other annual contributions as can be thus applied without a violation of public (rated?).
In regard to such Indians as shall still remain within the States, and refuse to emigrate, let an arrangement be made with the proper authorities of the respective States in which they are situated, for partitioning out to them in severalty, as much of their respective reservations as shall be amply sufficient for agricultural purposes.  Set apart a tract, proportioned in size to the number of Indians to remain in common as a refuge and provision for such as may be by improvidence waste their private property; and subject  them all to the municipal laws of the States in which they reside. Let the remainder of the reservation be paid for by those who hold the paramount right at such prices as shall be deemed in reference to the uses which Indians are accustomed to make of lands, reasonable; and the proceeds to be applied for the benefit of those of the tribe who emigrate, after their establishment in the colony, or to be divided between those who emigrate and those who remain as justice may require.
But what if none of them choose to emigrate? Will it still be said. Partition out to them, in severalty, as laws of their reservations as shall be amply sufficient for agricultural purposes? What then becomes of the faith of Treaties? and particularly of that Treaty, formed at Holston in 1791, which declares, (art. 7th) that 'THE UNITED STATES SOLEMNLY GUARANTEE TO THE CHEROKEE NATION ALL THEIR LANDS NOT YET CEDED.' The agreement with Georgia in 1820, was not perhaps inconsistent with this Treaty: for it only obligated the United States to extinguish the Indian title to lands in Georgia, 'as soon as it could be done peaceable and on reasonable terms.' But now the question come in up in a tangible shape:- Will the government of the United States, in direct violation of the solemn compacts wrest from the Cherokees their remaining territory for the gratification for a bullying constituent? This question, so deeply involving the character of our Republic, will probably be decided before the close of the present Congress: and a million fingers will point at us, and a million tongues hiss at us, if it is decided in favor of oppression and injustice.
But apart from all apprehensions of danger in respect to their lands, the poor Indians have another calamity to fear.  In the late Message of Governor Forsyth of Georgia, it is recommended to extend all the laws of the State over them- to subject them to the operation of those laws-and to secure to them immediately all civil rights! The same doctrine is echoed by the Secretary of War, and more than intimated in the President's Message. One of these rights is that 'No Indian, and no descendant of an Indian, not understanding the English language, shall be deemed a competent witness in any Court of Justice created by the Constitution and laws of the State.' And from the known disposition of Georgia, there can be no doubt but that other rights, equally valuable, will be forced upon them. On the whole we do not believe a fitter system can be devised for the extinction of the tribe. At present they are prosperous beyond example, and in the language of the Superintendent of Indian Affairs, 'may be considered a civilized people.'  There is not a family in the nation which can be said to subsist on the products of the wilderness.- Through the invention of a most ingenious alphabet by Mr. Guess, a native Cherokee, reading is common in every part of the tribe. Rejoicing in this new order of things, they have become 'attached to their country and their homes,' and ask only to be let alone, that they may be happy. It is under these circumstances, that the government of the United States with Georgia at its head, invites them to go '40 days journey into the wilderness.' They refuse. It then attempts to withdraw a part of the tribe, and proposes, in the language of Governor Forsyth, to 'grant' to those that remain, a portion of their own lands in specialty; and as it is foreseen that these lands will soon fall into the possession of the whites, it kindly reserves another tract 'to remain in common, as a refuge and provision for such as by improvidence waste their private property.'- The residue, which we will suppose to be a large part, it compels  them to sell, and gives it over to Georgia. By this master stroke of policy, it deprives them, in a few years of all their territory except the common lands,- and here, like the Indians of New England, they will soon dwindle away and degenerate, till they become but a name and a shadow.
To conclude- if Georgia has claims upon the United States for lands which the United States have not the right to dispose of; and if at the same time, they would avoid the deep disgrace of wresting them by violence; what hinders that the value of the lands should be paid to Georgia from the Gen. Treas'y and the lands themselves remain to their rightful possessors, the Cherokees?  Already the Cherokees have ceded to the United States within the limits of Georgia 15,444,000 acres; why should they not be permitted to retain their 6,156,000 without molestation? Were they all to remove beyond the Mississippi, or even beyond the Rocky Mountains, the tide of emigration would soon overtake them, and the question would have to be decided at last, whether the original proprietors of this whole Continent shall be allowed a resting place in any part of it.
*William Hicks, and John Ross were the two principal Chiefs who submitted the Message to the General Council- John Ross and George Lowrey were elected principal Chiefs for the ensuing four years.
ED. CH. PH.
_
CHEROKEE PHOENIX
Wednesday, January 14, 1829
Volume 1 No. 44
Page 2 Col. 4b
CHEROKEES IN GEORGIA.
The sentiments of the Secretary of War, respecting the Indian tribes, will be read with surprise and grief by all the friends of this injured race. That the faith of the nation plighted in treaties, should be disregarded, because we are the stronger party, will be the grief of the mere patriot; that the weak should be oppressed will be the grief of the humane; that the efforts to civilize and christianize the savage should be checked, if not entirely prevented, will be the grief of the christian. Whether we look at the promises of our government, for the past, or at the feelings of the mass of our citizens, and of good men in other lands, for the present, or at the decision of future generations, we can see nothing to encourage the plans proposed in the following extracts from the report of the Secretary.
Con. Obs.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 14, 1829.
Our readers are informed that a change of printers has taken place in our office.- Mr. JNO F. WHEELER, whose name will now in future be attached to the paper, has been appointed principal printer, for the present year.
______________________________________
TO THE PUBLIC
The undersigned has been appointed principal printer for the present year. He respectfully informs the patrons of this paper, that no pains shall be spared by him, for the faithful execution of his work to the best of his abilities.
JNO. F. WHEELER.
_____________________________________
In a late number we inserted an extract of a letter from a respectable Gentleman, stating that the Sub-Agent and the United States' Interpreter were unsuccessful in their enroling [sic] expedition, and that they had not met with the first one who would agree to emigrate. The meaning of the writer was not that the Agent was entirely frustrated, but that the particular expedition mentioned was unsuccessful. We were told, a few weeks ago, upon good authority, that there were about eighty persons, men, women, and children, who had registered their names as emigrants, but quite a number of these had finally declined to go.
________________________________________
Those of our friends who may wish to subscribe for the CHEROKEE PHOENIX are requested to forward us their names before the commencement of our next volume.
_________________________________________
The reader will perceive many typographical errors in the last Phoenix. Those errors were occasioned by the absence of the Editor.










KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE
Dec. 31, 1828
MR. E. BOUDINOTT, Editor,
Sir, I enclose you, for publication, Col. Montgomery's letter to me in reply to the communication from the Gen. Council, also my answer there to and his reply. If convenient, you will have them published in both Cherokee as well as in the English language, that the request enjoined on my, to notify the Cherokees generally and individually of his desire may be complied with as far as is possible; and that the people may see and judge for themselves whether any thing in secret is afloat or whether the recuiting [sic] business is, or has been, managed in a fair, candid and open manner, by these whose duty it is or has been to conduct it. I am Sir your Obt. Servt.
JOHN ROSS.
____________________________
CHEROKEE AGENT,
November 24, 1828.
Sir, on yesterday I received the Communication from the General Council, which will be forwarded to the War Department by the next mail, accompanied by a notification of the intended visit of the Delegation.
There are some parts of that communication on which my duty requires me to make a remark or two in particularly the parts which relate to Capt. Rogers and the sub-agent.
1. It is not material with me whether Capt. Rogers is from Arkansas or from Asia, he is the Agent of the United States Government, ' entitled to its protection, and if the Council will not be responsible for consequences, I must. Permit me then, Sir, through you, to notify the Cherokees generally, and individually, that the most effectual measures will be taken to bring to justice for any offence committed on Capt. Rogers or any other officer of agent of the Government of this Nation, and if this means adopted in the case of Spears should fail, more efficient ones will be resorted to.
2. As to the duties in which the Sub-Agent and interpreter are engaged it is sufficient to say that the Government requires them. But that no dishonorable steps have or will be taken to induce any of the Cherokees to enrol [sic], and I wish I could say that none had or would be taken to prevent it.- The Cherokees are free men, they have the right of location and ought to be permitted to exercise their own judgment, and the Government makes it their interest to move, they ought to accede to it. This observation is made in consequence of having been repeatedly told by Cherokees, that they would enrol but they were afraid of the big man at New Town, of personal abuse 'c. I must therefore add, that those who have or may enrol [sic] for emigration are also entitled to the protection of the United States, and will receive it.
Very Respectfully your Obedient Servant.
H. MONTGOMERY.
Mr. JOHN ROSS, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation.
_________________________________________
CHEROKEE AGENT,
December 24, 1828.
Sir, Your letter of the 24th November last, in reply to the communication from General Council was received on the 18th, Instant. In answer to that part of the communication relative to the affair of Rogers and Spears, you remark that 'it is not material with you whether Capt. Rogers is from Arkansas or from Asia, he is the Agent of the United States Government,' and that the most effectual measures will be taken to bring to justice for any offence committed on Captain Rogers, and if the measures adopted in the case of Spears should fail; more efficient ones will be resorted to.'
I do not know that it is of any consequence to the nation where Mr. Rogers is from, but if he is an officer of the Government, and has been commissioned by the President to transact any business with the nation, he should have been officially announced as such to the proper authorities of the Nation, yet it is somewhat strange that this has not been done, until circumstances brought you to the disclosure, more than half a year after his arrival in this country. All that the council knew respecting this individual was, that he was once a citizen of this nation, and had under the exercise of his own free-will emigrated to Arkansas, and was there appointed United States Interpreter, but never knew, or ever heard of his promotion as an agent of the United States Government, either in the civil or military department. It has ever been the desire of the authority of this Nation to treat the agents of the Government with due respect, and we cannot believe that the Government is disposed to sustain, or protect the improper private acts of any of her agents, and that the sanction of the Government will be extended to the justification of unwarrantable trespasses upon the rights and privileges of our citizens by any of her agents, when in a state of intoxication.
You further remark, 'I wish I could say that no dishonorable steps had or would be taken to prevent the Cherokees from enrolling.' If you are prepared to state that any has been or would be taken on the part of the National authorities, I wish you plainly to particularize and state them, for I an entirely ignorant of any.
You also remark that,' the Cherokee are freemen, they have the right of locomotion, and ought to be permitted to exercise their own judgment. This is perfectly in accordance with my opinion, and I would add as freemen they should also be permitted to exercise their own judgment to continue on their own lands; without being annoyed by other Cherokees who have already exercised their own choice and emigrated.
You further state that you have been repeatedly told by Cherokees that they would enroll, but they were afraid of the big men at New Town of personal abuse 'c. and 'those who have or may enrol [sic] for emigration are also entitled to the protection of the United States, and will receive it.' Truth and justice require I should say those fears are groundless, and should not be believed; and I would request to be informed who those Cherokees are, that have repeatedly acquainted you with their fears, and through whose interpretation they were communicated as the U. States Interpreter has disavowed ever having heard from any Cherokee such a statement. I hope you are not disposed to give credit to every frivolous tale that may be told you by designing men, prejudicial to the Nation.  From the latter part of the above remark, I would infer that you consider the protection extended to emigrants greater than to others and would be more ri_idly observed.- What additional (if any) instruction you may have received from the Government on this subject, I am unable to say, but I hope and trust that the protection provided for us by Treaty will be so far observed by the Agents of the Government, as to render up the justice contemplated by the United States, and which I have ever considered equal to that of emigrants.
I am sir, respectfully,- your obedient servant.
(Signed) JOHN ROSS.
Col. HUGH MONTGOMERY.
________________________________________
CHEROKEE AGENCY,
December 24, 1828.
Sir, I have just received your letter, and there appears to be no part of it to which you require an answer, except the part which relates to the fears expressed by individuals about enrolling, ' to that part I will only say that I have been repeatedly so told both verbally ' in writing, and shall be glad if your letter will justify me in saying these fears are groundless.
All I claim for wither the officers of the Government, or the emigrants, is common protection with other citizens.
Respectfully,
H. MONTGOMERY.
Mr. JOHN ROSS, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation.










MR. EDITOR,- In your last number I noticed a few errors in the piece over my signature, which I have taken the liberty to correct. In the fifth line from the top, for the word stone read stones. In line 9 for literatic  read literati. In line 13 for dates read data. In line 15 for  Tuod erat demonstration read Quod erat demonstrandum. In line 41 for most read must. And in the next line the word one should be inserted after Iron. In line 48 for Vulcano read Vulcan.- In line 52 Valcano  read Volcano.- In line 62 for discouraged  read discharged. In line 78 for mackel read nickel, and in the next line for selex  read silex In line 91 for than read in.- In line 100 after tends the word it should be inserted. In line 102 to  read in.
Yours 'c.
PEGASUS.










Indian Shrewdness.- 'I recollect very well an Indian named Bravo, who was accused at Pomasque of having stolen the mule which he had brought from the vallies [sic] from the Eastward of Quito, laden with fruit. At the moment the accusation was laid before the Alcade, the Indian threw his pouche or mantle over the head of the mule and then desired the challenger to say of which eye the mule was blind? He answered the left. Then said the Indian taking off the Pouche, this mule cannot be your's [sic] because it is blind of neither.'










WHEREAS my wife ELIZABETH has, without any cause whatever, absented herself from my lodgings, all persons are hereby cautioned against harboring and protecting her, or forming any bargains or contracts with her; as the subscriber is determined not to be responsible for them.
JAMES PETIT.
Conasauga, C. N. Jan 7.










THE
WASHINGTON CITY CHRONICLE.
A WEEKLY NEWSPAPER,
Published in the City of Washington,
By Rothwell ' Ustick.
THIS Paper has been established at the Seat of the General Government, under auspices which the Publishers think favorable to the encouragement of a Periodical devoted, as it is, to the diffusion of Literary, Scientific, and useful miscellaneous information. Its object has been, as it will continue to be, to promote the cause of Letters, and to spread, within its range, a knowledge of all that may be new, interesting, and valuable, in Science,  Literature, and the Arts, together with the latest Foreign and Domestic Intelligence. Mere party disputations are and shall be sedulously avoided, and nothing will be admitted but what may tend to enlarge and interest the mind, and improve and benefit the heart.
A SUMMARY of the Proceedings of CONGRESS will, during the Sessions, be regularly given.
The CHRONICLE is published every Saturday; and is printed in the best manner, on a large sheet (imperial size.) Price $3 per annum, or $2 50 if paid in advance.
Editors who exchange with the Chronicle are requested to give the above a few insertions, and the favor will be reciprocated.










RELIGION THE SAFEGUARD OF FREEDOM.
If the noble and dear bought heritage of our freedom is to descend an undiminished patrimony to our children's children, it must be by the agency of principles which bring the retributions of a future work to bear upon the destinies of the present. For myself, I look to religion as the ark in which our liberties are to be preserved: and by an unholy alliance of Church ' State, but by the bland and reforming influence of this religion on the manners and morals of the community.
This religion which we regard as the palladium of our freedom, is in its genius republican. It teaches the doctrine of equal rights ' privileges. It is not limited like the ancient pagan religions, to a few of the noble and learned who may be initiated into its mysteries. It addresses its mandates alike to rulers and to people, to masters and to servants; and carries its consolations and hopes alike to the cottage and the palace. It commands its teachers to announce its glad tidings in the hearing of every rational creature. It acknowledges no privileged aristocracy. The philosopher and the peasant, the man of letters and the man of business, are equally called to bow to the supremacy of its authority.
Let this religion, which is thus fitted to our republican institutions, send its healing influences through all the ramifications of society, and we will never despair of the republic. There will ever be found among us a redeeming spirit, which will save us from the misrule of tyranny, and the pitfalls of anarchy.  Let public opinion be enlightened; and public morals be untainted,  and we may bid defiance to the underminings of infernal corruption, and to the incursions of the proudest foreign foe. Let me then adjure you, who love your country, to see that there be no ignorance, to misguide public opinion, which you can instruct; and no vice to pollute the fountains of morality, which you can reform.' Put forth your utmost energies to render the irradiations of knowledge and the renovating power of religion universal; and, whatever may become of our beloved country, you will merit a triumph at her hands and will ultimately receive the rewards of well doing. Proclaim a war of extermination against ignorance and vice; and withered be that arm which is raised for their defence. - President Wood's Inaugural Address.


















CHEROKEE LAWS.
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That the Judges of the several courts in the nation shall have power to adopt such rules and regulations as shall be necessary to preserve good order in their courts, and to punish those who shall be guilty of disorderly behavior in contempt of the court, by imposing such fines as in their opinion shall be deemed justifiable, provided, that the same shall not exceed ten Dollars foe each offence.
Be it further Resolved, That no evidence which has not been give in before the circuit courts shall be admissible before the Supreme court, excepting in such cases as shall appear to the full satisfaction  of the Supreme Judges, that it was impossible for the evidence to have been obtained and produced before circuit court, in that case such evidence shall be admitted.
New Echota, Nov. 8th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r Coun.
Approved- JNO. ROSS
_________________
Resolved by the National Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That it shall be lawful, whenever any person may have a claim, or debt, against another, and is apprehensive that he is about to abscond, or dispose of his property, so as to be beyond the reach of the law, to make oath to that effect, before any of the Judges or clerks of the respective districts, and it shall be the duty of the Judge or clerks of the respective districts, and it shall be the duty of the Judge or Clerk to issue forthwith an attachment, to be placed in the hands of any lawful officer, whose duty it shall be to attach as much of the property of the debtors as will satisfy the demand, if to be found, and to take the same into is safe keeping, until there shall be a decision made on the case agreeably to law, unless the said debtor shall secure to the creditor the debt by giving bond with sufficient security.
New Echota, Nov. 8th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE, Sp'k'r Comm.
Approved, JNO. ROSS
__________________
 Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That so much of the law passed 20th October 1820, providing for the appointment of 'One circuit Judge to have jurisdiction over two Districts, to associate with the District Judges, 'c. be and the same is hereby repealed.
Sec. 2  Be it further Resolved, That so much of the law passed providing 'that the Cherokee Nation be organized and laid off in Districts,' as fixes the time that each shall hold their respective councils, or courts, be and the same is hereby also repealed.
Sec. 3.Be it further Resolved,  That the Cherokee Nation shall be laid off into circuit Districts. The first circuit shall be composed of Coosoowatee, Hightower, Hickory Log, and Tahquohee Districts; the second circuit shall be composed of Aquohee, Ahmohee, Chickamauga and Chattooga Districts, and the time of holding the courts in each Districts shall be as follows, viz;
FIRST CIRCUIT SPRING TERM.
1st Monday in May, at Coosoowatee.
2nd Monday in May , at Hightower.
3d. Monday in May, at Hickory-Log.
And the Monday thereafter, at Tahquehee.
SECOND CIRCUIT SPRING TERM
1st Monday in May, at Aquohee.
2d. Monday in May, at Ahmohee.
3d. Monday in May at Chickamauga.
The Monday thereafter, at Chattooga
FIRST MONDAY CIRCUIT FALL TERM.
1st. Monday in September at Coosoowatee
2d Monday in September at Hightower
3d Monday in September at Hickory log.
The Monday thereafter, at Tahquohee.
SECOND CIRCUIT FALL TERM.
1st Monday in September, at Aquohee.
2d. Monday in September at Ahmohee.
3d. Monday in September, at Chickamauga.
The Monday thereafter at Chattooga.
Sec. 4 Be it further Resolved, That there shall be two circuit Judges for the Cherokee Nation, who shall be elected by a joint vote of both houses of the General Council, and who shall be to try and decide upon all cases, both civil and criminal, that may come before them agreeably to the laws of the Cherokee Nation; and it shall be their duty during the recess of '____ courts to call a court, to try all criminals _____ that may be arrested for mu______ court shall be held at the ____-house of the district in which the crime shall have been committed, and it shall be the duty of the sheriff of the district in which the crime may be committed to notify the circuit Judge of their respective circuits, immediately after the person or persons shall be arrested; and it shall be the duty of the Judge to have a court called without delay, for the trial of said criminal, or criminals.
Sec. 5. Be it further Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the clerks of the several circuit courts to take down, in writing, the evidences in all cases brought before, and decided on by the circuit courts, and when an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court, those evidences, together with the Bills of declaration, shall be sealed up, and transmitted through the sheriffs to the clerk of the Supreme court, and each document shall be marked and transcribed on the outside, stating the case to which it related, and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the Supreme Court to preserve those documents with great cars, and to lay them before the Judges of Supreme Court at their next session and they shall not be opened until the court shall be read to take up the case to which they relate.
Sec. 7. Be it further Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the sheriffs to receive for the clerks of the circuit courts of their respective Districts, all documents of appealed cases, and to deliver the same to the clerk of the Supreme court.
Sec. 8 Be it further Resolved, That the circuit court shall sit five days at each term, provided there shall be any business to occupy their attention that length of time and that the circuit Judges shall have the power to grant a new trial in cases where a decision in their courts shall be made contrary to law and evidence.
Sec. 9. Be it further Resolved, That the circuit Judges shall, and they are hereby, required to exchange circuits once in two years.
Be it further Resolved That the salary of each circuit Judge shall be one hundred and forth dollars per annum, and that the clerk of the circuit court shall each be allowed ten dollars extra pay for services during the recess of the courts.'
Sec. 10.Be it further Resolved, That the manner of proceeding in the circuit courts shall be by summons or warrants under the hand of the Judge or clerk, in the same manner as is provided for in the Resolution regulating the District courts.
New Echota, Nov. 8th 1828
LEWIS ROSS, Pre'st. Com.
Concurred, GOING SNAKE, Speaker.
Approved, JNO. ROSS
______________________
Resolved by the Committee and Council, in General Council convened, That if any person or persons shall commit the crime of wilful murder, such person or persons on being thereof convicted shall suffer death.
Sec. 2. Be it further Resolved That a respite of five days shall be allowed to the criminal after sentence of death shall be passed, before he shall be executed, during the respite, the sheriff shall be bound to keep a safe guard over the criminal; and should any person or persons make an attempt to rescue him, he or they shall be fined each, two hundred dollars, and receive one hundred lashes on the bare back; and should the officer of any of the guard kill any person making an attempt to rescue the criminal he shall not be held accountable for the same.
Sec. 3. Be it further Resolved, That if any person or persons shall kill another in self defence, or by accident, without any previous intent to do the same, he , she, or they shall be exempted from any punishment whatever.
Sec. 4. Be it further Resolved, That any person, who assaults another, with intent to commit murder, rape, or robbery, shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in such a sum as shall be assessed against him, or her, by the verdict of a jury, not exceeding fifty dollars, and be subject to such corporal punishment, as the jury may inflict, not exceeding fifty stripes on the bare back.
New Echota, Nov. 10th 1828.
LEWIS ROSS, Pres't Com.
Concur'd GOING SNAKE, Speaker.
Approved- JNO. ROSS.










INDIANS
THE DOG RIB INDIANS.
From Franklin's second expedition to the Polar Seas.
The
first man, they said, was, according to the tradition of their fathers, named Chapewee. He found the world well stocked with food, and he created children, to whom he gave two kinds of fruit, the black and the white, but forbade them to eat the black. Having thus issued his commands for the guidance of his family, he took leave of them for a time, and made a long excursion for the purpose of conducting the sun to the world.- During this, his first absence, his children were obedient, and ate only the white fruit, but they consumed it all; the consequence was, that when he a second time absented himself to bring the moon, and they longed for fruit, they forgot the orders of their father, and ate of the black, which was the kind remaining. He was much displeased on his return, and told them that in future the earth would produce bad fruits, and that they would be tormented by sickness and death--penalties which have attached to his descendants to the present day. Chapewee himself lived so long that his throat was worn out, and he could no longer enjoy life, but he was unable to die, until, at his own request, one of his people drove a beaver tooth into his head.
The same, or another Chapewee (for there is some uncertainty on this head,) lived with his family on a strait between two seas.  Having there constructed a weir to catch fish, such a quantity were taken that the strait was choked up, and the water rose and over flowed the earth. Chapewee embarked with his family in a canoe, taking with them all manner of birds and beasts. The waters covered the earth for many days; but, at length, Chapewee said, we cannot live always thus, we must land again-and he accordingly sent a beaver to search for it. The beaver was drowned, and his carcass was seen floating on the water; on which Chapewee despatched a musk-rat on the same errand.- The second Messenger was long absent, and when he did return was near dying with fatigue; but he had a little earth in his paws. The sight of the earth rejoiced Chapewee, but his first care was about his diligent servant, the rat, which he rubbed gently with his hands, and cherished in his bosom until it revived. He next took up the earth, and molding it wit his fingers, placed it on the water, where it increased by degrees until it formed an island in the ocean. A wold was the first animal Chapewee placed on the infant earth, but the weight was too great, it began to sink on one side, and was in danger of turning over. To prevent this accident the wolf was directed to move round the island, which he did for a whole year, and in that time the earth increased so much in size, that all on board the canoe were able to disembark on it. Chapewee, on landing, stuck up a piece of wood, which became a fir-tree, and grew with amazing rapidity, until its top reached the skies.  A squirrel ran up this tree, ad was pursued by Chapewee who endeavored to knock it down, but could not overtake it.  He continued the chase, however, until he reached the stars, where he found a plain and a eaten road. I this road he set a snare made of his sister's hair, and then returned to the earth. The sun appeared as usual in the heavens in the morning, but at noon it was caught by the snare which Chapewee had set for the squirrel, and the sky was instantly darkened. Chapewee's family on this said to him, you must have done something wrong when you were aloft, for we no longer enjoy the light of day: ' I have' replied he, 'but it was unintentional.' Chapewee then endeavored to repair the fault he had committed, and sent a number of animals up the tree to release the sun, by cutting the snare; but the intense heat of that luminary reduced them all to ashes.  The efforts of the more active animals being thus frustrated, a ground mole, though such a groveling and awkward beast succeeded by borrowing under the road in the sky, until it reached and cut asunder the snare which bound the sun. It lost its eyes, however, the very instant it thrust its head into the light, and its nose and teeth have ever since been brown; as if burnt.- Chapewee's island , during these transactions, increased to the size of the present American Continent; and he traced the course of the rivers, and scraped out the lakes by drawing his fingers through the earth. He next allotted to the quadrupeds, birds and fishes, their different stations, and endowing them with certain capacities, he told them that they were in future to provide for their own safety, because man would destroy them whenever he found their tracks; but to console them, he said, that when they died they should be like seed of grass, which, when thrown into the water, springs again into life.  The animals objected to this arrangement, and said, let us, when we die, be as a stone which, when thrown into the lake, disappears forever from the sight of man. Chapewee's family complained of the penalty of death entailed upon them for eating the black fruit, on which he granted such of them as dreamed certain dreams should be men of medicine, capable of curing diseases and of prolonging life. In order to preserve this virtue, they were not to tell their dreams until a certain period had elapsed. To acquire the power of foretelling events, they were to take an ant alive, and insert it under the skin of the palm of the hand, without letting anyone know what they had done. For a long time Chapewee's descendants were united as one family, but at length some young men being accidentally killed in a game, a quarrel ensued, and a general dispersion of mankind took place. One Indian fixed his residence on the borders of the lake, taking with him a dog big with young. The pups in due time were littered, and the Indian, when he went out to fish carefully tied them up to prevent their straying. Several times as he approached his tent, he heard a noise of children talking and playing; but on entering it he only perceived the pups tied up as usual.  His curiosity being excited by the noises he had heard, he determined to watch, and one day pretending to go out and fish, according to custom, he concealed himself in a convenient place.  In a short time, he again heard voices, and rushing suddenly into the ten, beheld some beautiful children sporting and laughing, with the dog skins lying by their side. He threw the skin into the fire, and the children, retaining their proper forms, grew up, and were the ancestors of the dog-rib nation.










INDIAN DESTINY.
The following beautiful and eloquent extract is taken from Judge Story's Historical Address, lately pronounced in Salem, Mass.  The picture of the 'poor Indian,' goes home to the heart.- Vermont paper.
'There is indeed, in the fate of these unfortunate beings, much to awaken our sympathy, and much to disturb the sobriety of our judgment; much which may be urged to excuse their own atrocities; much in their characters which betrays us into an involuntary admiration. What can be more melancholy than their history?  By a law of their nature, they were destined to a slow but sure extinction. Everywhere at the approach of the white man they fade away. We hear the rustling of their footsteps like that of withered leaves of autumn, and they are gone forever. They pass mournfully by us, and they return no more.   Two centuries ago, the smoke of their wigwams and the fires of their councils rose in every valley from Hudson's Bay to the farthest Florida, from the Ocean to the Mississippi and the Lakes.  The shouts of victory and war-dance, rung through the mountains and the glades. The lithe arrow and the deadly tomahawk whistled through the forest; and the hunter's trace and the dark encampment startled the wild beasts in their lairs. The warriors stood forth in their glory. The young listened to the songs of other days. The mothers played with their infants, and gazed on the scene with warm hopes of the future. The aged sat down; but they wept not. They should soon be at rest in their regions, where the Great Spirit dwelt, in a house prepared for the brave beyond the skies. Braver men never lived; truer men never drew a bow. They had courage, and fortitude, and sagacity, and perseverance beyond most of the human race! They shrank from no dangers, and they feared no hardships.'
'If they had the vices of savage life, they had the virtues also. They were true to their homes. If they forgave no injury, neither did they forget kindness. If their vengeance was terrible, their fidelity and generosity was unconquerable also. Their love, like their hate, stopped not on this side of the grave. But where are the villages, and warriors, and youth?- The sachems and the tribes? The hunters and their families? They have perished. They are consumed. The wasting pestilence has not alone done the mighty work. No- nor famine, nor war.  There has been a mightier power, a moral canker, which hath eaten into their heart-cores-a plague which the touch of the white man communicated-a poison which betrays them into a lingering ruin.- The winds of the Atlantic fan not a single region which they may now call their own. Already the last feeble remnants of the race are preparing for their journey beyond the Mississippi. I see them leave their miserable homes, the aged, the helpless, the women and the warriors, few and faint, yet fearless still.' The ashes are cold on their native hearths. The smoke no longer curls round their low cabins. They move with a slow unsteady step. The white man is upon their heels, for terror or despatch; but they heed him not. They turn to take a last look of their deserted villages.  They cast a last glance upon the graves of their fathers. They shed no tears; they utter no cries; they heave no groans. There is something in their hearts which passeth speech. There is something in their looks not of vengeance or submission, but of hard necessity, which stifles both; which choaks [sic] all utterance; which hath no aim or method. It is courage absorbed in despair. They linger but for a moment. Their look is onward. They have passed the fatal stream. It shall never be repassed by them-no, never. Yet there lies not between us and them an impassable gulf. They know and feel that there is for them still one remove farther, not distant, nor unseen. It is the general burial ground of their race.'
'Reason as we may, it is impossible not to read in such a fate, much that we know not how to interpret; much of provocation to cruel deeds and deep resentments; much apology for wrong and perfidy; much of pity, mingled with indignation; much of doubt and misgiving, as to the past; much of painful recollection; much of dark foreboding.'










A late number of the National Intelligencer contains an account of an interview of the Winnebago Chiefs with the President of the United States. The deputation proceeded by an interpreter, in full feather and paint, filed into the apartment, and stalking one by one to the President, grasped his hand with rude cordiality. Nothing daunted by his presence, or the gaze of his attendants, they next moved in silence to seats assigned them.
Refreshments were passed round; and it was somewhat whimsical to see Madeira sipped from cut glass by these stern featured visiters [sic], who were accustomed to lap water from the running brook, or quaff whiskey from the horn of a slaughtered elk; and to observe with what avidity they fed on macaroon and other choice confectionary [sic], whose tastes had seldom been better regaled than with the reeking entrails of bears and otters.
Business succeeded. An old chief stept [sic] forth into the centre [sic] of the room, with a long uncouth pipe in his hand, which, after a brief ceremonial, not precisely intelligible, he brought near the President and waved over his head.  It was the Calumet of peace.  Holding it then before him, and pointing to it, he began a harangue in slow guttural tones, accompanied with much earnest gesture. He spoke in short paragraphs, and Indian of half blood reporting them in French and a second interpreter conveying the English:
'Father; I am glad to see you. I hold out this pipe, and I take your hand, in friendship.
'Father: A cloud has been between us. It was thick and black. I thought once it would never be removed. But I now see your face.- It looks upon me pleasantly.
'Father, a long way stretched between us. There were those who told me it was blocked up.  The said the Red men could not pass it.- I attempted it. It is like the plain path which conducts to the Great Spirit.
'Father, when I came in sight of your home, it looked white and beautiful. My heart rejoiced. I thought now I should talk with you.
'Father, the Great Spirit gave to his children, the Winnebagoes, a pleasant plant. It is good to smoke, I have it here'- touching with his finger the bowl of the pipe.- I give it you in peace.
'Father, I am as old as you. My heart is true. They told me your heart was black. It is not so. We salute in friendship.
'Father, I say no more. My talk is little. I am a chief among my people. But one is here who will speak to you soon, and tell you better our thoughts.'
The address being ended, a young Winnebago advanced in obedience to a signal from the old warrior, and lighted the pipe with fire struck from a flint. The pipe was then presented to the President, the chief still holding its stem. He inhaled a few puffs and as the smoke curled gently upwards, the savage group gazed with intentness and uttered a low murmur of satisfaction. The chief when handed the Calumet to all the spectators in order, and lastly to each of his tribe. It was next made over in form to the President to be retained, who, requesting the Indian to lay one hand upon it again, while he pledged him with the other, proceeded to dictate to the interpreters his reply.
'Say to this Chief, I rejoice to see him. He and his brethren are welcome to me and my children.
'Tell him, it has grieved me that a cloud has been between us; but I am pleased equally with him that it has been dissipated.  It is dispersed like the fumes of the pipe we have smoked. May it never close down upon us more!
'Say, I am glad that he and his companions meet me on this propitious day. Bid him look to the face of the heavens. No cloud is there. The sun shines brightly upon us. The Great Spirit looks down and smiles upon our meeting.
'Say, I hope the same sun will light his path in peace to the abodes of his fathers. When he is gone, I will look upon this pipe with pleasure; and should I hear ever after that in place of pacific, any hostile dispositions break forth among his nation towards my brethren and children, I will say it is impossible. For I have the word of a Winnebago, which must be true, that his people pledge their amity with mine, and left this pipe in token of sincerity.
'Say- I yesterday beheld with satisfaction the sports of himself and his associates, as they practised [sic] their ancient war dance upon the green beneath my windows. But a higher pleasure I now experience- and one the memory of which will endure-in cordially greeting him within these walls, and reciprocation assurances of plighted concord.'
Each of these periods, as soon as interpreted, drew forth a hoarse plaudit from the savage auditors. Once it swelled to a deafening howl, in acknowledgment of the compliment paid to the inviolate integrity of their word.
But I weary your patience, Gentlemen, and am admonished, by the length of this communication not to intrench deeper upon your columns. We will drop the curtain therefore, for the present, ' dismiss what remains of the spectacle to another opportunity.
A Looker on in Washington.










Cherokee Improvements.- The acting Governor of this Territory, we understand, has recently received instruction from the Secretary of War relative to the disposition to be made of the tenements and improvements of the Cherokees, in the tract of country recently ceded to the United States, which will cause considerable disappointment to many persons who have made arrangements for occupying a number of them, as soon as they shall be vacated by the removal of the Cherokees. Those instructions, we are informed, direct, that improvements which shall be appraised, agreeable to the treaty, at $200 or upwards, shall be rented or leased out from year to year, until the lands shall be surveyed and sold by government.  This disposition of the improvements, we are inclined to believe, will not be much liked, by several persons, who have been at considerable expense to purchase the possession of some of the most valuable of them from the Indians, and who will now be compelled to pay an additional sum to the government, or relinquish what they have already paid to the Indians. To obviate all difficulties on this score, we hope the government will lose no time in surveying and bringing these lands into market, and thereby afford an opportunity to all who are really desirous of securing the improvements made by the Cherokees, of obtaining a legal possession of and title to them.
Ar. Gaz.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, Jan. 21, 1829
Some of our friends who exchange papers with us have lately informed us that they do not receive the Phoenix. We think it due to such, and to ourselves, to say that there has been heretofore a remissness in this matter, but that proper attention will in future be paid to those who favor us with their valuable papers.
____________________________________
Mr. William Horn has been compelled to close his School for want of sufficient number of scholars. He has taught two months. On last Friday evening we attended and heard a number of his Scholars exercised in parsing, and repeating the English Grammar, who had received instruction, according to a new plan, in the short time of twenty four evenings. For the time they were engaged in learning it, we thought some of them did remarkably well. For expedition, we consider Mr. Horn's plan superior to the common method. Mr. Horn intends to go from here to Huntsville, Alabama. We recommend him as a man of steady and moral habits.
___________________________________________
'Virgil' might reasonably entertain one cheering consideration, and that is, the gradual diminution of such practices as described by him in his communication.- If he had visited this Nation thirty years ago, and witnessed the practices of the inhabitants in their full extent, his tears would have flowed more freely, and the consideration of their wretchedness would have been without a redeeming thought.- At that period the Cherokees resided in villages, in each of which was a 'Town house the headquarter of frivolity. Here were assembled almost every night (we are told, we speak from hearsay for we were born under an era of reformation,) men and women, old and young, to dance their bear dance, buffalo dance, eagle dance, green-corn dance, 'c. 'c. 'c. and when the day appeared, instead of going to their farms, and laboring for the support of their families, the young and middle aged of the males were seen to leave their houses, their faces fantastically painted, and their heads decorated with feathers, and step off with a merry whoop, which indicated that they were real men (Cherokee word inserted here), to a ball play, or a meeting of similar nature. Such in a word was the life of a Cherokee in those days during spring ' summer seasons.  In the Fall and Winter seasons they were gone to follow the chase, which occupation enabled them to purchase of the traders a few articles of clothing, sufficient to last perhaps until the next hunting time. From the soil they derived a scanty supply of corn, barely enough to furnish them with gah-no-ha-nah [Cherokee word here] and this was obtained by the labor of women and grey headed men, for custom would have it that it was disgraceful for a young man to be seen with a hoe in his hand except on particular occasions.
In those days of ignorance and heathenism, prejudices against the customs of the whites were inveterate, so much so that white men, who came among the Cherokees, had to throw away their costume and adopt the leggings. In a moral and intellectual point of view the scenery was dark ' gloomy, nevertheless it has not been impenetrable. The introduction of light and intelligence has struck a mortal blow to the superstitious practices of the Cherokees, and by the aid of that light, a new order of things is introduced, and it is to be hoped will now eradicate the vestiges of older days.
_________________________
A circumstance lately happened in Chickamauga District, a full account of which is related in a Cherokee letter published in another part of our paper. It appears that three persons went in quest of squirrels with bows and arrows. While they were in pursuit of one, a boy of about nine years of age was accidently shot. The arrow, after being shot into the air, in its descent struck the top of his head, and penetrated his scull three inches. The boy survived but three days and died. Arrows are now very seldom used by the Cherokees. It is not recollected that a similar accident ever happened when they were more common.
______________________
A woman in High Tower was a few weeks since dreadfully burnt.- Her clothes caught fire while in a state of intoxication and the greater part of them were consumed before they could be extinguished.  Her recovery was considered hopeless.  Another victim to intemperance.
__________________
About the same time, and in the same neighborhood, an attempt was made, by one Joseph Crittenton to kill another person while riding in the night, side by side. He fired his gun and wounded the unsuspecting person in the arm.
___________________________________
MIRABILE DICTU!!!
On an evening not long since, I set out, and after going a few miles, I arrived at a place, selected for an Indian dance.  This was not only a new, but a curious scene to me, as it was the first I had seen. At my arrival, I saw a number of the natives of both sexes, gathered around two large fires, which they had built a few paces from the dancing ground. It was now, not long till one of the elderly appeared and gave a short address to the surrounding company; the intention of which I could not easily guess, but having an interpreter at hand, I learnt that it was the manager giving the orders of procedure.
Immediately after which, a lighted torch was placed in the centre [sic] of the dancing ground, ' aroused by this they all followed their leader, singing and dancing, as they marched in a kind of circus.
They also had a peculiar kind of music, made by a parcel of small gravels being put into some tarrapin [sic] shells, which some of the females wore on their legs. These, it may be relied upon, made no little racket. I could not, however, help noticing a parcel of kegs which were collected together not far from one of the fires, over which a watchman was placed to prohibit them from intoxication, until after the dance; when I expected there would be a general welcome to the kegs. But during the little while I stayed, I was no little surprised to see so much order preserved. Another circumstance; however, equally drew my attention, which was a number of aged, who were unable to partake in the dance, sitting round, and looking on, with as much concern, as if it had been a matter of the utmost importance. That a part of the human family, who are equally interested in the blood of a Saviour [sic], should be given to a savage life, whilst another is enjoying the comforts of religion and the pleasures of refinement, is, to a reflecting mind, a matter of no small interest. Is it not a pity, that so many may yet be found, in this enlightened day, ' that too in a land of boasted liberty, who have not even been taught the first principles of morality?
'Oh that my head were waters and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night,' for the savage children of the forest!
But perhaps it may be asked, why I should be found at a place of this description? To this I would answer that it was not mere curiosity, but a desire to obtain a knowledge of the manners and customs, of those unfortunate children of nature. For what purpose did the traveller visit the famous idol of Juggernaut, and that too when thousands of pilgrims were offering up their sacrifices. Was it to partake of their crimes by paying adorations to that idol also? or was it to obtain some useful information, by which future generations might be profited? I presume the latter was his chief object.
Volume 1, RGIL.










State Bank of North Carolina.- The Stockholders of this institution have declared that its business ought to be closed, in consequence of its inability to pay specie continually, and make dividends equal to the legal interest; and have consequently called a special meeting, to be held in June next, to determine what arrangement shall be made to that effect. Judge Ruffin has been appointed President.
Savannah Georgian.
____________________________
Page 3 Col. 2a.
Emigrants to Liberia.- The managers of the American Colonial Society have resolved forthwith to charter a ship for the conveyance to Liberia from 150 to 200 emigrants who are now impatiently waiting in Maryland ' Virginia and elsewhere for a passage.
____________________________










'MISSISSIPPI GUARDS' AND 'WORM FLIES.'
Extract of a letter to the Editor of the Saturday Evening Post, dated Columbus, (Miss.) Nov. 16, 1828.
In looking over the pages of the last No. of the Evening Post, (Oct. 25,) my attention was particularly arrested by a piece headed 'Mississippi Guards.' As the subject of it is to me, as well as a number of my fellow citizens, entirely novel, pains have been taken to make particular enquiry of the subject, but can learn nothing of this famous fly. I have resided nearly several years in this State, and the greater of the time in Columbus, which town is situated upon a sand knowl- such a one as these 'guards' are said to select for their stations-and have, until now, been a stranger to the existence of such insects. I can assure you that, for the blast years mentioned they must either shifted quarters or have been entirely negligent of their duty. If the first, it could not have been for want of employment, for in no state are to be found more of that troublesome insect (the horse fly, in all its various species,) than here, they particularly abound in the Choctaw nation of Indians, adjoining us.- We have, however, been plagued during the last summer and even to the present time, though several severe frosts have intervened, with a fly that seems to look upon the horse fly only as its pioneer, to commence work for the other to complete.
The fly alluded to is, perhaps, twice the size of a common horse fly-nothing remarkable in its appearance-its body of a greyish [sic] cast from the neck or joint of the head, to a little beyond the wings--say to where the body divides-the after part is of a changeable bluish green, and covered with very fine black furze; its legs are also so covered.  Upon opening one of them, I found it filled with little worms or mites: through them it causes destruction in many instances among the cattle, and several instances are known in this vicinity of their depositing them in the human species. From observation and information, this fly appears at hand when the horse fly draws his proboscis from the horse, cow, or whatever it attacks, and that moment its follower darts upon the fresh blood and deposits its worms, and in less than forty-eight hours, millions apparently can be discovered by the naked eye in the wound--if let alone they destroy the animal. It is worthy of remark that these insects do not interfere with any other than a fresh wound, and one that is merely sufficient to bring the blood to the surface invites their attention. Numbers of cows, hogs, and sheep have been destroyed by them, in spite of exertions used to prevent the increase of the worm.  Calomel, mixed with sugar, has been found to be the most effectual experienced upon them. Though they wallow sometimes in this before it purges them from the wound. I have been unable to obtain any satisfactory information relative to the origin of this worm fly, as it is now called, but have been informed they are found in South America in large quantities; and a friend who has returned from the province of Texas, states that they have, for a year to two, been very troublesome there. Is there not a probability that as droves of mules come from these parts, that these troublesome insects may have followed them? I should be pleased if, through the channel of your useful paper, some information might be obtained on this subject.- I am inclined to think that the said fly has confined itself pretty much to the South, at least I have heard from no other quarter of their depredation.
Once more to the 'Guards' I should be pleased if they would return to us, for during their season there is much for them to do.
You will excuse my troubling you; - a desire to obtain useful information for the community will be a sufficient apology, I hope.
Very respectfully, your ob't. serv't.
CHARLES H. ABERT.


















INDIANS
From the National Intelligencer
THE WINNEBAGOES.
Gentlemen: Before proceeding with the recital of the remaining incident connected with the valedictory interview of the Winnebago warriors with their great Father, the President, it is proper to mention some circumstances which lent to the meeting quite another than a mere complimentary character.
In the country of these savages is a tract rich in minerals, which has long tempted the cupidity of our advanced settlers in that region, and which is familiarly known as the Led Mine District.  Adventurers from among the whites are frequently exploring that territory and have already extracted considerable quantities of the ore. Such acquisitions hold out the lure to fresh enterprises, though at considerable personal risk. For the native proprietors, claiming the soil as their's de jure, and being sensitively alive to everything that looks like an invasion of their territorial immunities-though they can make no use in their crude state of the treasures embosomed in that portion of their lands-have little disposition that they should pass into the undisputed and permanent possession of white emigrants. They first warned these away-then menaced them; but the latter persisted in their designs, and laughed at remonstrances and threats, till a bolder stand was assumed by certain of the indignant tribe, and some blood was spilt as a natural consequence.
Though the General Government had previously lent no direct countenance to the intrusions of our people on the Winnebago lands, yet, the murder of any citizen was an offence that could not be overlooked, as thereby the lives of our entire population scattered in that quarter would be jeopardied. A formal demand was accordingly made of those who had perpetrated the violence; and the three principals were arrested and conducted to Prairie du Chien. One has since died there; the others are still detained in close custody by our authorities on that station.
This step was little likely to be brooked by the more fiery spirits among the Winnebagoes. War was the cry; but to divert this, a proposal was made that a deputation of their Chiefs should visit Washington to seek a pardon for those of their Countrymen confined as above and to arrange the difficulties growing out of the frequent trespasses by our citizens upon the Lead Mine District.  This project which originated with the Whites had for its true object the impressing these people with an idea of the overwhelming superiority of the States of this Republic, in the event of their still inclining to try the tug of war.*
It was understood that, at the present meeting, a request would be made by the savage deputation for the release and restoration of their captive brethren at Prairie du Chien, and it was a matter of interest to observe how that request should be preferred. When the old Chief, whose speech was given in a former communication, had resumed his seat, the orator of the tribe was put forth in the midst.
As he rose, he threw aside his blanket, stood before the assembly, from the waist up in puris naturalibus. His moccasins and dark cloth hose were somewhat fancifully trimmed. A strip of leather on either leg connected the later with the compact covering which encircled his loins; and this was confined about his middle, by a slender thong running through several perforated and quantity of ornamented bones which served well the purpose of loops. Just above the elbow of his right arm was tied a truss of long coarse hair, which once belonged to the flowing mane of some generous steed. A part of this hung loose an half yard or more; and ashe moved his hand in gesticulation it was flourished wit whimsical effect.  In the athletic form-the broad heaving chest-the bald and not undignified attitudes- the firm-set features-the keen penetrating eyes-the impassioned action of this Son of the Forest, there was much that forcibly impressed and riveted attention.
He commenced his address by saying, that, though not a chief by hereditary right, he enjoyed the privileges of one by virtue of his permanent office of public orator; a fact not a little interesting as marking the importance attached to the art of speaking in the estimation of such a barbarous people. He then dilated in a strain of rude but manly compliment, well fitted to bespeak favor to the cause he was to advocate; but on the cause itself he disdained to expend many words. His intercession on that point was couched in the concluding paragraph of the harangue:-
'Father , my heart is heavy. Indulge me with a request. When I and your Red Children go from you, permit us to bear paper from your hands, that shall give light to the poor Winnebagoes imprisoned at Prairie du Chien.'
I know not how the form of this appeal struck the sensibilities of others; but to me, the simple metaphorical turn of the latter expression particularly, appeared exquisitely touching and beautiful.
The speaker paused. As there had been none of the obsequious tones of the suppliant in his language, so there was nothing offensively bold, impetuous, or arrogant in his manner of address. Calm and collected he stood, awaiting the President's replication.
Before delivering this, Mr. Adams saw fit to summon two of the chiefs to receive, in company with the orator, the sentence about to be pronounced. The ole warrior that had opened the conferences, and a second stern-visaged chief, whose massive form was scared by wounds obtained in many a desperate fight, ranged themselves accordingly on either side of the speaker, expecting in mute dignity, the issue of the appeal.
I see them now-those proud Chiefs-nobles of nature, bearing on their brow conscious independence, and the stamp of innate loftiness of spirit-as first, erect, fearless, they confronted the Federal Head of this powerful Republic, and fixed their piercing glance upon his tranquil countenance a glance that seemed to probe and explore the very thoughts of his breast. The vision will live in unfaded freshness in my memory; and the deep emotions with which, at the time of their presentation, I surveyed these strikingly impressive figures, will not fail to be called up at each successive reminiscence.
The introduction of the President's reply could hardly have prepared them for its sequel. He observed that a power had been indeed vested with him by the People of these States to remit at discretion the punishment of death, in the instance of those whose lives were forfeited to the violated laws of the land; but it was a power which he had never exercised in behalf of any offenders among his brethren, the Whites; that, moreover, there was a law which especially, prescribed the last penalty to be inflicted on a crime like that with which the prisoners at Prairie du Chien stood charged-a law ordained by the Great Spirit, whom the Winnebagoes, no less than the white people recognized-a law which enacted 'whose shedeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: ''But,' added the President, after an emphatic pause, 'to manifest the conciliatory disposition wherewith my bosom is filled, and to prove the sincerity of my pacific professions communicated this day, I will grant to your tribe a favor withheld from individuals of my own nation; and happy I am by the terms of this instrument in complying with the request you have urged.'
The document containing the authority, in form, for the discharge of their convict brethren, was then made over to the chiefs. 
Their aim was hereby answered; but another, and an important one, in the estimation of the President, remained on his part, to be achieved.
He availeth himself of the occasion to represent to them the expediency of ceding to our citizens, in full fee, the district wherein the troubles had originated; that, whereas the tract was of little value to the Winnebagoes, it would prove of emanate utility in the hands of our People; that, in the event of its surrender, a reasonable indemnity should be allowed the former, to be determined in amicable conference on some future occasion; that, thereby, all pretext for fresh feuds and difficulties would be effectually prevented, and the friendship now mutually pledged be lastingly sealed and cemented.
The Chiefs retired in silence to the circle of their associates. It was doubtful, a while, in what light they regarded the proposal. They could not, indeed, but be sensible, that to refuse it altogether would seem uncourteous; and they were sufficiently wary to know the consequences of such a declaration might prove very impolic [sic]. At length a grave chief, the Nestor of the savage group-the same who, in person, seized and delivered up Red Bird to the authorities at Prairie du Chien-rose, and said: That by immemorial usage among the Winnebagoes, no portion of their lands could be alienated without the consent of all their warriors obtained in solemn council; but that, in consideration of the spirit of indulgence shown by their Great Father on the present occasion, the Deputation promised to employ their influence with their brethren, on their return, to induce a release to the white settlers of a small portion of the territory in a conveyance. The hope nevertheless, he expressed, that nothing more would be solicited of the Winnebagoes, as, the felt themselves bound to hold in perpetuity the soil which the Great Spirit had giver them. He ended by saying, with impressive solemnity,
'Father, if you sent commissioners to treat with us, let them be good men; if agents to dwell among us, let them be honest men,- ' do not try to convert us to the habits of your children, or to make us like Indians of Green Bay. We wish to live as we have lived, and to follow and abide by the customs of our forefathers.'
A second calmut[sic] was then produced-a more showy one than the former-which was smoked as before, and given, on the close of the ceremony in custody to the Chief Magistrate.- The distribution of presents followed.
Among these were large silver medallions, ornamented on the side with a faithful likeness of the President, together with his name and the date of inauguration; and display on the reverse, the emblems of hands joined in friendship, and the pipe and tomahawk crossed, coupled with the motto 'Peace and Friendship.' They were neatly tied with green riband drawn through rings, and the President in person put them about the necks of the savages in order. Next each of them received a beautiful rifle; then a cutlass, or a brave of pistols, at option with sundry accompaniments, such as bullet molds and other useful instruments, with all which they appeared well pleased. The locks and general finish of their fire arms, their sight-to determine if it were true-and the temper of their sword blades, they examined with care; and it was a curious spectacle to witness in such an apartment these destructive weapons, bristling as in a fight, and tossed from hand to hand by men of such powerful frame, with the lightness and sport of children's gee-gaws.
Refreshments were once more circulated, and the barbarians took their leave-but alas, for them not so rich as they came. In the promise uttered by one of their number in a single breath, they had forfeited 'the pound of flesh,' and it will be unyieldingly exacted of them.
More land! Yes Winnebago, the heel of the foot of the white man is already upon hour soil, and ere long the whole will be pressed down and made to cover it.
It is right doubtless; for it is permitted of Heaven. The decree of extermination has gone forth against the entire Aboriginal race that yet haunt our forests and wilds as surely, as irreversibly as ever against the Canaanites of old. And their destruction lingers not. 'As the wing of the whirlwind swift,' it hastens to overtake them. Civilization must displace barbarism. The fierce hunter is compelled to give away to the patient husbandman and skillful artisan; and the wide-stretched solitudes which now yield precarious supplies of subsistence in recompense of his adventurous toils, will sooner or later be parceled into busy towns, and smiling villages, and teeming fields, and farms and gardens and orchards.
On, on the tide of our country's population rolls and sweeps. It pours steadily forward, and will not stop short of the Pacific Year by year our military pests are thrown deeper into the wilderness; but they cannot overtake the pioneers in the march of civilized emigration.  Whilst I write, a new Territory by official recognition is coming into the pale of the Union: and another winter, the Delegate of Huron, in addition of these of Arkansas and Michigan, will doubtless be seen seated in the great Legislative Councils of the nation.  Within the space of a few brief years at the utmost, our flag will fly over a fortress at the mouth of the Oregon; and the enterprising sons of the East-a second official Gentleman will have trod smooth the path from sea to sea.
Does the anticipated triumph of the arts of peace, principles of civilization, the benign influence of the wise laws, enlightened government, and sound religion, over ignorance and barbarism and debasing superstition, awaken within us a throb of honest exultation?  Let us drop a tear over the fate of the unfortunate beings whose complete ex_ision from the face of the earth such a triumph almost necessarily implies. Untutored they may be--wild, vindictive, and untractable-- instruments of cruelty may be in their habitations; ;and the beams of divine truth fall upon their souls, the darkness might comprehend it not. Yet they are not without redeeming and manly virtues. Brave they confessedly are--of unrivalled fortitude in endurances of evil--hospitable often to the stranger cast among them--ever faithful to the word they plight--in their natural state, patient of toil, temperate and continent.  As they melt then gradually away from before our eyes, and relinquish to our quiet occupancy the fair and broad domain which God and nature originally gave them, let us accord to them our sympathy for their stern lot, and yield the tribute of respect and applause to such magnanimous qualities whether of instinct or of habit as they conspicuously possess and heroically exercise.
 A Looker on in Washington.
*This is the account which I have received:
_______Si quid novisti rectius istis, Candidus imperti; si non, his utere mecum.










We are inclined to think that, by the following law of Georgia, many honest and clever Creeks will suffer unjustly.- The law savours[sic] more of oppression than anything else. Indians are never in the habit of being troublesome, except perhaps when intoxicated; in that case, the man who furnished whiskey ought to go, with the transgressing Indian, to jail.
AN ACT to protect the frontier settlements of this State from the Intrusion of Indians of the Creek Nation.
Whereas many inconveniences and injuries result to the citizens of this State in the frontier counties, from the unlimited intercourse of the Indians of said nation, by disturbing the peace and tranquility and destroying and purloining the property of its citizens--For remedy whereof,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, in General Assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid, that from and after the passage of this act, it shall not be lawful for any Indian or descendant of an Indian belonging to the Creek Nation of Indians to cross the river Chattahoochee and enter upon the territory of said State under any pretext whatever, except they have and can show a written permit from the United States Agent of said nation, specifying their particular business, which permit shall not exceed ten days duration.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That whenever any Indian of said nation shall be found within the limits aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for any Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, any Justices of the Inferior Court or Justice of peace, or the information on oath of any citizen of said State, that any Indian or Indians as aforesaid are strolling over the territory of said State in any of the frontier counties, to issue their warrent [sic] to the sheriff, his deputy or any Constable of said county and State, requiring the said officer to notify said Indian or Indians to leave the territory of said State forthwith-unless they can shew [sic] a permit from said Agent and on their refusing to obey said order or exhibit said permit--to apprehend said Indian or Indians and bring them before the magistrate having cognisance of the same, and if on examination, it shall appear that said Indian or Indians have no permit as aforesaid- Then it shall and may be lawful for said magistrate to imprison said Indian or Indians in the common jail of said county, and in the event of there being no jail in the county, then in some suitable or convenient place not exceeding the term of ten days.
Sec. 3 And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That when any Indian or Indians shall be strolling over any county on the frontier of said State, with such permit as aforesaid, and shall interfere with the private property or interrupt the peace and tranquility of any of the citizens aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for them to be apprehended as aforesaid, on its being made appear to the satisfaction of the magistrate to whom the warrant is made returnable, that said Indian or Indians, without lawful business, and disturbing the peace or molesting the property of said citizens, for said magistrate to imprison said Indian or Indians not exceeding the term of time aforesaid.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all laws or parts of laws that are repugnant to this act be and the same are hereby repeal.
Assented to- Dec. 20, 1828.
__________________________
Page 2 Col. 1a
When the state of Georgia has been utterly unsuccessful in her attempts to remove the Cherokees, by fair and honorable means, she is now trying the effects of oppression, and the slow process of coercion.  We know very well the design of the act of which the following is the substance. If Georgia succeeds and finally attains her end by such anti-Christian and anti-republican measures, she will have a tremendous amount to render at the bar of eternal justice. We know that we are weak and comparatively insignificant, (for which reason such acts are the more unbecoming and disgraceful) and further, that we are dependent for protection on the General Government, and that the final issue must be brought about by her policy and disposition towards us. If she consents to the doings of Georgia, we shall fall a prey to our surrounding neighbours [sic], and the United States will deliberately, and we believe  in violation of plighted treaties, sacrifice to the cupidity and intolerance of a single State, her loyal friends for the Cherokees; within the last thirty or forty years, have proved themselves such. Within that period they have not raised the tomahawk against any of their elder brothers, but have, when occasion presented, fought and bled at their side, more bravely than their present persecutors, whom they were then defending.  For our loyalty are we to be rewarded with oppression? Let the thinking public and the Christian world answer, to whom we make our appeal.
______________________________________
Page 2 Col. 1b.
From the Macon Telegraph.
The Cherokees.- Among the Acts passed at the late session of our Legislature is one 'to add the territory lying within the limits of this State and occupied by the Cherokee Indians to the counties of Caroll [sic], Dekalb [sic], Gwinett, Hall and Habersham, and to extend the laws of this State over the same, and for other purposes.' The following is a synopsis of its provisions:
The Territory lying between the Alabama line and Old Path leading from the Buzard's [sic] Roost on the Chatahoochie River, to Sally Hughes where the said path strikes the Alabama River, thence with said road to the boundary of Georgia, is added to Carroll.
All that part lying north of the last mentioned line, and south of the roads running from Charles Tate's Ferry, on the Chatahoochie River, to Dick Roe's, to where it intersects with the path aforesaid, is added to DeKalb.
All that part lying north of the last mentioned line, and south of a line to begin on the Chestatee River, at the mouth of Yoholo Creek, thence up said creek, to the top of the Blue Ridge, thence to the head waters of Notley River, thence down said river, to the boundary line of Georgia, is added to Hall. All that part lying north of the last mentioned line, within the limits of Georgia, is added to Habersham.
All white person to be subject and liable to the laws of the State.
After the 1st of June, 1830, all Indians residing in said Territory, and within any one of the above counties, to be liable to such laws as the Legislature may hereafter prescribe. All laws, usages, 'c. made and enforced in said Territory, by the Indians, to be null and void after the 1st of June, 1830. No Indian, or descendant of Indians, residing within the Creek or Cherokee Nations of Indians, to be a competent witness, or a party to any suit to which a white man is a party.
________________________________________________
Page 2 Col. 2a.
GEORGIA AND THE ABORIGINES.
Extract from the Memorial of R. Campbell, of Savannah, presented to the Senate of Georgia:

'Your memorialist has heard it by way of reason or excuse for extending the laws of Georgia, over the Cherokees and their country, that it is contrary to all principle, and cannot be permitted, to allow a government to exist within the territory, and independent of another government- in imperium in imperio, as it is termed- and this seems to be considered so conclusive, as to put the subject beyond question.
Those who use it however, must shut their eyes both to history and to fact; and the most conspicuous of them contradict in this, the very principle which they insist upon in other cases. What are these United States but an example of imperium of imperio? Or if they are not, what becomes of all the arguments we have lately heard in support of States rights, and State sovereignty, in support of which, they seem willing to jeopardize the safety of this glorious and happy Union?
How shall we dispose of the historical example of St. Marino, which was continued sovereign and independent within the limits of another sovereignty, for upwards of 1,300 years?
It may indeed be alleged that this Republic was within the dominions of the Pope, who is accused of worshiping stocks and stones, and that therefore, it could not be considered as forming a proper example to be followed by a protestant and reformed people.'
In most cases where it is intended to stretch the hand of power over people, the plea of necessity is brought forward as the excuse. So frequently indeed has it been thus adduced that this plea is now almost consecrated to tyrants- but it cannot be used in our case- our own experience proves that if we restrain our own citizens, who are borderers, from committing depredations on their Indian neighbors, all may go on harmoniously: whereas endless and interminable difficulties must arise from extending the laws so as to embrace them.
You all know, you cannot be ignorant of the feelings of the white borderers of this State, towards their red brethren.  Indeed, the feeling I allude to is not coatined [sic] to our borderers, for you may find evidences of it, where if not powerful and general it could not be exhibited. I mean in our laws. They of themselves will prove, how entirely wretched and utterly hopeless would be the situation of the Indians under the control of a people induced by such feelings as they exhibit. Your honorable body have only to turn to those passed two session ago, to find an act to prevent the evidence of an Indian or the descendent of an Indian, not understanding the English language, from being taken in any Court of Justice in this State, however exactly he might adhere to the truth: and your memorialist is informed that but for the suggestion of an honorable Member of the Assembly, not a native of the State, the act would have made the evidence of some men, who stand high for integrity and intelligence, and hold offices of honor and profit in the State, of no more avail, in a Court of Justice, than if they had been as notorious for untruth, and they are for veracity; and, as it now stands, the value or admissibility of their testimony by this law, seems to depend not upon their being governed by morality, but upon their understanding English! and this merely in consequence of their Indian descent.'










A great effort is making in Congress, to extend our borders across the continent, and establish a settlement, and some kind of government at the mouth of the Oregon River, on the shore of the Pacific Ocean. The measure meets with strong, and we hope it will prove to be successful, opposition.  We think our government had better at least for a century to come, confine their jurisdiction, and operation, to the territories on this side the Rocky Mountains. As the policy seems to be to remove the Indians from their settlements, as fast as the whites think proper to encroach upon them, it is no more than equitable, and liberal, to allow them the grounds beyond that formidable barrier, as long as they can find dogs and salmon to live on; otherwise, when they are forced to make the last removal which it would seem our government mean to permit them to make, and which we take it for granted is to be into the ocean, there may be too many of them left for one plunge. We should be sorry, for the credit of the country, that they should be swallowed up at once, like Pharaoh ' his host, in the deep.
N. Y. Adv.










CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
January 6th.
On motion of Mr. Lumpkins, it was
Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to cause to be laid before this House, (if it should not be deemed incompatible with the Public interest) such information as will clearly exhibit what had been done under the act of the 9th May last, appropriating fifty thousand dollars, to enable the President of the United States to carry into affect the articles of agreement and cession on the 24th April, 1802, between the United States and the State of Georgia; ' also, what has been done with a view to promote the aforesaid object, as provided for and pointed out in the 8th article of the treaty of May last, entered into with the Cherokee Indians who reside west of the Missouri River.
And especially, what number of Indians located within the boundary of Georgia, have accepted of the provisions of said treaty, as contained in the aforesaid article, and what are the principal obstacles which tend to prevent the Indians located in Georgia from acceding to the terms proposed to them in said treaty.
Mr. Owen moved the following resolution.
Resolved. That the President of the United States be requested to cause to be communicated, in relation to the claims on Georgia, embraced or intended to be embraced in the provisions of the Treaty of 1821, held at the Indians Springs with the Creek Indians, and any information in his possession in relation to the claims of the said nation of Indians, for such surplus, if there should be any, of the sum stipulated in said treaty as an indemnity to Georgia.










NEW ECHOTA;
Wednesday, Jan. 28, 1829
It is frequently said that the Indians are given up to destruction, that it is the will of heaven, that they should become extinct and give way to the white man. Those who assist this doctrine seem to act toward these unfortunate people in a consistent manner, either in neglecting them entirely, or endeavoring to hasten the period of their extinction. For our part, we dare not scrutinize the designs of God's providence towards the Cherokees. It may suffice to say that, his dealings have been merciful and very kind. He inclined the heart of GEORGE WASHINGTON, when we were in a savage state, to place us under the protection of the United States, by entering into a treaty of peace and friendship with our forefathers on the second day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety one; in which treaty is the following provision:
'That the Cherokee Nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization, and to become herdsmen and cultivators, instead of remaining hunters, the United States will from time to time, furnish gratuitously the said nation with useful implements of husbandry.'
He furthermore inclined that industrious man, and his successors in office, and the Agents of the United States, to carry the foregoing provision into execution. By his overruling providence, a door was opened for the introduction of those implements of husbandry; and at this day were Washington living, he would find that his expectations and wishes were realized. He would rejoice, and those who compassionated [sic] the Indians with him would rejoice to see that the Cherokees have in a great measure become herdsmen and cultivators-they are no more hunters or warriors. Where they were accustomed to hunt the deer, the bear, and the beaver, are seen their farms and they labor peaceably, for the troubles of warfare do not now molest them.
But we cannot enumerate all the dealings of God towards us in a temporal point of view. They are gracious, and to our minds would convey the belief that he has mercy still in store for us. But what are his dealings in a spiritual point of view.- 'If the Lord were pleased to destroy us he would not have shewed [sic] us all these things, nor would, as at this time, have told us such things as these.' We have heard great things indeed; salvation by Jesus Christ.  To what purpose has God opened the hearts of Christians of different denominations to commiserate, not only the Cherokees, but all the other tribes? To what purpose are contributions freely made to support missionaries and schools! To what purpose is it that these missionaries meet with such remarkable success, and that preachers are rising from among the Cherokees themselves? To what purpose is it that hundreds have made a public profession of religion, and that the number is rapidly increasing? To what purpose is it that, that the knowledge of letters has been disseminated, with a rapidity unknown heretofore, and that eight hundred copies of a Cherokee HYMN Book is now issuing from our press? What do all these indicate? Do they indicate the displeasure of God against us, and the certainty of our extinction? It is not for man to pry into the designs of God where he has not expressly revealed them, but from past blessings we may hope for future mercies.
The causes which have operated to exterminate the Indian tribes that are produced as instances of the certain doom of the whole Aboriginal family appear plain to us. These causes did not exist in the Indians themselves, nor in the will of heaven, not simply in the intercourse of Indians with civilized man, but they were precisely such causes as are now attempted by the state of Georgia by infringing upon their rights-by disorganizing them, and circumscribing their limits. While he possesses a national character, there is hope for the Indians. But take his rights away, divest him of the last spark of national pride, and introduce him to a new order of things, invest him with oppressive laws, grievous to be borne, he drops like the fading flower, before the noon day sun. Most of the Northern tribes have fallen a prey to such causes, ' the Catawbas of South Carolina are a striking instance of the truth of what we say. There is hope for the Cherokees as long as they continue in their present situation, but disorganize them, either by removing them beyond the Mississippi, or imposing on them 'heavy burdens,' you cut a vital string in their national existence.
Things will no doubt come to a final issue before long in regard to the Indian and for our part we care not how soon. The State of Georgia has taken a strong stand against us and the United States must either defend us in our rights, or leave us for our foe. In the former case, the General Government will redeem her pledge solemnly given in treaties. In the latter she will violate her promises of protection and we cannot, upon any guarantee made by her to us, either here or beyond the Mississippi.










Two emigrating families passed this place last week on their way to the Agency, the place of embarkation. These are the only families we have seen who have agreed to pass the Mississippi.
___________________________________










The following information communicated by the Hon. Gabriel Moore, member of Congress from Alabama, to the Editor of the Huntsville Democrat, will be interesting to our readers.
WASHINGTON CITY, Dec. 20, 1828.
Dear Sir:- Shortly after my arrival here, I addressed a letter to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, wishing to be informed whether that Department contemplated bringing the public lands situated in Jackson County and that part of Madison which was taken from Jackson, into market shortly; and if so, what time? In reply, I received the enclosed letter. As this is official, and may be received as important information to many of my constituents, I shall be obliged to you to give it publicity through your paper, that those who wish may have the opportunity afforded them of availing themselves of the advantage of timely notice.
I am, Sir, most respectfully, Yours, 'c.
GABRIEL MOORR.
Mr. P. Woodson,
_________________________________________
Page 3. Col. 1a
GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
December 19, 1828
Sir, In reply to your inquiry in relation to the time when the Public Lands in Decatur County will be sold, I have to state, that all the public lands in that county, including the Lands reserved for the support of schools for the Cherokee Nation, will be offered at public sale, at Huntsville in the course of the month of November next.
With great respect, your obedient servant.
GEO. GRAHAM.
The Hon. G. Moore,
House of Representatives.










George M. Bibb has been appointed a Senator of the United States from the State of Kentucky, to succeed R. M. Johnson, whose present term of service will expire on the 3rd day of March next. Mr. Johnson was not in nomination. The opposing candidate was Burr Harrison, and the vote between them in joint meeting of both branches of the Legislature, gave 83 votes to Mr. Bibb, and 50 votes to Mr. Harrison.- Nat. Lat.










The following is the most singular remedy for intemperance we ever heard of. After this, Dr. Chambers famous prescription must 'hide its diminised [sic] head.'- Sat. Eve. Post.
A drunkard of this town had been long yoked in matrimony, and was surrendered with a hopeful progeny. His wife at length finding, if the husband drank so much, she and her children must leave off eating, determined to follow him from pot-house to pot-house, which she did, seating herself at his side, calling for the same beverage, regaling herself in the same manner, and singing songs in concert. She neglected her children, returned home jovially drunk, always in company with her husband; the man swore the woman chimed in- the husband left home- she followed. At last, he was disgusted with the public house- so did his wife; he attended to his business- so did she; he became a good father- she a good wife; thus exemplifying a new way of curing a husband.
Brighten Gaz.


















INDIANS
REMOVAL OF THE INDIANS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI
From the Christian Advocate and Journal
We very much regret to find this measure recommended to Congress by the Secrtary of War, General Porter. This recommendation is the more to be regretted because of its being accompanied by an insinuation that the missionaries employed among the Indian tribes, from the consideration that they 'have acquired comfortable establishments, are unwilling to be deprived of them' by the removal of the Indian tribes beyond the Mississippi.- How greatly do some men mistake in their estimate of missionary labors and enjoyments! We speak, of course, respecting our own missionary stations. If comfortable establishments were the only inducements presented to these self-denying men to remain in their present stations, we venture to predict that they would soon abandon them 'to the moles and bats.'  Though some of them may be improved by the exertions of those men of God so as to be in some sense comfortable, that is, to prevent actual suffering for want of the necessaries of life, we well know that others of them are yet but little removed from barbarism, and the missionaries themselves, in the prosecution of their benevolent designs are reduced to all the privations and hardships peculiar to half civilized society, and are obliged, from their scanty allowance, to unite the most rigorous economy with the most patient industry.  This they do, not from a view to temporal accommodation, nor from a hope of pecuniary reward, but from a much higher motive, even the present and eternal salvation of souls. So far, therefore, as these are concerned, the mere circumstance of being deprived of 'Comfortable establishments' presents but a small barrier in the way of their removal with the Indians, even were they to go beyond the Rocky Mountains. Nay, such is the strong attachment of these devoted missionaries to the eternal interests of those Indians, that should the event come to past, now so much deprecated by some and wished for by others, that they must be removed beyond the Mississippi, rather than abandon them to their own deplorable fate, they would remove with them, identify their interests with the interests of the Indians, share in their privations and sufferings, with a view to exalt them ultimately to all the blessings of Christianity and civilization.
The objections, therefore, to removal of these original proprietors of the soil originate from an entirely different source.  If they wish to sell off their property, and remove into the remote forests, no one would have any right to object.  But to compel, whether by direct coercion, or by the intrigues which too often disgrace state policy, or by that cupidity which so frequently characterize mercantile speculating operations, is a measure against which we would protest, with all the energies which a just regard to original right can inspire- with all the force which may be derived from a sense of their indubitable rights as the first and original lords of the soil- with all the arguments which can be passed on the faith of the most solemn treaties actually existing between them and their own government-and finally, by that voice which thunders from the eternal theme TO DO OTHERS AS YE WOULD THEM SHOULD DO UNTO YOU.  All the rights, this plighted faith, this moral and religious obligation, pressing equally upon the conscience of every individual of the human family with all the tremendous force which the Supreme legislator of heaven and earth can bring to bear upon an active intelligent agent-all these things cry aloud to the legislature of our country not thus to interfere in this matter. Let them not touch the inheritance of these sons of the forest, lest they tough the accursed thing, and the leprosy cleave to them and their posterity to many generations.
There is another point of view, in which we agree with the honorable secretary or war, and that is, the inutility [sic] of installing in the minds of youth and some elementary instruction, and them leaving them to mingle with their savage and pagan brethren unprotected by the laws of Christianity and civilization. The experiment we have recently made among these noble minded people demonstrate the truth of the conclusion, that the best and perhaps we might say the only way to do them permanent good, is to Christianize them first- bring them under the reforming effects and powerful restraints of the gospel of Christ, and them gently introduce them to the knowledge, practice and habits of civilized life. So far this method has been effectual. No sooner do they bow a willing obedience to the command of Jesus Christ, and their hearts and lives are brought under the salutary restraints and precepts of his gospel, then their docility and submitting to be taught the arts of agriculture of domestic economy, and all the social duties, becomes manifest to all.- They are easily formed into regular communities governed by wholesome laws, and exhibit in practice all the principles which govern and regulate civilized life.
When this is effected, what harm or danger can be apprehended from their proximity to the white population, or even to their com-mingling with them? Is the mere circumstance of the different color of their skin to make them to be abhorred forever by the white man? Is this characteristic peculiarity alone sufficient to entail upon them then malediction of our government, that it must adopt measures to push them to the utmost verge of our western territories?  Let the wisdom exhibited in the council of the Cherokees, the Christianity, civility , and industry, displayed by the Wyandots and others teach our senators at least moderation towards them, if they may not, as we think they might, inspire them with respect and veneration for these ancient lords of this western world.










CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday, January 14, 1829
The following resolution, offered yesterday by Mr. Wilde, was taken up and agreed to:
Resolved, That the Secretary of War be directed to lay before this House copies of any compacts or agreements made between the Creek and Cherokee tribes of Indians, under the directions, or with the assent of the United States, establishing the boundary lines of their respective hunting grounds within the limits of the state of Georgia, prior to the year 1821; and also, copies of any correspondence between the War Department and the Agents for Indian Affairs touching the same, which has not been heretofore communicated.
January 16th
______________________
CLAIMS OF GEORGIA CITIZENS.
The House resumed, in Committee of the whole, Mr. Condict in the Chair, the unfinished business of Friday last, being the report of the Committee on Indian Affairs on the claims of certain citizens of Georgia.
The question being on the motion of Mr. THOMPSON in effect to reverse that report, which is unfavorable.
Mr. Wilde, then resumed, and closed his observation in defence of the motion. His argument was principally directed to that portion of the claim which related to interest.  In the course of it, he stated that he felt himself to be, as all would be who attempted to address a committee of the whole on such subjects- Pox clamutnte in deserto- with the only difference, that he had here the solitude with the silence of the desert.
Mr. M'LEAN replied to the observation which had fallen from the various gentlemen from the State of Georgia, and defended the report of the Committee. He stated that the stipulations entered into between the Government of the United States and the Creek Indians, was that claims should be satisfied to a certain amount.  The President of the United States was empowered to decide on these claims; and by his decision he had precluded the claims which are now urged upon the House. The balance of money which remains belongs to the Indians according to the opinion of many members of the House, but that was not his  opinion. Some of these claims are of fifty years standing, and are for horses and negroes run away into the Indian country. It was said by gentlemen that property destroyed should be paid for.  All property destroyed between 1796 and 1802 it is stipulated, shall be paid for; and if any claim of that character could be presented, he would willingly vote for it. He read the opinion to the Attorney General, adverse to the claim for interest; and maintained that ample justice had been done to the parties.
Mr. SOUTHERLAND made some observations in favor of the claims, and of the motion to amend the report of the Committee. He took the ground which had been previously taken by the gentleman from Georgia, that the claims of the Citizens of Georgia had not been liquidated by the General Government, according to the treaty between the United States and the Indians, and that the balance which remains in the Treasury belongs to Georgia, for the settlement of the still unliquidated claims. He argued that as Georgia had been compelled by the general Government to release the Creek Indians from responsibility for these losses of property, and that therefore they had no where to turn except to the government of the United States for indemnity. He expressed his belief that, had he time, he could examine the opinion of the Attorney General and overthrow it.
Mr. OWEN succeeded, in defence of the proposition that further legislation is necessary on this subject.- Government had compelled Georgia to renounce her claims on the Indians for a specific sum. That in the distribution of this sum, the claims of some of the citizens of Georgia have been rejected, he considered unjust, because they were precluded from obtaining any compensation from the Indians by the act of the government.  Whatever claims are outstanding, he considered it obligatory on the Government to legislate with a view to put these claims in a train for adjustment. It had been said that this could not be done without the consent of the Indians, and that one power could not act without the other. He was desirous to bring this question to a decision.  He thought the proper course for the Committee would be to instruct the Committee to bring such a bill as would provide for these claims being put in train for adjustment and liquidation.
Mr. GILMER said the question was, whether there was any property not paid for, and, if there was whether the balance of the fund unexpended did not belong to those who had suffered the losses. He stated that owing to the condition of Georgia, and the situation of her citizens, at the time they suffered the injuries and losses complained of from the Creek Indians, that it was impossible to form an estimate of their losses. The farmer had more sufficient stock for subsistence and cultivation, and if he lose his only horse, by what rule of calculation could his loss be estimated, or by what rule of justice could he be recompensed? He described the state of Georgia frontier during the war, and stated that the citizens, at their own expense, erected a line of blockhouse, and manned them, and that they had never received any compensation for these expenditures and services. Yet the Government is stickling [sic] about a little matter of interest. He declared that no citizens of the United States had suffered more than those of the Georgia frontier, and none therefore could present a stronger claim on the equitable and liberal consideration of the General Government.
He complained of the gross injustice done to Georgia by the Treaty of New York in 1790, which was negotiated with the Indians when Georgia had no representative on the floor. It was that act which first raised the voice of a representative from Georgia against the General Government. The negotiation of the year 1821 was the first in which the Government had ever permitted Georgia to interfere by her commissioners.
As to the increase of slave property from the female stock, he contended that it was much undervalued.- Persons had accumulated fortunes solely from this increase. He stated that the land acquired of the Indians was four and a half millions of acres at ten cents an acre, making 450,000 dollars. Of this the Indians had received 200,000 dollars in money, and the remaining 250,000 dollars was intended to cover the claims of the citizens of Georgia on the Indians.- The balance therefore ought to be applied to the claims yet unliquidated.
Mr. WEEMS briefly assigned the reasons which induced him to vote for the motion to amend. He thought Congress had the power, and ought to legislate so as to provide for the distribution of the balance left in the Treasury from this source.
The question was then taken on the motion to amend, and decided in the negative. Ayes 66, Noes 74.










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday, Feb. 4, 1829
Our subscribers who receive their papers by mail may wish to know the reason of the failure of our last. We can tell them that is it not our fault. We had papers deposited as usual in the Post Office, but somehow or other, not well known to us, they were not taken in the mail.  After being obliged to stop our paper several times we extremely regret to have our subscribers disappointed.
________________________________
WHEREAS my wife ELIZABETH has, without any cause whatever, absented herself from my lodgings, all persons are hereby cautioned against harboring and protecting her, or forming any bargains or contracts with her, as the subscriber, is determined not to be responsible for them.
JAMES PETIT.
Conasauga, C.N. Jan. 7
(N.B. This notice first appeared in the Jan. 14. edition under 'classified' ads)
____________________________________
Mr. Elias Boudinott,
Dear Sir:- In your last number, I find where my husband James Petit advertises me for being absenting myself from his lodgings without any cause and cautions all persons from harboring or protecting me or forming any contracts with me, as he is determined not to pay any of my contracts.  Sir, I must let a generous public know my reasons for leaving his lodging. I did it when I was ordered.  I did not carry away any of his keys. I was compelled to do what I have done- he has killed nearly all of my stock, for which I shall want pay.  You will please give this an insertion in your paper, and oblige an injured woman.
ELIZABETH PETIT.
Be it known to all whom it may concern, that, from and after this present date, no advertisement similar to the one complained of above will be inserted in the Phoenix, except when the advertising person produces good reason to the editor to show that he or she has just cause of complaint.
Ed.
_________________________
Weather.- We have had some cold and wet days of late. The river has risen considerably, and we see now and then a boat, if it is proper so to stile a half-way canoe, loaded with- Whiskey.
_____________________________
A man by the name of James White was on the 26th ult. committed to prison in Jasper, Tennessee, for the crime of murdering one George Brown. Mrs. Brown, wife of the deceased is supposed to have been accessary to the horrid act of taking the life of her husband. She has likewise been committed. White and this woman, while Brown was living, were known to live too intimate.
______________________________
In Rhea County, Tenn. A woman ' an infant were burnt to death by falling together into a fire. The woman was probably subject to fits. What is more surprising is, the husband of the deceased mourned and remained a widower- ONE WEEK, and then married a sister of his former wife.
____________________________
We understand upon good authority that our frontier neighbours [sic] in Georgia are moving in fast and settling on the lands belonging to the Cherokees. Right or wrong they are determined to take the country.
Attempts of this kind have been made heretofore, but without any success, for the intercourse law of the United States has been invariably executed. Whether the President will again use the military force to oust these intruders as the law provides, we are not able to say. The law is explicit, and we hope, for the honor of the General Government, it will be faithfully executed.- it is as follows:
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That if any such citizen or other person, shall make a settlement on any lands belonging, or secured, or granted, by treaty with the United States, to any Indian tribe, or shall survey, or attempt to survey, such lands, or designate any of the boundaries, by marking trees or otherwise, such offender shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and suffer imprisonment, not exceeding twelve months. And it shall, moreover, be lawful for the President of the United States to take such measures, and to employ such military force, as he may judge necessary, to remove from lands, belonging, or secured by treaty as aforesaid, to any Indian tribe, any such citizen, or other person, who has made or shall hereafter make, or attempt to make, a settlement thereon.
There is one fact connected with this affair, which we think proper to mention. When known, in the view of every honest and liberal man, it ought to redound to the credit of the Cherokees. It is this.  In all cases of intrusions, when whitemen [sic] have behaved in a provoking manner, and with the greatest degree of impudence, the Cherokees have never, to our knowledge, resorted to forcible measures, but have peaceably retired, and have patiently waited for the interference of the United States, and the execution of the above section.  Does not this show that they are faithful to the treaty contracts, and that they expect the like faithfulness from the United States. We hope that they will not now be disappointed.
__________________________________________
The following is extracted from a letter, addressed to the Editor by a particular friend. We insert it as conveying the prevailing sentiment of the Nation.
'I have read with considerable interest, that part of the Message of the President of the United States to Congress which relates to Indian affairs, also the report of the Secretary of War on the same subject. You perceive that these executive documents, as usual, are prolific with new plans and sentiment, in regard to the Indians. I confess that I was surprised to observe such language from the executive of the United States- in this enlightened age. The General Government has been very friendly to us, until within a few years past, when it is gradually assuming another character. Instead of protecting us in all our rights as secured to us by solemn treaties, every ingenuity is set at work to obtain our small tract of country. This state of things commenced at the moment we refused to cede any more of our lands.  The professions of the General Government of her wish for our prosperity were then contrary to her real intentions.  In other words, so long as land was to be had from us in exchange for a few blankets, tobacco 'c. the Govt. lavished its fair professions. But now when we have no more to spare, we become the objects of censure. Our Missionary friends also, who are teaching us the way to heaven, have incurred the displeasure of those who want our land.'










COLONEL R. M. JOHNSON
We are extremely sorry to find that this gentleman has been left out of the Senate of the United States. His parliamentary career has been long and useful, and his country owes him a large debt of gratitude. Colonel Johnson is as distinguished for the patriotism as his philanthropy. As a patriot, he supported the insulted rights of his country, and was among the first to buckle on his armour [sic] when war was declared. It was in the memorable battle fought between the American troops and the British and their Indian allies under Proctor that he signalized himself by his bravery, and fell covered with honorable wounds, the scars of which still exist to mark his devotion to his country. He appeared in the field as a volunteer, and as soon as his wounds would allow him he hastened to discharge his parliamentary duties, in the councils of the nation, where he has continued ever since, incessantly laboring for the public good. It has, with great truth, been said of Colonel Johnson, that 'to add to the glory, reputation, and grandeur of his country, forms the prominent wish of his heart, which is open as day to melting charity: he is the father of the orphan, the protector of the widow, and the friend of the war-worn soldier, whose claims he is always the first to espouse and the last to abandon.'










Population, 'c. of the United States.
A valuable paper on the population of the United States, in reference to the census of 1830, is published in a late western paper. It is calculated, from the known ratio of increase since 1790, when the number of inhabitants was 3,816,450 that at the next census, the number will amount to 12,520,500-giving an addition in 40 years, of 3,604,044. The following facts are deduced from this estimate:
The population of the United States has in forty years been trebled.
Two states which in that time have received the greatest accessions of numbers are, New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania.
That the middle and western non slave holding states, being N. York and N. Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, have, in this space of time, multiplied their people more than  five fold, and contain now more than half the inhabitants of the United States.
That the southern slave holding states so called, Maryland, Virginia, N. Carolina, S. Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana, have in that period, only doubled, and from nearly half, are reduced to less than one third of the whole population.
That in reference to the most important points of national policy to protection of American industry, the centre [sic] of power has been entirely changed.










Missionaries.- We are requested to state, from highly respectable authority, that any statement, at any time, in relation to an interference 'in regard to the measures of Government,' by the Missionaries employed by the American Board of Foreign Missions, is incorrect, and positively to declare that, so far without any such interference, they have been especially guarded on that point.- National Intell.










NOTICE
Is hereby given that some time in the last part of October last a black man came to my house, who says his name is MANUEL, and that he belongs to a man on Duck River in Tennessee, by the name of JOSEPH M'CONNELL. This negro is, I should judge, between forty and fifty years old, and upwards of six feet high, square built. The owner is desired to prove his property, pay charges and take him away.
The Editor of the Phoenix, and other editors in the adjoining states may confer a favour [sic] on the owner by giving publicity to the above advertisement.
JOSEPH WAFFORD.
Hightower, C. N. Jan 6th.
_______________________________
CHEROKEE CONSTITUTION.
Printed in both languages in parallel columns, for sale at this Office.
____________________________


















RELIGIOUS.
A LETTER FROM A CHEROKEE TO HIS BROTHER.
The author of the following letter is a young man who has been brought to the experimental knowledge of Jesus Christ, through the instrumentality of the missionaries.
________________________March 8th 1828
My dear and beloved Brother-  I write you these few lines, which I hope you will receive as coming from an affectionate brother. I hope you will not be displeased with anything that I write, but try to derive good from it. I have a little Book from which I will select a few remarks, and which I think, is addressed to such as you are upon the most weighty and interesting concerns, on which depend your present comfort and your everlasting salvation. You see that people all around you are dying; and you know that soon you must die, and be fixed in a state that is unchangeable.  Is it not then a question of great importance for you to put to yourself, 'Have I any solid ground of hope that I shall go to heaven when I die, or have I not rather awful reason to fear that I shall sink down into hell, and there lift up my eyes in everlasting torments?' If you live in sin, and die in sin, this must be your portion. Attend, therefore, with seriousness to the following considerations:
While you live in sin, you are in the greatest danger. You would pity a poor man who was thoughtless and unconcerned, while on the brink of some frightful gulf; but the gulf, on the borders of which you are thoughtlessly standing, is infinitely more tremendous. You would consider him a mad man, who for one short hour of pleasure, would expose himself to misery all his future life; but you are more inexcusable, who for these pleasures of sin which are but for a season, are venturing upon a miserable eternity. There is an impressive voice which sounds to the word of God, that 'xcept [sic] a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.' John, iii, 3. A voice which was uttered by that Saviour [sic] who will shortly judge you; and if you should then be found to be stranger to this new birth, it would be better for you that you had never been born; for he will say concerning you, 'Take him, and bind him hand and foot, and cast him into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'- Matt. xxii, 13.
If you were to think of these things, as becomes men that have never dying souls, they would ever be uppermost in your mind.  You would think of them when at labour [sic] in the field or when busy in the house. O, happy would it be for you, if an abiding sense of them would drive you to Christ, the strong hold as a prisoner of hope. But if you should determine to banish all these thoughts because they make you uneasy, and go on dreaming of happiness over the pit of destruction, be assured that your delusion will not last long. Soon death will come, and take you out of this wonder and oh, what sights will you then see! what sounds will you then hear! what anguish will you then feel! You who would not bear to hear of hell, how will you endure the fire that shall never be quenched? O, my brother, it seems to me that you are fast preparing for that place of torment; only think, 27 years, 324 months, 1208 weeks, 9855 days, 136,520 hours, 8,191,200 minutes or 191,472,000 sec's of your precious time are gone, never to return; for time that is gone, is gone forever. How have you spent most of this precious time?   The whole of it I might say has been spent in idleness and intemperance; but this is very wrong, for it is said 'drunkards shall not inherit the kingdom of God.' If you only get drunk and did nothing more, it would not appear very bad; but when you are drunk you will do anything. If you have a thousand dollars, when you become drunk you will soon get rid of it; therefore I say get drunk and you will do anything. If you want to kid a man, get drunk. If you want to fight, get drunk. If you want to be poor, or if you want to be covered with rags, get drunk. If you want to fall out with your best friend, get drunk. if you want to make all your friends and neighbors enemies, get drunk.  If you want to shorten you life, get drunk. I might  mention many other other things; but only think of these, and you will be paid for your trouble. Lastly, if you want to be sure to have your soul go to hell, get drunk, again and again, and continue to become drunk, and it will go there.  Men of this world are destroying their souls fast enough, but those who make a practice of excessive drinking, are going before all others, and if they persist in it they are ruined forever.  It is no wonder that God has published such a threatening as he has. What would a drunkard do in heaven? The spirits of the just are there, and an innumerable company of angels, and God himself, a Being glorious in holiness. If you want to see God, Jesus Christ, and those holy beings in heaven, turn, turn now I say, before you go any further in your intemperate course; for the longer you delay it will be more difficult to turn. Oh, then put it off no longer, for who knows that you will live another month longer, or even another day? The Lord only. Therefore he says 'behold, now is the day of salvation.' If you put it off, the Lord may say to you, as he did to one of old, 'thou fool this night shall thy soul be required of thee.'  Then, O my brother, in hell you will find your soul, as in a moment, when you die, and with the rich man there, lifting up your eyes, and in vain calling for one drop of water to cool your parched tongue.'
Remember my brother, that in a very little time, death and judgment, and eternity, will overtake you. O what haste is death making! There is no pest so swift, there is no messenger so sure, and when he comes, then of all thy unjust gains, for which you have sold your soul and salvation, and of all your sinful pleasures, nothing will remain but the heavy reckoning and a bitter remembrance. Yes, you must stand before the judgment seat of Christ. You must there give an account to him of your stewardship, of your time, your talents, and privileges, and why you employed them for your sinful pleasure and profit, and not for his glory. And when he shall say, 'did I send thee into the world only to get wealth, and to forget thy immortal soul? Did I appoint my sabbaths, to be profaned by you, and give you my word, only to be neglected? Did I give you my laws and coommandments, only to be trampled upon? Did I not send my faithful ministers, to set before you the blessings which my grace provided for the chief of sinners? And still, notwithstanding all this, did you not harden your heart, and go on in the way of your own evil thoughts?' When the awful Judge shall put these questions to your soul, what answer will you be able to give? Will you not be speechless with confusion and self conviction? And will not your heart sink within you when you shall hear him pronounce the awful sentence, 'Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.'
O, that you would listen to glad tidings with a heart warmed with love to that God who has been pleased to manifest such a display of his love to a lost world, as to 'give his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him might not perish, but have everlasting life.'  Though your sins are many, there is yet hope. Jesus the blessed son of God has died, to save the chiefest [sic] of sinners.   Come then and buy salvation without money, and without price. O be entreated by your affectionate brother to turn from your wickedness and live; yes, the Lord says unto you 'turn ye, turn ye, for why will ye die.'
From your affectionate brother,
___________ ____________










INDIANS
From the Connecticut Journal
THE CHEROKEE INDIANS.
A Milledgeville, Geo. paper, the Southron, of the 10th ult. has an article alluding to the bill which has been reported to the House of Representatives of Georgia, providing for the extension of the jurisdiction of the laws of the state to the territory occupied by the Cherokees. 'They are not citizens of the state,' says the editor; 'they are not the owners of the land they occupy. They cannot be subjected to the tax law, to the militia law, or to all the civil laws in force in Georgia.' After instituting the inquiry, how and in what manner the Cherokees can be subjected even to the poll-tax, by extending to them the jurisdiction of the state laws, the editor comes to the point that these Indians are tenets at will; that the federal government can never induce them to relinquish their present possessions, and that the immediate use of coercive measures alone can possibly prevent the total extinction of the Cherokees, who are pressed on all sides by a constantly increasing white population. 'We have,' says the writer, 'a large black population, who consider the Indians very little better than themselves in point of independence to the whites;' and as the Indians associate with the black more freely than with the whites* the discontent and envy of the former (the slaves) will be greatly increased. The summing up of the whole chapter on the Cherokees, is this: They must be driven from the soil for which they have an inherent attachment, and driven at the point of sword and bayonet; for they have no right no title to their present homes.  This is a very summary improvement.  The plan is one that might easily be carried into execution by a few divisions of Georgia militia.
The Cherokees perhaps have doubtless assimilated nearer to the manners and customs of their more favored neighbors than any tribes, who have come in contact with civilization.- The very circumstance of their refusal to migrate hence, while the removal can be effected of tribes less enlightened, is altogether in their favor.  If they have a claim to the lands they hold; if they prefer lands which they have cultivated in some degree, to wild forest lands; and if, in time, they do not choose to remove, they will do well to retain their possessions, and make the most of them. But when the Indians of the south are coerced those of the north must be coerced in like manner; and the same act which forces the Cherokees of Georgia from their present grounds must drive Red Jacket and the Indians of New York, the Six Nations, beyond Lake-Pepin. Why do not the neighboring farmers and editors of New-York, press the unqualified annihilation of their Indians? Is it because they have no slaves? Or is it because they have less courage, that they are less solicitous to draw the sabre upon Red Jacket, then the editor of the Southron to coerce the Indians of his state? It is quite idle, at this time, to talk of coercion.- The plan of extending to the unfortunate aborigines an opportunity to do well, as far as they may be well disposed, would seem to be the part of wisdom, of mercy, and of justice.
We have the remnant of an Indian tribe in an eastern section of our own state. They have the benefit of fertile and beautiful lands upon the Thames. The
Mohegens, for the most part, have but poorly improved the property and privileges, of which they have been left in the undisturbed possession; but their annihilation has, at no time within our recollection, been seriously proposed.  It is true that the most benevolent amongst us cannot confidently hope to see the unstaid, the wandering and beggerly [sic] sons of Uncas, gathered within the pale of regular society. To abandoned depravity, there are, however, exceptions among them.  Many of the Indians of the Six Nations are no better than the worst of ours, but it is doubtful whether the exceptions are not there upon the other score. They have churches, where they assemble for Christian worship; and although philanthropic eyes may be often pained at the sight of the vices of many of them, yet we have never heard it urged by the citizens of New -York, as a matter of philanthropy, to massacre them, and thus divest the soil of incumbrance, as palpable as the forest, which first stood upon the slopes and valleys where the white spires of their churches now point to heaven.
The public has supposed that the lands of the Cherokees, as well as their soil, were susceptible of a degree of cultivation, which should elevate them above all the now mutilated Indian clans of the United States. The difficulty in the way of taxing them, is believed to be imaginary.- Let them be taxed, according to their abilities, and in proportion to the benefit they derive from the protecting laws of the state; and if individuals will not pay their taxes respectively, tax the whole nation of Cherokees, or such parts of them as are obnoxious to the editor of the Southron, or are a bad example to his slaves. There will be sufficient time to make use of violent measures when they offend against the laws. No one will wish the Indians to enjoy privileges, in this respect, which are proscribed to the whites. Let them be instructed, or instruct themselves, in the military act, that they may defend themselves and us, if necessary. If they claim to be represented, let them send a delegate to the National Legislature, as soon as their degree of civilization shall entitle them to such a privilege. This would be more honorable to the country, than to extirpate them vi et amnis, which might possibly be done in an attempt mere to the drive them from the states. If, with all these inducements to improve, and to regenerate from Indians to men, they should finally become extinct, then their blood will not be upon our heads, or the head of the editor of the Southron.
_______________________________
* This cannot be true from the fact that, there are five mulattoes in the State of Georgia where there is one in this Nation, even supposing the slave population in each to be equal. Though the Cherokees have reasons to regret and deeply deplore that, through the example of the surrounding States, the practice of keeping in bondage a part of their fellow beings, has become general among them, they nevertheless can classes, themselves with the thought that, they have not been guilty of the crime of commingling with their slaves.
Ed. Cher. Phoe.










From the Georgian.
GEORGIA AND THE ABORIGINES.
The Treaty At DeWitt's Corner.
Extraordinary incidents continue to attend the progress of the claim of Georgia to the Cherokee country.
In 1821, she remonstrated with the United States against permitting Indians to retain small portions of their own lands as reservations in ceded districts.
In 1827, after seeing the operation of that plan at the Indian Springs, she particularly recommends it to the adoption of Congress.
But yesterday, as it were, Governor Troup claims our lands as a chartered right.  To-day, Governor Forsyth  claims them in right of the sword. Under whatever pretence the claim is advanced, be it chicanery or violence there is no man found to have pity on us; all seem to conspire for the slavery, the banishment or the extinction of our now weak and defenceless (sic) tribe.
In the extract of a letter published in the Georgian of the 17th inst. Governor Forsyth says that the Indians within the United States are depended upon us, because they are a conquered people residing within our sovereignty and in support of this assertion, the Treaty of Dewitt's Corner is advanced. I shall here concisely examine how far this assertion is thus supported.
In the first place this treaty is not to be found among those compiled with the laws of Georgia; which is evidence in itself that the people of that state could not have looked to it as a law for their government-and when examined it can scarcely be considered as entitled to that respect and authority generally awarded to laws and treaties.
It would appear as if it had indeed been made in a corner, for as we have it published, it is without the mention of either interpreter or witness; contrary to the custom of the day, in which it was made.
In the third place, no part of this treaty gives either soil or sovereignty to Georgia; It is said however, that by it the Cherokees ceded them to South Carolina, under whom we claim through the Convention of Beaufort; Those who will take the trouble of consulting that Convention and comparing it with this treaty, will see upon what slight ground or rather pretence a claim to the entire Cherokee Nation within what Georgia calls her limits is made. With any other view such an examination would be superfluous because by this treaty South Carolina herself could not receive a title to the soil or sovereignty of the Cherokee country, and therefore could not transfer it. The documents published shew (sic) that it should have been a treaty of Peace; and not of cession, and should have been made upon just and equitable terms. The words of the commission are to 'conclude a peace with the Cherokee Nation, upon such terms as may be just and equitable.' It is therefore, in the fourth place, invalid on this account, and in the fifth place, it is invalid because the Cherokee full power, contains just as little authority to give, as that of South Carolina did to receive, a title to the soil and sovereignty of the country. But sixthly, if there had been full powers from both parties, it is void because such terms were unjust and without equity.

The declared object too, was to make such conditions as would be likely to re-establish peace and friendship between the parties assembled. Let the world judge whether the terms of this treaty as now construed, comported with that object. Finally, the historian of Georgia has mentioned it only as a treaty of mere pacification. His words are (vol 2d. page 85) 'a Treaty was afterwards held at Dewitt's Corner, in South Carolina, at which the Commissioners of Georgia attended, who concurred in and signed the articles of pacification.'
No doubt that if this treaty and its accompanying documents, were submitted to the examination of some of the pale-faced scribes, they would find further defects in it.
OUTALASSI.










An intelligent gentleman, who has resided sometime in this Territory and in a situation where he had good opportunity for observing the character and feelings of the Indians which the Government is collecting on our western frontier, is decidedly of opinion that a General Superintendent of Indian Affairs should be appointed for this Territory. In a note to us, he ways-
'The immense access of Indian population to the Territory, and its eventual increase ought to excite the liveliest attention of Government to the devisement (sic) of such means as are calculated to secure their interests and promote the advancement of civilization among them. Of these, the first and most prominent is, I conceive, the appointment of some honest, trustworthy individual, empowered to exercise a general and immediate supervisal over the ordinary Agents. General CLARK who now exercises that power, is placed at too remote a distance and, from his multifarious duties on the Missouri and Upper Mississippi, is too much engaged to devote the necessary attention to the interests of this Territory.'










The Cherokees.- We understand that considerable excitement and alarm exists at this time among the Cherokees in this Territory which has been caused by a late forcible wresting of property from them by some of their white neighbors.  It appears, that a number of negroes were found in the possession of some of the Cherokees, who are alleged to have belonged to a man who was murdered and robbed by a party of that nation on the Tennessee River, upwards of 30 years ago. Some of the identical negroes who were stolen, it is alleged are among them, and the others claimed are said to be the descendants of those who were stolen. A citizen of Crawford County has set up a claim to them, either by purchase, or otherwise; and recently, without any legal process, proceeded with a party of men to the nation, and forcibly seized and carried off eight of them. This arbitrary proceeding has produced great sensation among the Indians who are apprehensive that it is only a prelude to other similar aggressions. Some of them, we understand, keep a close watch over their property, and declare their intention of protecting it with their lives; but we have not heard of their making any threats of endeavoring to retake the property which has been forcibly wrested from them. They will demand its restitution of the government, and if their claim is a just one, we hope and trust that the property will be restored to them. We know nothing of the validity of the adverse claim which has been set up to it, but we are clearly of opinion that, whether it be valid or invalid, the step taken to get possession of it is irregular and illegal.- Measures, we understand, are in a train, for placing the property in safe hands until such time as a legal investigation shall adjudge it to its rightful owners.- Ark. Gaz.










An intelligent gentleman, who has resided sometime in this Territory and in a situation where he had good opportunity for observing the character and feelings of the Indians which the Government is collecting on our western frontier, is decidedly of opinion that a General Superintendent of Indian Affairs should be appointed for this Territory. In a note to us, he says-
'The immense access of Indian population to the Territory, and its eventual increase ought to excite the liveliest attention of Government to the devisement (sic) of such means as are calculated to secure their interests and promote the advancement of civilization among them. Of these, the first and most prominent is, I conceive, the appointment of some honest, trustworthy individual, empowered to exercise a general and immediate supervisal over the ordinary Agents. General CLARK who now exercises that power, is placed at too remote a distance and, from his multifarious duties on the Missouri and Upper Mississippi, is too much engaged to devote the necessary attention to the interests of this Territory.'










Completion of the Cherokee line.- It will be seen by the Proclamation of the Acting Governor of this Territory, published in a subsequent column, that MR. CRITTENDEN has received 'satisfactory information' that the surveying of the line from Fort Smith to the southwest corner of Missouri was completed on the 19th November last; and that all persons, not forming a pact of the Cherokee Nation, are ordered to remove from the country ceded to the Cherokees within the term of 90 days from the date of the Proclamation (7th inst.)
The 'satisfactory information' on which Mr. Crittenden has thought proper to issue his Proclamation, we understand, was derived from the certificate or deposition of one of the CHAIN CARRIERS to the Surveyor who was appointed to run the line-the Surveyor having declined giving any certificate himself.- Ark. Gaz.










NEW ECHOTA:
Wednesday, Feb. 11, 1829
To Christian Readers. We have for sometime been impressed with the importance of engaging the sympathies and prayers of the Christian community for the Indians, particularly for the Cherokee.- We now, at this time, especially need the prayers of God's people- The present period is an interesting one with us. We are on one side encouraged by the consideration that our religions and moral improvement is progressing; on the other, we have all reason to think that measures are in operation, whose tendency is to defeat this improvement. Every true Christian will desire that the happy work commenced among the Cherokees may ultimately be accomplished. This work, God will certainly accomplish through the instrumentality of his people.- by means of earnest and effectual prayer.
But our intention is not to lecture our Christian friends- All what we want is their prayers. We earnestly wish them to replicate the throne of grace for the Cherokees. We desire them to pray that the hearts of the members of the General Government may be turned into kindness- and that religion, education, and the various arts of civilized life may be made to prosper and flourish. Are not these objects worthy of prayer? Do they not now particularly demand the attention of Christians? 'Brethren pray for us.'
____________________________
Our neighbours (sic), we are told, are still flocking in and possessing the land. Many of the most notorious members of the 'Poney (sic) club' are no doubt foremost in this business. Instead of stealing, they have commenced shooting our citizen's horses and cattle. The most expeditious way to remove us would be to let loose such a community upon us. But would it be honorable for the State of Georgia to effect her purpose in this manner?- We hear it stated, (we hear it will turn out to be a fact) that the Sub-Agent has been despatched to forewarn these intruders from their unlawful proceedings. Whether they will listen to his talk, is more than we can tell.
_______________________________
A correspondent informs us that, there are about twelve families who have enlisted as emigrants in Creek Path. He asks, 'are they people of good ' fair standing?' and answers in the negative, as respects most of them.  Others may be considered 'somewhat respectable.' From what we have been informed heretofore, we are inclined to think our correspondent not far from the truth. We have seen but two families who have agreed to pass the Mississippi and if these form a good specimen of the whole, it certainly will not redound to the credit of the government to remove them. For what is the motive which induced them to remove? Certainly not to better their condition, for they have had ample room here to do well. 'It is,' our correspondent remarks 'a craving desire to survey the wilderness near the Rocky Mountains with three or four deer skins slung to their backs.' If the object of this emigrating scheme is to make us a nation of hunters and warriors, or in other words, to reduce us back to where we were 40 years ago, we confess that it is a very judicious plan. But if its objects are our civilization and christianization, we are yet to learn in what way these are to be effected. If the Cherokees, we mean that body of the nation, are ever removed, they will have to be removed against their wish. And what man is there who will do well and improve when he is driven by necessity and does a thing reluctantly? The case would be different if the Government would propose a fair exchange of countries, that is, if the country now intended to be given to the Cherokees was in every respect as desirable as this, and they would emigrate peaceable, ' willingly, and as a body, and carry with them their internal affairs and all their means of improvement. In such a case, we should consider it our duty to be silent.
________________________________
The writer of the following letter is a member of the Mission School at Hightower. We hope the example here set will be imitated in other places.
HIGHTOWER, Feb. 6, 1829.
MESSRS. WORCESTER ' BOUDINOTT,
I am requested to inform you that the Female D. M. Society in this place have sent by Epenetus, Six Dollars, for the purpose of purchasing Cherokee Hymn Books for distribution in the Valley Town.  He will give you the money and we hope you will let him have the amount in Books, as above. Yours respectfully,
MARY ROWE.
______________________________










Deaths in the U. States Army.-- Of the deaths in the U. S. Army the last year, one fifth were caused by the use of Ardent Spirits, and yet Congress refuses to take any measure on the suggestion of Mr. Sprague of Maine, to prevent strong drink being given to the soldiers except as medicine.
Why should not government use the power entrusted to it, to arrest the ravages of this infectious disease, among those who are in its employment.
_______________________________
North Carolina Banks.- After a debate of several days, in which great ability was displayed, and in which much abuse was cast upon these institutions and their Directors, Mr. Potter has so far succeeded in his design of putting down the Banks, as to have obtained the passage of his bill on its first reading, 65 votes to 54, directing the Attorney General of the State to institute prosecutions against them. But though this bill has passed its first reading, several of the members who voted for it, said they did so for the purpose of seeing whether the bill could not be made less objectionable on its second reading which was made the order of the day for yesterday.










CHEROKEE PHOENIX
And Indians' Advocate
THE SUBSCRIBER commenced the duties of his station, as editor of this paper, with a trembling hand and a reluctant heart. He had no experience to aid him, and but limited information to recommend him to the public. He has however progressed so far, generally to the satisfaction of his readers, for which he is thankful. As the first volume of the Phoenix is on the eve of closing, the editor has thought best to apprize the public that a new volume will be commenced next month, and that the great object of its founders, the benefit of the Cherokees, will still be assiduously pursued. It is unnecessary to repeat and particularize the principles under which the future numbers of the Phoenix will be conducted.- The principles will be similar to those which have governed the past numbers. The paper is sacred to the cause of Indians, and the editor will feel himself especially bound as far as his time, talents, and information will permit, to render it as instructive and entertaining as possible to his brethren, and endeavor to enlist the friendly feelings and sympathies of his subscribers abroad, in favor of the aborigines.
As the present policy of the General Government, the removal of all the Indians beyond the limits of organized States or territories, is assuming an important aspect, the editor will feel himself bound to lay before his readers all that may be said on this subject, particularly the objections against this measure of the Government.
Particular attention will be given to judicious miscellany. Choice pieces on religion and morals, domestic economy 'c. will find a ready admittance in the Phoenix.
The original part of the paper will be rendered as interesting as the means of the editor will allow. Owing to a want of an assistant, it is impossible to devote a large portion of the paper to the Cherokee language as the whole must be original- The editor will however do what he can.
The friends of Indians are particularly called upon to assist in this undertaking by their subscriptions. Thus far, the Phoenix has been a dead expense to the proprietors. It is highly desirable that there should be sufficient patronage to secure it from the like pecuniary embarrassment in future.
ELIAS BOUDINOTT.
Editors who exchange with the Phoenix will do us a special
favor by inserting the above in their papers.


















BIOGRAPHICAL
From the Christian Advocate and Journal.
NASHVILLE, Dec. 22, 1828.
Dear Brethren: At the late session of the Tennessee Conference, I was requested to prepare for publication in the Advocate and Journal, the memoir of brother Neeley. In compliance with that request I submit the following brief and imperfect obituary, embracing a few event s of his short but useful life.
Your brother in Christ.
ROBERT PAINE.
RICHARD NEELEY, whose name must ever be dear to the friends of missions among the American aborigines was born of reputable parents in Rowan County, North Carolina on January 18, 1802. While he was yet young his parents removed to Rutherford on Tennessee. At ten years of age he lost his mother, not, however before she had taught him the truths of Christianity, and impressed upon his mind, in some degree, their great importance.
On the 20th of August, 1819, he professed religion at a camp meeting, became a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and at once commenced his useful career. He was licensed to exhort the 30th of April, 1821, and in the following September was licensed to preach and recommend for admission on trial in the Tennessee Annual Conference.
His first appointment was to Jackson circuit, where in 1822 he labored acceptably and with success. Fired with apostolical zeal, his labors were not confined to his regular circuit appointments; but crossing the Tennessee River he obtained a preaching place in the Cherokee Nation of Indians, at brother Richard Riley's where he preached every round, and raised a society of thirty-three natives.  This was the last regular preaching the Methodists ever attempted, ' the last society they ever founded in the nation and this was the origin of the most successful mission now in the United States. Richard Neeley, a boy, was the instrument!
The ensuing year he travelled Wayne circuit.  In the fall of 1823 he was appointed to succeed Andrew Crawford, as missionary and teacher of the school established the year previously at Creek Path, in the Cherokee Nation. He was in a situation for which he was admirably qualified. His mild and gently manners, his piety, zeal, and profound devotion to the spiritual interest of the Cherokees secured to him their unbounded esteem and confidence.
The same enterprising spirit of ministerial benevolence which first impelled him to visit the Cherokees across the Tennessee River, still marked his course, and he frequently made tours into all the Indian settlements, declaring to all 'Jesus and the resurrection.'  These visits were of great importance for two reasons.- First, it awakens the natives to inquire into the subject of religion.- Secondly, they exhibited the practicability of forming and travelling circuits in the nation by most successful commencement. In conversation with his presiding elder, brother M'Mahon, on the subject of forming and traveling a circuit, about this time, he remarked with evident feeling, after having reflected awhile on the untired experiment, that 'he was willing to devote his life to the mission cause among the Cherokees,' and that 'if one were formed he would willingly travel it.'
At the next Tennessee Conference he was appointed to form and travel Wills Valley circuit, lying altogether in the nation.  On this circuit he was continued the second year; so sensible were the conference of his usefulness and qualifications for this very responsible work. This circuit led him across the lofty Lookout and Raccoon Mountains.  After travelling all day through the pathless woods, often did he lie down in the solitary wild and wrap himself up in his saddle blanket for the night; the lofty firmament his roof- his bed the cold earth. Many deep and dangerous streams he was compelled to swim, and in a word, he passed the difficulties peculiar to such a state of society with patience and gladness to hunt up the lost and scattered over these dark and hitherto desolate regions.
But our youthful soldier in the missionary cause was destined to an early grave. These unremitting labors and excessive exposures were too heavy for his tender frame. The giant spirit within tenanted a house of clay. 'The spirit was willing but the flesh was weak.' And like a young but lofty tree covered with foliage, flowers, and fruits, suddenly becomes blighted and begins to wither; so our beloved brother sunk under these exertions, and in the midst of present and promised usefulness began very perceptibly to fall into a decline.
At the succeeding conference he was compelled to take a supernumerary relation. He still lived and labored in the nation acceptably and usefully, though it was evident his bodily powers were prostrated. At the conference of 1827 he was superinnuated (sic); indeed he was then, and had been for some time, at the grave's mouth. He presented his sermon, which was his farewell address to the Cherokees, in the fall of 1827. He preached in great pain, and was almost all the time bathed in tears. He attended preaching but once after the preachers returned from conference.
It now became obvious to all that his final hour was hastening on; but he never ceased to warn and exhort, to admonish or stimulate, as their cases required, all that came in his way.- On the 15th January, he was taken in a carriage in search of medical aid.- He arrived at Dr. Wright's near Knoxville, on the 19th, very much exhausted. There he remained, still rapidly sinking until the 2d February, 1828, when his spirit took its flight for eternity. On receiving a letter the day before his death from one of the missionaries, he rejoiced considerably, ' just before he died, observed to his wife, (a Cherkee) (sic) that he loved her next to God ' if it were the will of God he would like to recover his health that he might preach Jesus to his dear Cherokee friends; but that he was resigned, and was not afraid to die.' The last words he ever articulated were 'Heaven is a better place than this.'
Thus lived and died our beloved brother Richard Neeley. His understanding sound and clear. His person small, neat, and handsome: his piety pure and deep: his course consistent, and his ministerial career very successful. His memory is inscribed upon the affectionate hearts of his brethren in the ministry, and a thousands of grateful Cherokees have treasured up his name as embodying all that is noble in man or pure in life. Sweet is his savour (sic)! And while the majestic Tennessee shall roll its mighty flood to the ocean, or the towering Lookout lift its head amidst the clouds of heaven, so long shall the missionary register, in revealing the progress of the Cross over heathen lands, bear upon its faithful page the name of 'RICHARD NEELEY,the apostle of Methodism to the Cherokees, and a martyr in the cause of God.'










INDIANS
MISSIONS OF THE AMERICAN BOARD AMONG THE INDIANS.
Abstracted from the Missionary Herald for the New York Observer.
CHEROKEES.- Among the Cherokees there are seven churches, embracing 159 members,- and 174 children in the schools. More than 100 of the scholars reside in the mission families, perform various kinds of labor, and are trained up like the children of Christian parents. About 150 have left the school at Brainerd alone, most of them having made considerable advance in knowledge.
The Cherokee Phoenix, a weekly paper, was commenced in February last. Many portions of Scripture, in the alphabet of Guess, have appeared in it. Mr. Worcester is now prosecuting the study of the language for the purpose of preparing school books, portions of Scripture, and other religious Tracts for the people.
The following general remark, taken from the nineteenth Report, in worthy of notice:
It is an unexampled fact, that in some places, nearly all the adult population, and in the tribe at large, more than one-half, are actually capable of reading their own language, in their own peculiar character, having learned from small manuscripts, and without ever having become acquainted with any other alphabet, or possessed a single page of a printed book in any language.
CHICKASAWS.- (Three words are indistinguishable) there is a church of 65 members. The people in the vicinity of whom there are 800 within ten miles have been greatly reformed. There are several instances of remarkable piety, and many are exceedingly anxious to hear the Gospel. Much seriousness prevails still. At Martyn there has been of late much serious attention to preaching, and four or five have been hopefully converted. There are five schools at different stations, three of which comprise an aggregate of 64 scholars.
CHOCTAWS.- Four Choctaws are now members of the church at Mayhew, and 18 other persons residing in the nation, or in the neighboring white settlements, who have been hopefully converted through the influence of the mission. Thirteen have joined the church while employed as laborers at the station. It is hoped that a few Choctaws who have not joined the church are pious. Many of the people manifest anxiety to hear the Gospel. The prospects of the mission, especially in the North-East part of the nation, are thought to be more favorable now, than at any former period.
There are eight schools taught at the mission stations. The whole number of pupils which have attended them during the past year is more than 170. The average number 149. Of these, 120 read the Bible, about 90 write, and 40 are attending to each of the studies, English, composition, geography and arithmetic.
The first year after the station at Mayhew was formed, there were about 20 murders committed within a few miles of it, in consequence of intoxication, and 10 lives were lost from the same cause in 1825.  Within the last two years only one death has occurred, in consequence of intoxication, and that a case of accidental drowning. Severe laws have been made against the introduction of whiskey, and in some parts of the nation are vigorously enforced. Several Chiefs and Captains have been put out of office for misconduct on this subject.
CHEROKEES OF THE ARKANSAS.- The church at Dwight now contains 14 native members in good standing. The whole number received is 101 of whom three have died in the faith.  The congregation there generally exceeds 100. At Mulberry from 50 to 100. There is stated preaching once in three or four weeks, at seven other villages; and the congregations vary from 20 to 120. At one of these villages the people have erected a meeting house, and there is not a family in which there is not someone who is hopefully pious. All these preaching places have been established at the solicitation of the Cherokees; and more requests of this kind are made than can be complied with.
The boarding school at Dwight contains 60 scholars, and many applications for admission to it are declined. Many of the scholars have made uncommon proficiency.  At Mulberry more than 30 scholars attend daily, all boarded by their friends. The latter station was formed at the repeated solicitations of the Cherokees, who erected the school-house and the teacher's house themselves, and furnished the provisions for his family.
OSAGES.- No Osages have been received into the churches, nor have any given satisfactory evidence of piety. The wandering habits of the people, their utter ignorance of all the arts of life, their poverty and moral debasement, and the want of competent interpreters, have hitherto rendered the communication of divine truth to them intelligibly very difficult. There are two boarding schools, to which 161 children have been admitted. The one at Union now contains 35 scholars, and that at Harmony 39. Most who have left the schools were compelled to do so by their friends. Many of them had learned to read the Testament, and perform various kinds of useful labor.  The children while in school make good progress.
MAUMEE INDIANS IN OHIO.- More than 40 scholars have enjoyed the advantages of this school, of whom seven have become hopefully pious; and several of them sustain a character for industry and enterprise.  Hiram Thurbault and a brother have worked the last year, faithfully and without compensation, on the mission services to the family. The school now contains 22 scholars, with the prospect of enlargement.
Mackinaw.- The number of scholars in the schools, including those who live in the village of Mackinaw, is 157, of the boarding scholars, 125. The scholars have been collected from a great variety of places about Lake Huron, Michigan and Superior, and some of them from near Hudson's Bay ' the Rocky Mountains. They are bound by legal indentures to the mission with the sanction of the civil authorities of the place, to be at the direction of the mission family, to continue in the school, and to learn agriculture and the mechanic arts, for a specified number of years. Their progress is very encouraging. Eight or then of them have become hopefully pious.
TUSCARORAS AND SENECAS.- The church at Tuscarora consists of 14 native members; at Seneca, of 49; at Cattaraugus 23, in all 86.  There has been a great increase of attention to religion within the last two years; within which time the church at Cattaraugus has been formed and that at Seneca much enlarged. The congregation at the latter place is about 200; at the former about 100. A meeting house has been built, or is building, at the expense of the Indians, at each of the three stations.
The school at Tuscarora contains about 25 scholars; the Sabbath School, 30; many of whom can read in the Testament. At Seneca, 184 scholars have been in the school, whose average attendance has been two years. The present number 70, most of whom are boarded in the mission family.  There is also a flourishing Sabbath School for the children and one for the adults, who are taught to read their own language in translations prepared by the missionaries. The school at Cattaraugus contains about 30 scholars, who board at the station, at the expense of their parents. The Indians have erected a building for a school-house and boarding-house for the children. Contributions to a considerable amount are made among the Senecas to aid the mission.
GENERAL REMARK.
Mr Kingsbury, who has been personally and practically acquainted with the missions of the Board among the Indians from their commencement says: From all my observations of late, among Indians of different tribes, I am impressed with the idea that there never has been a time since missions were established among them, when the Indians were so generally disposed to receive the instructions and assistance of missionaries as of present, and when there was so fair a prospect that missionary labors among them would be blessed, as the means of permanent good. I would add, however, that if the Christian public are resolved, by the blessing of God, to extend the influence of the Gospel, and civilization over the heathen tribes of our land, they must calculate that it will cost a great deal of money, and they must be willing to wait long for the result.










From the Missionary Herald
CHICKASAWS
 Extract from a letter of Mr. Holmes dated 13th of Oct. 1828.
An account of the revival at Monroe, communicated by Mr. Stuart, was inserted in the number for September, of the last volume.  Tokshish, the place at which Mr. Holmes resides, is only a short distance from Monroe. There is but one church at the two stations, and the meetings on the Sabbath are held at one place.
Continued Attention to Religion
'A week ago yesterday, we again had the privilege of commemorating the sufferings and death of our Lord Jesus Christ.  Messrs. Blair and Byington were with us on the occasion. Four colored persons, who give satisfactory evidence of a change of heart were admitted to the privileges of the church; making the number of professors exclusive of the missionaries amount, if I mistake not, to 63. Several other persons are under deep seriousness. All our meetings were well attended, and some of them, particularly the evening meetings at Tokshish, were crowded, and intensely solemn. The Spirit of God has appeared to be in a special manner present, arresting the attention of sinners (two or three words indistinguishable) Christians to pray with unusual fervency. Mr. Byington remained here until Thursday, and spent the three days in visiting the Indians, and holding the meetings.- We were encouraged to find them almost without an exception, listen attentively to the Gospel. I frequently preach through an interpreter to different places; and am always interested, but my time is very much divided.
There has been no particular change in the school since my last.- The number of boarders remains the same, and those who attend from the neighborhood are very punctual.
Proceedings of the Chiefs
The white men and Indians selected to explore the country west of Missouri and Arkansas, have commenced their tour. The Indians generally are in the greatest suspense.- They have no confidence in each other, particularly on such an occasion as this. The people are unanimous in their opposition to a removal.'
This step was taken on account of a proposal made by the Government of the United States to the Chickasaws and Choctaws, to exchange their lands in the State of Mississippi, for lands lying west and north of the State of Missouri. These two tribes consented to send a delegation of their own people, in company with some white men in whom they could place confidence, to look at the proposed new lands, and report whether the exchange would be expedient.
'The nation has recently formed some wholesome laws, and to our astonishment they are strictly enforced. Whiskey is banished from the country. A thief is punished with thirty lashes, without regard to color, age, or sex, and is compelled to return the stolen property or an equivalent. One hundred men (twenty-five out of each district) are to carry the laws into execution, and are paid by the nation.
These things are encouraging, and I see nothing in the way, if these people are unmolested, of their becoming civilized, enlightened, and happy.
The work of reformation is already commenced; and if they could but enjoy tranquility of mind, I have no doubt but that it would rapidly advance.'










INDIAN CLANS
Most of our readers probably know what is meant by Indian clans. It is not more than a division of an Indian tribe into large families. We believe this custom is universal with the north American Indians. Among the Cherokees acre seven clans, such as Wolf, Deer, Paint, 'c. This simple division of the Cherokees formed the grand work by which marriages were regulated,and murder punished. A Cherokee could marry into any of the clans except two, that to which his father belongs, or all of that clan are his fathers and aunts, and that to which his mother belongs, for all of that clan are his brothers and sisters, a chid invariably inheriting the clan of its mother. This custom which originated from tie immemorial was observed with the greatest strictness. No law could be guarded and enforced with equal caution. I times past, the penalty annexed to it was not less than death. But it has scarcely, perhaps never been violated, except within a few years. Now it is invaded with impunity, though not to an equal extent with other customs of the Cherokees.
But it was the mutual law of clans as connected with murder,which rendered the custom savage and barbarous. We speak of what it was once,not as it is now,for the Cherokees, after experiencing sad effects fro it, determined to, and did about twenty years ago in a solemn council, abolished it. From that time, murder has been considered a governmental crime. Previous to that,the following were too palpably true, viz;
The Cherokee as a nation, had nothing to do with murder.
Murder was punished upon the principle of retaliation.
It belonged to the clan of the murdered to revenge his death.
If the murderer fled, his brother or nearest relative was liable to suffer i his stead.
If a man killed his brother, he was amenable to no law or clan.
If the murderer (this however is known only by tradition ) was not as respectable as the murdered, his relative, or a man of his clan of a more respectable standing was liable to suffer.
To kill, under any circumstance whatever, was considered murder,and punished accordingly.
Our readers will say, 'those were savage laws indeed.' They were, and the Cherokees were then to be pitied for the above were not mere inoperative laws, but most rigorously executed. but we can not way with pleasure, that they are all repealed, and are remembered only as vestiges of ignorance and barbarism.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, FEB.18, 1829.
NATIONAL ACADEMY.
Sometime ago we inserted a short notice as an advertisement, headed NEW ECHOTA ACADEMY. From this circumstance some of our friends have fallen into an error, in supposing that the NATIONAL ACADEMY had commenced its operation. The notice above referred to, was calculated to deceive those who knew that it had been the intention of the authorities of the nation to establish such an institution.
A Seminary of a respectable grade, such as one as was contemplated to be established in this place, is very much needed among us. We still hope that something will be done towards it. If the interest of the avails of the reservation expressly devoted to the support of education among the Cherokees, and which will probably be sold next fall, was laid out in the establishment and support of the contemplated Academy, we believe it would meet the wish of the nation. The nation has not otherwise any means of supporting it.- The power of applying the school fund in question, we believe is left, according to a treaty stipulation, with the President of the United States. He will no doubt be willing to gratify the wishes of his Cherokee children, more so as the funds properly belong to them.
We consider it high time for this nation to do something for themselves in encouraging and supporting education .  We are glad, however, to testify to the public, that there is a commendable disposition in this respect in a large portion of our citizens.- The Cherokees as a nation have had sufficient time to learn and appreciate the advantages of knowledge; for what else distinguishes them from their brethren? What but a larger share of information makes them more respected? It becomes every citizen then, particularly every ruler, as a guardian of the nation's welfare, to do his utmost endeavor to forward education.  It is this which will ensure respect.  It is this which will preserve us from the common burial place of Indians-oblivion, in which many tribes are forgotten, ' to which many would suppose us to be hastening.
INDIAN CLANS
Most of our readers probably know what is meant by Indian clans. It is not more than a division of an Indian tribe into large families. We believe this custom is universal with the north American Indians. Among the Cherokees acre seven clans, such as Wolf, Deer, Paint, 'c. This simple division of the Cherokees formed the grand work by which marriages were regulated,and murder punished. A Cherokee could marry into any of the clans except two, that to which his father belongs, or all of that clan are his fathers and aunts, and that to which his mother belongs, for all of that clan are his brothers and sisters, a chid invariably inheriting the clan of its mother.  This custom which originated from tie immemorial was observed with the greatest strictness. No law could be guarded and enforced with equal caution. I times past, the penalty annexed to it was not less than death. But it has scarcely, perhaps never been violated, except within a few years. Now it is invaded with impunity, though not to an equal extent with other customs of the Cherokees.
But it was the mutual law of clans as connected with murder,which rendered the custom savage and barbarous. We speak of what it was once,not as it is now,for the Cherokees, after experiencing sad effects fro it, determined to, and did about twenty years ago in a solemn council, abolished it. From that time, murder has been considered a governmental crime. Previous to that,the following were too palpably true, viz;
The Cherokee as a nation, had nothing to do with murder.
Murder was punished upon the principle of retaliation.
It belonged to the clan of the murdered to revenge his death.
If the murderer fled, his brother or nearest relative was liable to suffer i his stead.
If a man killed his brother, he was amenable to no law or clan.
If the murderer (this however is known only by tradition ) was not as respectable as the murdered, his relative, or a man of his clan of a more respectable standing was liable to suffer.
To kill, under any circumstance whatever, was considered murder,and punished accordingly.
Our readers will say, 'those were savage laws indeed.' They were, and the Cherokees were then to be pitied for the above were not mere inoperative laws, but most rigorously executed. but we can not way with pleasure, that they are all repealed, and are remembered only as vestiges of ignorance and barbarism.










FOR SALE
A SMALL PONEY (sic) for CASH or on a liberal credit. For information inquire of THE PRINTER.


















INDIANS
From the Mobile (Alab.) Commercial Register.
We learn from Tuscusoosa(sic), that a Bill is in its passage in the Senate, to lay off the Indian territory, embraced within the geographical limits of the State, into Counties; to extend and exercise jurisdiction over it-to tax every person who resides in it, (Indians of course,) compel them to work on roads, 'c.
We are aware that our notions on this subject are somewhat old fashioned, but as an excuse for not keeping pace with our now fledged politicians, in their innovations upon usages that are associated with all that is dear to the heart of an American Patriot, we subjoin an extract from the Constitution of the State, and should be extremely gratified to learn how our 'most potent, grave and reverend' Senators are going to dispose of it.- We will promise, however, that in the year 1819 the Congress of the United States passed an act admitting the Territory of Alabama to the privileges of a State, on the condition named in the ordinance of Congress of the 12th July, 1787 for the government of the western territory of the United States, the third article of which declares-
'That the utmost good faith shall always be observed towards the Indians; their lands and property shall never be taken from them without their consent- and in their property, right, and liberty, they shall never be invaded or disturbed, unless in just and lawful, wars, authorized by Congress.'
The extract from the Constitution to which we have reference is in the following words:-
'This committee for and in behalf of the people inhabiting this State also accept the proposition offered by the Act of Congress, under which they are assembled, and this convention for and in behalf of the people inhabiting this State, do ordain agree, and declare that they forever disclaim all right or title to the waste or unappropriated lands lying within this State, and that the same shall be and remain at the sole and entire disposition of the United States; and moreover, that each and every tract of land sold by the United States, after the first of September next, shall be and remain exempt from any tax laid by order or under the authority of this State, wheather (sic) for state, county, township, parish, or any other purpose whatever for the term of five years, from and after the respective days of the sale thereof; and that no tax shall be imposed on lands the property of the United States.'










MORE INDIAN MURDERS.
The following is an extract of a letter to the Editor, from a respectable citizen of Miller County dated 16th inst.
'With deep concern, I have to inform you of more Indian hostilities.' A Mr. Whitesides has just returned from a trip to the Comanche country. His company, four in number, were all killed! Mr. JOEL DYER, of Hempstead County was among the number. The Indians commenced trading with them in a seeming friendly manner, but soon Mr. Whitesides made his escape by leaping down a high bluff and concealed himself in a thicket, until night, when he returned, and saw the bodies of his murdered companions. He picked up a few scraps of meat (having no gun), on which he subsisted sparingly ten days, after which he was five days without any provisions before he reached our settlements.
'These prairie Indians doubtless intend making war on the white inhabitants of this frontier, which is greatly exposed; and it is to be feared that much damage will be done in the spring if not sooner, unless the government increase the force at Cantonment Towson. It is really singular that it has been so long neglected.'
Ark. Gaz.










INDIAN WAR- Information of hostile designs on the part of the Pawnee Indians was published sometime since. We learn now, says the Missouri Republican, from Major Hamtramck, who has arrived in this city from his Agency in the Osage Nation, that the news of the successful operations of the Camanches and Pawnee Picks, on the Santa Fe Road, had been spread through the neighboring tribes, and aroused the whole to some daring action. Runners had been passing between the Camanches, Arapahos, Pawnee Picks, and Kiamechis, for the purpose of spreading the excitement, maturing plans and forming a concentration of forces. It is supposed they will watch the Santa Fe Road, and in the event of finding nothing on it, our frontier may suffer. Major Hamtramck is of opinion, from evidence in his possession, that Mr. Means of Franklin was killed, and his companions robbed by the Pawnee Picks. General Atkinson has, we understand, received orders to afford protection to our frontiers. The Osages have volunteered the services of from 800 to 1000 warriors which the government have accepted in the event of the Generals receiving an auxiliary force of Osages. The Osages are disciplined in that Pawnee mode of warfare, and intimately acquainted with the topography of their country.










Valuation of Cherokee Improvements.- We understand, that the Secretary of War has appointed Maj. E. W. Du Val, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Cherokee Indians; Rev. Alfred Finney, late of Dwight Mission in the Cherokee Nation; and Rudford Ellis, Esq. of Conway County, to be Appraisers for the purpose of viewing and appraising the improvements owned by the Cherokee Indians in the country which that Nation ceded to the United States, by the late Treaty. The Appraisers, we understand will immediately proceed to execute the trust reposed in them.
___ Id. (Ark. Gaz.)










LATE INDIAN TREATIES.- Several Treaties with the Indians have lately been ratified by the Senate, by which important cessions of land have been obtained. For a tract on the Mississippi, Ouisconsin, 'c. the United States, are to pay $20,000 in goods; for another, bordering on Lake Michigan, a perpetual annuity of $2,000 and an additional one of $1,000 for 20 years besides a present payment of $30,000 in goods, and $10,000 in goods, and $5,000 in specie in 1839, 'c.  One thousand dollars per annum is to be expended for the purposes of education.










NEW ECHOTA
Wednesday, Feb. 25, 1829
An attempt is made by the authorities of Georgia to establish a legal right to that part of this Nation lying south of a line commencing at Suwanna Old Town, to Six's (sic) on the Hightower, and down said river to the chartered line of Georgia and Alabama. The claim rests simply upon the following: It is contended that the line above described was once the boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks- that the new boundary line between these two nation of Indians has never been ratified or recognized by the United States Government, of course it is null and void- and that, as the whole chartered limits of Georgia in the Creek Nation was ceded to the United States, in what is commonly called the Old Treaty, that part of the Cherokee Nation now contended for, was included. It appears that the Governor was authorized by the legislature to have testimony on this subject collected, and if he thought the evidence was sufficient to establish the claim, to take possession of the country- by force of course. The Milledgeville Journal of 30th ult. contains a summary of the evidence collected by Col. Wales of Habersham, who was deputed for that purpose. The reader will form a correct opinion of the nature of the testimony from the following:
Jacob R. Brooks, of De Kalb, states that he has resided on the Chattahoochee since 1819, and had a transient residence there some time previous- recollects conversing with natives and citizens of the Cherokee Nation about their boundary, and always, till 1821, understood that the line commenced at Suwanna old town on the Chattahoochee, and ran on thence to a Creek called Nah-Kulsee(dividing line) thence down the said creek to the Hightower River, near Sixas Old Town, and down said river to the mouth of Wills Creek.- Has understood that in 1821, an arrangement was made between the chiefs of the two tribes, by which their line was removed, so as to commence at a point 50 miles lower down on the Chattahoochee, called the Buzzard Roost, and from thence to the mouth of Wills Creek- That there was no white man present when the last line was run- has never understood that it was ratified or recognised (sic) by the government of the United States.

Isham Williams, of Gwinnet, was living at the Hog Mountain for some time before the treaty of 1817 with the Cherokees- has understood from those who had become citizens of the Cherokee Nation by marriage, that the dividing line between the two nations, was an old trail crossing the Chattahoochee at Suwanna Old Town, and running on, and striking the Hightower River at a place called Sixas Old Town.
After inserting a string of similar, and all hearsay evidence, the Journal says._
Such is the testimony collected by Col. Wales and it surely is quite enough to establish the fact that the true line between the two nations is as described in the evidence.
Undoubtedly, if a man may be allowed to be a judge in his own case, and to decide without hearing evidence pro and con.
The facts as connected with this subject, we believe, are these. Previous to the establishment of the present line commencing from the Buzzard Roost to the mouth of Wills Creek, there was no established boundary between the Cherokees and Creeks. The Creeks to be sure claimed once as far north as the Hightower, but this was no evidence that they were correct, for the Cherokees claimed as far south of the present line. To avoid misunderstanding and disputes, a convention was held, composed of commissioners of both nations. It was sometime before they could agree, but finally the present boundary line was established in the satisfaction of both parties. In this transaction the Creeks did not cede any lands to the Cherokees, nor the Cherokees to the Creeks, but merely defined the extent of their claims.  We do not see why it was necessary for the U. States Government to ratify or recognise (sic) such a transaction.  Certainly it was against no treaty.  But furthermore, if it was necessary that such a recognition be given, our neighbors are still unfortunate, for the General Government has recognised the boundary between the Cherokees and Creeks.  In the second article of the treaty of Washington, defining the extent of the cession made by the Creeks to the United States, these words occur- 'Beginning at a point on the western bank of said river, forty-seven miles below the point where the boundary line between the Creeks and Cherokees  strikes the Chatahoochy (sic) River, near the Buzzard Roost.' Again in the same article- 'and from the point of beginning, running in a direct line to a point in the boundary line between the said Creeks and Cherokees.' Here it is evident the contracting parties, the Senate and President of the United States who ratified the treaty, considered that boundary line lawful, and that, the Creeks had no right to any lands north of that line.  Mr. Wright, the United States Surveyor, was also expressly instructed to follow the line, and not to turn either North or South, if the line marked out by the Cherokees and Creeks should not happen to be direct.  Is there not here a sufficient acknowledgement on the part of the U. States that they considered this line as a boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks?
But supposing the Creeks really owned the land now claimed by the State of Georgia, under what treaty would it be possessed by that State? She would have to obtain it by a new treaty, for the treaty of Washington, which nullifies the one of the Indian Spring, does not relinquish it to her. It is therefore quite premature for her to talk of taking possession of the country, unless she is determined to go contrary to law and justice.
Since this subject has been agitated, our intruding neighbours (sic) have thought that there was nothing to do but to move in and occupy the country. There has consequently been a general stir amongst them. In some instances, we are told, attempts have been made to force the Cherokees out of their peaceful habitations. Our readers will, however, be glad to learn that efficient measures will be employed to prevent the progress of this evil.
The Journal concluded with the following. 'That the Cherokees themselves indulge the belief that Georgia will succeed in establishing her claim, is evident from the fact, that since the subject has been agitated, a deputation has been sent to Washington City.'  The only reply we have to make to this is, that the deputation was sent before the subject was agitated.










To shew (sic) that we do not exaggerate, when we say that some of our citizens are treated rudely on the Georgia frontiers, we give the following instance: A Cherokee residing eight miles from Carrol County, was obliged one night to be absent with his family. During his absence, some of his white neighbours (sic) came, and robbed him of everything he possessed in his house, not even leaving his feather-bed. Now, there is no way, according to the laws of Georgia, in which this poor Cherokee can obtain justice. Why?  Because no Indian can be a witness or a party in any Court created by the constitution or laws of that State.  If this is not complete tyranny, we confess we do not understand the term.










By the last mail we received the following letter from a member of the Cherokee Delegation, now in Washington City. It is dated, February 4th 1829.
Presuming that some of our Cherokee friends at home are anxious to hear how we are getting along with our business, I can merely inform you that we paid our respects to the Secretary of War on our arrival, after which we submitted the various subjects of our mission, but have heard nothing from the Department. On account of the multiplicity of business before the several Departments during the Session of Congress, I do not expect that our business will have an early attention, consequently, we have not correct idea how long we shall be detained. The Honorable Secretary, at our interview, soon took occasion to pass an eulogy upon the fine country at the West, and thought we had better emigrate:- there we would be out of Georgia's way, and she could no longer be raising up little quarrels with us, and we could build up a great republic of our own. But, Sir, it is too late, the day is passed by, for who is Georgia, and who are the Cherokees? If we trace the history of Georgia back to the days of Oglethorp, we find that her history as a colony has but just commenced, and a large position of her Territory has been bought from the Cherokees who have been acknowledged as the sovereign lord of the soil since the discovery of America or the issuing of the Royal parchment. But in tracing the history of the Cherokees we are lost in the ages of antiquity.  They were a distinct nation of people, residing upon the very land they now occupy, long before the existence of Oglethorp. The population of Georgia encroached upon them, and they were compelled to recede, until they have become surrounded by the population of other states that have sprung up, and partly upon their land. The United States have magnanimously guarantied to them their present possessions, and are bound to prevent intrusion, but the restless spirit of Georgia would drive them into wretchedness and ruin to gratify their unbounded desires, and as a last resort have threatened the extension of their laws.  If they attempt the measure, now will they succeed? There must of course be officers to execute those laws, and who are they to be? Not one will be a Cherokee. No, I am not so credulous as to believe there are any who will pull down ruin upon their own heads. They cannot be Georgians, for the very moment they enter our Territory, they are intruders and the United States Government is bound by a solemn act of her own to remove and enforce the intercourse law against them. The individual states have no power over us nor can they have until the Constitution of the United States is changed so as to affect it, and then what becomes of the plighted faith of the government.  Our situation is not so deplorable as some would have us believe. A virtuous and enlightened people, yielding to the dictates of humanity and wisdom, have endeavored to meliorate our condition, and I am happy to say, with our own exertions, their efforts have been blessed with much success. Will they now with their own hands pull down the monument which they have for years been building to the memory of their exalted names, and crush us in the fall?










For the Cherokee Phoenix
WILLSTOWN, 12th Feb; 1829
Mr. Editor.- Agreeably to Mr. Lowrey's instructions, I herewith transmit for publication an extract of his letter to the United States' Agent, and also a copy of the Agent's reply thereto, in both languages, for the information of our fellow citizens of the Cherokee Nation; particularly those on the frontiers of Georgia, whose rights have been unwarrantably invaded.   From the letter of the Agent, they will learn, that measures have been taken to ensure their relief, and that justice will be rendered to them.-
D. BROWN.
_______________________________
WILLSTOWN, C.N.
2d. Feb. 1829
COL. HUGH MONTGOMERY,
Agent Indian affairs C. Nation.
Sir: - I hasten to acquaint you with the information I have today received from a source not to be questioned, that a considerable number of the citizens of the United States on the frontiers of Georgia, have crossed over the national boundary line, and have entered the Cherokee Nation: that they are actually settling themselves on the same, among other objects, to annoy our citizens at their peaceful habitations ' to deprive them of rights and privileges secured and guarantied to them in the most solemn manner by the United States Government.
Of course, you will without delay take measures to have intruders ordered out of the nation agreeably to existing treaties (the supreme law of the land) between the General Government and the Cherokee Nation.
I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient serv't.
GEO. LOWREY.
___________________________
CHEROKEE AGENCY,
7th Feb. 1829.
Mr. Geo. Lowrey,
Sirs. I have just received your letter of the 2d. inst. I have previously been informed of the trespasses committed and committing on the Georgia frontier, and have sent on the Sub-agent (whose duty it is made by the Secretary of War to keep the Indians lands clear of intrusions) to warn them all individually off- and have also instructed him in the event that they, or any of them , do no go, to go and take warrants for them, and have them bound to appear at the General court or sent to jail.
I have in the meantime enclosed to the Secretary of War, a letter received from William Rogers on the Chattahoochee, on the subject and apprized the department, that I fear they cannot be kept off, without a military force kept there, which I hope will be granted.
Be assured, Sir, that nothing shall be wanting on my part to put and keep all trespassers off the Cherokee lands.
Respectfully. Your obt. serv't.
H. MONTGOMERY.
________________________
If the spirit exhibited in the following letter should become general and predominate in the hearts of the members of the national and state Legislatures; we should expect something good  for the Indians.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, ALA.
CAHABE, Dec. 18th 1824.
Dear Sir.- I transmit to you through the hand of my friend General Dale a Digest of our laws. This contains the laws of Alabama from the commencement of its Territorial government until the year 1823.- also the Declaration of our national independence, the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Alabama.  I also send you a copy of the laws passed at the last session (1823-4). It is my desire that these should be received by you for the use of the public authorities of your nation.
I will be very happy to receive your laws; and to continue an interchange of such laws as may be enacted by our respective governments, should such interchange meet your approbation. Such offices of good fellowship between neighbouring (sic) people must contribute to mutual satisfaction and improvement.
In making this communication I am influenced by a sincere good wish for the happiness and prosperity of your people, and for their continued advances in civilized life. In travelling through your country nearly two years ago, I was much pleased with the sight of a pamphlet of your laws. This was a specimen of your progress in improved government which in my opinion reflected credit on the rulers of your people.
In sending you our laws, I by no means expect that they will all be of any use to you. Very few of them would suit your condition. Indeed many of them are unsuited to our own situation. They are generally too long, and many of them, especially those relating to the conducting of suits and courts, are too complicated, for ourselves or any other people.- They grew out of old fashioned formalities used by our European ancestors, and should be done away. The perfection of laws is, to be short, plain, and well executed.  Pleading in courts should require no other form than to let both parties know distinctly what is alleged, that a fair trial may be had. I trust there are many things in our system of government and laws that will suit your people at some future day.
I will very happy to hear from you. Be assured of my good wishes.
Your most Obt.
ISRAEL PICKENS.
John Ross esq.
P. S. I also send the minutes of our Bible society. Should this institution be able to render you any advantage, I would be happy to know it.
I. P.










Governor Murphy, of Alabama has expressed his belief that no more than two-thirds the usual amount of ardent spirits has been consumed in that State during the past year.
____________________________
Hutchins G. Barton, Esq. late Governor of North Carolina, is appointed by the President, Governor of the Territory of Arkansas.
_____________________________


















RELIGIOUS
THE GOD OF NATURE
Lift your view to that immense arch of heaven which encompasses you above. Behold the sun in all its splendor, rolling over your head by day, and the moon by night, in mild and serene majesty, surrounded with that holst of stars which present to the imagination an immunerable multitude of worlds. Listen to the awful voice of thunder. Listen to the roar of the tempest and the ocean. Survey the wonders that fill the earth which you inhabit. Contemplate a steady and powerful hand, bringing round spring and summer, autumn and winter, in regular course, decorating this earth with innumerable inhabitants, pouring forth comfort on all that live, and at the same time everawing the nations with the violence of the elements, when it pleases the Creator to let them forth. After you have viewed yourself, as surrounded with such a scene of wonders, after you have beheld, on every hand such an interesting display of majesty, united with wisdom and goodness, are your not seized with solemn and serious awe?- Is there not something that whispers within, that to this Creator homage and reverence are due, by all the rational beings whom he has made? Admitted to be spectators of his works, placed in the midst of so many great and interesting objects, can you believe that you were brought here for no purpose but to immerse yourselves in brutal, or, at best, in trifling pleasures, lost all sense of the wonders you behold: lost to all reverence to that God who gave you being, and who has erected this amazing fabric of nature, on which you look only with stupid and unmeaning eyes? No, let the scene which you behold prompt correspondent feelings. Let them awaken you from the degrading intoxication of licentiousness, into nobler emotions. Every object which you view in nature, whether great or small, serves to instruct you. The stars and insects, the fiery meteor and flowing spring, the verdant field and the mountain, all evident a Supreme Power, before which you ought to tremble and adore; all preach the doctrine, all inspire the spirit of devotion and reverence. Regarding, then, the work of the Lord, let rising emotions of awe and gratitude call forth from your souls such sentiments as these: 'Lord, wherever I am, and whatever I enjoy, may I never forget thee, as the author of nature! May I never forget that I am thy creature and thy subject! In this magnificent temple of the universe, where thou hast placed me, may I ever be thy faithful worshhipper, may the reverence and fear of God be the first sentiment of my heart.' Blair.










INDIANS
From the Western Recorder
Mr. Hastings. I present you, in this communication, among other things, the copy of the Indian's speech from the principal chief of the Stockbridge nation, located near Green-Bay, addressed to myself and two or three others, who had spent several months at that place, but were then about to leave for New York.  If you think it would do good, please do give it a place in the Recorder.
A brief account, also, of the settlement of Indians, perhaps, would not be uninteresting. In 1818, a band of about forty in member of these Indians, living in New Stockbridge, were fitted out to go to White River, in Indiana, for the purpose of settling in that place, and thus open the way for the removal of the remainder of the tribe. Seven or eight of the member were profoundly pious; and before leaving, they were organized into a church. The chief, being pious, constituted a kind of leader or deacon. As he could read and speak the English language, he was furnished with some valuable books, particularly Scott's Family Bible. He was also directed to convene his church and people on the Sabbath, and have religious service. This consisted in singing, prayer, and reading one chapter in the forenoon, and one in the afternoon, from Scott's Bible, with the notes and observations.  This I believe was their constant practice. But ere they arrived at their place of destination, their lands which were owned in common with the Delawares and Munsees, were purchased by the United States commissioners, of the Delaware alone. This was to them a sore disappointment. After remaining in an unsettled state that three or four years, and making repeated though unsuccessful applications to the general government, for the restoration of their country, or a part of it, they removed to their present place of residence. This they call Satesburgh. It is situated on Fox River, twenty miles above Green-Bay. Others have since removed from New-Stockbridge; making in all in this settlement, between two and three hundred. They have here four or five hundred acres of land, cleared, fenced, ' in a good state of cultivation. Most of them have comfortable log-houses, raise good crops of corn, potatoes, 'c. and are beginning to raise English grain. They have also plenty of cattle, 'c. They have just begun to build framed barns, have a saw-mill, and are now erecting a grist-mill. The soil here is fertile; the climate mild and pleasant, and as healthy as in any part of the United States. Could the Indians be permitted to enjoy this country, undisturbed, and uncorrupted by the whites, they would soon become an industrious, intelligent, virtuous and happy people.
The speech I send you, was delivered at a religious meeting on Sabbath evening. The meeting was unusually solemn and interesting. It was the last I expected to attend before leaving them.  After speaking some time in his own tongue to his people, in a very affecting and appropriate manner, he addressed in English those of us who were about to take our departure. While speaking of the wretched and perishing Indians around them, he was so affected, as frequently to pause, to suppress his feelings before he could proceed.
SPEECH
'MY FRIENDS, You who are about to leave us, I have a word to say to you. When you come here were were glad, we felt rejoiced; and now you are going away, we feel sorry. We think we have benefited by you. We have been in the wilderness a long time; some of us 10 years; some six years, some less.  We were like sheep without a shepherd, scattered in the wilderness, without a leader, or anyone to go before us.
'About a hundred years ago, the white men, and our forefathers in New England, formed a chain of friendship; it has been kept good ever since; it has never been broken; has always been kept bright.  Eighty-three years ago, they formed another kind of friendship; this was spiritual friendship. The good people from England sent us God's word- the Bible- that holy book, when we lived in Old-Stockbridge, Massachusetts; and when we left there, and come to New-Stockbridge, New York, this friendship continued. They sent us a teacher, a spiritual father, to guide us and to tell us what to do.  Here we enjoyed great many privileges- great many blessings; but we did not care about them; we made light of them: we despised them. But when we come away here, and God take all these from us, then we begin to think, we think about what we had lost; and then we begin to try again. Sometimes I did not know what we should do. I thought this church would become extinct. I thought it would die. I remember when we lived in New-Stockbridge, Dr. Backus, president of Hamilton College, come there: He preached to us: We were broken- in a poor state.  I then thought we should be scattered and die: But he said this church must not become extinct; it must not die; it could not die. He said it would live. I could not believe it. I do not trust God enough. I feel that I was wrong, for he is able to keep us; and now I believe he will keep us, for he has heard our prayers. When we had noone to teach us, we cried unto God, our heavenly Father; we prayed that he would send us one to guide us, to be our spiritual father: and he has answered our prayers. He sent us one last summer, and we were glad to see him; we rejoiced to take him by the hand; and we thanked our heavenly Father for it.  He stayed with us some time; and we begin to do better. He then left us. Last spring he come back again, come to live with us; and a number of others with him.  We were glad to see you all; we feel you have done us good; we have had many good meetings together since you come here; and we hope many of us are trying to do better now. But it seems the time has come when some of us must part.
'My Friends, I want to say one thing to you. If God spare your life, to go through that long and dangerous path, and you get home to your friends again, I want you should tell them how we live here, and what we are doing. Tell them, many of us poor Indians here in this wilderness live like the beasts- live like the brutes. They have no houses- hardly any clothes- go most naked- sometimes have nothing to eat- go hungry a long time. They are ignorant as the brutes. They have no God -- no Christ -- no bible -- no Sabbath -- noone to tell them about these things. Tell your friends, the door is open here, they are white to the harvest. Tell them, we can look all around us, to the north, and to the south, to the east, and to the west, and the fields are all white to the harvest; but the labourers are few. Tell them to come and help us: tell them COME and TEACH US. When you get home to your family and friends, we want you should pray for us. Tell them to pray for us, poor Indians, who live here in the wilderness. Tell them to pray that the Lord would send us more teachers. We hope you will not forget us: We shall never forget you; we will pray for you. This is what I have to say.'
I also send you a copy of a pamphlet we have just published, relative to the New-York Indians*. An agent is now on his way to Washington, on this business.  O, that the Patriot, the Philanthropist, and the Christian, would speak out on this subject.
If the Lord will, I intend to return to Green-Bay, in the spring.
J. D. S.
_____________
*It appears from this pamphlet, which in the form of a memorial to the government of the United States, that the Indians who removed to Green-Bay from Oneida, are apprehensive of being turned out of possession of a considerable portion of the lands on which they are located and which they purchased of the Menominne and Winnebago Indians, by the permission and with the sanction of the general government; a treaty having been recently concluded by Gov. Cass with the Menominies and Winnebagoes, by which the United has obtained the title to a great extent of territory, in which a large portion of the above mentioned lands are included, without the consent of the present possessor, or any recognition of their previous claim. Ed. Rec.










GEORGIA AND THE ABORIGINES.
[Extract from the memorial or R. Campbell of Savannah to the Senate of Georgia.]
'The hostile feeling which is entertained towards the Indians, is made use of as another reason for their removal over the Mississippi, it being asserted that they will not be allowed to reside upon their lands here in peace. Upon this permit your memorialist to say that if the Cherokees are to be removed from their native country, for fear of hostilities from their present neighbours, who are the inhabitants of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, three of the old thirteen States, who can pretend to entertain the opinion that they would be more secure, or would be allowed to live more peaceably, in that Arab country spoken of for their residence; a country certainly not as civilized as the States mentioned ' which in a few ages must lose most of that which she now possesses from her extent ' the spareness of population?  and if the title of the Cherokees to the lands which have never been conquered from them; which they have never ceded away; which have from time immemorial occupied:  which is fenced in upon all sides both by laws and treaties, with these who now claim it?--- If their title to these lands be by one of the old States deemed defective, how are they to obtain an unquestionable title to any others? May not some new reading of the constitution be brought by their new neighbors to shew that Congress had no power to bargain away the public lands, after the title had been once vested in the United States?  May it not be contended, that though the Indians may relinquish, they cannot take a title, with as much force as that, because they cannot understand English, they should not be believed?  May not the same argument which is now with many conclusive, again be revived on the west of the Mississippi, by their then benevolent neighbors, that they cannot permit them to live peaceably, and that therefore it will be better for them that they should be removed perhaps to the snow-clad Rocky Mountains.'










Cherokee lands- We copy from the Journal of this place, what purports to be a synopsis of the testimony lately collected in relation to the ancient boundary between the Creeks and Cherokees. It is designed to prove that Georgia, being deceived as to the exact amount of territory owned by the former, has not received her just measure.- In other words; that the northern boundary of their late session was not, by some hundred thousand acres, run off as high up the Chattahoochy as, by the articles of treaty, it should have been. to the evidence adduced by the agent, Col. Wales, in confirmation of this opinion,we are able to add something of our own.  While traversing that country as one of the engineers in the service of the state, in 1826, we were personally assured by its people that the true dividing line, running westward between the Creeks and Cherokees was considerably north of our route which was direct from Gates Ferry in Gwinnett County, to the Missionary stand on the Etawah; which latter place, according to an observation taken, en passant, is in latitude 33 deg. 28 minutes. Our informant's expressed considerable disappointment and rejoicing, that they, who conceived themselves within Creek limits had been set off to the Cherokees. they had felt much inquietude from an apprehension that their nation, the Creeks, would ere long be compelled to relinquish all their lands to Georgia,in which event they must needs abandon their dwellings and their homes; but were gratified to learn that they had in the issue been left in the quiet possession of both far within the Cherokee Nation.

 Statesman and Pat.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1829
The progress of emigration is but slow. At the present rate, it will be a great while before the Cherokee Nation is removed. And if the price now paid for improvements is continued throughout, it will cost the United States millions of dollars. It will be a dear emigration. The subject is creating an increased interest among our citizens -- meetings are held in various places, and decided and unanimous opinion is given that it is not to the interest of the Cherokees to remove to the western wilderness. A meeting, it appears, was held in Turkey Town, the result of which the reader will see in our present number. Another was held, a few days ago, at the house of William Hicks, Esq. An address was drawn in Cherokee, which was published in our last. It is signed by a committee of seventeen persons, viz: three from Hightower, two from Pine Long, one from Oostahnablee, one from Chusoogalah, two from Dirt-town, three from Springtown and two from Oongillog. We hope it will not be said, that these meetings are improper interference of the Chiefs -- the Chiefs have had nothing to do with them.
_____________
The frivolous claim advanced by Georgia to a part of our Country shows, too manifestly, the nature of her boasted rights, and the inconsistency of her proceedings.  It appears from the summary of the evidence collected by Col Wales, to prove the real boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks as far north as the High Tower River, that evidence originates from the Indians, ' is all hearsay, which would be of little avail in a court of law. The additional testimony furnished by the editor of the Stats. ' Pat (which see in a preceding column) is also of the same kind -- he heard Indians say so and so. Now what says the law of Georgia? 'No Indian or descendant of Indians, residing within the Creek or Cherokee Nation of Indians, shall be a competent witness, or a part to any suit, to which a white man is a part.' Will it be contended that the evidence in question was given previous to the passage of the law? The Indians then were once capable of telling the truth if they are not now. Or are the words of the Indian manufactured into truth after passing the mouth of the whiteman in the form of a deposition? It appears that Indians' testimony will be received when it is considered to the advantage of the State, even when the law declaims such testimony unavailing in a court of justice. How shall we account for such inconsistencies?
We stated in our last, that previous to the establishment of the present boundaries between the Creeks and Cherokees, there was no other which was considered a line by either party. We believe this to be strictly correct. We will, however, assert further, that the Cherokees had a better right to the country south of said line than the Creeks north of it -- and it is not at all unlikely, that if the Cherokees were as powerful as the State of Georgia, ' were governed by similar principles, they would now be attempting to wrest the counties of Carrol and Coweta from their neighbors. Why?  Because many of our citizens believe, and no doubt can testify to just effect, that the Cherokees in council at Fort Jackson, on the 5th day of August 1814, did agree that the boundary should commence at Vann's Store on the waters of the Ockmulgee. It was the intention of the Cherokees at the Council to agree with the Creeks on their boundary, which was then unsettled, and the following, which we copy from a printed document, was committed to writing as expressing the agreement made by the parties.
THE UNDERSIGNED, head men, chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee ' Creek nations, availing themselves of the present happy occasion, of the United States giving peace and boundaries to the Creek Nation; and having had an amicable interview, at which the subject of their boundaries has been in the most friendly manner discussed, have unanimously agreed, that the following described line shall forever thereafter be acknowledged by the parties respectively, to be their permanent boundary line, viz:
Beginning at a point where Vann's store formerly stood, on the waters of the Ockmulgee River, this point being well known to the parties respectively,: and from thence continued to the Coosa river, crossing the same at the place where the pre-cut military road crosses the said river, and drawn from thence in a straight line, ' crossing a fork of the Black-warrior River a little below the old town burnt by General Coffee; and in the same direction continued until it shall intersect the Chickasaw lands: thence leading to the Flat Rock, or old corner boundary, this being known to the Cherokees by the appellation of the long leafed pine: for this point, viz: Flat Rock, or old corner boundary, reference is had in the convention made and concluded at Washington City, between the United States and the Cherokees, on the 7th day of January 1806.
The parties respectively request Major General Andrew Jackson to present a certified copy of the above arrangement to their Father, the President of the United States.
Done in the council house at Fort Jackson, the 9th day of August, 1814.
The above was, however, merely a verbal agreement, for it appears that the formality of a treaty was not concluded, this having been deferred at the request of the principal Chiefs, and by the advice of Maj. Gen. Andrew Jackson. But an instrument was drawn, expressing the sentiments of the Cherokees and Creeks on the subject, which we request the reader to peruse attentively.  No intimation is given that either the Cherokees or Creeks knew of any boundary line then existing.
Be it known and remembered. That the Cherokee and Creek chiefs assembled at Fort Jackson: the first with a view to agree with the latter on a boundary line dividing the lands of the two nations: That, in proposition being made by the first to make a definitive settlement of the boundaries of said lands, the second replied, that they had no objection at some time to settle their boundary with the first: that in the present distressed state of their nation they could enter into the business with that consideration and deliberation which the subject required; but that until this could be done they had no objections to the Cherokees settling themselves down on lands which they might deem to be clearly with their proper boundaries and that it is their desire to live in amity with the Cherokees, and would even consider them as their good friends and neighbors and would render them all the friendly offices within their power.
Done at Fort Jackson, the 9th day of August, 1814.
The above contains the voluntary and friendly arrangement entered to between the Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, and the Chiefs of the Creek Nation, requested to be committed to writing and attested by us. Agreeably thereto, the same is committed to writing, and attested by us.

 ANDREW JACKSON,
Maj. Gen. Com'ng.
BENJAMIN HAWKINS.
Agent of I.A.
RETURN J. MEIGS.
Agents for the Cherokees.
August 9th 1814.










The following is an extract of a letter addressed to the Editor, dated,
JAFFREYVILLE C.N. Jan. 29, 1829.
I write to inform you that those of this place, who have emigrated for the Arkansas Country have sold their stocks and improvements to citizens of the United States. Those who have bought their place are at this time moving in, and some of them have already moved and are in possession of those places. Some of the emigrating party are now lying at Gunter's Landing waiting for a tide. It appears that the preceding of these people will be the cause of considerable confusion between the Cherokees and the whites. Our citizens, I believe, would wish to take possession of these improvements, if it were not for their white neighbors, who think they have a great right to them.
__________
We are obliged to (Cherokee name) for his communication. Our limits will not allow us to insert but a short extract of it.
'The Indian is obliged to look up to the white man for protection. This protection the white man has solemnly promised to the Indian in their great Councils.  The white man is bound to keep the Indian in his arms, to shelter him from all dangers, and the time has come when this promise must be put to the test. It is not for me to say in what way it will be disposed. All that we can do is to place our confidence in our elder brother -- if his promise is violated we must then be subject to his future proceedings for power is in his hands. If he says to us, you must move west of the Mississippi, we will then, perhaps be obliged to move, but it will not be congenial to our feelings -- for the country is not desirable -- it is inhabited by a few savage nations of Indians.
If the white man wishes to civilize the Indians why does he send them to the west? Would a removal thither be civilization? No, I would rather be inclined to think that it would be placing them in a more savage, destitute and deplorable condition. The Indians from time immemorial were savages and knew nothing about civilization, until they mingled with the whites -- all that the Indians know, they have derived from their white brethren. Why is it that an attempt is made to drive them into darkness again? The cause is avaricious disposition. The possessions of the Indians are quite small and their numbers are but insignificant, but they do not wish to be driven like a great herd of Antelopes.'










FROM OUR CORRESPONDENT.
WASHINGTON CITY.
8th Feb. 1829.
I transmit you to this mail a Document printed for the use of Congress, containing a correspondence between Col. Thos. L. M. Kenney and Col. Montgomery on the subject of the late plan of emigration.  It unveils some important points, to which we have hitherto been kept in darkness, and perhaps may not be uninteresting to your readers in the Nation.
You will perceive that Captain Rogers was a confidential agent of the Secretary of Wars, sent out to open our eyes, and to explain to us the kind of soil, climate, and the prospects that awaited you in the West. Col. M. Kenney in his letter to the agent, informing him of this confidential plenipotentiary appointment, 'c. says, 'much, if not all his success will depend upon the keeping of the object of his visit a SECRET, you will by no means make it known.' A secret agent then with an empty Captain's commission by way of recommendation, whose success depended upon secret management and intrigue! He that hath business with us of either a private or public nature, let him be open, candid and upright in his actions: If he assumes a mysterious character, he becomes at once contemptible, even to the poorer class. Captain Rogers is a man well known in this country, and would I could say advantageously known as a man of integrity and reputation, since a confidential minister to our nation. Explanations, when manufactured by men to subserve private interest, are not likely to effect much with people who are better able to make their own calculations as to their probably happiness in a change of life; and who need not, at this time, great inducements, or zealous efforts of secret agents to win them over to the enjoyment of true comfort, when offered. Many of the Indian tribes in the North West, yet in a state of heathenish state of ignorance and degredation, are led implicitly by their agents: if this has been the case with the Cherokees, I am happy to say it is far from being so now.  This means adopted in the affair of Rogers and Spears add nothing to the character of the Government, or I would rather say of those of his officers, who after selecting an agent of their choice, and sending him to the nation, enjoin secrecy, that he might not be known as an agent should, after he had introduced himself, by improper conduct, into a difficulty, say he a was an officer of the Government, and as such should be protected.
Col. M. Kenney says that it would be a great object for the emigrants to ascend as high up the Arkansas as possible, and recommended that flat boats should be built in place of keeled boats on that account.  Now did you ever hear of a man before that would prefer a flat to a keeled boat to navigate up a stream, or that would prefer a tin to a brass kettle in which to boil a buffaloe's head? He also says, that is with the chiefs of the Southern Indians, a fixed purpose, by threats and otherwise, to keep their people from emigrating. The remedy is the presence of an armed force!!' Can the Cherokees be included in this paragraph? I presume they are, as they are often blended with other Tribes to their injury in the public reports. The writer is certainly very ignorant of our condition, or, like the great nabob (M.) cares too little for rhetoric. At stated periods the Chiefs are created by the people, and it they are displeased at them, and but will it they can turn them out, and reduce them to the ranks of common citizens. For what reasons, then, should the Chiefs be tyrannical, or the people be afraid of the Chiefs. How much better would it have been, if the presence of this military force had been recommended as a remedy for removing intruders from our lands.
You will also perceive that the Honorable Secretary entertains an opinion that a greater portion of the 'poorer Indians are disposed to emigrate.' This opinion I presume is founded upon Col. M'Kenney's report of the Cherokees (without ever seeing them,) after his visit to the Creeks. It is not to be proven by the fruits of his confidential agent's labors. I am informed that most of those who have enrolled are white men and half breeds, under the promise of getting large sums for their improvements. The poorer class of people are not so soon led into a speculation of this kind. Although the agent has been guarded against an unnecessary waste of a cent of the public money, I cannot but believe that every cent that has been, or may be expended under the treaty of the Arkansas Cherokees, to induce our removal is an unnecessary waste of the public money, that might been applied to much better uses. Suppose one half of the Indians residing within the limits of Georgia were to emigrate, and paid for their improvements; would this give to the United States a title to the land? No: If there were but 500 citizens left in the country, the title would yet be with them, and the United States must enter into a treaty before their title can be legally extinguished.
9th February.
I had the honor of seeing the celebrated Indian Chief Red Jacket, who arrived in the City yesterday.
The object of his visit I have not learned.  I am sorry to say that he was already intoxicated when I saw him. I believe he has been accompanied by two or three other Indians.










RIDGE'S FERRY
Feb. 22, 1829
Mr. Boudinott,
Sir:- William B. Wofford of Georgia, I am informed has started a claim in the legislature of Georgia to a part of our territory, from Sowanny (sic) Old Town, on the Chattahoochy River, to the Six's on the Hightower, and down the river to its intersection with the western charter line of Georgia, embracing all, or nearly all the District of Hightower; and on his motion, Gov. Forsythe is instructed to obtain proofs of the validity of this claim, under the treaty of the Indian Springs, concluded with Gen. M'Intosh of the Creek Nation, who ceded the whole of the Creek lands in the chartered limits of Georgia. I am also informed that affidavits or dispositions, all taken from citizens of Georgia, and the frontier, to corroborate the claim, as having in their recollection, a treaty concluded by the Cherokees with the Creeks, by which the former surrendered the lands embraced by the aforementioned claim.
Be it known, therefore, to said Wofford, who is grossly ignorant of treaty stipulations, and to deponents on this subject, and to all whom it may concern that a treaty of boundary was several years ago concluded by said parties, Gen. McIntosh being commissioner on the part of the Creeks, and that a copy of it is deposited in the War Department at Washington-that the Indian Spring treaty of McIntosh, which cost him his life, is annulled and made void by the subsequent treaty of Washington between the United States and Creeks, and in that treaty the boundary line between the Creeks and the Cherokees is distinctly acknowledged in writing, and that the United States' surveyors followed the line from Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochy River towards the mouth of Will's Creek on the Coosa River, to the Forty five mile point on said line as provided for by the Treaty of Washington. For further particulars, I request these claimants to be undeceived by the Hon. M'Pherson Berrien Senator of Georgia, and Mr. Cobb. who were representing the State of Georgia at the ratification of said treaty.
JOHN RIDGE.










COOSA RIVER, IN TURKEY TOWN.
C.N. 9th February, 1829.
TO THE CHEROKEE PEOPLE.
The undersigned in behalf of a long meeting, composed of the Citizens of Turkey Town, take the liberty of addressing you through the public journal of our Nation, on the subject of emigration to the west, to which the United States have their attention. The view we take of this measure, and the sentiments will take occasion to express, will be simple and plain, founded on truth as handed down to us by our ancestors. Limited in knowledge and possessing but a small share of experience, our apology in this attempt is in the interest we feel in everything that concerns the well being of our Nation. Our ancestors settled in this place at a period not now in our recollection. Here was sacred ground, and on this spot the Council-fire blazed with lustre, and here were the dwellings and seats of Kings and our beloved Chief!-- We speak of days when we lived in the hunter's state, and when our feet were swift in the track of game.
General Washington, after having smoked the pipe of peace with our Chiefs, sent us word to discontiued the pusuit of vagrant habits and adopt those more susbstantial and become cultivators of the soil. His successors pursued, in regard to us, the same policy, and sent to us the same Talk from time to time -- that as game was precarious and liable to destruction, the bosom of the earth afforded means of subsistence, both infinite and inexhaustible. But time was not allowed us to experience the blessing of putting this recommendation to practice by interested wicked white men, who lived near to us, and who esteemed us a nuisance, because the Great Spirit had placed our habitations in a desirable County, and because they themselves had crossed the Big Water (the Ocean) and had become our neighbors. The bitter cup of adversity was filled to us on every side, by our ememies. Our safety was often endangered by intrigue and misreprensation of our character to the General Government; and it was not mental or natural disability that opposed itself to our advancement in civilization, but obstacles place in our way to reach it.
The Indians were represented as incapable of learning the arts of cilivized life, and at the same time treated in in most uncivil manner. They were savagely revegenful, because they had the spirit to resent the murder of their friends ' relations. They were rogues and thieves, because, not knowing the mother of legal processes to to obtain justice, and if they did, their oath decreed to non-availing, they retaliated in the same way. They were drunkards, because intoxicating liquors were introduced among them. They were disinclined to the study of books, because of some few superficially educated under bad instruction had betrayed their countrymen and had set bad examples. They were stubborn, because they loved the land that had been endeared to them as an inheritance of their fathers. This flood of inconsistency raged with violence over the heads of our Chiefs ' swept with its waves, from under their feet, the earth, for which they had struggled for ages past. In this way our territory diminished, and our inheritance was circumbscribed to its present bounds.
Our Chief displaced wonderful forbearance in this trials, and maintained the faith of treaties, with the United States, whose chief magistrate also exercised the spirit of paternal affection, and adhered to his engagements as pledged to us by treaties. With caution have we passed the strong shoals of opposition, and its mingled cruelties to the light of civiliztion. The sun has arise in our moral horizon is fast advancing to its meridan.  We hail it with joy! Although a part of our nation have detached themselves from us, to follow the chase, in the western wilds, and we are invited to retrograte to savageism, with strong talks and inducements as bribes our appetite for our present enjoyments if is too strong to relinquish them because we have tasted their sweets and are contented.
We have noticed the ancient ground of complaint founded on the ignorance of our ancestors and their fondness of the chase, and for the purposes of agriculture as having in possession too much land for their numbers. What is the language of objection at this time? The case is reversed, and we are now assaulted with menaces of expulsuion because we have unexpectedly become civilized and because we have formed and organized a constitutional government. It is too much for us now to be honest and virtuous and industrious because then are we capable of aspiring to the calls of Christians and Politicians which renders our attachment to the soil more strong and therefore more difficult to defend us of the possession. Disappointment inflicts on the mind of the avaricious whiteman; the mortification of delay, or the probability of the intended victim's excape from the snares laid for its destruction. It remains for us in this situation of the question, to act as free agents in choosing for ourselves to walk in the straight forward path of the impartial recommendations of Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, as most congenial to our feelings and knowledge of the means calcaluated to promote our happiness. We hereby individually set our faces to the rising sun and turn our backs to its setting.  As our ancestors revered the sepulchral monuments of the noble dead, we cherish the sacred of their repose as they lie under hillocks of clay, that cover them from our sight.
If the country, to which we are directed to go is desirable and well watered, why is it so long a wilderness and a wasteland and uninhabited by respectable white people whose enterprise ere this, would have attended them to monopolize it from the poor and unfortunate of their fellow citizens as they have hitherto done? From correct information we have formed a bad opinion of the western country beyond the Mississippi. But if report was favorable to the fertility of the soil, if the running streams were as transparent as crystal, and silver fish abounded in their element in profusion we should still adhere to the purposes of spending the remnant of our lives on the soil that gave us birth and rendered deer from the nourishment we receive from its bosom.
We take the liberty of acknowledging our obligations to Major Ridge for his attendance at our meeting and for an eloquent speech suitable for the occasion which he delivered at our request.
MONEY HUNTER, his x mark.
TAH-KA-HA-KEE, his x mark.
SCATTERED, his x mark.
KUNG-WAS-SOO-LAS-KEE, his x mk.
KILLER, his mark.
RICHD. RATLIFF, jr. his x mark.
CRYING SNAKE, his x mark.
RESURRECTION, his x mark.
FOLLOWER, his x mark.
TURNOVER, his x mark.
JOHN RIDGE, Sec'y pro tem.


















INDIANS
Correspondence between Col. Thos. L. McKenney and the U.S. agent, Col. Hugh Montgomery, on the subject of the present Cherokee emigration.
DEPARTMENT OF WAR,
Office Indian Affairs, May 27, 1829.
SIR: A treaty has been recently concluded between the United States and the Cherokees of Arkansas, a copy of which I enclose herewith. You will see one of its principle objects is (having secured under the most solemn guaranties a spacious and fine country, which is to belong forever to the Cherokees) to induce the Indians in Georgia: especially, to remove. The inducements held out are ample, and the prospect which opens to them in the west under such a treaty better than any that Indians ever were presented with before. Their welfare, and the obligation of the United States in the compact with Georgia, created obligations which led to such a treaty.
Much is expected of you in the manner of making known these views to the Cherokees within the chartered limits of Georgia, and in the judicious and economical preparation embraced in the promise of the means of their transportation, and support of the way. It is presumed that most of them may prefer to embark in boats on the Highwassee. Such as prefer it must be aided in going by land. You will submit your view of the best means to carry into effect the provisions in the treaty for transporting the Indians, and as early as possible.
I have ordered five hundred rifles made and forwarded to you from Philadelphia. You will contact by public notice, for kettles, and blankets, 'c., as these may be wanted from time to time; or if you think it can be cheaper, and better done in New York, orders can be given to the transportation Agent there for the Department here, who has been in this business for fifteen years, to procure and forward (except provisions) the articles required. In the event of you esteeming this course to be best, as I certainly think it will be the cheapest, you will send on an estimate of the number of blankets, kettles, 'c., which you may think it reasonable to expect will be required for this year; and afterwards, annually or semi-annually, the quantity for each article, rifles included, for the future.
I am directed by the Secretary of War, in addition to the above, to say that Capt. Rogers is confidentially employed to go to the Cherokees, and explain to them the kind of soil, climate, and the prospects that await them in the west; and to use, in his discretion, the best methods to induce the Indians residing within the chartered limits of Georgia to emigrate. As much, if not all his success will depend upon the keeping of the object of his visit a secret, you will by no means make it known. But it is expected that you will receive and act on his information upon the various occurrences that may arise, and aid him co-operatively, all you can. Upon his reports of the number who may desire to go, you can base in part your estimates for means to provide the transportation, 'c.
Your bills on the Department, from time to time, as you may require means to carry into effect the plan of removal, (as this may be afterwards decided upon.) and to buy provision 'e. will be paid; you taking care always to accompany them with letters of advice, and embodying in the bill also the object for which it is drawn. It will be necessary when the routes and depots are agreed upon, and the Indians get in motion, to provide the supplies on contract, to be made by you after due public notice. You will take bond and security for the faithful fulfilment of the contracts you may make.
Every Indian who may consent to remove will be registered by you; and before he can be entitled to the payment by the agent in Arkansas as provided in the treaty, he must produce to him your certificate, setting forth his name, and that he is an emigrant, and from within the chartered limits of Georgia, and also the day of his registry on your books. This is essential to be observed, and in all cases. You will take care not to be deceived as to the fact of the part of the country whence the emigrant may go, as the money provision is intended wholly for those who remove from within the chartered limits of Georgia.
You will keep the Department informed, from time to time, upon the subject, and state the prospects of removal, as they may from time to time, be disclosed.
I am, 'c.
THOS. L. McKENNEY
To. Col HUGH MONTGOMERY.
_____
DEPARTMENT OF WAR,
Office Indian Affairs, July 22, 1828.
SIR: The Executive being anxious, by the use of all proper means, to carry into full and complete effect the provisions of the compact with Georgia, ' this subject being now before it by a special appropriation of Congress looking to its accomplishment, I am directed by the Secretary of War to enclose you a copy of memorial, and certain resolution of the Georgia Legislature, which passed at its last session, with the view to your using them, not as threats, or to intimate the Indians, but as inducements rather for them to accede to the wishes of the General Government which looks to the fulfilment of the compact with Georgia on the one hand, and the prosperity and happiness of the Cherokees on the other. It is thought to be important, however, that, in any interview you may have with the Indians, you have an eye more to the ascertainment of their feelings on the subject of ceding their land, or any portion of it, with the limits of Georgia, than to entering into any compact with them on the subject. This step is intended to be preliminary, and for the purpose of obtaining information upon which measures may be predicated, after your report shall have been received.
As, however, you are now acting under instructions with the view to this object, in the execution of the recent treaty made with the Cherokees of Arkansas, the Secretary of War, apprehending that a second movement, if made now, might embarrass the first, directs me to call your attention, in the first place to this view of the subject; and as it is my own belief that Mr. Cobb, especially, preferred the operations under the late treaty to any other, or to the usual mode, and as my own belief, also, that they promise results far more successful than would a movement, such as is generally made through commissioners, the Secretary directs that you ascertain, if you can conveniently, whether I am correct; ' if so, you will consider yourself as continued to the instructions issued to you in reference to the carrying into effect the recent treaty. But if it shall turn out that those who are so immediately interested, I mean the citizens of Georgia, for the accomplishment of whose views Congress has made the appropriation referred to, are of the opinion and Mr. Cobb can no doubt in form you) that a treaty might be held, in addition to the present movements, you will report the same to the Department.
Very respectfully 'c.
THOS. L. MCKENNEY.
To Col. HUGH MONTGOMERY.
Agent the Cherokee Indians.
_______
DEPARTMENT OF WAR
Office Indian Affairs July, 28, 1828.
SIR: Your letter to the Secretary of War of the 3rd inst. was received ten days ago.  Before I convey the orders of the Secretary in relation to the subjects contained in it, and on such other points as it is deemed important to give you instructions as to the mode of executing those provisions of the late treaty with the Cherokees which are to be acted on within your agency. I have to state that a copy of that treaty, together with the letter which accompanied it, was forwarded to you in the very day on it was received from the Department of State; and which was, it is believed, the day after was printed.  Sooner than this it was not practical to forward it.
The Secretary of War declines appointing a second agency. The business of executing the provision of the treaty is entrusted to you; and your most diligent and persevering attentions are put in requisition to fulfill the duties now about to be assigned to you. Your assistants in explaining and enforcing those provision upon the Cherokees, will be Rogers and Maw, and your first and great effort will be made among those who reside within the chartered limits of Georgia. Since those Indians appear to be at an inconvenient distance from the agency, you will leave the agency in charge of the subagent, Mr. Williams, for the time being, and proceed immediately into that part of the nation which is embraced by the Georgia lines, and make tour of their villages. Or if, in you opinion, it will be more conducive to the great end to be accomplished, you will make temporary locations at some two or three or more points, and send Rogers and Maw with messages to such persons as may be most likely, after won over to accept the provisions of the treaty, to operate on the mass of those who surround them. Having done this, you will return to your agency, and send the subagent either to travel with Rogers and Maw through all the villages, or to go to such points as you may have previously designated for the purpose of enrolling such names of indians as may agree to emigrate. There should be some general and central place at which the Indians should collect, preparatory to a movement to the place of embarkation:  and at that point you will be careful to have supplies,to support them the few days they may be there, and to provision them on their march to the landing on the Highwassee where, also, you will establish a depot of provisions. In all the business, you will be careful to guard against the unnecessary waste of a cent of the public money. The mode of procuring rations will be hereafter stated.
You will, meanwhile, instruct the subagent to be diligent in making such impressions as he may be able, by enlisting as many influential Indians as he can, upon those Indians who reside within the limits of the other States.
After you shall have diligently and perseveringly executed the trust thus far reposed in you, aided by Rogers and Maw, and returned to your agency, and Mr. Williams shall have gone within the Georgia limits to enroll the emigrants, you will diligently impress upon the Indians (as has been required of Mr. Williams to do, at the agency) of t he other States the advantages held out to them in the west, as explained in the treaty, and use your utmost diligence in securing the assent of as many as you can to go west.
It is made the further duty of Mr. Williams, after enrolling the Indians to accompany them to the depot on the Highwassee, and that this business may go on regularly, it will be advisable for you to fix upon stated periods, as well for their assembling at the point or points within the limits of Georgia, as for their movement therefrom to the Highwassee; and periods also should be fixed, depending on those just named, for embarking.
In regard to their property which they may abandon. You will give the most unqualified assurance that justice shall be done in all respects, ' you will be particular impressing them with full confidence in this particular; and that no lose or fraud may be apprehended, tell them the money will be placed in the hands of the agent west of the Mississippi to pay each claimant the moment he may arrive; with which he can build his house, and in other respects employ it to advantage.
You will require an issuing agent at the depot on the Highwassee. This part of the business will require great care. Regular rolls will be kept ' a complete set of books: ' rations will be issued on order in favor of individuals or parties of Indians, on the issuing agent -- drawn by, or counter-signed by you or Mr. Williams ' these will be the vouchers of the issuing agent, with whom you will settle accounts weekly. This agency is conferred on T.W. Ross to whom you will pay the salary of a subagent to witt at the rate of five hundred dollars per annum.
An issuing agent may be required at the depot in Georgia. You will select some trusty competent person, who shall be a good accountant, and keep in his possession such supplies only as may be wanted and as indicated by the returns which may be made to you by Mr. Williams. Col. Mitchell, who has taken a deep interest in this matter, may, perhaps aid you in a selection. To this issuing agent, the same rates of allowance will be made as to Mr. Ross.  Or if you can provision them upon another system by the way, and upon as good forms, it is left in your discretion to do so.
This then is the plan of your operations; and the Secretary of War expects much at your hands. He is convinced, as well from the great advantages which are held out to the Indians in the west, as from the disposition of a great portion of the poorer Indians of the nation to emigrate, that no other is needed to accomplish much but zealous and faithful services; and he will not permit himself to doubt your readiness to render these. The United States, and Georgia particularly, are deeply interested in the complete execution of this plan.
As to the boats, you will be best able to judge of the kind and the sizes most proper. It is presumed flat, and not keeled boats, would answer best; especially, as will be a great object for the emigrants to ascend the Arkansas as high as possible, and as near their homes as they can.
The Indians having been collected as stated, and the provisions and transportation thus accured, nothing will remain but for you to arrange for the voyage. Upon this head I am directed to instruct you to fix, as far as possible, given periods for embarkation, the company will be larger thereby, ' mutual assistance can be afforded in case of accident, 'c. On counting your numbers, you will estimate the time it may require for them to reach the point on the Arkansas, (which will be named to you in another letter,) and allowing a reasonable number of days over, for accidents, issue the rations, not to the Indians, but to some special agent who may be selected to conduct the parties, who issue to the Indians at suitable periods, say three days at a time. Indians being improvident, this course is necessary. And whenever the numbers are so great as to authorize it, let a separate provision-boat accompany the party.
In regard to Rogers and Maw. In the first instance, Rogers only was spoken of; but since Mr. Maw is active and useful, you will, as before indicated, retain him in services, ' in aid of your efforts. As to salary, that will be judged of when the extent and value of their services may be known. You will meanwhile subsist them,; and justice will be done upon the basis of their merits, good conduct, and usefulness, when the Department is informed of their works and success. Blankets and kettles are ordered from New York, and rifles from Philadelphia; five hundred of each in the first order, to be forwarded directly to Augusta, in Georgia, directed to you. You will write to someone known to you there, to receive and forward them on their arrival.
It will be important for the Indians to go by water. This you will impress upon them. But should any desire to go by land, give them (on receiving satisfactory assurances of their acting in good faith) money in commutation of their rations, and kettle, and rifle. But discourage this mode, and especially as we have no ferry at Memphis; and more especially still, as it will be doubtful whether many of them, after getting their outfit in a horse, 'c. will not remain in some other and distant part of the nation.
Your bills will be drawn, in the usual form on the Secretary of War, stating in the bill, and also in a letter of advice, on what account it is drawn.
I am respectfully, your obedient servant.  TH. H. McKENNEY.
To. Col HUGH MONTGOMERY,
Cherokee Agent.
_____
DEPARTMENT OF WAR.
Office of Indian affairs, Nov. 26, 1828.
SIR: In the instructions of July 28th. from the Department to you, you were told to send the emigrants as high up the Arkansas as possible, 'e.
The Secretary of War is of opinion that this work might be more expeditiously and economically performed if instead of your agency extending to the highest navigable point on the Arkansas River, it were to change its direction to a landing at the mouth of White River. The emigrants, being then in Arkansas, will be in charge of the agent west of the Mississippi, who it is fair to presume, from his local and other information, will be able to facilitate the transportation through the Territory, and upon terms more economical than those which you may be able to command.
This arrangement, therefore, the Secretary of War directs will be regarded in all cases, except where arrangements may be already made and that there may be no difficulty in regard to the change you will notify Major Duval, the agent for the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, from time to time, and time enough for him to make his arrangements, of the number and periods when the emigrants will be at White River.
I am, 'c.
TH. L. McKENNY,
To Col. HUGH MONTGOMERY,
Cherokee Agent.
[TO BE CONTINUED.]










COMMUNICATED.

 Extract from the closing part of an address, delivered in New Orleans, in the summer of 1826, by a young Cherokee.
After speaking of the progress of his countrymen, in the arts and sciences, the result of Gen. Washington's advice to them, he proceeds thus:
But gentlemen tell us, that, these Indians must be removed to some point in the west. What? Shall we leave our country, the gift of Heaven and the request of our ancestors?  Forever bid farewell to the land that gave us birth -- the pure and sweet waters of Tsalagi, and go to penetrate the dreary and inhospitable regions of the west? there to linger out a miserable existence? Never! never!  Let us remain in the land of our Fathers, ' give us death. We have resolved never to raise up arms against the United States, and if, in the course of time, that power were to aim at the extirpation of our race in order to get our lands, we shall willingly fall by our fire sides, and mingle our dust with that of our departed friends. We will seal the honor of our name at the altar of patriotism. Our spirits will go to the land of shadows, where our Fathers have gone, and where we hope to be annoyed no more by the avarice of the white man, who knows no law but that of power.
But I have forgotten myself. The Inspiration of my theme has carried me too far. I am addressing myself to a patriotic, enlightened, and christian assembly. I have anticipated events, which I hope, may never occur. For my brethren and kindred, the Cherokees are in the midst of a christian community, and in the bosom of the United States. Behold, I am at this moment, not in the dominions of the Sultan, ' in a mahometan mosque, but in a land of freedom, pure christianity and enlightened benevolence, with the walls of a temple dedicated to an Almighty ' a righteous God.
You my friends have read, with tears, the Spanish cruelties in South America. As enlightened christians, you long for the emancipation of the Catholics in Ireland.  You sympathize very justly, with Greece in her present struggle for freedom. Your friendly hand is extended to foreigners from every part of the Globe.  Here the oppressed and persecuted in other nations find an asylum and a home. They are admitted, in time, into the rights and privileges of American citizens.  In a word, your country is celebrated for the mildness of its government, the hospitality and humanity of its citizens, and for its superior religion, based on these words: 'Do unto others as ye would they should do unto you.'
Surely then, you cannot concur in the policy of the day to remove the natives, the rightful and original owners of America, tantalized with hopes of civilization, from the native homes, to the wilds of the west. You will not, I am sure, aid in the destruction of the Cherokees and extinguish the last ray of hope left to them -- strip them of every right, and all that is dear and precious to their hearts. -- But such a project is in operation.  O cruel! cruel! I call upon the Honorable judges and gentlemen of the bar for defence. I invoke the genius of the Constitution of the United States, for protection. I call upon the clergy who officiate at the holy altar, to defend the rights of bleeding humanity. And may New Orleans famous for its commercial importance, be equally famous for its friendship to this unfortunate race.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1989.
We are extremely sorry to inform our patrons that our last papers, a few hours after leaving this place, were nearly lost.  It appears that the post rider, in attempting to cross the Holly Creek, fell from his horse and dropt the mail bag.  The rider escaped with difficulty, and the bags were not obtained until seven hours after. The Post Master of Springplace writes, that 'the papers are all injured, and the directions on the bundles which held together are defaced -- in short the whole mail is in a miserable situation. I will however open and dry them as well as I can, and send them on.' We regret that this unhappy circumstance has happened.
_______
INDIAN POETRY.
We did not consider the lines inserted in our fourth page, under the above title, aas being the composition of an Indian.  We admitted them, simply because the subject of them was an Indian. We have conversed with a friend who informs us that he saw them, he believes, in print, a number of year-ago; he think were were composed by lady in Charleston. Mr. Brown, the brother, and the subject of the poetry, probably communicated the name of the Supreme Being to the writer, who, mistaking the letter e for for e wrote galvlatichi, instead galvlatiehi.
_______
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.
MR. EDITOR -- In the 29th number of the Phoenix, under the title, 'True glory,' I observed a relation of an interview that took place between Ignatius and Havier. The argements urged by the former to induce the latter to exert his powers in objects more rational and lasting, than the vain and empty things of time, I conceive to be very strong. And the sequel of Havier's history shews how fully he became convinced of the force and reality of the subject.
And really, Mr. Editor, if we pay that attention to the subject, which its merit demands, we shall irresistibly come to the same conclusion. We are born to die. The christian religion is undeniable. If we have no hope of a blessed immortaility, we ought not to postpone repentance: if we have, it is the part of wisdom to devote the best and noblest powers of our souls to the best of causes, the eternal well being of our fellow men. Many of the youth of our country, like Havier, exhibit marks of strong judgement and vigorous intellect. That it becomes them to aspire after the best and the greatest ends, they will readily admit.  That aside from the glory of God and the duties we owe to Him, all else is vanity and vexation of spirit, they cannot deny: nay, they are sensible of the instability of all human affairs. 'For the fashion of the world passeth away,' and all its beauty and splender leave but an aching void. 'Verily every man living is altogether vanity; for man walketh in a vain show.' 'He heapeth up riches and can not tell who shall gather them.' What will it avail to have governed provices and nations to have commanded victorious armies, and to have rolled in all the wealth, which the east and west can give, in the great day of final accounts?
Our actions, then, should have a wise reference to eternity. We should fulfil the great end of our existence, by devoting ourselves, our talents and our all, to God. This true and unfading glory. I have only to add, that Havier did well; may the youth of our country 'to and do likewise.'
A CHEROKEE FARMER
Willistown, Feb. 23, 1829.










NEW ECHOTA:
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1829.
We are extremely sorry to inform our patrons that our last papers, a few hours after leaving this place, were nearly lost.  It appears that the post rider, in attempting to cross the Holly Creek, fell from his horse and dropt the mail bag.  The rider escaped with difficulty, and the bags were not obtained until seven hours after. The postmaster of Springplace writes, that 'the papers are all injured, and the directions on the bundles which held together are defaced. -- In short the whole mail is in a miserable situation. I will however open and dry them as well as I can, and send them on.' We regret that this unhappy circumstance has happened.
_______
The number closes our first volume. We tender our thanks to our patrons for their good wishes and assistance, and we hope these will be continued during the ensuing year. We cannot do more than wish ' pray that a full reward may be meted out to all friends of Indians. May they enjoy that peace of mind which always accompanies benevolent labors, and may their sympathy for the poor aborigines increase and become stronger and stronger. We are thankful that our past labors have been received with indulgence. We will still use efforts to render the Phoenix interesting to our readers.
_______________
We are informed that Col. Williams, who as was stated in our paper, was despatched to the frontier or Georgia, for the purpose of removing intruders, has not been successful. He has requested that a military force may be sent to his assistance.
_________________
We present to our readers, in our present number, letters from the War Department, to Col. H. Montgomery, on the subject of emigration. We do not consider it necessary for us to make a long comment on these letters, as our readers will understand them enough without our aid. We cannot, however, withhold a word or two. What was the object of appointing a secret agent? Was it to take us in? Why not act ingeniously? Col. McKenney says, that the object of Capt. Rogers is to explain to the Cherokees the nature of the soil, climate, 'c. of the country to which they are invited. Now was it necessary that this should be done in the dark?  If the sod and climate were good and the country 'fine', was it necessary to employ secret measures to explain them? The fact seems to be that Capt. Rogers and Mr. Maw came to tell us a wrong story; (we do not say that they were so instructed) to say in secret that the country was 'fine', when it was not; that the land was good, when it was not; and that the climate was healthy, when it was to the contrary. Probably the Secretary of War did not know, but certainly Rogers ' Maw ought to have known, that there were men in this Nation who are acquainted with the country-men who would be believed in preference to these secret agents. We are told by these men that the country is poor, that the soil is not good, and in spite of their agency, Rogers and Maw have corroborated the statement, by declaring to individuals that the country ceded to the Arkansas Cherokees is poor, and is greatly inferior in point of excellence, to this. Thus they acquitted themselves as secret agents.
________________
INDIAN POETRY.
We did not consider the lines inserted in our fourth page, under the above title, as being the composition of an Indian.  We admitted them, simply because the subject of them was an Indian. We have conversed with a friend who informs us that he saw them, he believes, in print a number of year-ago; he thinks they were composed by lady in Charleston. Mr. Brown, the brother and the subject of the poetry, probably communicated the name of the Supreme Being to the writer, who, mistaking the letter e for c wrote galvlatichi, instead galvlatiehi.
_______
FOR THE CHEROKEE PHOENIX.
MR. EDITOR -- In the 29th number of the Phoenix, under the title, 'True glory,' I observed a relation of an interview that took place between Ignatius and Havier. The arguments urged by the former to induce the latter to exert his powers in objects more rational and lasting, than the vain and empty things of time, I conceive to be very strong. And the sequel of Havier's history shews how fully he became convinced of the force and reality of the subject.
And really, Mr. Editor, if we pay that attention to the subject, which its merit demands, we shall irresistibly come to the same conclusion. We are born to die. The Christian religion is undeniable. If we have no hope of a blessed immortality, we ought not to postpone repentance: if we have, it is the part of wisdom to devote the best and noblest powers of our souls to the best of causes, the eternal well being of our fellow men.  Many of the youth of our country, like Havier, exhibit marks of strong judgement and vigorous intellect. That it becomes them to aspire after the best and the greatest ends, they will readily admit. That aside from the glory of God and the duties we owe to Him, all else is vanity and vexation of spirit, they cannot deny: nay, they are sensible of the instability of all human affairs. 'For the fashion of the world passeth away,' and all its beauty and splendor leave but an aching void. 'Verily every man living is altogether vanity; for man walketh in a vain show.' 'He heapeth up riches and cannot tell who shall gather them.' What will it avail to have governed provinces and nations to have commanded victorious armies, and to have rolled in all the wealth, which the East and West can give, in the great day of final accounts?
Our actions, then, should have a wise reference to eternity. We should fulfil the great end of our existence, by devoting ourselves, our talents and our all, to God. This true and unfading glory. I have only to add, that Havier did well; may the youth of our country 'go and do likewise.'
A CHEROKEE FARMER
Willistown, Feb. 23, 1829.










POETRY.
From the Philadephian.
MR. EDITOR: I received the following lines from a lady of this city, who informs me that they were written by an Indian and sent in a private letter to a minister, who had been labouring as a Missionary amongst the Cherokees. By giving them an insertion in our paper, you will gratify several, especially as (I have been told), they have never appeared in print. Your respectfully. H.
INDIAN POETRY.
Written on the death of Catherine Brown, the first convert to the Christian faith at Creekspath, Cherokee Nation.
Ah Cherokee, where is the daughter of Brown!
She is beneath the tall tree,
But her spirit, so spotless, has silently blown
Far away to Galvlatichi.*
Death mark'd her his prey in the blossom of youth.
From his grasp no kind angel could save;
And conscience, meekness, religion and truth,
All slumber in Catherine's grave.
The heralds of grace drop affectionate tears,
The maids of the forest all mourn;
Even the heart of the warrior is sad when he hears,
The flower of the valley is gone.
Thou wert of the Indians who love the true God;
Who has come from the Arkansaw wave,
To stain the sharp arrows in Cherokee's blood;
Step softly o'er Catherine's grave.
Ah! who is this youth, in whose bosom where fire
O' charity rises so high?
Who ardently pants in the land of his sire,
To labor for long and die!
This youth is the brother beloved of the maid,
Who sleeps in the dark narrow cave;
He hastes to the wood where in childhood he played,
To preach beside Catharine's grave.
Ye laughters who dwell in the pleasant green shade,
Whom Catherine tenderly loved,
She made you repent; for your pardon she prayed,
And wept when she saw you unmoved!
No more will she point you to Calvary's scenes,
Or tell you that Jesus will save,
Come, chaunt your sad dirges in sorrowful strains,
As ye stand around Catherine's grave.
Their notes softly sound through the silence of night,
'Dear Saviour all praise shall be thine.'
Ere long, in bright glory the gospel's pure light
On each Cherokee's dwelling shall shine.
And when at the voice of Galvlatichi,
The dead their lone mansions shall leave,
A form wrapt in garments of light we shall see
Arise from Catharine's grave.
________
*The Cherokee name of the true God.
The Osages.